-- 
South Africa Cosatu Says State Stalls Economic Policy Change

-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-27T15:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/south-africa-s-government-failing-to-lead-on-economic-policy-cosatu-says.html
The Congress of South African Trade
Unions, the country’s largest labor grouping, accused the
government of reneging on promises to change  economic policy ,
undermining the fight against unemployment and inequality.  “It is a choice between reform and revolution,” Cosatu
President Sidumo Dlamini said in his opening address to a
meeting of the federation’s leadership in Johannesburg today.
“The class battle lines have been drawn.”  Cosatu has been a member of the African National Congress-
led ruling alliance since South Africa’s first all-race
elections in 1994. Alliance relations have been strained by the
federation’s calls for the government to raise the  budget
deficit , nationalize fuel company  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  and steel producer
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  and weaken the rand to help
address the 25 percent jobless rate.  Cosatu played a leading role in helping President  Jacob Zuma  win control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki  in 2007. The ANC is
due to hold leadership elections in December next year, and Zuma
has said he will stand for a second five-year term.  Dlamini said Cosatu will have to assess whether to make its
support for any candidate conditional on them implementing
policy changes.  Rand Strength  “The ANC does not defer to Cosatu the way it does to some
business interests when it comes to some crunch decisions,”
said Keith Gottschalk, a politics lecturer as the University of
the Western Cape in  Cape Town .  In a document prepared for the conference, Cosatu
criticized the government’s reluctance to introduce a tax on
short-term capital flows to weaken the rand or limit currency
speculation.  The rand has gained 36 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009, undermining the competitiveness of the
country’s exporters and discouraging them from hiring.  “Policy makers in  South Africa  are effectively sitting on
their hands, half-heartedly intervening in foreign exchange
markets solely by buying dollars at a very cautious pace so as
not to upset the inflation applecart,” Cosatu said. Some
members of the ANC are “hell-bent on material gain, corruption
and looting,” it said.  Zuma called for unity within the ruling alliance and for
any differences over policy to be debated internally.  “All ANC and government economic policies remain valid and
are being implemented,” he told delegates. “We have made
substantial progress, but there are still many challenges to
deal with, given the legacy of colonial oppression and
apartheid.”  Unemployment  South African companies fired more than 1 million workers
after the global financial crisis hit, and the country entered
its first recession in 17 years. Zuma’s administration has made
 job creation  its top priority.  “We reiterate that political emancipation without economic
freedom is incomplete,” Zuma said. “The economy is recovering,
but not in the manner that will enable us to quickly regain lost
jobs or quickly create scores of new ones.”  Zuma pledged to ensure more of the country’s minerals are
processed within the country and that more land is distributed
to the black majority.  “Land reform is urgent but requires careful handling and
consultation and must be conducted within the confines of the
constitution,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg on  at
 gbell16@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 