-- 
Standard Chartered’s Korean Banking Unit Workers Strike Over Incentive Pay

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-06-27T03:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/standard-chartered-s-korean-banking-unit-workers-strike-for-pay.html
Workers at  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s
South Korean banking unit plan to go on strike today in the
worst labor dispute involving foreign banks in the Asian nation
in more than five years.  About half the employees at Seoul-based  Standard Chartered 
First Bank Korea Ltd. will protest against a plan that would
determine compensation based on individual performance, union
spokesman Bae Kwang Jin said by telephone in Seoul.  The strike comes as London-based Standard Chartered, which
entered South Korea in 2005, struggles to attract more borrowers
in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy. The local unit is also
awaiting a decision on the penalty it may need to pay after
Korean regulators said it violated rules barring lenders from
trading in platinum.  “Management appears to want to boost the bank’s efficiency
after failing to expand market share,” said Hwang Seok Kyu, a
banking analyst at Seoul-based Kyobo Securities Co. “If the
strike drags on, that would be a bigger setback for the bank.
It’s already not faring well in the fierce competition among
Korean lenders.”  The bank will operate all branches with the staff not
participating in the strike, trying to ensure basic services
won’t be affected, Lee Ji Won, a Seoul-based spokeswoman at SC
First Bank, said by telephone today.  Incentive-Based Pay  About 3,000 union members employed by the local unit plan
to walk off the job “indefinitely,” Bae said on June 16. SC
First Bank employed about 6,500 people and had 409 branches
nationwide as of March 31, according to a regulatory filing.  Workers will strike until the company agrees not to adopt
the incentive-based salary system, which would create excessive
competition and cut salaries by as much as 46 percent, the union
has said.  Such a steep reduction in salaries is only possible “under
extraordinary circumstances” where employees continuously
receive the lowest rating on their performance and fail to meet
the lowest target they agreed on with their managers, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  SC First Bank’s latest proposal offers union members a 5
percent increase in their average base salary, and the new
incentive arrangement may give them as much as a 10 percent pay
raise, the bank said.  Seeking Agreement  “We are keen to see an end to the strike as soon as
possible, so that we can continue with negotiations, in order to
reach an agreement that’s mutually beneficial for all parties,”
the statement said.  Citigroup Inc.’s South Korean banking unit shut about a
third of its 253 branches in December 2005 due to a strike
following the acquisition of a local lender.  Standard Chartered operates five affiliates in  South Korea 
including a consumer finance unit under a holding company that
was formed after the U.K. lender purchased Korea First Bank for
$3.3 billion in 2005. Loan market share for SC First Bank,
ranked sixth by assets among seven nationwide commercial lenders,
dropped to 5.7 percent at the end of 2010 from 8.2 percent in
2004, before the acquisition.  Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service held a meeting on
June 16 to decide penalties against SC First Bank following the
regulator’s probe into the bank’s platinum lending to local
companies, Park Sae Chun, a director of banking supervision at
the FSS, said the next day. The regulator hasn’t determined the
penalties yet, it said at the time.  South Korea accounted for about 11 percent of Standard
Chartered’s total $16 billion in revenue last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  