-- 
Stanley Black & Decker Makes $1.2 Billion Bid for Niscayah

-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-27T10:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/stanley-black-decker-agrees-to-buy-niscayah-for-1-2-billion.html
Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)  agreed
to buy Niscayah AB for 7.6 billion kronor ($1.2 billion),
outbidding rival  Securitas AB (SECUB)  to secure expansion in the market
for electronic security systems.  Investors will receive 18 kronor a share in cash under the
terms of the offer,  New Britain , Connecticut-based Stanley said
in a statement today. The price is 47 percent higher than the
Niscayah’s close prior to the $910 million bid from Securitas,
which was based on a share swap.  Stanley Black & Decker targeted the Swedish unit to boost
sales of video surveillance and electronic security doors across
European markets. The U.S. company has highlighted annual
savings of about $80 million through the integration of
operations.  “Niscayah is a company we know well and is an ideal fit,”
John Lundgren, chief executive officer of Stanley Black &
Decker, said in the statement.  The Swedish supplier of electronic security systems jumped
as much as 18 percent to 18.5 kronor, and traded at 18.1 kronor
as of 11:37 a.m., valuing the business at 6.61 billion kronor.  The deal is backed by an independent committee of
Niscayah’s board. Shareholders with about 19.5 percent of the
Swedish company committed to accept the Stanley Black & Decker
offer.  Securitas Response  Securitas is likely to make a counterbid, said Soeren Lontoft Hansen, an analyst with Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa,
 Denmark , said by telephone.  Securitas is reviewing the situation and will then decide
whether to continue pursue its bid or not, Gisela Lindstrand, a
spokeswoman, said by telephone.  “There’d be a lot of synergies there, so I would expect a
new bid,” said Hansen, who rates Securitas’ shares
“underweight.” “Niscayah is very good at IT security systems
that Securitas is dependent on, and Securitas is Niscayah’s
largest customer.”  Securitas spun off three of its divisions between 2006 and
2008, including Niscayah. The unit, then called Securitas
Systems, was distributed to shareholders in 2006 “to enhance
transparency, specialization and shareholder value,” Stockholm-
based Securitas said on May 16 when it announced its bid.  Securitas said when outlining its offer that it aims for
cost savings of about 200 million kronor a year, with the full
effect from 2013.  Securitas rose as much as 9.1 percent, the biggest intraday
jump since October, 2008, and was up 4.7 percent, or 2.85
kronor, at 63.75 kronor as of 12:49 a.m. in  Stockholm .  ‘Strategic Intent’  Stanley Black & Decker, most known for its power tools,
already offers electronic security services in  Europe . In March
2010, it bought ATD  France , an acquisition that was an
“indication” of its “continuing strategic intent to expand
the security segment internationally,” the U.S. company wrote
in its  annual report .  Revenue at Stanley Black & Decker’s existing security-
systems business advanced 8 percent in the first quarter.  Barclays Capital  and J.P. Morgan are Stanley Black &
Decker’s financial advisers, while Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP and Gernandt & Danielsson Advokatbyra KB are acting
as legal advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  