-- 
Stark Says Europe Can’t Be Blackmailed Over Aid for Greece

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f r e y   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-27T11:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/stark-says-europe-can-t-be-blackmailed-to-aid-greece-at-any-cost.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said Europe can’t be blackmailed into
supporting  Greece  at any cost.  “Solidarity mustn’t be misunderstood to mean that European
partners and the international community have no other choice
but to continue the financial support,” Stark said in a speech
in Berlin today. “No one can be blackmailed and no one should
be allowed to be blackmailed.”  European Union leaders have agreed to continue bailing out
Greece as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes 78
billion euros ($111 billion) of austerity measures through
parliament this week. Failure to pass Papandreou’s plan may lead
to the euro area’s first sovereign default as Greece needs to
cover 6.6 billion euros of maturing bonds in August.  “Only on the basis of a reliable medium-term consolidation
strategy and an ambitious privatization program can Greece hope
for the payment of the next tranche,” Stark said.  He reiterated the ECB’s opposition to a restructuring of
Greek debt, saying its effects on financial stability in  Europe 
“are unforeseeable and could even make the repercussions of the
Lehman insolvency look tame.”  Stark said that the ECB will continue to do everything
necessary to guarantee the stability of the euro and to maintain
inflation expectations at a low level.  “We are very vigilant,” he said, using a phrase that
indicates policy makers are likely to raise interest rates again
next month.  Since the beginning of the financial crisis, the ECB has
lent banks unlimited funds at a fixed interest rate to replace
inter-bank lending. Stark said these measures now need to be
“gradually phased out,” as the situation on the money market
has “significantly relaxed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  