-- 
Sudan’s Bashir Arrives Late in China After Turkmenistan Turns Back Plane

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-06-28T08:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/sudan-president-al-bashir-s-plane-forced-to-reroute-while-on-way-to-china.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir,
indicted for genocide and war crimes, arrived in  China  after
being forced to postpone meetings with officials yesterday
because his plane was turned back by Turkmenistan authorities.  Al-Bashir landed in Beijing early this morning, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. The Sudanese leader had
been en route from  Iran  to China to meet President  Hu Jintao ,
Sudanese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Al-Obaid Murawih, said by
phone from Khartoum. He said the plane returned to Tehran and
didn’t give its location when it was forced to change course.  "We don’t see there are political reasons for the change,"
Murawih said. "For us, the change was done due to technical
reasons." Al-Bashir’s meetings with Chinese leaders were
unaffected, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a
regular press briefing in Beijing.  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest warrants
for al-Bashir, accusing him of responsibility for genocide and
war crimes in the western Sudanese region of Darfur. Al-Bashir
denies the charges. Since the indictment, he has been forced to
cancel trips abroad as human rights groups including  Amnesty
International  and  Human Rights Watch  pressed countries to
withdraw invitations or arrest him on arrival.  Al-Bashir had been in Tehran since June 24, and attended a
conference there on combating terrorism.  Turkey , Zambia and  Central African Republic  are among the
countries that have canceled planned visits by al-Bashir,
according to New York-based Human Rights Watch.  China Not Signatory  Special envoy for African affairs Liu Guijin said on June
23 that China isn’t obliged to follow the international court’s
order because it isn’t a signatory to the treaty setting up the
court. China "has reservations about the  International Criminal
Court ’s prosecution of President Bashir," Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong said last week.  China has close ties with the leaders of northern  Sudan  and
has been courting support in the oil-producing south, which
becomes an independent country July 9.  The leaders of the two countries “will discuss how to
consolidate China-Sudan relations and expand cooperation,” Hong
said this month. Both sides will exchange views on Sudan’s
north-south peace process and the Darfur issue, he said.  “Beijing will signal its total disregard for victims of
heinous crimes in Darfur if it welcomes al-Bashir,” Richard Dicker, international justice director at Human Rights Watch,
said in an e-mailed statement on June 21. “Al-Bashir’s flouting
of international arrest warrants should be cause for
condemnation, not for an invitation. Beijing should instead be
using its influence to press for justice in Darfur.”  Malaysia  Cancellation  The president canceled plans to visit Malaysia this month
because he had other engagements, Malaysia’s state-run Bernama
news agency reported June 16. The announcement came amid
pressure from Human Rights Watch and London-based Amnesty for
Malaysia to arrest the African leader if he entered the country.  The eight-year conflict in Darfur between rebels and
Sudan’s army has led to the deaths of as many as 300,000 people,
mainly due to illness and starvation, and forced about 2.7
million to flee their homes, according to UN estimates. The
Sudanese government has put the death toll at about 10,000.  The insurgents took up arms in 2003, accusing the
government of neglecting the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  