-- 
Assad Critics Meet in Damascus Dialogue

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-06-27T13:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/syrian-academics-intellectuals-critical-of-regime-to-gather.html
Syrian intellectuals and academics
who are critics of President Bashar al-Assad’s were meeting at a
conference in Damascus that some activists say is intended to
set the stage for dialogue with the government.  As many as 200 people may attend today’s event in the
capital, and there is talk among some involved with the
conference that supporters of the government also will there,
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said by phone today.  “People taking part are representing themselves rather
than any particular group or organization,” Merhi said. “It’s
expected that proposals to take the country out of the crisis
will be put forward.”  At least 1,450 civilians have been killed since protests
against Assad’s 11-year rule began mid-March, said Merhi and
Ammar Qurabi, head of the National Organization for Human
Rights. At least 20,000 people have been detained since the
start of the unrest, half of whom remain in detention, Qurabi
said. Widespread arrests took place June 24 and June 25 in the
capital’s suburbs of Barzeh, Douma and Kisweh, according to
Merhi and Qurabi.  Under Regime ‘Auspices’  “We don’t expect anything out of this conference, as it’s
a gathering of independent people who don’t represent the so-
called opposition,” Qurabi said. “I especially don’t expect
anything because this event is taking place under the auspices
of the regime, which continues to kill and detain people without
giving any concessions.”  Yassin al-Haj Saleh, a Syrian writer and political activist
who declined to participate in the conference, echoed Qurabi’s
doubts about the credibility of the event, touted by the state-
run media in  Syria  as proof the government is serious about
reform.  The conference is taking place “under the ceiling of the
government,” Saleh said. “Effectively this serves the regime’s
interests.”  Louay Hussein, a writer and activist identified by Merhi as
one of the primary backers of the conference, said he couldn’t
comment when reached by telephone today because he was busy with
the organization of the event.  ‘Party With Agenda’  Aref Dalila, an economist and previously imprisoned
dissident who had planned to attend the conference, said by
telephone that he decided not to take part because the number of
participants has been “limited to certain people” and “it
isn’t clear who determined who was invited.”  Dalila added, “At the start I thought it may be positive.
However, since there appears to be a party with an agenda that
is overseeing the convening of the conference, it’s unclear if
the outcome will yield any results.”  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to  Turkey 
to escape violence in northern towns, while security forces also
targeted protesters in the suburbs of Damascus and Homs who
called for an end to Assad’s government.  The number of Syrian refugees in Turkish camps has swelled
to 11,739, Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news agency said June 24.
The latest influx came as Syrian army units arrived in the
border village of Khirbet al-Jouz.  Syrians began leaving for Turkey this month from areas in
and around Jisr al-Shughour and Ma’arrat an Nu’man, straining
relations between the two countries. Assad blamed the protests
on a foreign conspiracy last week, while a deadlock over United
Nations action on Syria continued in  New York . The U.S. and
 Russia  disagreed on whether the UN Security Council should press
Assad to halt his attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 