-- 
Microsoft, BBC to Test TV Spectrum for U.K. Mobile Services

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-27T15:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/u-k-media-technology-companies-to-trial-unused-tv-spectrum.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and a group of U.K.
television broadcasters said they plan to show how unused TV
frequencies can be used for high-speed mobile Internet services.  The companies, including British Sky Broadcasting Plc, the
British Broadcasting Corp. and  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , will use vacant
TV channels, known as white spaces, to test wireless services,
according to a statement today.  “The technology has become increasingly constrained” and
companies need to find more efficient ways to use spectrum, Paul
Garnett, Microsoft director of interoperability and standards,
said in a telephone interview.  Technology companies are seeking access to frequencies
needed to cope with surging demand for high-speed Internet
services driven by devices including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
iPad. A U.K. auction for mobile-phone spectrum is scheduled for
the first quarter of 2012.  “With mobile networks feeling the strain, we must find
ways of satisfying the traffic demands of today and tomorrow,”
the group said in the statement. “This trial will attempt to
demonstrate that unused TV spectrum is well-placed to increase
the U.K.’s available mobile bandwidth.”  In the U.S., federal regulators cleared the way for
companies to use white spaces in September. Microsoft,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and others are forming plans to exploit the airwaves, in a
market that may be worth $3.9 billion to $7.3 billion a year,
according to a study funded by Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft. The company is aiming to become a database provider
for spectrum holdings in the U.S.  Frequency For Sale  TV broadcasters will be able to sell access to their
frequency holdings, according to Microsoft’s Garnett. “The
wholesale business model is something that some companies will
likely consider,” he said.  The U.S. trial has shown that traditional broadcasters can
be protected from interference, Garnett said. The companies will
conduct tests on the radio waves, which can travel farther than
the frequencies used today for mobile phone services, with the
aim of rolling out service in rural areas and offloading mobile
data in cities, the group said.  Tests will include streaming high-quality video and audio
from the BBC and BSkyB over white spaces to mobile devices from
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Samsung Electronics Co., according to the group,
called the Cambridge TV White Spaces Consortium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  