-- 
U.S. Stocks Gain as Banks Get New Rules, Technology Shares Rise

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-27T20:34:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/u-s-stocks-gain-as-issuance-of-bank-capital-rules-offsets-spending-report.html
U.S. stocks advanced, breaking a
three-day losing streak for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
regulators issued capital rules to safeguard the global
financial system and technology companies rallied.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , U.S. Bancorp, Huntington Bancshares
Inc. rose at least 2.7 percent as lenders climbed.  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  jumped 3.7 percent, helping to lead a gauge of technology
shares in the S&P 500 to the biggest gain within 10 groups.
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  added 4.5 percent after Morgan Stanley added the
world’s largest online retailer to its “Best Ideas” list.  The S&P 500 gained 0.9 percent to 1,280.10 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The benchmark index for American equities had fallen 2.1
percent over the last three days. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  rose 108.98 points, or 0.9 percent, to 12,043.56 today.
More than 6 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges at
4:32 p.m., about 4.8 percent more than a week ago.  The requirements for banks “are less onerous than had been
feared,” said Scott Tapley, who helps oversee $2.5 billion at
1st Source Investment Advisors Inc. in South Bend, Indiana.
“Sooner they’ll be able to return capital to shareholders
through dividends and buybacks.”  The  S&P 500  had retreated 7 percent from this year’s high
at the end of April through June 24 amid concern about  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Financial institutions in the measure slumped 9.9
percent, the second-biggest decline among 10 groups.  Too Big to Fail  Stocks rose today as global regulators said banks deemed
too big to fail must hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in
additional capital as part of efforts to prevent another
financial crisis, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
said in a statement on June 25. As many as 30 banks may face
some level of surcharges, according to a person familiar with
the discussions.  “The banks are going to have a greater chance of success
reaching those capital thresholds,” said  Keith Wirtz ,
Cincinnati-based chief investment officer for Fifth Third, which
oversees $17.4 billion. “They’re going to allow the banks to
earn their way into a better balance sheet condition.”  Equity index futures pared gains before the market opened
after  consumer spending  unexpectedly stagnated as employment
prospects dimmed and rising inflation caused Americans to cut
back, a Commerce Department report showed in  Washington  today.
Purchases rose 0.3 percent in May, the same as in the prior
month. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.1 percent, according
to the median of 63 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Little Squiggles’  “I don’t think these little squiggles on the domestic
economy are going to make that much difference,” said Stanley Nabi, New York-based vice chairman of Silvercrest Asset
Management Group, which oversees more than $9 billion. “The
focus will continue to be on two things: sovereign debt and
 Greece . Until this is resolved, I don’t think anybody can feel
comfortable anywhere, including the  United States .”  Greek lawmakers will vote on a five-year austerity plan
this week that must pass before the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  will agree to provide further aid.
Failure to pass the plan may lead to the euro area’s first
sovereign default as Greece needs to cover 6.6 billion euros
($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  The first session of the three-day debate began in Athens
today. The lawmakers will probably vote on June 29. They also
need to pass an implementation law, which provides the details
of how the five-year plan will be applied, before June 30.  Banks Rally  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  gained 1.4 percent as 20 of its 24
stocks advanced. U.S. Bancorp added 2.7 percent to $24.57.
Huntington Bancshares rallied 3.6 percent to $6.32.  Bank of America rose 3.1 percent to $10.85. The biggest
U.S. lender was “massively undervalued” as the stock traded
for less than the cash on its balance sheet is worth, said
 Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale Securities LLC.  “Under the bleakest of scenarios Bank of America’s book
value will rise in the next three years,” Bove, who is based in
Lutz, Florida, wrote today in a note to clients. “At some point
the market will adjust to the company’s real values.”  Technology shares in the S&P 500 rose 1.4 percent, the
biggest gain within 10 groups.   Microsoft climbed 3.7 percent to $25.20 before a
presentation tomorrow by Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer ,
who is expected to introduce Microsoft’s next-generation cloud
service for its Office software.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 1.7 percent to $332.04 after Morgan Stanley
said the company’s order reductions will ease and production of
iPhones and iPads will begin “ramping aggressively” from
August through year-end.  Technology Spending  Spending on information technology by companies and
governments in the U.S. will grow 5.6 percent in 2011, according
to a survey by International Data Corp., about double the
estimated increase for gross domestic product. Of the executives
surveyed by the research firm, 31 percent said spending on
security initiatives was a top initiative this year, while 19
percent chose business analytics.  Amazon gained 4.5 percent to $201.25. Morgan Stanley raised
its share-price estimate for the company to $245, citing
potential for operating margin expansion.  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)  added 0.3 percent to $69.50
after agreeing to buy Niscayah AB for 7.6 billion kronor ($1.2
billion), outbidding rival  Securitas AB (SECUB)  to secure expansion in
the market for electronic security systems. Investors will
receive 18 kronor a share in cash under the terms of the offer,
New Britain, Connecticut-based Stanley said. The price is 47
percent higher than the Niscayah’s closing price prior to the
$910 million bid from Securitas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  