-- 
U.S. Technology Companies May Double Overseas Cash, Moody’s Says

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-06-27T20:39:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/u-s-technology-companies-overseas-cash-may-double-by-2014-moody-s-says.html
The amount of cash major U.S.-based
technology companies hold overseas may almost double in the next
three years to $238 billion, Moody’s Investors Service said
today in a report.  Companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have
kept their cash overseas to avoid paying as much as a 35 percent
U.S. repatriation tax on their earnings. The 11 companies in the
report hold an average of 73 percent of their cash overseas, and
Moody’s predicts that number will increase to 79 percent by
2014.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, holds $42 billion
overseas, or 84 percent of its cash and short-term investments,
the most by dollar value of any company in the report. Apple, in
Cupertino, California, has $40.2 billion in overseas dollars, 61
percent of its cash and short-term investments, an almost
sixfold increase from 2006, Moody’s wrote.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , in
Redwood City,  California , has 90 percent of its cash and short-
term investments overseas, about $21.9 billion, which is the
highest percentage among the 11 companies in the report.  The Moody’s report comes as companies including Apple push
for a tax break to bring their dollars home. The companies say a
tax cut for repatriated cash could help create domestic jobs.
Moody’s does not expect tax laws to change in the short term,
the analysts wrote in the report.  “There has been a lot of noise but little movement toward
corporate tax reform that would incent companies to permanently
repatriate overseas funds,” wrote the Moody’s analyst, Richard
Lane. “Given the political cycle and strong differences on both
sides of the aisle in  Washington , we do not anticipate any
material tax law changes over the near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 