-- 
U.S. June Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 
2011-06-27T14:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/u-s-june-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Texas manufacturing activity from the Federal Reserve
Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity expanded in June, according to business
executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey.
The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing
conditions, remained positive but fell from 12.7 to 5.6,
suggesting output growth slowed this month.  Other measures of current manufacturing conditions indicated
flat activity, while new orders picked up. The capacity
utilization index slipped into negative territory but was near a
reading of zero, suggesting little change over the prior month.
Similarly, the shipments index fell to zero with about 60
percent of manufacturers noting no change in shipment volumes.
The new orders index rose from 1.1 in May to 6.4 in June, its
eighth consecutive month in positive territory. Nearly one-
quarter of firms said order volumes increased from May levels.
The growth rate of orders index turned positive after dipping
into negative territory last month.  Perceptions of general business conditions were mixed in June.
The general business activity index pushed further negative,
falling from -7.4 to -17.5. Twenty-eight percent of respondents
said activity weakened this month, the highest share in nine
months. However, the company outlook index rose from 3.2 to 7.2,
suggesting manufacturers were more optimistic about their firms’
prospects for the near future. More than 85 percent of
respondents said their outlooks were unchanged or improved from
last month.  Labor market indicators reflected slower growth in labor demand.
The employment index came in at 5.3, with 14 percent of
manufacturers reporting hiring new workers compared with 9
percent reporting layoffs. The hours worked index fell to 1.5 in
June, down from a reading of 13.2 in May.  Price and wage pressures moderated this month. The raw materials
price index retreated from 42.3 to 31.1, suggesting input costs
rose but at a slower pace than in May. The finished goods price
index was largely unchanged at a reading of 10. More than 50
percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw
materials prices over the next six months, while 28 percent
expect higher finished goods prices. The wages and benefits
index moved down from 18.5 to 15.5, although the great majority
of respondents noted no change in labor costs.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were less
optimistic in June. The index of future general business
activity was 2.9, its lowest reading since August 2010, and the
index of future company outlook remained positive but fell to a
9-month low. Indexes of future manufacturing activity also fell
in June, but remained in solid positive territory.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey
monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory
activity. Data were collected June 14-22, and 84 Texas
manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators
increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous
month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each
indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the
percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the
percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms
reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease,
the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator
has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase,
the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has
decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the
number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of
firms reporting a decrease. 