-- 
Would-Be Tennis Ballgirl With Prosthesis Shows Athleticism

-- B y   L y d i a   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-06-27T18:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/u-s-open-would-be-ballgirl-with-prosthesis-proves-athleticism-at-tryouts.html
Denise Castelli, who lost her right
leg due to complications after breaking it during a 2008 college
softball game, can’t see why she shouldn’t be a ball girl at the
U.S. Open.  “My goal here is to try and change the way everyone thinks
of disabilities,” Castelli, who has a prosthesis, said last
week in an interview during tryouts at the Billie Jean King
National Tennis Center in New York. “Everyone thinks it’s
crippling, and it’s not.”  On June 23, Castelli, 25, of Netcong,  New Jersey , was among
the 500 people trying out for 80 positions as ball girls or boys
for the two-week tournament in New York that begins Aug. 29. The
first amputee ballperson was Kelly Bruno in 2008.  Castelli said she was a senior at the  University of New
Haven  when she broke her leg sliding into second base. She
developed an infection, then further complications that forced
doctors to amputate it.  “I don’t think I ever let it mentally disable me, although
it physically disabled me,” said Castelli, an office worker for
Monmouth Junction, New Jersey-based High Grade Beverage. ‘I was
determined to get my leg and do something with it.”  If she gets the  U.S. Open  job, she will be paid the
standard hourly wage of $7.75 each rookie receives for chasing
down tennis balls after each point, said Eric Schuster, the U.S.
Tennis Association’s communications manager.  Making the Cut  Last week during the first tryout, she was asked to chase,
retrieve and throw tennis balls on one of the outer courts.
Three former ballpersons looked on with clipboards, taking notes
of each candidate’s performance.  “We are looking for someone who is a good athlete, people
that can run quickly, have good throwing arms, good agility,
good footwork,” said Assistant Ballperson Director Cathie
Delaney, 45, who has worked at the U.S. Open for 18 years.  Should Castelli make the cut -- the candidates will find
out July 20, said Delaney -- it will be more than memorable for
her, said Kristin Ogdon, who has done it for 19 years.  “This is the greatest job in the world,” said Ogdon, 33,
who works as a marketer for Microsoft Corp. “I’m up close, in
all the action of the tennis, and I wouldn’t miss it.”  Castelli said for her, it’s not only about the tennis.  “I can be an athlete after amputation,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Lydia Winkler in  New York  at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  