-- 
Human Errors Fuel Hacking as Test Shows Nothing Stops Idiocy

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s ,   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-06-27T18:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/human-errors-fuel-hacking-as-test-shows-nothing-prevents-idiocy.html
The U.S. Department of Homeland
Security ran a test this year to see how hard it was for hackers
to corrupt workers and gain access to computer systems. Not
very, it turned out.  Staff secretly dropped computer discs and USB thumb drives
in the parking lots of government buildings and private
contractors. Of those who picked them up, 60 percent plugged the
devices into office computers, curious to see what they
contained. If the drive or CD case had an official logo, 90
percent were installed.  “There’s no device known to mankind that will prevent
people from being idiots,” said Mark Rasch, director of network
security and privacy consulting for Falls Church, Virginia-based
 Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)   The test showed something computer security experts have
long known: Humans are the weak link in the fight to secure
networks against sophisticated hackers. The intruders’ ability
to exploit people’s vulnerabilities has tilted the odds in their
favor and led to a spurt in cyber crimes.  In real-life intrusions, executives of EMC Corp.’s RSA
Security,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Google Inc. were targeted with e-mails
with traps set in the links. And employees unknowingly post
vital information on Facebook or Twitter.  It’s part of a $1 trillion problem, based on the estimated
cost of all forms of online theft, according to McAfee Inc., the
Santa Clara, California-based computer security company.  Rule No. 1  Hundreds of incidents likely go unreported, said Rasch, who
previously headed the  Justice Department ’s computer crime unit.
Corporate firewalls costing millions to erect often succeed in
blocking viruses and other forms of malware that infect
computers and steal data such as credit card information and
passwords. Human error can quickly negate those defenses.  “Rule No. 1 is, don’t open suspicious links,” Rasch said.
“Rule No. 2 is, see Rule No. 1. Rule No. 3 is, see Rules 1 and
2.”  A full report on the  Homeland Security  study will be
published this year, Sean McGurk, director of the department’s
National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center,
said at a June 16 conference in  Washington .  Tactics such as spear-phishing -- sending a limited number
of rigged e-mails to a select group of recipients -- rely on
human weaknesses like trust, laziness or even hubris.  That’s what happened in March, when attackers used a clever
ruse to exploit their discovery that RSA -- the company that
provides network-access tokens using random secondary passwords
-- was in a hiring campaign.  Organized Attack  Two small groups of employees received e-mails with
attached Excel spreadsheets titled “2011 Recruitment Plan,”
the company said in April. The e-mails were caught by the junk-
mail screen. Even so, one employee went into the folder,
retrieved the file and opened it.  The spreadsheet contained an embedded  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) 
Flash file that exploited a bug, then unknown to San Jose,
California-based Adobe, that allowed hackers to commandeer the
employee’s PC. RSA said information related to its two-factor
SecurID authentication process was taken.  Banks may be forced to pay $50 million to $100 million to
distribute new RSA SecurID devices, according to Avivah Litan, a
Gartner Inc. research analyst.  “The team that hacked us is very organized and had a lot
of practice,” Uri Rivner, head of new technologies at RSA
Security, said at a June 17 conference in  Spain . “I can compare
them to the Navy Seals Team Six, which hit Osama Bin Laden.”  The Federal Bureau of Investigation began warning in early
2009 about a rise in spear-phishing attacks. To succeed, they
require the target to open a link presumably sent by someone
they know or trust.  Whale Phishing  Total phishing attacks increased by 6.7 percent from June
2010 to May 2011, according to  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) ’s State of Spam &
Phishing monthly report. The number of non-English phishing
sites increased 18 percent month over month.  Spear-phishing is evolving into what Rasch calls whale
phishing: Targeting senior-level executives whose computers may
have access to far more sensitive information than rank-and-file
workers.  Technology executives are attractive targets because their
positions give them access to a trove of information, and they
tend to believe they’re better protected from computer hackers
than their employees, Rasch said.  Hackers research decision makers by browsing social
networks, reading up on news about the company, and creating e-
mails and links that appear to be genuine and come from people
that the targets know.  ‘Flipping Burgers’  “Phishing is on a different trajectory than it’s been in
the past,” said Malcolm Harkins, Intel’s chief information-
security officer.  Intel was targeted a few years ago, when Chief Executive
Officer Paul S. Otellini opened a hacker’s e-mail that looked
like it came from a federal circuit court in relation to legal
proceedings.  Hackers have many motives, including making mischief,
selling information for profit or stealing trade or military
secrets. While many of the attacks seem sophisticated, the
majority require little programming knowledge because people in
the companies do the work for them, Rasch says.  “It beats flipping burgers for a lot of these guys,” he
said.  Their forays can be aided by workers who place their trust
in digital communications despite warnings they should be more
cautious.  Faux Vixen  In early 2010, security specialist Thomas Ryan created a
fictional online-security analyst using pictures taken from a
pornography-related website. Through e-mail and other online
correspondence, he said he gained access to e-mail addresses and
bank accounts, learned the location of secret military units
based on soldiers’ Facebook photos, and connections between
people and organizations.  The fictional woman received private documents to review,
speaking requests and job offers from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and defense
contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Ryan said.  Assets are also put at risk by people who use easy-to-crack
passwords, and repeat them among Facebook, e-mail and bank
accounts.  When Daniel Amitay checked to see which passwords people
were using in his iPhone app, Big Brother Camera Security, he
found that many weren’t secure. Out of 204,508 recorded
passwords, the most common was “1234,” followed by “0000”
and “2580,” the middle line of the numeric keypad.  CEO Resigns  “By knowing a bit of psychology, people can avoid
security,” Amitay said. “People choose things from memory, and
they are making the job easier for someone who wants to steal
their pass code.”  In a February attack on Sacramento, California-based
security firm HBGary and its sister, HBGary Federal, the hacker
group Anonymous said it cracked the passwords of CEO Aaron Barr
and Chief Operating Officer Ted Vera, and discovered they used
the same passwords in e-mail accounts, LinkedIn, Twitter and
elsewhere. Anonymous said it deleted “gigabytes of backups and
research data” from company servers.  The group didn’t stop there. Using the compromised personal
e-mail account of HBGary owner Greg Hoglund, they asked for and
were given the user name and password of a second HBGary Federal
site, which had to be taken offline.  The HBGary attack tied back in an unusual way to January
2010 security breaches at Google, Adobe Systems Inc.,  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and defense contractor  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   Tracking Executives  Anonymous released HBGary’s e-mails, which show that
DuPont,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  were
also attacked by hackers somewhere in  China , but decided not to
disclose the intrusion. Barr resigned three weeks later, citing
the distraction caused by the hack.  DuPont declined to comment after the HBGary incident, as
did Sony and Johnson & Johnson. Disney didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Lulz Security, known as LulzSec and made up of former
members of Anonymous, announced June 25 it is disbanding after
50 days during which it claimed attacks on computers of the  U.S.
Senate , Public Broadcasting Service television network and
Central Intelligence Agency. Spanish police arrested three
suspected members of Anonymous on June 10.  To better thwart attacks targeting decision makers, Santa
Clara, California-based Intel is deploying software to analyze
employees’ log-on patterns, Harkins said. If a user logs on in
 New York  an hour after logging on from a California web address,
the system may limit or cut off access.  New Products  “That’s the work we are doing right now,” Harkins said,
citing an increase in security spending. “It will take a couple
of years.”  A number of companies are now offering analytics and
security products designed to combat social-engineered attacks.  In February, Milpitas, California-based FireEye announced a
system designed to stop spear-phishing. Its software can open an
e-mail attachment or a link outside of the corporate network,
run it to see if it’s malicious, and report back on the scope of
the planned attack, Ashar Aziz, FireEye’s Chief Executive
Officer, said in an interview.  “This is the deadliest sector of attack that exists
today,” he said. The company already provides the product to
several governmental agencies, he said.  Another vendor, CertiVox, started selling a product last
week that lets users safeguard their Web e-mails and online
posts on Facebook or blogs. Through encryption, the messages are
readable only to recipients picked by the sender. The company,
with offices in  San Francisco  and  London , is testing the
software with large law firms in London, CEO Brian Spector said
in an interview.  Trying to Keep Up  “The security industry is still stuck in infrastructure
1.0,” Spector said. “As the Web 2.0 world started taking off,
it wasn’t keeping up.”  Training may be the biggest key to stopping the attacks.
Hudson Valley Credit Union in Poughkeepsie, New York,
experienced a spear-phishing attack five years ago. Now, each of
the company’s more than 800 employees takes an annual online
security training course, said John Brozycki, the credit union’s
information security officer.  Each year, the course expands to include new schemes and
provides a refresher on long-time problems like phishing.  “We hope that our defenses are able to handle it,”
Brozycki said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  