-- 
Turkish Soldier Killed in PKK Attack as Jailed Leader Wows War

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-27T09:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/turkish-soldier-killed-in-pkk-attack-as-jailed-leader-wows-war.html
One Turkish soldier was killed and
three wounded in an attack by the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or
PKK, as its jailed leader threatened war two weeks after
 Turkey ’s parliamentary elections.  The PKK, considered a terrorist organization by Turkey, the
U.S. and the European Union, attacked a military vehicle in a
rural part of the Van province, state-run Anatolia news agency
said today. The wounded soldiers are being treated at a military
hospital in the eastern city. PKK also set fire to a carpet
factory in Diyarbakir two days ago, according to Anatolia.  Abdullah Ocalan, the PKK leader sentenced to life after his
capture in 1999, criticized a decision by the electoral board to
nullify the parliamentary membership of Hatip Dicle, the
imprisoned independent who won a seat in southeastern Diyarbakir
with the backing of the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party,
or BDP, Milliyet newspaper reported. He called the decision is a
conspiracy involving the governing  Justice and Development
Party , it said.  The jailed leader added that if the government refuses to
take “practical” steps following a meeting by July 15 to
resolve the Kurdish issue, casualties will rise tenfold to
500,000 from the death toll since the insurrection started in
the mid-1980s, the Istanbul-based newspaper said, citing a
meeting Ocalan had with his attorneys June 24.  The BDP is planning to boycott the parliament, which will
convene tomorrow to swear in the members elected on June 12.
Ocalan said he supports the boycott, according to Milliyet.  Independents backed by BDP won 35 seats in the 550-member
parliament, according to the electoral board. Dicle’s seat will
go to the runner up from Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
party, bringing its share to 327.  -- Editor: Mark Bentley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 