-- 
Turkish Lira Slides After Concern Mounts Over EU Debt Crisis

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-27T07:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/turkish-lira-slides-after-concern-mounts-over-eu-debt-crisis.html
Turkey ’s lira declined for a sixth
day as investors cut holdings of emerging-market assets on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and bets that the
country’s central bank will keep rates on hold.  The lira depreciated 0.4 percent to 1.6425 per dollar at
9:48 a.m. in Istanbul, its weakest since April 2009, in the
longest retreating streak since November. The yield on the two-
year, zero-coupon bond rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 9.18 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Greek parliament will decide on June 29 whether to
approve a five-year austerity plan that must pass for the cash-
strapped nation to secure more international aid. European
finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether  Greece  has met
conditions for its next payment.  “There are questions whether it would suffice to solve the
problems of Europe even if Greece’s parliament passes the
plan,” Cem Tozge, a  fund manager  at Ata Yatirim Menkul Degerler
AS in Istanbul, said by telephone.  The central bank left  interest rates  at a record low of
6.25 percent for a fifth month at its rate-setting meeting on
June 23. Turkey wants to achieve real interest rates of zero so
as to limit capital inflows in an attempt to cut the current-
account deficit, Bulent Gedikli, a deputy chief of the governing
Justice and Development Party, said on June 24.  “The central bank is not expected to raise rates and as
long as the rates remain low, the chances will be stronger that
the lira will be hit,” said Tozge.  The lira may remain under pressure until at least October,
the most realistic date for a rate reversal, according to
Commerzbank AG.  “We expect the lira weakness to continue short-term,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt ,
wrote in a note to clients today. “The currency is only going
to recover when the central bank signals the beginning of its
rate-hike cycle.”  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  dropped 0.6 percent to
61,729.38, falling for the first day in three.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  