-- 
Violent Video-Game Limits Struck Down by Supreme Court in California Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-27T18:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/violent-video-game-limits-struck-down-by-supreme-court-in-california-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court struck down a
 California  law prohibiting sales of violent video games to
minors, saying the ban is an unconstitutional infringement on
speech rights.  The nation’s highest court today  rejected  the state’s
contention that violent games are akin to sexual materials,
which the government can restrict to protect children.  “Even where the protection of children is the object, the
constitutional limits on governmental action apply,” Justice
 Antonin Scalia  wrote for five justices. The vote to strike down
the law was 7-2, with the majority divided in its reasoning.  A decision upholding the law, which was never enforced,
might have encouraged enactment of similar measures around the
country. The video game industry has more than $10 billion in
annual sales.  The ruling, issued on the final opinion day of the court’s
2010-11 term, divided the justices along unusual lines. Justices
Stephen Breyer and  Clarence Thomas  dissented. Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice  Samuel Alito  wrote separately to say they
would have issued a narrower ruling that struck down the law as
being too vague while leaving room for states to enact clearer
statutes.  “I would not squelch legislative efforts to deal with what
is perceived by some to be a significant and developing social
problem,” Alito wrote for the two. He cited the increasingly
realistic nature of video games and pointed to games he said
reenacted massacres at Virginia Tech University and Columbine
High School in  Colorado .  Game Industry  “It also appears that there is no antisocial theme too
base for some in the video game industry to support,” Alito
wrote.  Two industry trade groups, the Entertainment Merchants
Association and the Entertainment Software Association,
challenged the law. Members of the two groups include  Electronic
Arts Inc. (ERTS) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Take-Two Interactive
Software Inc. (TTWO) , the maker of “Grand Theft Auto” games.  Electronic Arts rose 3 cents to $21.80 at 2:40 p.m. in
trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) 
rose 12 cents to $11.41. Take-Two rose 39 cents to $15.19.  “This is a historic and complete win for the First
Amendment and the creative freedom of artists and storytellers
everywhere,” said Michael D. Gallagher, president of the
Entertainment Software Association.  Labeling Games  Originally meant to take effect in 2006, the California law
would have required violent video games to be labeled, and it
banned their sale or rental to anyone under 18, subjecting
violators to fines of as much as $1,000. The law wouldn’t have
prevented parents from buying the games for their kids.  “Today the multibillion-dollar video game industry is
celebrating the fact that their profits have been protected,”
said James Steyer, chief executive officer of Common Sense
Media, a San Francisco-based group that helped develop the law.
“But we will continue to fight for the best interests of kids
and families.”  The measure restricted games that depict violence against
human beings and appeal to “a deviant or morbid interest of
minors,” are “patently offensive” and “lack serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value for minors.”
The law didn’t clearly say whether it applied to online sales.  California said its law was a way of helping parents shield
their children from games the industry itself has said aren’t
appropriate for minors.  No Tradition  “California’s argument would fare better if there was a
longstanding tradition in this country of specially restricting
children’s access to depictions of violence, but there is
none,” Scalia wrote.  He pointed to Saturday morning cartoons including Bugs
Bunny and the Road Runner; fairy tales including Snow White and
Hansel and Gretel; and “The Lord of the Flies,” the William
Golding novel in which children marooned on an island murder a
boy.  “California has singled out the purveyors of video games
for disfavored treatment -- at least when compared to
booksellers, cartoonists and movie producers -- and has given no
persuasive reason why,” Scalia wrote.  Today’s ruling upheld a decision by a San Francisco-based
federal appeals court.  The video game industry said the California law would have
accomplished little in light of a voluntary rating system
already used by virtually all game publishers and the largest
retailers. The system assigns one of eight age-specific ratings
to games -- with M signifying mature, or 17 and older, and AO
indicating adults only, or 18 and older.  Guidance for Parents  Breyer, in his dissent, said the law wasn’t aimed at
censorship. He said the measure merely ensured that parents
would decide whether they wanted their children to play violent
video games.  “The First Amendment does not disable government from
helping parents make such a choice here -- a choice not to have
their children buy extremely violent, interactive video games,”
Breyer wrote.  Thomas focused on what he said was the original
understanding of the Constitution’s First Amendment.  “‘The freedom of speech,’ as originally understood does
not include a right to speak to minors without going through the
minors’ parents or guardians,” Thomas wrote.  The case is Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association,
08-1448.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 