-- 
Volkswagen Holds Off on MAN SE Nominees Amid European Antitrust Talks

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-06-27T15:47:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/volkswagen-holds-off-on-man-se-board-nominations-amid-eu-antitrust-talks.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest car
manufacturer, backed off plans to name executives to  MAN SE (MAN) ’s
supervisory board to help facilitate regulatory clearance to
merge the companies’ truckmaking operations with  Scania AB. (SCVB)   VW, which is bidding to raise its stake in MAN before
combining with Scania, withdrew the nominations of three
managers to the truckmaker’s board, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
company said today in a statement. The reversal was prompted by
guidance from the European Union’s executive arm during
antitrust talks, it said.  VW “takes suggestions from the EU Commission into
account” in the interest of completing regulatory proceedings
“quickly and smoothly,” the company said in the statement.  The maker of the Golf hatchback triggered a mandatory bid
for all of MAN by raising its stake on May 9 to 30.5 percent
from 29.9 percent. The tender of 95 euros per common share,
started May 31 and expires on June 29. VW controls Scania, a
holding it accumulated after helping the Soedertaelje, Sweden-
based truckmaker fend off a hostile bid from MAN in 2007.  MAN rose 13 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 93.82 euros in
 Frankfurt , valuing the company at 13.6 billion euros ($19.4
billion).  ‘Vigorous Phase’  MAN, which held its annual shareholders meeting today in
its hometown of Munich, has advised investors not to accept VW’s
bid, which also includes an offer of 59.90 euros per preferred
share, saying the price isn’t fair. At the same time, the
truckmaker has said that the tie-up has an “industrial logic,”
and Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said today
that the three companies are entering a “new, vigorous phase”
of cooperation.  “Partnering with powerful players like Scania and VW opens
up a whole world of new opportunities,” Pachta-Reyhofen told
shareholders. “The next big change might be in store for us,
and MAN may be becoming part of a bigger picture.”  VW planned to nominate Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn , Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch and
 Jochem Heizmann , the carmaker’s commercial-vehicle division
chief, to MAN’s board. The three pulled out for now because of
the EU’s regulatory advice, Ferdinand Piech, chairman of both
VW’s and MAN’s supervisory boards, said today at the meeting.  Alternate Candidates  Instead, shareholders re-elected board members Ulf Berkenhagen, procurement chief at VW’s Audi unit, and Thomas Kremer, legal counselor at ThyssenKrupp AG, and elected Munich-
based corporate lawyer Matthias Bruse, MAN said today. Piech
retained the chairman post.  “It shows that VW doesn’t want to disrupt the legal
process,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , who recommends buying VW stock
and has a “hold” recommendation on MAN shares. “The personnel
issues will come up again later,” he said, adding that the
board setback may not delay the savings sought by VW from the
combination.  Tighter control of MAN is part of VW’s strategy geared
toward creating a manufacturer that supplies vehicles from
subcompacts to heavy trucks to surpass Toyota Motor Corp. as the
world’s biggest automaker by 2018. Investors, unimpressed by
VW’s about-face on the board appointments, accused Piech of
violating corporate governance rules.  Conflict’s ‘Personification’  “Mr. Piech, you are the personification of conflict of
interest,” said Harald Petersen of the SdK shareholders group.
“For shareholders, the way you go about pursuing your agenda is
woebegone.”  MAN, which is forecasting “good performance” in the
second quarter, will take steps to “swiftly” realize cost
savings with Scania once VW gains approval from antitrust
authorities for its integration plans, CEO Pachta-Reyhofen said.  “MAN and Scania could complement their respective product
portfolios,” Pachta-Reyhofen said, adding that cooperation with
VW may allow for new products in lighter commercial vehicles.  The manufacturer, which also makes diesel engines and
turbines, projected sales rising as much as 10 percent this
year, driven by a gain of up to 15 percent for the trucks unit.
Backed by growth in markets such as  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and
 China , business should continue to recover “soundly and
steadily,” MAN said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  