-- 
Wen Sees China Inflation Capped at 5% for Full Year on Tightening Measures

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-06-27T03:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/wen-sees-china-inflation-capped-at-5-for-full-year-on-tightening-measures.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China can
keep full-year inflation within 5 percent, affirming
forecasts that price gains will slow in the second half from
the fastest pace in almost three years.  “I see difficulties in reaching the full-year inflation
target of 4 percent,” Wen said in comments broadcast today
by Hong Kong-based Cable TV. “But it still can be kept below
5 percent after the efforts we have made.” He spoke at a
Chinese community event in  London , the broadcaster said.  Stocks in  Shanghai  rose for a fifth day as Wen’s
comments signaled that the government is confident of
subduing inflation that accelerated to 5.5 percent in May,
the fastest pace since July 2008. The central bank has paused
for more than 11 weeks in raising  interest rates , the longest
gap since increases began in October.  “Inflation may start to soften after June, and in the
fourth quarter the rate is likely to drop below 5 percent,”
said Li Cui, a Hong Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc. “For the annual average to come below 5
percent is more challenging.”  Societe Generale SA estimates that the inflation rate
may be 6.5 percent this month.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.2 percent as of
11:13 a.m. local time, after climbing the most in four months
on the previous trading day.  Profits Climb  Industrial companies’ profits rose 28 percent in the
first five months from a year earlier even as the government
tightened credit, a statistics bureau report showed today.  Wen said that  China ’s economic situation will remain
“the world’s best” if growth is about 8 percent or 9
percent and inflation is below 5 percent. He reiterated
concern at the risk that rising prices can pose to social
stability, cautioning that, combined with corruption, they
can have an “impact on the stability of a political power
and the peacefulness of a society.”  Separately, the premier said China will keep investing
in Europe’s sovereign bond market, providing a vote of
confidence in the region roiled by the debt crisis.  “China has actually increased the purchase of government
bonds of some European countries, and we haven’t cut back on
our euro holdings,” he told the British Broadcasting Corp.
yesterday in an interview. These acts “show our confidence in
the economies of  Europe  and the euro-zone.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch says that the government
will boost interest rates only once more this year as
officials steer the economy to a “soft landing.” The
central bank has raised borrowing costs four times since
September as the government reins in credit to limit
inflation and the risk of asset bubbles.  “The overall price level is within a controllable range
and is expected to drop steadily,” Wen wrote in the
Financial Times newspaper last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  