-- 
Wheat Extends June Slide as Accelerating Harvest Boosts U.S. Grain Supply

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-27T20:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/wheat-extends-june-slide-as-accelerating-harvest-boosts-u-s-grain-supply.html
Wheat fell, heading for the biggest
monthly slump since 2008, as warm, dry weather allows farmers to
accelerate the harvest in the U.S. Great Plains.  About 44 percent of the winter crop was  harvested  as of
yesterday, ahead of the five-year average of 37 percent, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today after the close of
trading in Chicago. Plant quality in Ellis County,  Kansas , has
been “excellent,” while yields were “variable,”  Kansas
Wheat , a trade group, reported June 25 on its  website . Kansas is
the biggest U.S. winter wheat growing state.  “The harvest is going pretty fast because it’s hot and
it’s dry,” said  Jeff McReynolds , the owner of McReynolds
Marketing and Investments in Hays, Kansas. In Oklahoma and
 Texas , yields “weren’t any better than expected, but they
weren’t worse than expected either. Then the harvest moved into
Kansas, and you started hearing about better-than-expected
yields.”  Wheat futures for September delivery fell 10.25 cents, or
1.6 percent, to settle at $6.5075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade. The grain has dropped 17 percent in
June, heading for the biggest monthly decline since October
2008. Prices are still up 38 percent in the past year.  Futures also fell on speculation that demand will increase
for cheaper Russian supplies after the country removes a ban on
exports July 1. Russian third-grade milling-wheat prices
decreased as much as 9.1 percent to 6,000 rubles ($212) a metric
ton in the North Caucasus and Southern federal districts last
week, the country’s Grain Producers’ Union said on its website.  “Russia, before they banned exports last year, their
objective was to gain as much market share as possible, and
their way of doing it was to undercut everyone else’s prices,”
McReynolds said. “Now, they’re picking up from where they left
off.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in New York at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  