-- 
Why China’s Heading for a Hard Landing, Part 1: A. Gary Shilling

-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/why-china-s-heading-for-a-hard-landing-part-1-a-gary-shilling.html
Few countries are more important to
the global economy than  China . But its reputation as an
unstoppable giant -- as a country with an unending supply of
cheap labor and limitless capacity for growth -- masks some
serious and worsening economic problems.  China’s labor force is aging. Its consumers save too much
and spend too little. Its political and economic policy tools
remain crude. Its state bureaucracy seems likely to curb
spending just as exports weaken, and thus risks deflation. As
U.S. consumers retrench, and as the global commodity bubble
begins to dissipate, these fundamental weaknesses will combine
in a way that’s unlikely to end well for China -- or for the
rest of the world.  To start, China is much more vulnerable to an international
slowdown than is generally understood. In late 2007, my firm’s
research found that too few people in China had the
discretionary spending capability to support its economy
domestically. Our analysis showed that it took a per-capita
gross domestic product of about $5,000 to have meaningful
discretionary spending power in China.  About 110 million Chinese had that much or more, but they
constituted only 8 percent of the population and accounted for
just 35 percent of GDP in 2009, while exports accounted for 27
percent. Even China’s middle and upper classes had only 6
percent of Americans’ purchasing power.  Why Overconfidence Abounds  With such limited domestic spending, why do so many
analysts predict that China can continue its robust growth?  In part because they believe in the misguided concept of
global decoupling -- the idea that even if the U.S. economy
suffers a setback, the rest of the world, especially  developing
countries  such as China and  India , will continue to flourish.
Recently -- after China’s huge $586 billion stimulus program in
2009; massive imports of industrial materials such as  iron ore 
and copper; booms in construction of cement, steel and power
plants, and other industrial capacity; and a pickup in economic
growth -- the decoupling argument has been back in vogue.  This concept is flawed for a simple reason: Almost all
developing countries depend on exports for growth, a point
underscored by their persistent trade surpluses and the huge
size of Asian exports relative to GDP. Further, the majority of
exports by Asian countries go directly or indirectly to the U.S.
We saw the effects of this starting in 2008: As U.S. consumers
retrenched and global recession reigned, China and most other
developing Asian countries suffered keenly.  Overconfidence in China’s ability to keep its economy
booming is also partly psychological. It reminds me of the
admiration and envy (even fear) that many felt toward  Japan 
during its bubble days in the 1980s. As Japanese companies
bought  California ’s  Pebble Beach , Iowa farmland and Rockefeller
Center in  New York , what was safe from their zillions? Then the
Japanese stock and real-estate bubbles collapsed, and Japan
entered the deflationary depression in which it’s still mired.  Success and Complacency  What’s more, China’s recent successes have been so
pronounced that they’ve led many to conclude that its economy is
a juggernaut. And, indeed, the Chinese have much to be proud of:
Last year, China passed Japan to become the world’s second
largest economy, a huge achievement considering China started in
the late 1970s with a tiny pre-industrialized economy.  But this success may have led to complacency. I suspect
that the 2007-2009 global recession, and the dramatic
transformation by U.S. consumers from gay-abandon borrowers-and-
spenders to Scrooge-like savers, caught Chinese leaders flat-
footed. They probably planned to encourage  consumer spending  and
domestic-led growth, but later -- much later.  Growth Machine  They were enjoying a well-oiled growth machine. Growing
exports, especially to American consumers, stimulated the
 capital spending  needed to produce yet more exports and jobs for
the millions of Chinese streaming from farms to cities. Wages
remained low, due to ample labor supplies, and held down
consumer spending. So did the high Chinese consumer saving rate.
Because Chinese could not invest offshore, much of that saving
went into state banks at low  interest rates . The money was then
lent to the many inefficient government-owned enterprises at
subsidized rates.  In a country where stability is almost worshipped, why
would any leader want to disrupt such a smoothly running
economy?  But before you worry about China’s becoming No. 1 any time
soon, consider the remaining gap between its economy and the
 U.S. economy . In 2009, China’s GDP was $4.9 trillion, only 34
percent of the U.S.’s $14.3 trillion. Because China has 1.32
billion people, or 4.3 times as many as the U.S. has, the gap in
per-capita GDP was even bigger: China’s $3,709 was only 8
percent of the U.S.’s $46,405.  A Wide Gap  Just to maintain this gap at current levels, Chinese GDP
will need to grow at double-digit rates for four years before
tapering off, or rise sixfold in three decades (assuming that
U.S. real GDP increases 2 percent per year on average for the
next 30 years, and using government population projections). To
close the per-capita GDP gap in 30 years, Chinese GDP would need
to grow about 10 percent per year for three decades, or expand
to 17.8 times its current size in that period.  Such rates of growth seem close to impossible if the global
economy slows.  As the announcer for the  Cleveland Indians  used to say when
the Tribe was hopelessly behind, “They have their work cut out
for them!”  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the first in a five-part series.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this column: A. Gary Shilling at
 insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 