-- 
Williams Sisters’ Exit Makes Sharapova Favorite for Second Wimbledon Title

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-27T23:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/williams-sisters-exit-makes-sharapova-favorite-to-win-2nd-wimbledon-title.html
Maria Sharapova , the 2004 Wimbledon
winner, is the favorite to regain the trophy after former
champions Serena and Venus Williams and top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  were upset in the fourth round.  Serena’s title defense ended with a 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) defeat
to France’s Marion Bartoli on Court 1 yesterday. Her sister and
five-time champion Venus then lost on Centre Court to  Bulgaria ’s
Tsvetana Pironkova 6-2, 6-3.  For the first time since 2006, there won’t be a Williams
sister in the Wimbledon quarterfinals. The Americans have
dominated on the grass courts of the All England Club in London
for a decade, taking nine of the past 11 singles titles. They
also won four doubles championships together.  “You win some and you lose some,” four-time champion
 Serena Williams , the pre-tournament favorite even after almost a
year out with illness and injury, said in a news conference.
“Today just happened to be the one that slipped under me.”  Denmark’s Wozniacki lost 1-6, 7-6 (7-5), 7-5 to Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia.  Russia’s Sharapova, who plays Cibulkova in today’s
quarterfinals, is now the 2-1 favorite to win the title at U.K.
bookmaker William Hill Plc. That means a successful $1 bet would
return $2 plus the original wager.  William Hill said it’s facing a payout of more than 50,000
pounds ($80,000) should the former top-ranked Sharapova win
Wimbledon for the second time.  Sharapova Backing  “Sharapova is the only loser in the book,” William Hill
spokesman Rupert Adams said in an e-mailed statement. “She was
well backed pre-tournament and now the Williams sisters are gone
she is the only one they want to get on.”  Petra Kvitova, last year’s semifinalist from the  Czech
Republic  who plays Pironkova today, is the second favorite at 9-
4, according to William Hill.  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus, at
No. 4 the highest women’s seed left in the draw, is at 5-1. She
faces  Austria ’s Tamira Paszek, a 100-1 outsider for the title.
German wildcard Sabine Lisicki, who ousted French Open champion
Li Na in the second round, is a 7-1 chance. She plays Bartoli,
who is at 9-1, for a place in the semifinals.  It was the fourth time the Williams sisters have lost in a
major at the same stage. They exited the 2008 Australian Open in
the quarterfinals and both lost in the third round of the French
Open later that year. They went out in the last eight in Paris
in 2004, according to the WTA Tour.  Difficult Day  “Definitely not our best day,” Venus Williams told
reporters after losing to Pironkova at Wimbledon for the second
straight year. “We both envisioned seeing this day going a
little bit different.”  Serena was playing her second tournament after missing 49
weeks with a foot injury that required two operations and then
treatment for blood clots in her lungs. She was trying to tie
Steffi Graf in winning three straight Wimbledon titles. She
instead suffered her earliest loss since the third round in 2005
and became the first defending women’s champion to lose before
the quarterfinals since  France ’s Amelie Mauresmo in 2007.  Venus had heard about her sister’s defeat shortly before
starting her match against Pironkova, which was played in front
of the U.K.’s Prince William and his wife, the Duchess of
Cambridge, in the royal box.  “I tried not to watch the match,” said the 31-year-old
Williams, who missed five months this season with hip and
abdominal injuries. “It’s a little distracting.”  Aces, Winners  Bartoli, the 2007 runner-up, produced 10 aces, two more
than Serena. The French right-hander had 21 winners and 17
unforced errors. Her opponent had 29 winners and made 20
mistakes.  “She should always play like this, and she would be in the
top five at minimum,” Serena, 29, said. “It’s like, ‘Wow,
where is this player throughout the rest of the year?’”  Venus Williams  said her shot-making let her down in the
loss to Pironkova, who entered Wimbledon having won four matches
in 14 tournaments.  “I missed some overheads and swinging volleys, shots I
never miss,” Venus said. “That wasn’t especially encouraging.
It’s just not always easy to find the rhythm right away. I just
couldn’t do it today.”  Both siblings said they’re looking forward to the American
hard-court season, which ends with the Aug. 29-Sept. 11 U.S.
Open. Serena has won the year’s final Grand Slam event three
times, while Venus has taken the title twice.  “I haven’t played on the hard courts in what feels like
years,” Serena said. “It’s clearly my favorite surface. I can
only get better, and that can potentially be really scary
because I can only go up from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  