-- 
Wimbledon Launched ‘Investment Answer’ Author to Money Management Success

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-06-27T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/wimbledon-took-investment-answer-author-to-financial-success.html
Dan Goldie’s success at Wimbledon
demanded aggressive tennis. His transition to financial adviser
required a mental change that championed a different approach to
investing.  Goldie employed a serve-and-volley game to defeat  Jimmy Connors  en route to the 1989 Wimbledon quarterfinals and a world
ranking of No. 27 before injury forced him off the courts.  He used his economics background to build a second career
as an independent  investment adviser , managing about $500
million for 250 clients including former tennis opponents and
his former coach at  Stanford University .  “I think they’re just two different worlds,” Goldie said
in an interview at his office in  Menlo Park , California. “In
the athletic world, you are rewarded for your hard work and your
talent and your discipline, and if you’re better you’re going to
consistently perform better than other competitors. With
investments, I think markets work well enough and are efficient
enough that it takes away a lot of competitive advantages.”  Goldie, 47, recognizes attributes that carried over well
from tennis to his second career -- such as discipline and a
tunnel-vision focus. That’s where the similarities end.  “It is very counter to what I did earlier in my life,
where I was learning how to compete and trying to do my best,”
he said. “Markets reward scarcity. The knowledge and the
information that we think we might have to take advantage of
others, I don’t think that’s enough. It’s smarter to let
everyone else battle it out and you take the low-cost, efficient
route.”  ‘The Investment Answer’  Goldie’s approach to investing -- don’t try to time trades
or outsmart the experts, focus instead on rising with the market
-- was the basis for a book he co-authored last year with former
 Wall Street  banker Gordon Murray.  “The Investment Answer,”  a 66-page guide aimed at the
casual investor that rose to No. 1 on the  New York  Times list of
hardcover business bestsellers in February, preaches the virtues
of diversification and rails against the Wall Street hype of
specific stocks and funds.  Murray, who was a bond salesman for Goldman Sachs Group who
rose to managing director at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
 Credit Suisse First Boston , all based in New York, before
retiring in 2001, died of  brain cancer  in mid-January at the age
of 60.  NCAA Singles Title  Goldie, president of  Dan Goldie Financial Services , began
his interest in finance while helping to lead Stanford, in
Stanford,  California , to National Collegiate Athletic
Association men’s tennis titles in 1983 and 1986. He was a
three-time All-American and won the 1986 NCAA singles title. He
was on the pro tour from 1986-91.  While many other players spent their free hours on the ATP
Tour sampling local nightlife, Goldie was accompanied on his
world travels by books on Wall Street and finance.  “He’s very analytical and very even-tempered,” said
former Stanford coach Dick Gould, who now uses Goldie as his
investment adviser. “On the court, he was good under pressure.
There was nothing impulsive about what he did, ever.”  Goldie was ranked No. 48 in the world when he defeated
10th-seeded Connors in four sets in the second round of
Wimbledon in 1989. He then beat  Australia ’s Wally Masur and
 Yugoslavia ’s Slobodan Zivojinovic before losing in straight sets
in the quarterfinals to  Ivan Lendl  of  Czechoslovakia .  Shin Injuries  Stress fractures in both shins derailed his career, sending
him into finance. Gould said in a telephone interview that he
was comfortable from the start with using Goldie as an
investment adviser.  “His whole philosophy fit me very well; he doesn’t get too
high or get too low,” said Gould, 73, who led Stanford to 17
NCAA championships as coach from 1966-2004 and now is director
of tennis for the Cardinal. “You just don’t think he’s going to
come in and sell you a rock when you need a marshmallow.”  There are more academic certificates than tennis plaques on
the walls of Goldie’s corner office, which offers views of a
shopping plaza parking lot. He has a bachelor’s degree in
economics from Stanford and an MBA from the Haas School of
Business at the  University of California  at Berkeley.  Being an athlete is far more stressful than being a
financial adviser, Goldie said, because the business world moves
at a much slower pace and is less prone to the ups and downs of
sports.  “In the sports world, when you were playing well and
doing well, life was great,” he said. “When you weren’t
playing well, then life was really bad. You really lived and
died by your athletic performance. In business it just seems so
much more stable. The wins and losses in business are just so
much less impactful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  