-- 
Saleh Defiant From Hospital Bed as Yemen Slides Toward Chaos

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-06-27T14:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/yemeni-protesters-demand-saleh-s-ouster.html
Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh, recuperating from injuries sustained in an attack earlier
this month, shows no sign he’s considering giving up power to
halt his country’s slide into deeper chaos.  From his military hospital bed in  Riyadh , Saleh promised
Saudi  King Abdullah  almost two weeks ago that he would help
implement the Gulf-brokered accord that stipulates he step down
within 30 days, according to two Yemeni officials, who declined
to be identified because they are not authorized to talk to the
media. After initially backing the accord, the Yemeni leader
refused to sign it on three different occasions since May, and
may be repeating the maneuver.  Saleh is still signing official documents -- he sent a
cable yesterday congratulating Djibouti on its national day --
and hasn’t officially appointed his deputy as acting president.
There have been no public reports of negotiations on a
transition, and Saleh’s  party  officials talk about punishing his
attackers rather than ending his rule. Meanwhile, clashes
between  Yemen ’s army and al-Qaeda militants are spreading,
energy installations have come under attack and protests against
Saleh show no sign of abating.  “The longer this goes on, the worse it is for Yemen and
the Yemeni people,” said Christopher Boucek, an analyst at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, in an
e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “The international
community must impress upon the regime the absolute urgency to
resolve this political paralysis.”  Plot Thwarted  State-run Saba news agency said today the armed forced
thwarted a plot by an al-Qaeda cell to carry out “terrorist
attacks” in Aden.  Five al-Qaeda militants were killed and seven soldiers
wounded in confrontations with the armed forces in Wadi Doufis,
Saba reported, citing an unnamed official. The agency said six
of the group’s “most dangerous” militants were arrested as
they tried to sneak into Aden with explosives and wireless
devices.  The first few months of unrest cost Yemen $4 billion,
Minister of Industry and Trade Hisham Sharaf said in a May 24
interview. The figure would now be higher, and the economy “is
functioning at about 60 percent,” he said in a phone interview
today. “We have not hit rock bottom but we will try to survive
with a crisis economy.”  Oil Production  Oil production in the poorest Arab country dropped to about
3 million barrels a month from 5.8 million after tribes opposed
to Saleh destroyed part of a pipeline carrying crude from Marib
province in central Yemen, Sharaf said. Vienna-based  OMV AG (OMV) ,
which pumps oil in Yemen, said political instability made
repairs impossible. The Interior Ministry announced a list of 43
suspects that includes members of the main opposition coalition,
the Joint Meeting Parties.  Security is deteriorating too. Sixty-three suspected al-
Qaeda prisoners escaped June 22 via a tunnel they dug under
their cells in the coastal city of Mukalla. The army says it is
fighting with al-Qaeda in the southern Abyan province on the
Gulf of Aden coast. At least 80 militants and 60 soldiers have
died since May, Abdu al-Janadi, the deputy information minister,
said on June 15.  The U.S., which has been the target of al-Qaeda attacks
organized from the group’s Yemen base, is pressing for Yemen to
move ahead with the GCC plan to start a process of democratic
reforms, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in
 Washington  on June 23.  Refusal to Sign  Saleh’s party and the official opposition signed the
agreement brokered by the  Gulf Cooperation Council  and backed by
the U.S., which called for a handover to be followed by
elections, yet the president has refused to do so -- citing
reasons including the failure to agree on a public signing
ceremony.  Saudi officials haven’t publicly commented on the status of
the GCC plan since Saleh’s arrival in the kingdom. Currently,
there are no preparations for such a ceremony or for a handover
of power, Tareq al-Shami, a ruling-party spokesman, said  “Talk about such a transfer is tantamount to rewarding the
killers who tried to assassinate the president,” al-Shami said
in a telephone interview from Sana’a on June 26. “Yemenis
should first be informed of who carried out the crime, who
backed it, who financed it.”  Saleh’s Injuries  Al-Janadi said in a June 26 press conference that the
opposition should not expect a  power transfer  even if Saleh were
dead.  There have been conflicting reports about the severity of
Saleh’s injuries, what caused the attack and when the president
will return to Yemen. Saleh has not been seen publicly since the
attack. Ahmed al-Soufi, his adviser, said on Al Arabiya
television yesterday that Saleh will make a media appearance
within 48 hours.  One of the two Yemeni officials recently saw Saleh and said
the president has suffered burns on his face, limbs and upper
chest, and has lost weight. Saleh had  plastic surgery  last week
to repair his face, the official said.  While  the president  has lost weight and his normally
booming voice was weak, he was alert and has started physical
therapy. The official said he was told by a doctor that there
will be no medical obstacle to prevent Saleh returning to his
country in early July, as by then the care he will need can be
provided in Yemen.  Mosque Explosives  The official said the attack was caused by explosives
planted near the minbar, a pulpit in a mosque where the prayer
leader stands to deliver sermons. In its initial report, the
government said the attack resulted from a rocket that slammed
into the front part of the mosque. The official said Yemeni
security officials suspect al-Qaeda was behind the assault.  As Saleh lay in the Saudi hospital, thousands of
demonstrators marched in several Yemeni cities yesterday
demanding the establishment of a transitional council that will
rule Yemen. The protesters, who began the anti-Saleh movement in
January, reject the GCC accord, putting them at odds with the
six-member Joint Meeting Parties, which also wants Saleh to
leave but supports the agreement.  “It is clear that new fissures are emerging in Yemen,”
said  Theodore Karasik , an analyst at the Institute for Near East
and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, in response to e-mailed
questions. “The level of anxiety is rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 