-- 
China Yurun Extends Slump as Muddy Waters Speculation Spurs Short Sellers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-28T08:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-27/yurun-isn-t-aware-of-a-short-seller-s-report.html
China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068)  dropped
in Hong Kong trading, extending yesterday’s record 20 percent
plunge, as short selling surged amid speculation Muddy Waters
LLC may issue a negative report on the pork producer.  Yurun slid 5.9 percent to close at HK$19.38, the lowest
level in 19 months after short-selling volume quadrupled to
21.8 million shares yesterday compared with June 21, according
to Bloomberg data. Muddy Waters, whose allegations of
accounting irregularities sparked selloffs at Chinese companies
including Sino-Forest Corp. and Orient Paper Inc., wouldn’t say
whether it was working on a report about Yurun.  Chairman Zhu Yicai attributed yesterday’s slump to “hedge
funds and market rumors” and isn’t aware of any plans for a
report on Yurun, said Titus Wu, an analyst at DBS Vickers  Hong
Kong  Ltd., who was on a conference call with the company
yesterday. The briefing wasn’t open to journalists and Yurun
hasn’t returned five calls and e-mailed requests for comment.  “Confidence level in Chinese food producers is so low
that nobody is surprised that a mere suggestion of a negative
report will hurt the confidence of consumers and investors,”
said Torsten Stocker, a partner with Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based consulting firm  Monitor Group .  `Confidential' Research  Orient Paper this month urged more transparency from
Chinese companies. It has said a four-month investigation by
Loeb & Loeb LLP, Deloitte & Touche Financial Advisory Services
and TransAsia Lawyers, who were hired by the Chinese paper
maker, found no evidence to support  Muddy Waters ’ allegations.  “We take pains to keep our research activities
confidential, and a widespread market rumor would either
represent a significant failure on our part, or is false,”
Carson Block, a Muddy Waters founder, said in an e-mail when
asked whether it issued a report on Yurun or was working on one.  Yurun Chairman Zhu said he plans to buy back shares in the
Nanjing, Jiangsu province-based company, according to notes to
clients from DBS Vickers’ Wu and CCB International Securities
Ltd.  Zhu also disclosed at yesterday’s call that his private
company has a hog-raising business in Jiangsu province, without
disclosing the scale of the business, according to the CCB note.
There are no dealings between his private business and the
listed company, the note said, citing Zhu.  Earnings Forecast  Wu downgraded Yurun to “hold” from “buy” in a note to
clients today, citing negative publicity. He said he maintains
a forecast of 35-percent core-earnings growth this year
“excluding government grants and negative goodwill.” Still,
Zhu still hasn’t answered questions about “the breakdown of
government grants and the size of the pig farming belonging to
Yurun Group,” Wu said.  Yurun dropped yesterday by the most since the company
first sold shares in October 2005. The decline was the steepest
on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The company issued two
statements yesterday and today saying it is unaware of any
reason for a drop in its share price and increase in its
trading volume on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  “No one wants to take the risk of holding these kinds of
companies and to justify to their colleagues or clients why you
own this stock,” said Arthur Kwong, the Hong Kong-based head
of Asia Pacific equities for BNP Paribas Investment Partners,
which oversees about $787 billion.  Rising Pork Prices  “If you sell it and it rebounds, no one will say that you
have made the wrong decision,” said Kwong, without naming
specific companies.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , a Canada-listed Chinese company, has
dropped more than 80 percent in Toronto trading since June 2,
after Muddy Waters said the company overstated its timber
holdings. Sino-Forest has denied the allegation.  Yurun said it has worked with reputable international
firms since going public, with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
sponsoring its 2005 initial offering and KPMG auditing its
accounts, analysts who attended yesterday’s call, including
those from DBS Vickers, Kim Eng Securities Ltd. and Citigroup
Inc., said in notes to clients.  Yurun’s gross profit margin had a “slight decrease” in
the first five months of this year, according to a filing to
Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday. Sales gained
“significantly” in the period up to May 31 compared with 2010
on higher hog prices and greater slaughtering volume, it said.  The price of marbled pork in  China  rose as much as 4.3
percent to 28.20 yuan ($4.35) a kilogram in the 10 days from
June 11 to June 20 compared with the previous 10 days, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on June 24. Prices for pork
thigh rose 4.1 percent to 29.05 yuan a kilogram.  -- Michael Wei  and Michelle Yun. With assistance from Zijing
Wu in  London ,  Dave McCombs  in  Tokyo  and Lynn Thomasson in Hong
Kong. Editors: Frank Longid, Nicholas Wadhams  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  