-- Activision Profit Surpasses Estimates After Vivendi Stake Is Cut
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/activision-quarterly-profit-tops-estimates-while-outlook-misses.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the video-game publisher that bought out most of  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s controlling
stake, posted third-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates. The forecast for this quarter fell short.  Earnings were 8 cents a share in the period ended Sept. 30,
excluding items,  Santa Monica , California-based Activision said
yesterday in a  statement , exceeding the 4-cent average of 22
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Adjusted revenue of
$657 million topped analysts’ projections of $593.4 million.  Sales and profit, both down from a year ago, reflect the
two-year drop in spending on traditional video games as more
consumers play on mobile devices. Activision released new
versions of the shooter title “Call of Duty” and
“Skylanders,” which joins a video game with collectible toys,
for the holidays while awaiting new consoles due this month from
Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp.  “You have to presume a significant number of players are
going to wait until they have hardware and know what hardware
they have before buying software,” Chief Executive Officer
Bobby Kotick said in an interview.  Initial sales of “Skylanders: Swap Force” and “Call of
Duty: Ghosts” were below year-ago introductions, Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision Publishing, said yesterday on a
conference call. Like other publishers, Activision expects sales
to pick up after gamers purchase the new consoles, he said.  Activision fell 2.4 percent to $16.13 in extended trading
yesterday. The stock close unchanged at $16.53 in  New York  and
has advanced 56 percent this year.  Profit Forecast  Profit this quarter, Activision’s biggest, will be 72 cents
a share excluding items, the company said. That’s less than the
prior forecast of 76 cents to 79 cents and analysts’ estimates
of 78 cents.  The forecast includes a 4-cent reduction because of a delay
in closing the Vivendi buyout, which resulted in more shares
outstanding than expected, Activision said.  The company, along with an investor group led by Kotick,
purchased most of Vivendi’s controlling  stake  in Activision for
$8.17 billion in September, reducing the French company’s
holdings to 12 percent.  Fourth-quarter  sales  will be $2.22 billion, Activision
said, compared with the $2.29 billion average of 22 analysts’
estimates.  The latest “Call of Duty” sold more than $1 billion
copies to retailers in the first day, Activision said yesterday
in a separate statement. The company typically reports the
number of copies sold to consumers, a sign sales were less than
previous installments, said  Michael Olson , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis  who recommends buying the stock.  Third-quarter net income fell to $56 million, or 5 cents a
share, from $226 million, or 20 cents, a year earlier. Total
sales, including changes in deferred revenue, slumped 18 percent
to $691 million, Activision said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  