-- Adcock Largest Shareholder Won’t Support CFR Takeover Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-11-06T17:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/adcock-largest-shareholder-won-t-support-cfr-takeover-bid.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) ’s largest
shareholder said it won’t back a $1.2 billion takeover proposal
from Chilean drugmaker  CFR Pharmaceuticals SA (CFR) , saying it’s not
in the investor’s best interests.  South Africa’s biggest asset manager Public Investment
Corp. “has come to the unanimous decision that it is not in the
best interest of our shareholding to support the CFR offer in
its current form,” Chief Executive Officer Elias Masilela said
in an e-mailed statement today, confirming an earlier text
message sent to  Bloomberg News . The non-binding nature of the
proposal means the terms of the bid for Johannesburg-based
Adcock “cannot be considered to be final,” he said.  Adcock  shares  fell 4.5 percent to 68.40 rand at the close
of trading in Johannesburg, the biggest drop since May 2012.
CFR’s bid for  South Africa ’s largest supplier of hospital
products valued it at about 73.51 rand per Adcock share,
according to both companies. CFR  shares  declined 1.5 percent as
of 2:04 p.m. in Santiago, the most since Oct. 17.  Adcock said Oct. 30 that shareholders representing about 45
percent of its stock backed the deal. As many as 75 percent of
investors have to vote in favor for the takeover to succeed,
Khotso Mokhele, chairman of Adcock’s independent board, said
Sept. 11. The PIC, which oversees the pension funds of South
African government workers, says it has an 18.6 percent stake in
Adcock.  A spokeswoman for Adcock wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  Vote Risk  “It would be a risk to put the offer to a vote from
here,”  David Shapiro , a director at Johannesburg-based money
manager Sasfin Securities, said by phone. “Adcock needs
changes, it needs new management, but this deal was always going
to be difficult as it would mean Adcock would be controlled from
 Chile .”  CFR, Chile’s largest drugmaker, said in July it would pay
12.6 billion rand in cash and shares for Adcock as it seeks to
expand in other  emerging markets . The company said it would
settle as much as 51 percent to 64.3 percent of the purchase
through cash and the balance with new CFR shares.  PIC Chief Investment Officer Daniel Matjila said on July 17
the company was concerned that the stock component of the CFR
offer might make it a poor deal for investors. He said in May
the PIC would prefer that a South African company buy the maker
of Panado painkillers and Corenza cold medicine.  Structural Challenges  “I am surprised by the PIC’s position given several
structural challenges faced by Adcock,” Mathew Menezes, an
analyst at Avior Research, said in e-mailed comments. Adcock’s
first-half profit fell 5.4 percent in the six months through
March, the company said on June 4.  Oasis Group Holdings, which holds about 2.3 percent of
Adcock shares, said on July 16 it won’t support the CFR bid as
it doesn’t want the Chilean company’s stock.  CFR has faced competition from London-based private equity
firm Actis LLP and  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , a Johannesburg-based food
and car sales company, in the battle to control Adcock.  Bidvest Chief Executive Officer Brian Joffe said in a
statement he couldn’t comment as he doesn’t have any details or
background pertaining to the PIC’s decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  