-- Adecco Sees Rising Temp Worker Demand as Crisis Retreats
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-11-06T10:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/adecco-sees-rising-temp-worker-demand-as-europe-exits-recession.html
Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest
provider of temporary workers, said third-quarter profit rose 61
percent on a rebound in  Spain  and  Italy  and forecast higher
demand for flexible labor as European countries exit recession.  “We are coming out of the most severe downturn we’ve had
in our lives,” Chief Executive Officer Patrick De Maeseneire
said in a phone interview. “The restructuring measures
companies had to take were enormous.”  Adecco said there has been an “especially encouraging”
pickup in demand for temp workers in Spain and Italy after labor
reforms in those countries. The company also said the rate of
sales decline is easing in France, its largest market. The stock
rose to a six-year high.  De Maeseneire has guided the Swiss company through a
downturn as  Europe ’s largest economies faltered since he became
CEO in 2009. Spain exited a two-year recession in the third
quarter, while Italy’s record jobless rate in September is
leading that country’s recession to persist.  “It’s clear that the additional economic activity
happening in those countries is being done mainly with temps,”
De Maeseneire said.  Bumpy Road  France’s gross domestic product is forecast to rise 0.9
percent in 2014 compared with an expected 0.1 percent increase
this year, a Bloomberg survey showed last month. Still, the
European Union yesterday trimmed its forecast yesterday for
euro-area growth next year, predicting economies will struggle
to gain momentum with unemployment at a record.  Adecco’s stock rose as much as 6.1 percent to a six-year
high of 70.10 Swiss francs. The shares traded 6 percent higher
at 70.05 francs at 11:04 a.m. in Zurich, bringing this year’s
gain to 46 percent.  Net income increased to 190 million euros ($257 million),
beating the 138.2 million-euro average estimate of five analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. Sales in constant currencies were
unchanged at 5 billion euros, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today.  There will be “bumps along the growth path” as in most
European countries like  France , Belgium and  Germany  it is still
costly to reduce staff, he said. Companies will favor hiring
temporary employees to avoid benefit and pension costs, he said.  Adecco’s chief reiterated a target of achieving a 5.5
percent margin for earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization by 2015, citing more favorable economic conditions
expected from the end of this year. The margin was 4 percent
last year before restructuring and integration costs, and it
reached 5.5 percent in the third quarter of 2013 before
restructuring costs.  Adecco had the equivalent of more than 31,000 full-time
employees and operated a network of about 5,100 branches at the
end of the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  