-- Lafarge Unveils New Cost Cutting Program as Profit Drops
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-11-06T06:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/lafarge-unveils-new-cost-cutting-program-as-profit-drops.html
Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, unveiled a new plan to slash costs after
third-quarter profit dropped more than analysts estimated.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 6 percent to 1.01 billion euros ($1.4
billion), the Paris-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts polled by Bloomberg had estimated 1.06 billion euros.
Lafarge reiterated its cost cutting targets for 2013 and 2014
and set a new goal to boost earnings in 2015 and 2016 by 1.1
billion euros, consisting of 600 million euros in expenditure
reductions and 500 million euros through “innovation.”  Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont is cutting costs,
pushing sales of higher-margin services and selling assets to
repair a  credit rating  that has fallen one level below
investment grade amid a slump in European construction, rising
energy prices and political turmoil in the  Middle East .  “Looking ahead, we’ll benefit from three organic growth
drivers: continuing growth in emerging countries, accelerating
growth through innovation and progressive recovery in mature
markets,” the CEO said in the statement. “All our measures
strive towards growth in sales, cash flows and returns and our
priority is to create sustainable value for our shareholders.”  Lafarge reiterated a forecast for the cement business to
grow as much as 3 percent this year in the markets where the
company operates. “This implies better trends in the second
half compared to the first half as market recovery is becoming
evident in the U.S., growth in most  emerging markets  continues
and  Europe  is showing stabilization at a low level,” the
company said.  Cutting Debt  Lafarge’s net  debt  shrank to 10.9 billion euros at the end
of September, a reduction of 1.3 billion euros compared to the
same period last year. The company reiterated a goal to reduce
borrowings to below 10 billion euros this year, and to less than
9 billion euros in 2014, to regain an investment grade as soon
as possible.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s largest cement maker, yesterday
lowered its 2013 sales forecast because of disappointing
shipments in  India , Mexico and  Canada . Sales won’t match last
year’s level given weakening demand for construction materials
in key markets, the Swiss company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  