-- AFL-CIO Plans Campaign Against Republicans on Immigration
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-11-06T20:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/afl-cio-plans-campaign-against-republicans-on-immigration.html
The AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest
labor federation, will air at least $1 million in advertisements
against House Republicans including Whip  Kevin McCarthy  for
blocking a rewrite of U.S. immigration laws.  The ads will be broadcast in Spanish and target
congressional districts with large Latino constituencies, the
group said today in a statement. McCarthy’s district, which
includes Bakersfield, California, is about 36 percent Hispanic.  “The time for acting on immigration reform is now, and the
 labor movement  has decided to throw down in a big way to make it
happen,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said in the
statement. “Every day, over 1,000 people are deported, while
House Republicans refuse to act on immigration reform with a
road map to citizenship and workers’ rights.”  The campaign will cost more than $1 million and is meant to
“spur House Republicans into action” on immigration this year,
and highlight members’ “hostile” statements against
immigrants, Trumka told reporters during a conference call.  The TV ads are part of a media and grassroots campaign the
union said it aimed at reaching constituents of Joe Heck of
Nevada, Mike Coffman and Scott Tipton of Colorado, Buck McKeon
and  Gary Miller  of California, Steve Pearce of  New Mexico  and
Daniel Webster of Florida.  Push Harder  Among the group’s targets is Republican Representative
David Valadao, who joined a California colleague, Jeff Denham,
and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida to back an immigration bill
sponsored by Democrats. The labor federation contends that even
Republicans who back comprehensive immigration legislation need
to push harder for action.  Valadao’s district, which includes parts of Bakersfield,
voted 55 percent for  Barack Obama  in 2012, the Democratic
president’s second-best showing in a district that elected a
Republican to the House of Representatives.  Democrats need a net win of 17 House seats to wrest the
majority from Republicans.  The AFL-CIO ads will be broadcast in English in the
Washington metropolitan area.  Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia have said that the House won’t take up the
immigration bill passed by the Senate in June. Instead, the
House would rewrite the law in pieces, they said.  “The speaker supports step-by-step, common-sense reforms
to fix our broken immigration system,” Cory Fritz, Boehner’s
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The House hasn’t passed any immigration-related bills so
far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  