-- Hagel Call for Smaller Force Delays Picking Among Weapons
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/hagel-call-for-smaller-force-delays-picking-among-weapons.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel is
outlining his vision of a smaller, better-equipped military
while anticipating tough choices about some multibillion-dollar
weapons systems that declining  Pentagon budgets  may force
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to make.  “In some cases we will make a shift, for example, by
prioritizing a smaller, modern, and capable military over a
larger force with older equipment,” Hagel said yesterday in a
speech to the Center for Strategic & International Studies, a
policy research group in Washington. He called for preserving
funding for cyberdefense, special operations, space and
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.  While that formulation may bolster efforts within the
Pentagon to protect projects such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
F-35 fighter and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s next-generation system to jam
enemy radars, Hagel also warned that the Pentagon must try “to
control areas of runaway cost growth.”  Hagel didn’t hint at which defense programs may be
vulnerable to cutbacks, delays or cancellations. That may come
in February or March, when the Vietnam War veteran and former
U.S. senator is scheduled to present a five-year defense plan.
It will be a test of how willing Hagel -- who once called the
Pentagon “bloated” -- is to take on defense lobbyists and
their congressional allies.  Hagel, 67, “will have to make choices to preserve the
viability of priority systems and capabilities” when he
proposes the Pentagon’s budget for the fiscal year that begins
on Oct. 1, 2014, said Roman Schweizer, a defense industry
analyst in  Washington  with Guggenheim Partners LLC.  Stretching Purchases  With no “elegant solution” available, Schweizer said in
an e-mail, the Pentagon will have to stretch out purchases and
cull “underperforming programs, overlapping capabilities and
marginal, incremental improvements.”  Pentagon officials so far have shown determination to
shelter sophisticated and costly weapons from reductions even as
the military faces $500 billion in automatic budget cuts over
nine years under the process called sequestration.  When Hagel released his “Strategic Choices and Management
Review” in July, he highlighted systems that he said were worth
protecting, including the F-35 made by Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, Air Force plans for a new long-range strike bomber and
the Navy’s program to increase the number of Tomahawk cruise
missiles on Virginia-class submarines.  “The companies that look likely to benefit most from
Hagel’s priorities are big aerospace and electronics houses that
can integrate next-generation weapons and the networks to
support them,” said Loren Thompson, a defense analyst with the
Arlington, Virginia-based Lexington Institute who also consults
for contractors.  Can’t Escape  Even the biggest programs can’t escape budget cuts
indefinitely, said Robert Levinson, an analyst with Bloomberg
Government in Washington.  “There’s just too much money in the F-35,” Levinson said
of the fighter, the most expensive weapons system at a projected
cost of $391.2 billion for a fleet of 2,443 planes. “You can’t
protect the F-35 completely.”  Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale also has said the F-35
wouldn’t escape scrutiny for potential cuts as the Pentagon
weighs increasing annual production starting in fiscal 2015 to
42 planes from 29 annually this year and last year.  “It’s an important program and we want to be darn sure we
don’t damage the program, so we’ll work hard to avoid” that,
“but yeah, we’re going to have to consider it,” Hale said in
an interview.  Two Navy programs, the Littoral Combat Ship built in
separate versions by Lockheed and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  and the John F.
Kennedy, an aircraft carrier scheduled to be built by  Huntington
Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) , also are under evaluation and may
become targets for funding cuts.  Hagel has said little publicly about the need for new
aircraft carriers. Robert Gates, one of his predecessors as
defense secretary, spoke as far back as 2009 of the potential
vulnerability of aircraft carriers to Chinese anti-ship
ballistic missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  