-- Talisman Energy Reports Third-Quarter Operating Loss on Hedging
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-06T10:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/talisman-energy-reports-third-quarter-operating-loss-on-hedging.html
Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the Canadian
oil and natural-gas company being targeted by activist investor
 Carl Icahn , reported its fifth consecutive quarterly operating
loss after losing money from hedging.  Excluding one-time items, the loss held at 4 cents a share
last quarter, missing the average  estimate  of a 1-cent loss from
14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The net loss was $54 million,
or 5 cents a share, compared with a loss of $731 million, or 71
cents, a year earlier, Talisman said in a statement. Last year’s
results included costs associated with its exit from  Peru .  Chief Executive Officer Hal Kvisle is seeking to sell $2
billion to $3 billion in assets to reduce debt and focus on the
Americas and  Southeast Asia . Billionaire investor Icahn reported
a 7 percent stake in Calgary-based Talisman last month and said
he may seek talks with management on “strategic alternatives”
and board seats.  Talisman has suffered lower North American gas prices and
losses from hedging and foreign exchange. It also reported lower
production after it sold assets and  North Sea  volumes declined.  Output totaled 371,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in
the third quarter, down from 415,000 barrels a day a year
earlier, according to today’s statement.  North Sea  “Talisman continues to battle reliability issues in the
North Sea, which adds an element of uncertainty to our
estimates,” Chris Feltin and Brian Bagnell of Macquarie Capital
Markets Canada Ltd. wrote in an Oct. 10 note. Talisman was the
worst-performing stock in the quarter among a group of large
Canadian energy companies tracked by Macquarie.  Talisman reduced its full-year output target from the North
Sea by the equivalent of about 9,000 barrels of oil a day in
July and said it continued to experience production issues that
would take time and investment to resolve. In December, the
company sold 49 percent of its U.K. business to China
Petrochemical Corp.  The company reported earnings before the start of regular
trading on North American markets. The stock, which has gained
14 percent this year, has seven buy, 16 hold and one sell
recommendation from  analysts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  