-- Alleged SAC Tipper Aggarwal Has Guilty Plea Hearing
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-06T19:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/alleged-sac-tipper-aggarwal-has-guilty-plea-hearing.html
Sandeep Aggarwal, a former research
analyst accused of giving inside tips to a former SAC Capital
Advisors LP fund manager, has a “guilty plea hearing”
scheduled for Nov. 8, prosecutors said in a court filing.  Talks with a defense lawyer have been held at least since
September, according to the Nov. 1 filing in federal court in
 Manhattan .  “The parties have made substantial progress in our
discussions,” Assistant U.S. Attorney John J. O’Donnell wrote.
No details of a possible plea were in the document or the case
docket.  A lawyer for Aggarwal, Sean Casey, declined through an
assistant to comment on plea talks.  Aggarwal made an initial appearance in federal court in San
Francisco on July 30 after being arrested the day before by
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents in  San Jose , California.
He was released on a $500,000 bond, according to court records.  The analyst was charged with one count each of conspiracy
to commit  securities fraud  and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud .
He’s accused of passing tips about a pending venture between
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and faces a potential maximum
punishment of 25 years in prison.  SAC Capital, owned by billionaire  Steven Cohen , was
indicted July 25 in what the U.S. called an unprecedented,
decade-long insider trading scheme. SAC has agreed to plead
guilty to securities fraud and wire fraud and pay a record
$1.8 billion in penalties, according to federal prosecutors.  Insider Tips  In July 2009, Aggarwal provided material nonpublic
information about a strategic partnership in Internet search and
advertising between Microsoft and Yahoo to two hedge funds,
including SAC, the U.S. alleged in a criminal complaint.  According to the U.S., on July 9, 2009, Aggarwal learned
from a friend employed by Microsoft about the partnership
discussions and that a transaction was likely to be announced
within weeks. The next day, Aggarwal gave the information to a
 money manager  at SAC, the U.S. said. He also passed the
information to about 14 traders and hedge fund managers, the
government said.  The case is U.S. v. Aggarwal, 13-mj-01877, and the SAC case
is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-cr-00541, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Manhattan
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 