-- Ally Tapers Mortgages to Zero as Firm Exits Home Lending
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-06T13:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ally-s-mortgage-pipeline-falls-to-zero-as-firm-ends-30-year-run.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , once one of the
largest U.S. home lenders, has closed the book on the mortgage
business that drove the company to the brink of collapse.  Ally no longer offers or services home loans and the
pipeline of pending mortgages stands at zero, according to a
presentation released yesterday by the Detroit-based auto
financer. The company has paid a settlement reached last month
with U.S. regulators tied to its residential lending, and that’s
the last of any significant costs,  Jeff Brown , senior executive
vice president for finance, told investors on a conference call.  Mortgages are in Ally’s “rearview mirror,” Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  said on the call, ending an
almost 30-year foray that led to more than $10 billion in losses
and a $17.2 billion U.S. bailout. Under his predecessors, brands
such as GMAC Mortgage and online lender Ditech propelled the
firm into the top ranks of subprime lenders in 2006, just as the
housing bubble began to pop.  “It turned out to be a debacle,” said Thomas Lawler, who
spent 22 years at Fannie Mae and is now an independent
consultant. “Why would something originally designed as a
financing subsidiary morph itself into a gargantuan mortgage
player? That’s a good question.”  U.S. Bailout  The bailout left taxpayers with a  74 percent stake  and
Carpenter with the task of rebuilding the firm, originally known
as GMAC when it was the in-house financing arm of General Motors
Corp. Burdened by mortgages made to borrowers with shoddy
credit, Ally began reporting losses in 2007 that reached $10.3
billion in 2009. With the company on the verge of failure, the
U.S. engineered a bailout to ensure money kept flowing to the
 auto industry  and preserved jobs.  Since taking over in late 2009, Carpenter has refocused the
company on its auto-lending roots by ushering the Residential
Capital mortgage unit into bankruptcy, selling assets and
settling claims with federal agencies over faulty mortgages sold
to U.S.-backed firms such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  “Back in ’09, in all honesty, it was initially survival,”
he said yesterday.  By early 2011, Carpenter said Ally was healthy enough to
float an initial stock offering whose proceeds could be used to
buy out the U.S. stake and pay back taxpayers. Plans were filed
in March 2011, only to stall as he wrangled with ResCap
creditors over how much financial responsibility Ally should
bear for the unit’s collapse.  The bank ultimately agreed this year to contribute $2.1
billion in return for immunity from current and future lawsuits
tied to mortgage-backed bonds that went bad.  Bankruptcy Hearing  ResCap has been settling disputes with creditors as it
prepares for a hearing this month when the New York-based firm
will ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn to approve a plan to
distribute billions of dollars to creditors. If that happens,
Ally will officially be done with the unit Carpenter, 66, once
called a “millstone around the company’s neck.”  “They effectively exited mortgages a while ago, but as
soon as the judge approves ResCap it will officially be in the
rearview mirror,” Jesse Rosenthal, an analyst at New York-based
CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It’s
symbolically significant.”  GM created Ally in 1919 to make it easier for customers to
buy vehicles. The unit expanded into home lending in 1985, and
from 2002 to 2005, the automaker made more money from auto loans
and mortgages than from building cars and trucks. GM sold 51
percent of the firm in 2006 to Cerberus Capital Management LP, a
private-equity firm. The holding was later diluted by the U.S.
bailout.  ResCap’s Rank  At the height of the housing boom in 2006, ResCap ranked
12th among U.S. subprime lenders with more than $21 billion of
mortgages and third in Alt-A lending -- a category which
typically demanded little documentation from borrowers -- with
$44 billion, according to trade publication Inside Mortgage
Finance. The year before, ResCap made $25 billion in subprime
loans.  While Carpenter and Brown assured investors yesterday that
the mortgage issues are behind it, the company’s subsequent
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission hedged
those comments with regard to ResCap’s bankruptcy plan.  “The failure of the plan to become effective could result
in, among other consequences, the pursuit of an alternative form
of reorganization or liquidation, which may be less favorable
to” the company, according to the filing.  Profit Slides  Third-quarter profit declined 76 percent to $91 million,
the bank said yesterday in a statement. Income from continuing
operations in the automotive finance segment was $339 million,
little changed from a year earlier. Insurance income rose to $83
million from $13 million and the mortgage segment swung to a
loss of $5 million from last year’s $331 million profit.  In August, Ally said it was raising $1 billion in a private
placement to take the next step to repaying the government. Once
the transaction closes, expected this month, the company will
have repaid $12.3 billion to the U.S. Treasury Department by its
own calculations, according to yesterday’s statement.  Carpenter turned to the pending IPO in yesterday’s
conference call, calling the market for public offerings strong.
He also said it might be possible for private investors to buy
out the Treasury’s stake.  “The analysis on Ally going forward will switch to ‘how
does Treasury get out,’” Rosenthal said. “The narrative has
changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  