-- Alstom Adds Disposals to Extra Savings in Agility Drive
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-11-06T12:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/alstom-to-accelerate-savings-program-with-disposals-planned.html
Alstom SA (ALO)  will deepen a cost-cutting
drive and sell as much as 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in
assets by the end of 2014 as the French maker of power equipment
and trains seeks to sustain profit amid declining markets.  Possible disposals include a minority stake in train and
railway-equipment unit Alstom Transport that may attract both
industry and private-equity buyers, the company said today.
Operating profit in the six months through September was 695
million euros, beating the average analyst  estimate  of 664
million euros. Alstom stock rose to a five-month high.  “In the current low-growth environment, we need to further
reinforce our competitiveness,” Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron said at a press conference at Alstom headquarters in the
Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret. “If tomorrow we were to look
into growing in railway signaling, as some have done, I wouldn’t
want to increase debt.”  Kron cut his forecast for sales and margins in May, citing
a slowdown in the global economy. Alstom outlined plans today to
reduce costs by as much as 1.5 billion euros by April 2016 as
demand for gas turbines weakens and price pressure hurts profit
from onshore  wind turbines  and power-transmission gear. German
competitor  Siemens AG (SIE) , which reports earnings tomorrow, ousted
CEO  Peter Loescher  after saying in July that it will miss a
fiscal 2014 profit target.  Stock Jumps  Alstom  jumped  as much as 8.1 percent to 29.29 euros, the
highest intraday price since June 4, and was trading up 5.9
percent at 1:21 p.m. in Paris. That narrowed the stock’s decline
this year to 4.8 percent, valuing the company at 8.85 billion
euros.  First-half free  cash flow  was a negative 511 million euros,
partly because of payment timings, Alstom said. Orders in the
period fell 22 percent to 9.43 billion euros, while sales were
little changed at 9.73 billion euros.  Revenue is still forecast to “grow at a low single-digit”
rate this fiscal year, excluding the effects of acquisitions,
disposals and currency shifts, the company said. The operating
margin in the 12 months through March 2014 will be little
changed from fiscal 2013, before gradually rising over the next
two to three years to about 8 percent of sales. Free cash flow
should be positive annually over the period.  Order Optimism  “Tendering is active, and we expect stronger order
bookings by the end of the year, which will support free cash-flow rebound in the second half,” Kron said.  Alstom ranks behind  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Munich-based
Siemens in the power-equipment industry. It also competes with
Siemens and Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on train and subway
cars, and with Siemens and Zurich-based  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  in power-transmission markets.  The French company said in October that it won a 4 billion-euro contract for suburban trains in  South Africa  and a 1.2
billion-euro project for metros in  Saudi Arabia . Kron said he
hopes Alstom will book orders for at least nine gas turbines in
the second half after selling just one in the first six months,
“but the market is difficult, and we have a financial policy
that forbids us from doing just whatever.”  Alstom, which reduced its  workforce  in Europe and the U.S.
as utilities’ demand for power equipment slumped after the 2009
recession, is also shutting some plants that make windmills and
power-grid gear. It’s expanding production lines for trains and
turbines in countries such as  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil  and  India  to
tap local demand.  Job Cuts  The manufacturer plans to cut 1,300 job, mainly in  Europe ,
Kron said. The reductions will affect the information technology
department and the boiler unit, and may be extended to other
operations if needed, he said.  The 1.5 billion-euro savings plan is “ambitious, possible
and necessary,” Kron said. The asset-disposal program, of 1
billion euros to 2 billion euros, will reinforce Alstom’s
balance sheet and help it fund  acquisitions  “if needed,” the
CEO said, adding that he has no large purchase on the agenda.  Kron didn’t rule out a share sale for Alstom Transport as a
way of reducing the parent company’s holding. The strategy is
designed to prevent Alstom’s debt from rising, and the
manufacturer doesn’t need a capital increase, he said.  “Transport is, in our view, Alstom’s most stable asset,
and the sale of a stake in the business is therefore not a
positive signal,” Arnaud Schmit, an analyst at Natixis in
Paris, said in a research report.  “Implementing a capital increase at current valuation
wouldn’t have been acceptable for our shareholders,” and
“increasing debt isn’t an option,” Kron said.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Alstom’s long-term credit
rating by one level in June to Baa3, the lowest investment
grade.  Standard & Poor’s , which gives Alstom debt its second-lowest investment rating of BBB, said last year that it may make
a similar move.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  