-- Aluminum Bribe Trial, Muni Fine, HSBC-Euribor: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-06T12:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/aluminum-bribe-trial-muni-fine-hsbc-euribor-compliance.html
British businessman Victor Dahdaleh
paid about 40 million pounds ($64 million) in bribes to the
former chairman and chief executive officer of Bahrain’s state-owned aluminum producer, a prosecutor said.  Dahdaleh made payments to Bruce Hall, the former CEO of
Aluminium Bahrain BSC, known as Alba, and to then-Chairman
Sheikh Isa Bin Ali Al Khalifa to win contracts for companies he
was acting for, Philip Shears, a prosecutor for the U.K. Serious
Fraud Office, said yesterday on the first day of a trial in
London.  Dahdaleh, a British and Canadian citizen who lives in
London, had connections to about 15 companies that were
international suppliers to Alba, Shears told jurors.  He had means “to generate funds from these contracts,”
Shears said. “The rewards to Mr. Dahdaleh were enormous.”  Dahdaleh is charged with paying about $7.75 million in
bribes to officials between 1998 and 2006. He faces six
corruption charges, one count of conspiracy to corrupt and one
of transferring criminal property, the SFO said in an
indictment.  Hall has pleaded guilty to conspiring to corrupt and is
cooperating with the SFO, Shears said. He is expected to testify
today.  Compliance Policy  EU Deal on Licensing Rules to Open Access to Online Music Stores  The European Union backed a provisional deal to revamp
existing licensing rules to let Internet music stores such as
Apple Inc.’s iTunes sell digital music across the 28-nation EU.  The draft law, which still needs the formal approval of the
 European Parliament  and EU ministers, will allow online music
stores to get licenses from royalty-collecting societies across
Europe instead of the current system where music copyright
licenses are granted on a national basis.  The provisional deal was struck by the bloc’s lawmakers and
government representatives late in the day on Nov. 4.  U.S., European Authorities Seek Uniform Derivatives Language  U.S. and European authorities, in a letter to the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association , encouraged
adoption of language in derivatives contracts that would delay
early termination of those instruments “in the event of the
resolution of a global systemically important financial
institution.”  The letter expresses support for changes to the
association’s standard documentation to provide for short-term
suspension of early termination rights, as well as other
remedies in event of resolution, according to a statement
released yesterday.  The authorities that signed on to the letter were the U.S.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Bank of England, the German
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority.  EU Split on Euro-Area Bank-Failure Plan as Deadline Looms  European Union nations remain split over whether a planned
euro-area system for handling failing lenders should cover all
banks in the currency bloc and whether it should be backed by a
central fund, with less than two months until their deadline for
reaching a common position.  Governments are also divided over whether the European
Commission, the bloc’s executive and regulatory arm, should play
a decisive role in the Single Resolution Mechanism, according to
a draft document prepared by Lithuania, which holds the EU’s
rotating presidency.  Concerns have been raised about “a potential conflict”
inherent in the commission if it is granted discretionary powers
in the SRM context, according to the note, prepared for a Nov. 7
meeting of national ambassadors and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The bank-failure plan is part of a euro-area effort to
break the financial links between sovereigns and banks by
centralizing oversight and crisis management of failing lenders.
The blueprint has met with a barrage of complaints from
governments, with Germany among those to have expressed the
strongest concerns.  Still, EU leaders reaffirmed last month that nations should
agree on a common stance on the plans by year-end. The SRM is
designed to complement the European Central Bank’s supervision
of euro-area lenders, which begins in full in one year. Policy
makers are racing to reach a deal before European Parliament
elections in May. The assembly’s approval is needed for the bill
to become law.  BlackRock, Fidelity Face Initial Risk Study by U.S. Regulators  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Fidelity Investments will be studied by
U.S. regulators who are in the early stages of reviewing whether
asset managers pose a potential risk to the financial system,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council’s discussion Oct.
31 and agreement to review New York-based BlackRock and Boston-based Fidelity don’t necessarily mean the companies will be
designated systemically important by the council, according to
the people, who requested anonymity because the meeting was
closed to the public. The panel didn’t take any formal action
regarding the companies.  FSOC’s preliminary talks may presage months of wrangling
between the industry and officials charged with trying to
prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. Asset managers
are among non-bank financial companies that the council is
empowered by law to evaluate to determine whether their failure
could threaten the entire system and thus require Federal
Reserve oversight. BlackRock, Fidelity and the mutual-fund
industry’s trade group have said money managers aren’t a threat.  “We continue to believe that the asset-management
industry, and mutual funds in particular, do not present the
types of risk that the FSOC was designed to address,”  Vincent
Loporchio , a spokesman for Fidelity, said in an e-mail in
response to a question about the FSOC meeting. BlackRock
spokesman  Brian Beades  said the company “doesn’t comment on
rumor or speculation.”  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew is the council’s chairman.
Treasury spokeswoman Suzanne Elio declined to comment. In a
statement after last week’s meeting, Elio said the council
“held an initial discussion on asset management,” and she
didn’t identify any companies. The FSOC’s rules state that it
doesn’t intend to disclose names of firms before “a final
determination.”  The oversight council is authorized under the Dodd-Frank
Act of 2010 to identify companies that could threaten stability.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  HSBC Said to Reject Euribor Probe Settlement as EU Readies Fines  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  dropped out of talks to settle a European
Union antitrust probe into rigging of Euribor lending rates,
according to a person familiar with the investigation, as
regulators prepare to hand out fines to settling banks as soon
as next month.  HSBC pulled out of the negotiations, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
confidential. The discussions stumbled over the possible size of
a fine and liability issues, according to a second person, who
also asked not be named.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  also entered into settlement talks with the
European Commission, and at least one of those may have also
pulled out of the discussions, the person said.  Regulators around the world are investigating whether more
than a dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank, colluded to rig
various benchmark interest rates to mask their true cost of
borrowing. Refusal to settle means giving up a 10 percent
discount in fines in return for admitting to collusion.  Banks settling with the EU may face fines as early as
December, one of the people said. HSBC, and others that reject a
settlement, would be separately sent a formal statement of
objections.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to comment on the case.  Brendan McNamara ,
a spokesman for HSBC in London, declined to comment.  Representatives of JPMorgan, Credit Agricole, Deutsche
Bank, Barclays, RBS and Societe Generale all also declined to
comment.  Washington Agency Receives First SEC Fine for Misleading Public  A public agency in Washington’s Wenatchee Valley region
that defaulted on its debt will pay $20,000 to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, the first municipal issuer
fined for misleading investors.  The Greater Wenatchee Regional Events Center Public
Facilities District, which financed an events center and ice-hockey arena, defaulted in 2011 on notes issued in 2008. The SEC
said yesterday in a release that the district in an official
statement claimed there were no independent reviews of the
center’s financial projections even though a consultant twice
raised questions about its viability.  Minneapolis-based  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC) , whose subsidiary
underwrote the $42 million note deal, will pay a $300,000 fine.
The lead investment banker on the offering, Jane Towery, will
incur a $25,000 penalty, according to an SEC statement.  The documents also omitted information about Wenatchee’s
limited debt capacity, the SEC said. Standard & Poor’s cut the
city’s general obligations two levels to BBB in December 2011
for failing to step in and help the district make payments.  The SEC said this is the first time it has fined a
municipal-bond issuer. The Wenatchee agency, the company and
Towery neither admitted nor denied the findings, according to
the statement.  Pamela Steensland, a spokeswoman for Piper Jaffray, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on
the fine.  The Facilities District was formed by nine Washington
cities and counties, according to the SEC’s statement.  Wells Fargo Said Among Banks Facing U.S. Mortgage-Bond Probes  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is among firms facing federal scrutiny of
mortgage-bond sales under a 1989 law the government is using to
extend probes of banks’ roles in the credit crisis, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  U.S. attorneys in  San Francisco  have been examining Wells
Fargo, the nation’s largest mortgage lender, for more than a
year, said one of the people, who asked not to be named because
the inquiry isn’t public. Authorities are investigating whether
the firm violated the Financial Institution Reform and Recovery
Act. The law, known as FIRREA, carries a 10-year statute of
limitations and allows the government to sue for fraud affecting
a federally insured financial institution.  President Barack Obama set up a task force last year that’s
making use of the law, which stems from the savings-and-loan
crisis of the 1980s, while examining mortgage-bond underwriting
that fueled investor losses and prompted unprecedented
government bailouts of banks in 2008. The task force, comprising
state and federal agencies, is focusing on about eight banks, a
person familiar with the matter said in October.  Oscar Suris, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, and Josh Eaton, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Melinda
Haag, declined to comment.  Interviews  Arthur Levitt Says ‘Saga’ Has Not Ended for SAC’s Cohen  Arthur Levitt , the former chairman of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, talked about the agreement by
billionaire Steven A. Cohen’s hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP
to plead guilty to securities and wire fraud. Levitt talked with
 Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  CFTC Commissioner Chilton Says He Will Step Down  U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commissioner   Bart Chilton ,
said he will step down from the agency in the “not too distant
future.”  His announcement, during an agency meeting in Washington
yesterday, came less than two months before CFTC Chairman Gary
Gensler, an ally and fellow Democrat, is to leave the agency.  Chilton joined the commission in August 2007. With one seat
on the five-member commission already vacant, the departure of
Chilton, a Democrat, will leave as current commissioners fellow
Democrat Mark Wetjen and  Scott O’Malia , a Republican.  “I wrote to the President early this morning and said I’ll
be leaving in the not-too-distant future,” said Chilton, whose
term as a commissioner expired in April, although he could
continue to serve until December 2014 or a successor is
confirmed.  Four Fired Deutsche Bank Rate Traders Said to Return to Work  Four Deutsche Bank AG traders who were fired in February as
part of the lender’s probe into manipulation of benchmark
interest rates have returned to work, two people familiar with
the matter said.  The men won reinstatement of their jobs in September after
they sued Deutsche Bank at the Frankfurt Labor Court. A
spokesman for the lender confirmed that the traders returned to
work Nov. 4 and declined to comment further.  Regulators around the world are investigating whether more
than a dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank, colluded to rig
benchmark interest rates for their own profit or to mask their
true cost of borrowing.  Deutsche Bank had argued at the Frankfurt court that the
four men, who made submissions for Euribor and Swiss franc
Libor, exchanged improper instant messages with derivatives
traders about what data to submit to help increase their profit.  The bank didn’t have processes in place to prevent
conflicts of interest when submitting data to calculate
interest-rate benchmarks, the court said.  Fifth Third Names Finance Chief as SEC Seeks Ban on Predecessor  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  said the U.S. is seeking to ban former
interim finance chief Daniel T. Poston from practicing before
securities regulators for one year after finding accounting
irregularities tied to commercial loans.  The dispute concerns how Fifth Third, Ohio’s biggest bank,
accounted for certain loans in 2008, the company said yesterday
in a statement. Former Treasurer Tayfun Tuzun was appointed
chief financial officer, effective Oct. 31, and Poston was named
chief strategy and administrative officer, the lender said.  “This is obviously an agreement in principle that we hope
to achieve closure to as soon as possible,” Larry Magnesen, a
bank spokesman, said in a phone interview. Poston’s role change
is “not a demotion” and he will continue reporting to Chief
Executive Officer Kevin Kabat, Magnesen said.  Poston is in discussions that would require him, “without
admitting or denying any factual allegations,” to agree to a
cease-and-desist order, a civil money penalty, and a one-year
ban from practicing before the SEC, according to the statement.
Under such a ban, Poston would no longer represent the company
in any interactions with the SEC.  Fifth Third, also without admitting or denying any factual
allegations, would consent to a finding that the company didn’t
properly account for a portion of its commercial real estate
loan portfolio and pay a penalty. The amount, which wasn’t
specified, would be covered by reserves, the lender said.  Magnesen said Poston had no comment, and Poston didn’t
respond to an e-mailed request for an interview.  John Nester , an
SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  