-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Fed Bets as Twitter Jumps; Euro Drops
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-11-07T21:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/asian-futures-rise-after-dow-average-jump-as-oil-rebounds.html
U.S. stocks and commodities slid as
faster economic growth spurred concern the  Federal Reserve  will
scale back stimulus sooner than expected, while Twitter Inc.
surged in its trading debut. The euro fell, while the region’s
bonds rose, as the  European Central Bank  cut interest rates.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 1.3 percent to
1,747.15 by 4:15 p.m. in  New York , its biggest drop on a closing
basis since August. Twitter soared 73 percent. The euro lost 0.7
percent versus the dollar and yen rallied against major peers
while Japanese index futures sank. Ten-year Spanish and Italian
bond yields dropped at least 10 basis points and U.S. Treasury
rates also fell. Gold lost 0.8 percent as the  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of
commodities closed at the lowest level since April 17.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 2.8 percent annualized rate
last quarter, exceeding a median economist forecast for 2
percent growth. The government’s October employment report due
tomorrow is predicted to show the nation added 120,000 jobs last
month and the  unemployment rate  rose to 7.3 percent from 7.2
percent. ECB policy makers cut their benchmark  interest rate  to
a record low as the slowest inflation in four years threatened
the central bank’s mission to keep consumer prices stable.  “The market will be volatile,” Ernie Cecilia, chief
investment officer at Bryn Mawr Trust Co. in Bryn Mawr,
 Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview. His firm oversees about
$7 billion. “You had some good economic news today and we’ll
see what the payrolls numbers are tomorrow. The fear is that
with better-than-expected economic numbers, tapering will
commence sooner rather than later.”  Earnings Season  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKA)  futures slid 2.7 percent to 14,015
in  Chicago  and lost 0.7 percent to 14,150 by 3 a.m. in  Osaka .
The contracts closed at 14,250 in Japan yesterday.  More than a dozen  S&P 500  companies release  earnings  today.
The benchmark U.S. gauge climbed 0.4 percent yesterday and early
gains today sent it briefly above the record closing level.
Earnings beat analysts’ estimates at 74 percent of the 442
companies in the S&P 500 that have released results so far, and
54 percent topped revenue projections, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Twitter (TWTR)  rose to as much as 93 percent to $50.09 after
raising $1.82 billion in its initial public offering by selling
70 million shares at $26 yesterday.  The microblogging service picked a price that values it
higher than rival Facebook Inc. and still drew more interest
than anticipated. The San Francisco-based company, which is
unprofitable and has one-fifth as many users as Facebook, is
benefiting from investors’ thirst for companies that will grow
quickly in expanding markets like mobile advertising.  U.S. Movers   Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  dropped 3.8 percent after the largest maker
of smartphone chips predicted quarterly sales that came in below
analysts’ estimates. Whole Foods Market Inc. sank 11 percent
after cutting its profit forecast.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  jumped 5.6
percent after posting its first rise in monthly same-store sales
in two years.  The better-than-estimated growth in U.S. gross domestic
product was helped by the biggest gain in inventories since the
beginning of 2012, a factor that risks holding back the economy
this quarter as companies limit production. A 16-day partial
shutdown of the federal government added to the headwinds that
the Fed is trying to offset by maintaining $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases intended to keep borrowing costs low.  Economists at Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG, TD
Securities USA LLC and HSBC Securities America were among those
who said they might reduce their forecasts for GDP.  European Markets  About three stocks dropped for every two that rose in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-biggest
lender, rallied 10 percent to the highest level since March as
third-quarter net income unexpectedly rose. Siemens AG, Europe’s
largest engineering company, climbed 3.4 percent after profit
beat analyst forecasts. Swiss Re Ltd. rallied 1.9 percent, the
most in two months, after earnings exceeded predictions.  CGG SA tumbled 8.2 percent in Paris as the largest seismic
surveyor of oilfields cut its revenue forecast. Securitas AB,
the world’s second-biggest guarding services provider, slid 5.6
percent, the most in 15 months, as earnings missed analyst
projections.  The euro weakened against 11 of its 16 major counterparts,
with the yen rallying 1.3 percent against the shared European
currency. Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today reduced the
region’s main refinancing rate by a quarter percentage point to
0.25 percent. The decision was predicted by three of 70
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Potent’ Tool  ECB President  Mario Draghi , speaking to reporters in
Frankfurt, said weaker growth is a downside risk to inflation.  “The ECB’s surprise decision to lower interest rates will
weaken the euro, and this most likely is exactly what the
central bank wants,”  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “The
ECB’s most potent economic tool to help growth and fight the
deflation threat, especially with rates so close to zero, is the
 exchange rate . Today’s easing marks the first overt step in
massaging the euro lower. It certainly will not be the last.”  Italy’s two-year bond yield fell to the lowest level in
more than five months, decreasing 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 1.28 percent. The rate on Germany’s two-year notes dropped five basis points to 0.09 percent, the least
since July.  The Australian dollar declined against all but two of its
16 major peers. Employers cut 27,900 full-time positions last
month, the biggest drop since June 2012, the nation’s statistics
bureau said today. The jobless rate held at 5.7 percent.  Emerging Markets  Emerging-market stocks dropped to the lowest level in a
month as OTP Bank Nyrt. dragged down Hungarian shares. The Czech
koruna tumbled the most on record against the euro as the
central bank approved the first currency sales in 11 years.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.7 percent,
falling for a sixth day. The Budapest Stock Exchange Index slid
1.7 percent as OTP, Hungary’s largest lender, plunged after the
central bank urged the introduction of bankruptcy rules to
protect household borrowers. The koruna weakened as much as 4.7
percent, the worst performance among 31 emerging-market
currencies versus the euro. Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped 1.2
percent to the lowest level in a month as Vale SA sank.  Cocoa, gasoline, Brent crude oil and heating oil fell more
than 1 percent to lead declines in 19 of 24 commodities tracked
by the S&P GSCI, sending the gauge down 0.8 percent.  Gold fell to a three-week low and sugar sank to the lowest
level in five weeks. West Texas Intermediate crude oil slipped
the second day this week, losing 0.6 percent to $94.20 a barrel
in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  