-- Autistic Babies Reduce Eye Contact in Early Months
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/autistic-babies-reduce-eye-contact-in-early-months.html
Babies later diagnosed with autism
reduced their eye contact with people by 6 months of age, a
finding that may lead to ways to identify the disorder earlier
in life, researchers said.  Almost 60 babies who were thought to be at high risk of
autism were examined in the study, as were 51 babies considered
at low risk, according to  the report  released by the journal
Nature. Later, 13 children were diagnosed with autism.  While a lack of eye contact has been a hallmark of autism
since the disease was first described, it’s not known exactly
when it begins to occur, wrote study authors Warren Jones and
Ami Klin, both of  Emory University  in Atlanta. The report
released yesterday suggests that while newborns don’t initially
show any difference in looking directly at people’s eyes,
changes occur from 2 months to 6 months of age. Babies who had
the steepest declines in eye contact tended to have the most
severe autism.  “If confirmed in larger samples, this would offer a
remarkable opportunity,” the authors wrote. The findings may
mean there’s a developmental window where autism may be treated
or attenuated.  One in 50 U.S. children are diagnosed with autism or a
related disorder, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
said in March. Children with autism may be unresponsive to
people, become indifferent to social activity and have
communication difficulties.  Study Data  The study released yesterday examined 11 boys who were
 diagnosed with autism  and compared them with 25 boys who showed
typical development. Girls were excluded because only two were
later diagnosed with the condition. The babies viewed as high
risk of developing the condition came from families with an
autistic sibling. The low-likelihood families had no autistic
relatives.  Researchers tracked the eye movements of the infants 10
times from the ages of 2 months and 24 months as they watched
videos of women. When the toddlers were 3, they were assessed
for autism. While the data were from a small group and need to
be replicated, other steps may include examining infants’ brains
for changes in gene’s expression, as well as detailed
examination of early behavior, the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  