-- Lawmakers Spurn Obama Bid to Preserve NSA Data Gathering
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-11-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/lawmakers-spurn-obama-bid-to-preserve-nsa-data-gathering.html
The Obama administration is
considering steps to quiet the uproar over U.S. spy programs,
including curbs on foreign surveillance while allowing the bulk
collection of Americans’ phone records to continue.  White House officials also are looking at separating the
agencies in charge of intelligence gathering and cyberwar policy
to take so much power out of the hands of one general.  The ideas don’t go far enough to satisfy U.S. lawmakers
looking to rein in the National Security Agency who said
yesterday the changes would do more to limit spying on foreign
leaders than to limit collecting data on U.S. citizens.  “It is so striking that they want to deal with the issue
of foreigners when at every town hall meeting I go to people
stand up and say why are Americans being asked to give up their
individual liberties for the appearance of security,” Senator
 Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and leading critic of the phone
records collection, said in an interview.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is making proposals
to appease the nay-sayers. One possible step being contemplated
would separate the Pentagon’s Cyber Command, which has the
ability to carry out offensive cyber-attacks and protect U.S.
networks, from the NSA, which collects intelligence, according
to U.S. defense and intelligence officials who requested
anonymity to discuss White House deliberations.  Right now, both agencies are headed by Army General Keith Alexander, who’s announced he’s resigning in March -- and some
ex-military leaders say that’s too much power for one person.  ‘Different Missions’  James Stavridis, a former supreme allied commander of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, has said the arrangement is
not as beneficial as it was when it began.  “Not only do the organizations have starkly different
cultures, their missions are vastly different, even
contradictory,” Stavridis wrote in an article with Dave
Weinstein, a strategic planner at Cyber Command, for Foreign
Affairs magazine.  Intelligence collection is often at odds with military
operations, such as when a fighter pilot targets a building for
destruction and kills a human intelligence source in the
process, Stavridis said. Those distinct operations deserve
separate leaders who can advocate for their interests, he said
in the article.  One retired military and intelligence official, though,
argues that NSA and the Cyber Command should remain unified and
be a standalone operation similar to the U.S. Central Command,
which directs all military activity in the  Middle East .  No Alternative  A second retired official with experience in intelligence
and combat agreed, arguing that the combined command can react
faster and more precisely to new threats, especially to U.S.
forces in the field.  The thrust of the possible changes to the programs would be
to leave intact the bulk collection of phone records of millions
of Americans by offering changes to foreign spying.  Administration officials have privately informed lawmakers
that it sees no alternative to having the NSA collect bulk phone
records and intercept the communications of Americans.
Meanwhile, Alexander and other top administration officials have
said publicly they’re open to changing spying abroad.  Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, said even with complaints from critics, the
administration controls intelligence operations and “it’s
within their power to make agreements with nations,” indicating
that Congress could do little to dictate conditions of those
accords.  Global Backlash  The administration is fighting a global backlash over
revelations that the NSA spied on foreign leaders including
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , hacked into fiber-optic cables
to get data from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , and intercepted
communications of Americans without warrants. Most of the spying
was exposed by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, who remains
in  Russia  under temporary asylum.  White House spokesman Jay Carney yesterday confirmed a  New
York  Times report that the White House is considering limits on
foreign spying. Meanwhile, the administration has concluded
there isn’t a workable alternative to NSA programs collecting
the data of Americans, according to Darren Dick, staff director
for the House intelligence committee.  “They’ve taken a look at different ways of conducting
these programs and really can’t find a solution, a workable
solution, that gives the same counterterrorism efficacy to the
construct other than the one that they have right now,” Dick
said at a conference yesterday in Washington.  ‘Get Real’  Dick said the administration briefed the committee on the
review, which looked at possible alternatives under sections 215
and 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.  The Obama administration “needs to get real” and accept
that limitations will be put on the NSA’s ability to collect
data on innocent Americans, Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in
an interview.  “I don’t have faith in the NSA handling the powers they do
have when they weren’t smart enough to keep a 29-year-old from
walking off with some of their secrets,” Leahy said, referring
to Snowden.  A coalition of lawmakers, technology companies and voters
is willing to fight “a long battle” against the administration
to end spying on U.S. citizens, Wyden said.  “We see the tech community mobilized dramatically here in
the last couple of weeks,” Wyden said. “We’re starting to
build on the NSA reform issue the same sort of coalition that we
built on a number of other issues relating to particularly
technology and the Internet.”  Google, Apple  Google, Yahoo,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and other technology companies
have lobbied Congress and the administration to be able to
publish statistics about how they respond to government orders
for customer data.  The idea of reducing “the amount of surveillance we do on
foreigners but we’re going to continue the surveillance that’s
under way on Americans seems to have it somewhat backward,”
Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat, said in an interview.  Udall said there could be limitations placed on spying both
domestically and abroad. Leahy, Wyden and Udall have introduced
bills that would prohibit the NSA from collecting bulk phone
records and give technology companies permission to reveal data
about government demands.  Feinstein’s committee yesterday approved an authorization
measure for U.S. intelligence programs for fiscal year 2014 that 
seeks to thwart leaks of classified information and strengthen 
oversight of surveillance activities.  Too Late  The administration’s position that it has no workable
alternatives to NSA surveillance will undermine attempts to
appease allies and damage U.S. interests, said Jason Healey,
director of the Cyber Statecraft Initiative at the Atlantic
Council.  Administration proposals to rein in spying programs are
coming too late to reverse what Healey called deep and long-term
damage to U.S. interests. They probably won’t sway foreign
leaders either, he said in a phone interview.  “These are dumb, short-term security decisions, they’re
not done with the longer term in mind,” Healey said.  What’s needed is not the “rounding down” approach to
modifying the surveillance programs, Healey said, but a bottom-up review of what surveillance activities are truly required.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  