-- U.K. Shuts Henry VIII Shipyard as Navy Work Goes to Scotland
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-06T15:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/bae-ends-warship-building-at-henry-viii-shipyard-as-navy-shrinks.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, will cease warship production at the historic
Portsmouth yard on  England ’s south coast and eliminate 1,775
jobs as the focus of naval manufacturing shifts to Scotland.  Ship construction at Portsmouth will end in the second half
of 2014 after more than 500 years, with the site’s work on Queen Elizabeth-class aircraft carriers moving 400 miles north to
Glasgow, the company said today. Production of the new Type 26
Global Combat Ship will also take place in Scotland, it said.  BAE, which consolidated U.K. warship-building capacity in
2009, has been reviewing the scale of operations in Portsmouth,
70 miles southwest of London, and Scotstoun and Govan on the
River Clyde as demand shifts to fewer, more capable vessels.
Today’s announcement places all U.K. shipbuilding in  Scotland 
ahead of next year’s independence referendum there, a proposed
split the British government has said will not be successful.  “It is a huge blow to Britain’s manufacturing and
industrial base, with many highly skilled workers faced with
losing their jobs,” Ian Waddell, the Unite union’s national
officer for shipbuilding, said in a statement. “We will have to
examine the BAE business case in detail to see how we can secure
a future for the workforces at both Portsmouth and in Scotland.”  Spanish Armada  Shipbuilding began in Portsmouth in around 1200 and was
established on a large scale in 1495 when Henry VII commissioned
a dry-dock there. Output accelerated under his son  Henry VIII ,
with construction of the Mary Rose flagship among more than 85
vessels that later drove off the Spanish Armada.  Job cuts will be split among BAE sites, with 940 reductions
planned at Portsmouth in 2014 and a further 835 across Filton,
near Bristol, the Glasgow sites and Rosyth near Edinburgh.  The cuts will take place through 2016, London-based BAE
said, adding that Portsmouth -- the main base for the Royal Navy
-- will continue to provide extensive maritime services.  To help bridge a lull in Glasgow until construction of the
Type 26 frigates, for which a production agreement is due next
year, the U.K. government handed BAE an order for three patrol
vessels used to counter piracy, smuggling and terrorism. Work
will start next year, with deliveries due from 2017.  Industrial Giant  While the deal is valued at 348 million pounds ($560
million), the real cost is less than 100 million pounds as a
prior agreement with BAE would have forced the government to pay
for idled workers, Defense Secretary Philip Hammond told
Parliament today. That accord can now be scrapped, he said.  The pro-independence  Scottish National Party  that runs a
semi-autonomous government in Edinburgh said today that while
the job losses are a blow, BAE’s commitment to shipbuilding on
the Clyde is welcome. Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon
added that Scottish industry should take the announcement as a
“wake-up call” and pursue export work beyond naval orders in
the manner of  Norway  and similarly sized maritime countries.  The Portsmouth shipyard ranked as the world’s biggest
industrial site by 1850 as Britain established a global empire,
building almost 300 vessels for the Royal Navy in total, among
them HMS Dreadnought, the first modern battleship.  After World War II Portsmouth lost its Royal Dockyard title
and was left without warship production for 40 years from 1967,
a drought that was broken with the launch of patrol vessel HMS
Clyde in 2007 following a takeover by Vosper Thornycroft, which
later sold its shipbuilding business to BAE.  Higher Tonnage  A brief resurgence saw Portsmouth produce export vessels
for the navies of Oman and Trinidad and Tobago, plus sections of
Royal Navy ships including Type 45 destroyers and the Queen
Elizabeth-class aircraft carriers.  Portsmouth remains the home port for almost two-thirds of
the Royal Navy’s surface ships, and the city will still have
11,000 jobs linked to the dockyard and naval activities, Hammond
said, adding that the basing of the carriers and destroyers
there will take tonnage to the highest in more than 40 years.  The government is liable to pay off workers losing their
jobs, and BAE said the MoD will also cover other restructuring
costs. Britain will spend 100 million pounds to expand the
Portsmouth wharf to accommodate the new ships, Hammond said.  Financial terms for building the carriers have also been
adjusted, with the program’s costs capped at 6.2 billion pounds
-- about double the original price -- and the government and
industry to split any further overruns, he said. The higher
expense reflects a greater understanding of work involved in
building the vessels, BAE Chairman Dick Olver said this week.  Robert Stallard, an analyst at RBC Capital in  London , said
that BAE appears to have done “a decent job” in its
negotiations with the government, especially in securing the
patrol-vessel contract, though the maturity of the carrier
program may not be as advanced as anticipated.  “It has taken on more risk than planned,” he said in a
note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  