-- Barcelona and Atletico Madrid Reach Champions League Round of 16
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-06T23:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/barcelona-and-atletico-madrid-reach-champions-league-round-of-16.html
Barcelona and  Atletico Madrid  won to
reach the Champions League round of 16 with two games to spare,
as Arsenal and Chelsea defeated German clubs.  Lionel Messi  scored twice as Barcelona beat AC Milan 3-1
last night to book a berth in the knockout stages for the 10th
straight season. Atletico stayed perfect with a 4-0 win against
Austria Vienna that guarantees it will finish atop its group.  The top two in each of the eight pools advance to the last
16 of European soccer’s elite club competition. Defending
champion Bayern Munich and Manchester City became the first two
teams to advance two nights ago.  “Mission accomplished,” midfielder  Sergio Busquets , who
got Barca’s other goal, said on tournament organizer UEFA’s
website. “The victory leaves us in a very good position.”  Arsenal won 1-0 at  Borussia Dortmund  and is tied for the
Group F lead with Napoli, which beat Marseille 3-2. Chelsea
defeated Schalke 3-0 to take over the top spot in Group E.  Barcelona took the lead in the 30th minute as Messi scored
with a penalty kick, ending a three-game goalless run. Busquets
doubled the lead 10 minutes later before  Gerard Pique ’s own goal
made it 2-1 just before halftime.  Messi clinched the victory with seven minutes left as he
took a pass from Cesc Fabregas and chipped the ball over
Christian Abbiati. Barcelona leads Group H with 10 points, five
more than Milan. Ajax beat Celtic 1-0 to move into third place
with four points.  Atletico Advances  Atletico advanced to the knockout phase for the first time
since the 2008-09 season by guaranteeing a first-place finish in
Group G. Miranda, Raul Garcia, Filipe Luis and Diego Costa
scored in the rout of Austria Vienna as Atletico joined Bayern
as the only teams with the maximum 12 points after four matches.  Zenit  St. Petersburg  remained second in the group, one
point ahead of Porto after the teams drew 1-1 in  Russia .  Arsenal avenged a late home loss to Dortmund in the last
round of games to keep pace with Napoli in Group F.  The Gunners scored the only goal on a rainy night in
 Germany  in the 62nd minute as Mesut Ozil lofted a ball into the
Dortmund area. Olivier Giroud headed the ball back toward  Aaron Ramsey , who nodded it past Roman Weidenfeller.  “We were very good defensively and we were also very
patient,” Ramsey told  Sky Sports  after scoring his 11th goal of
the season. “It was a great away performance.”  Arsenal and Napoli both have nine points, three more than
last season’s runner-up Dortmund. Napoli got two goals from
Gonzalo Higuain and one from Gokhan Inler in beating Marseille.  Eto’o’s Double  Samuel Eto’o scored twice as Chelsea rebounded from a
Premier League loss to Newcastle last weekend to take a three-point lead over Schalke in Group E.  “It was a good win, a good response,” captain  John Terry 
said on UEFA’s website. “We had a shaky first ten minutes, we
were a little bit nervous, but the first goal settled us down
and we started to play. We controlled the game”  Eto’o opened the scoring in the first half when he blocked
an attempted clearing kick from Schalke goalkeeper Timo Hildebrand back into the net. The Cameroonian striker doubled
the lead early in the second half and Demba Ba closed the
scoring seven minutes from the end.  Basel moved within a point of Schalke as Giovanni Sio’s
goal in stoppage time gave the Swiss club a 1-1 draw with Steaua
Bucharest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 