-- Barclays Sells Largest Note Tied to WisdomTree Japan Stock Fund
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-11-06T15:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/barclays-sells-largest-note-tied-to-wisdomtree-japan-stock-fund.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  sold $10.4 million of
notes tied to the  WisdomTree Japan Hedged Equity Fund (DXJ) , the
largest such offering this year.  The three-year securities, issued Oct. 31, yield twice the
fund’s gains with returns capped at 42.25 percent, protection
against the first 20 percent of declines and all capital at
risk, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The bank estimated their initial value
at 93.71 cents on the dollar.  The fund rose 27 percent this year to 46.87 at the end of
trading yesterday.  Japan ’s gross domestic product grew an
annualized 3.8 percent in the second quarter from the first,
higher than an initial estimate of 2.6 percent.  Mark Lane, a spokesman for Barclays in New York, declined
to comment on the securities.  The WisdomTree fund  includes  companies such as the world’s
largest automaker,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , and largest camera maker,
 Canon Inc. (7751) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ETF
tries to hedge against price swings in the value of the U.S.
dollar against the Japanese yen, according to the fund’s
 website .  Investors have bought $61.1 million of notes tied to the
ETF this year since April, when  UBS AG (UBS)  first offered such a
security, Bloomberg data show. Bloomberg started collecting
comprehensive data on U.S. SEC-registered structured notes in
2010.  Japan’s economy will contract an annualized 4 percent in
the three months starting April, when the nation’s first sales-tax increase since 1997 takes effect, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Japan’s Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe devised a 5 trillion yen ($50.7 billion)
reflationary stimulus program last month to cushion the impact.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts with
values derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  