-- Billionaire Mikitani Threatens Abe With Court Over Drug Sales
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-11-06T10:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/billionaire-mikitani-threatens-abe-with-court-over-drug-sales.html
Hiroshi Mikitani, the billionaire
head of online retailer Rakuten Inc., said he would take the
government to court if Prime Minister Shinzo Abe approves a bill
that would keep some regulations on online drug sales.  “If this proposal is passed into law, then unfortunately
I’ll have no other option but to resign” from a key government
council on industrial competitiveness, Mikitani, 48, told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. “This is an unreasonable and archaic
principle they are trying to stick to.”  The resignation of Mikitani, one of  Japan ’s leading
entrepreneurs, may deliver a blow to the image of Abe as he
pushes legislation for his growth strategy through the current
Diet session, which he said would be one for “getting things
done.” The government proposal would continue to restrict the
online sale of 28 drug products -- a regulation Mikitani
strongly opposes.  “It goes totally against Abe’s policies,” said Mikitani,
who said he would convey his feelings to Abe. “I cannot forgive
this. I will continue fighting.”  Mikitani noted that the online sale of 99 percent of over-the-counter drugs would be allowed under the proposal.  Fifteen of 34 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  said a
lack of bolder steps on the growth strategy is undermining the
Bank of Japan’s campaign to reflate the economy after more than
a decade of falling prices.  Key initiatives on the table in the growth strategy --
dubbed the “third arrow” of Abenomics -- are steps to
encourage corporate restructuring to boost industrial
competitiveness and the introduction of zones for deregulation
in fields from medical treatment to urban development.  The government needs to sustain growth momentum ahead of a
sales tax increase next April that is forecast to push the
economy into a quarter of contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  