-- Blackstone Lures Investors to Home-Rental Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-11-06T17:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/blackstone-lures-investors-to-home-rental-bonds-credit-markets.html
Investors in  Blackstone (BX)  Group LP’s
debut sale of bonds backed by U.S. rental homes are agreeing to
accept more risk than in traditional mortgage deals by at least
two measures -- along with an unproven business.  Blackstone’s  Invitation Homes  borrowed more through
yesterday’s deal relative to the value of the houses serving as
collateral for the bonds than recent residential-mortgage
securities, according to data from ratings companies. The
cushion to cover interest payments is also smaller than in deals
tied to apartment complexes. Monthly rent checks from 3,207
properties will be used to service the $479.1 million of debt.  Five years after defaults on home loans  packaged  into
securities helped trigger the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression,  Wall Street  is turning to bundling assets into
bonds to help institutions buy and rent out properties. The
transaction comes after Federal Reserve stimulus to bolster
credit markets contributed to property gains exceeding 40
percent in some regions where Blackstone has been investing from
 California  to  Florida .  “Given the rapid increase in prices in the areas in which
the properties are concentrated, the amount of protection for
bond investors doesn’t make one feel all that warm and fuzzy,”
David Liu, co-manager of a $340 million securitized-asset fund
run by New York-based TIG Advisors LLC, said last week, adding
that he expected the offering to find buyers easily given the
momentum in housing and other features of the debt.  Timeshares, TV  The Blackstone deal heralds the latest use of
securitization, an investment-banking strategy pioneered in the
1980s and later blamed for fueling the shoddy lending that
contributed to more than $2 trillion in losses at the world’s
largest financial institutions. Bonds can be created out of
everything from mortgages and auto loans to resort timeshare
interests, television-broadcast rights and drug sales.  The market for rental-home securities may grow as large as
$900 billion, assuming 15 percent of annual home purchases are
conducted by investors and 35 percent of those and existing
rental-home owners turn to the market for financing, according
to Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Banks have been the main source
of financing for new property landlords such as Colony Capital
LLC and Blackstone, which has spent $7.5 billion on about 40,000
houses.  Six Classes       Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , the lender to Invitation Homes that
structured the deal, and other underwriters marketed six
separate classes of the Blackstone bonds, according to reports
from Moody’s Investors Service, Kroll Bond Rating Agency and
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  As with other securitizations, some of the
bonds are designed to have less  default risk  because they stand
in line for losses after other notes.  Fitch Ratings  disagreed with rivals that any rental-home
securities should get top ratings now, citing in part the
“limited track record” of big institutions in the business and
incomplete historical data on how rents, vacancies and other
considerations can vary over economic cycles.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, declined to
comment on the deal, as did  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bank.  A top-rated $278.7 million class yields 115 basis points,
or 1.15 percentage points, more than the London interbank
offered rate, according to people with knowledge of the
transaction. It was earlier offered at about 120 basis points. A
$41.5 million portion rated BB by Kroll priced at 365 basis
points, down from about 400.  Floating Rate  The levels are about the same or less than similar existing
types of securities, said other people, who asked not to be
named because the pricing details aren’t public. The AAA class
of a transaction tied to two hotels near Florida’s Walt Disney
World was sold yesterday at spread of 105 basis points and the
BB- portion at 350. Credit Suisse Group AG underwrote a sale of
AAA securities tied to junk-rated corporate loans yesterday at
140 and a BB class at 500.  Freddie Mac  last week sold the BBB-class of a multifamily deal at 400 and yesterday issued unrated
single-family notes at 425 that share its risks tied to
homeowner defaults.  The underlying loan in the Blackstone deal has a floating
rate and an initial maturity of two years. Along with potential
default risks, investors need to grapple with the borrower being
able to repay the debt after 12 months or extend the maturity
for a year as many as three times under certain conditions, said
Bryan Whalen, a managing director at TCW Group Inc., which
oversees about $130 billion from  Los Angeles .  ‘Paradigm Shift’  “That’s a lot of optionality you’re giving to Blackstone”
and if bondholders can’t be paid off through a refinancing or
 home sales  at the end of five years, they may need to wait even
longer for the return of their principal, Whalen said.  Axonic Capital LLC, a $2 billion structured-credit asset
manager based in  New York , was considering buying the riskiest
class offering the highest yields, said Chief Investment Officer
Clayton DeGiacinto. He said the rental-home industry can be
successful and the bonds offer enough protection for investors.  “We also operate a portfolio of single family homes and
understand the risks and rewards of the business well,”
DeGiacinto said. “We are in the midst of a paradigm shift in
the way that this country finances housing and this deal is part
of that change.”  ‘Sufficiently Conservative’  Moody’s, Kroll and Morningstar are assigning top rankings
to 58 percent of the securities and investment grades to as much
as 91 percent. The firms said in reports last week that the
planned rankings are appropriate based on how the classes carry
greater loss protection than similarly rated assets.  The 42 percent for the AAA portions in the Blackstone deal
compares with about 30 percent for new commercial-mortgage bonds
and 6 percent to 9 percent typically for prime home-loan deals
since the crisis. Subprime residential transactions before
housing collapsed often had 20 percent to 25 percent credit
enhancement.  After accounting for the borrower’s equity in the
properties, the Blackstone AAA securities could get paid off if
the homes get sold for just 43 percent of their current values,
making Kroll’s rating “sufficiently conservative,” Glenn Costello, an analyst at the firm, said in a telephone interview.  Renovation, Maintenance  Kroll estimates sustainable cash flows from the properties
after expenses -- and adjustments for items such as probable
vacancies -- are 27 percent more than the loan’s initial costs.
That’s “much lower” than the average of 50 percent for
mortgages on apartment buildings securitized in 2013, the firm
said in a report.  Moody’s said the net cash flows relative to the size of the
borrowing is “very low” compared with apartment deals. Future
expenses may also be bigger, the ratings company said.  “Because each home has unique features, appliances, and
building materials, the renovation, maintenance, and marketing
may be more demanding than in a typical multifamily setting,”
Moody’s said in its report.  The estimated value of the homes in the deal represents 75
percent of the debt’s balances. The ratio is based on the
opinions of real estate brokers, rather than the licensed
appraisers who are more reliable and traditionally used for
residential mortgage-backed securities deals, according to
Moody’s.  Geographic Concentration  Invitation Homes bought the houses for $444.7 million, and
with repairs and refurbishments spent $542.8 million, compared
with the collateral’s $638.8 million valuation.  The highest average loan-to-value ratio for home loans
serving as collateral for bonds without government backing since
the crisis was the 69.7 percent in  PennyMac Mortgage Investment
Trust (PMT) ’s September sale, according to Kroll.  One of the key risks of the Blackstone deal is its “heavy
geographic concentration,” Bank of America Corp. analysts led
by  Chris Flanagan  in New York wrote in a Nov. 1 report.  The breakdown includes 34 percent from the Phoenix area, 17
percent from the Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario region in
southern California and the rest from other parts of the state,
as well as Florida, Georgia and  Illinois .  “While additional diversification would be preferable in
most RMBS deals, property management would become challenging if
properties were too widespread,” the Bank of America analysts
wrote.  Home Prices  Along with the Fed’s $85 billion of monthly bond buying
that’s reduced  mortgage rates , investors including Blackstone
have helped drive property-value gains in the regions. Prices in
Phoenix have soared 41 percent from a bottom in 2011, according
to an S&P/Case-Shiller index.  When it’s time to repay the debt, rental-home owners may be
unable to refinance or sell the bond collateral in bulk and
flood the markets, Fitch analysts Suzanne Mistretta,Dan Chambers and Rui Pereira in New York wrote in a statement last
month.  The transactions can also be “highly vulnerable to unknown
variables” including property taxes, restrictions from
homeowner associations and actions by local governments, they
said.  Moody’s considered how much could be recovered in property
sales under stressful conditions, including rental-home
operators turning into sellers at the same time, said Stefanos Arethas, an analyst in New York. The flood of foreclosures
during the recent housing slump has offered good information on
how bad local markets can get in such an environment, he said.  “We have the data to guide us,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Moody’s Adjustments  Moody’s also made adjustments to potential losses on the
collateral based on a variety of features of the deals,
including a lower amount of property insurance against
windstorms than found in typical commercial-mortgage
transactions, according to its analysts.  While the Blackstone deal is the first of its kind, about 7
percent of the roughly $850 billion of mortgages acquired last
year by  Fannie Mae  were to smaller property investors, according
to a company  presentation . The guarantor, which sells home-loan
securities bolstered by its government backing, limits landlords
to loans on a maximum of 10 properties, while the cap for rival
Freddie Mac is four.  Credit Bubble  Investment properties have also represented a slice of the
collateral for the $12.5 billion of mortgage securities without
government backing sold this year. In the non-agency deals, the
loans get mixed with those on borrowers’ own homes and vacation
properties.  Just before the credit bubble began to collapse in 2007,
the amount of investor mortgages held by non-agency securities
peaked at $188.4 billion based on issuer disclosures, or 8.1
percent of the collateral, according to data compiled by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Prime mortgages have been 60 percent more likely to default
when taken out by a property investor rather than a resident,
because borrowers are either engaging in house flipping or
relying on potentially risky income from external sources,
according to Fitch’s methodology for rating traditional home-loan securities.  Unlike those investor mortgages, the Blackstone debt and
others deals modeled on it would benefit from a single loan tied
to multiple properties. With the structure “excess  cash flow 
from one property can augment another’s cash flow to meet debt
service requirements,” Moody’s said.  Deal Covenants  The deal’s covenants can allow individual properties to be
sold, for between 105 percent and 120 percent of their allocated
share of the total loan, according to information in the Kroll
report, a release of liens that may leave the worst properties
backing the remaining securities.  The largest danger may be that Blackstone will be allowed
to sell the Invitation Homes business or take it public before
the securities mature, said TCW’s Whalen, who described the deal
as “well-structured and really well thought in terms of the way
they put it together” in general.  “Even if can you get comfortable with a business that’s
fairly new, you’ll be subject to the performance and disposition
strategy of a company other than Blackstone,” he said. While
many of the notes carry substantial loss cushions, “the further
down you go” in buying bonds with less protection, “the more
subject you are going be to that big risk.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. decreased, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declining 1.3 basis points to a mid-price of
73.2 basis points as of 12:38 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Bondholder Protection  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  A gauge of the health of U.S. financial conditions fell
from a record high. The Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions
Index, which combines everything from money-market rates to
yields on government and corporate bonds to volatility in
equities, decreased 0.02 to 1.68. The measure reached 1.70
yesterday, the highest level in data dating back to January
1994.  Bonds of  Statoil ASA (STO)  are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, accounting
for 3.4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Norway’s largest energy
company raised $4 billion yesterday in a five-part offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  