-- Brooks Kept ‘On Top of Things’ During Dowler Probe, Witness Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   A l l e y n e   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-06T15:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/brooks-kept-on-top-of-things-during-dowler-probe-witness-says.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former head of
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, was frequently in touch with work while
on holiday during the Milly Dowler disappearance and told
friends she liked “to keep on top of things,” a witness said.  Dean Keyworth socialized with Brooks and her then husband,
Ross Kemp, when they were on a Dubai holiday in 2002 during the
time the murdered schoolgirl had gone missing, he told the court
during the second week of the U.K. phone-hacking trial.  The discovery in 2011 that Dowler’s phone had been hacked
by the News of the World triggered public outrage that led News
Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch to close the tabloid. Brooks, who
was then editor of the weekly newspaper, is one of eight people
on trial for a variety of charges stemming from wrongdoing at
the company’s U.K. newspapers.  “Rebekah was on the phone quite a lot back to the office
so there wasn’t that much conversation,” said Keyworth, who was
also a friend of Andy Coulson, another defendant in the case.  The tabloid published a story on April 14, 2002, saying
Dowler’s phone had been targeted by a prank caller, with the
text of a voice-mail message from a recruitment agency seemingly
offering Dowler a job. Later editions excluded the quote, Mark
Bryant-Heron, a prosecution lawyer, told jurors in  London 
yesterday.  The recruitment agency accidentally left a phone message on
Dowler’s phone, the director of the company said in a written
statement read out in court. As a result, the company received
phone calls from reporters and people claiming to be Dowler’s
mother.  Reporter Visit  The director of the company also said she received a visit
from a News of the World reporter claiming to be helping Surrey
police with the inquiry into the missing schoolgirl.  Keyworth said Coulson, another former editor of the tabloid
and a one-time media adviser to Prime Minister David Cameron,
was an ambitious journalist.  “He is very ambitious but I don’t think he is ruthless,”
he said. He “wanted to get the story but not at any cost.”  Coulson and Brooks had a six-year affair that ended in
2004, prosecutors said last week.  Brooks and Coulson are both charged with hacking and
bribery offenses. Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former
managing editor of the tabloid and Ian Edmondson, a 44-year-old
former news editor, are charged with hacking. One-time royal
reporter Clive Goodman is on trial for conspiring to commit
misconduct in a public office.  Brooks is also charged with hiding evidence along with her
husband, Charlie, her former assistant Cheryl Carter, and News
U.K.’s former head of security, Mark Hanna. All eight have
pleaded not guilty to the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  