-- Business-Backed Candidate Wins Alabama Special Primary, AP Says
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-11-06T03:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/business-backed-candidate-wins-alabama-special-primary-ap-says.html
Bradley Byrne, the business-backed
candidate running for the U.S. House in Alabama, beat a self-described “Tea Party Republican” in today’s primary race,
according to the  Associated Press .  Byrne’s victory was the first for the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce since the business group pledged last month to take a
more active role in such races. Byrne, 58, defeated Dean Young,
49, a property developer who questioned President  Barack Obama ’s
birthplace and pledged to shut down the federal government a
second time over Obamacare.  Byrne led Young, with almost 53 percent to 47 percent, with
91 percent of precincts reporting in the AP tally.  The Chamber, which criticized last month’s 16-day partial
government shutdown for harming the economy, endorsed Byrne and
spent more than $200,000 supporting him in the race’s final
days. Donations from political committees run by companies
including  Wal-Mart Stores (WMT)  Inc., Comcast Corp.,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  AT&T Inc. (T)  helped fuel Byrne’s campaign, which outraised
Young’s by a factor of eight.  Byrne pitched himself to voters as a pragmatic statesman
who could help break through gridlock in Washington, while
casting Young as a problem maker.  “I don’t agree with a lot of the people in Washington,”
Byrne said at an Oct. 29 debate in Daphne, Alabama. “But at the
end of the day, if we’re not talking to one another, we can’t
solve any problems.”  Young was endorsed by a Mobile-based Tea Party group,
Common Sense Campaign, and Reno-based Our Voice PAC, a super
political action committee founded by former Nevada U.S. Senate
candidate Sharron Angle that spent $65,000 on ads promoting his
candidacy. Angle lost her 2010 race to Democrat  Harry Reid , the
Senate majority leader.  Byrne will face Democrat Burton LeFlore, a 47-year-old
Mobile real estate agent, in a Dec. 17 special election in a
district that backed Republican  Mitt Romney  over Obama in 2012.  The winner will fill the Mobile-area seat vacated by Jo Bonner, a Republican who resigned in August to become vice
chancellor of the  University of Alabama system .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  