-- Buyout Opportunities Seen in Vietnam Imbalances: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-11-07T03:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/buyout-opportunities-seen-in-vietnam-imbalances-southeast-asia.html
Franklin Templeton Investments (BEN) ’
venture in  Vietnam  said the time is right for buyout firms to
invest in the country as it expects monetary and fiscal reforms
to take effect over the next three to five years.  Low valuations, constrained bank lending and an improved
corporate landscape mean private-equity investors have an
opportunity to buy companies in the Southeast Asian country
before the economy picks up again, said Avinash Satwalekar,
chief executive officer of Vietcombank Fund Management,
Templeton’s venture with Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign
Trade  of Vietnam.  “The best time to make investments is when the water is
murky,” Satwalekar, 39, said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday. “When its gets clear, that’s when everybody can make
investments.”  Vietnamese leaders are trying to reverse the slowest growth
since at least 1999 as the highest level of bad debt in
Southeast  Asia  deterred lending and hurt business expansion.
Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung forecasts growth will rise to 5.8
percent next year while his government prioritizes curbing
inflation and banks’ liquidity has improved, he told lawmakers
at a legislation session last month.  The economy will expand slightly less than 5.5 percent this
year, the government said this month. Officials expect a slight
increase in credit growth to as much as 14 percent next year
while an  asset management company  may buy as much as 150
trillion dong ($7.1 billion) of banks’ bad debt by the end of
2014.  Left Behind  The central bank cut a policy rate in July to support
growth, after it devalued the currency the previous month to
improve the balance of payments.  “Monetary and fiscal policy makers have created a very
benign environment for investors, but I am still waiting for
those policies to take effect,” Satwalekar said. “If you wait
for that trigger, you run the risk of being left behind and then
playing catch up.”  Satwalekar declined to give specifics on fundraising,
citing U.S. regulations. His favorite sectors are agriculture,
retail, education and food and beverage, he said.  “Our typical deal size is between $5 and $15 million,”
Satwalekar said. “We are not focusing on the bigger firms as
those are largely state-owned.”  Vietnam’s benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  is trading at 12.7 reported
earnings, making it the cheapest equities market in  Southeast
Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While stock
investors have pushed the gauge 21 percent higher this year, the
biggest gain in Asia excluding  Japan , buyout funds aren’t
rushing in yet, according to Ernst & Young LLP.  The index fell 0.4 percent as of 10:50 a.m. local time.  Still Waiting  “I wouldn’t say private equity in Vietnam is a flood
yet,” Luke Pais, Asean private equity leader at Ernst & Young
consultancy, said in an interview. “People are still waiting
and watching. But certainly the number of deals has increased
and people are spending more time looking at that market.”  Buyout firms have spent $287 million on stakes in five
transactions this year, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm. That’s the highest number of deals in five years
and biggest amount since at least 2006, it said.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , more than doubled its stake in a fish-sauce
maker unit of Masan Group Corp. in January to $359 million after
first investing in the company in April 2011.  In May, Warburg Pincus LLC, the private-equity owner of
Neiman Marcus Group Inc., said it would lead a group to invest
as much as $325 million in Vingroup Joint Stock Co., the firm’s
first Southeast Asia deal since 2010.  Seeking Investments  TPG Capital, the private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman 
and  James Coulter , said in July it will pay $50 million for a 49
percent stake in a Masan consumer unit.  For Templeton, the Vietcombank Fund Management’s 12
employees are already exploring opportunities in the country.
Templeton owns 49 percent of the venture, while Vietcombank, the
country’s fourth-largest bank by assets, has a 51 percent stake,
according to Satwalekar.  The investments may also fill the gap created by the
country’s banking sector while the government is seeking to
overhaul almost $5 billion in bad debt that has crimped lending,
he said.  “Banks are asking for more collateral than some firms can
afford,” Satwalekar said. “There is limited access to capital.
That’s where private equity can step in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  