-- California Credit Rating Boost Possible, S&P’s Petek Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   S u s a n   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-11-06T18:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/california-credit-rating-boost-possible-s-p-s-petek-says.html
California  may see its  credit rating 
raised if Governor  Jerry Brown  persists in paying down debt and
revenue continues to outpace spending, Standard & Poor’s analyst
Gabriel Petek said.  S&P raised the most indebted U.S. state’s rating to A, its
sixth-highest level, in January, saying policy makers had made
strides toward improving California’s fiscal health.  “What we are keeping a close eye on is the state’s revenue
performance relative to the budget assumptions,” Petek said at
the Bloomberg Link State & Municipal Finance Conference in  New
York . “What we are looking for in the governor’s upcoming
proposed budget is for them to continue to work off this so-called wall of debt. If these two things continue to proceed as
the governor has set forth, we think there is potential for
another rating upgrade.”  Brown, a Democrat, won voter approval a year ago for
temporary higher sales and income taxes to end persistent
deficits of a combined $100 billion since 2007. He also pledged
to pay down debt accumulated in previous years when lawmakers
resorted to gimmicks and accounting tricks to balance the budget
amid legislative impasses over how to erase resurgent deficits.  Under Brown, the state paid off $7.3 billion of that debt
in fiscal 2013, which ended in June, leaving $27 billion
outstanding, according to S&P. His latest budget calls for
paying off about 30 percent of the total by the end of the
current fiscal year.  The spread on the state’s 10-year bonds was about  0.34
percentage point  yesterday, near the lowest since November 2007,
according to a Bloomberg index. That’s down from  1.7 percentage
points  in July 2009, when an impasse over how to close a  budget
deficit  led the state to issue IOUs to cover spending, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Goldberg in New York at 
 sgoldberg31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  