-- Cameron’s Joyless Recovery Threatens Re-Election Drive
-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/cameron-u-k-growth-story-undermined-as-inflation-bites.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is presiding over a joyless economic recovery that’s doing
little to spur his re-election hopes.  As services activity surges to the highest in 16 years,
employment climbs and London property prices boom, surveys of
voters show that the economy is still their biggest concern. The
reason: an inflation rate that’s outstripped wage growth by two
to one since Cameron came to power in 2010.  The risk for Cameron is that angst over  living standards 
will undermine a recovery story he’s developing to underpin his
campaign for a second term in 2015 elections. That’s frustrating
for a European leader who inherited a record budget deficit, a
sputtering economy and a banking industry that had just been
bailed out by his taxpayers.  “Cameron is winning the argument that the government is
better placed to run the economy but a lot of voters are saying
they’re not getting anything out of it,” said Stephen Driver, a
professor of politics at  London ’s Roehampton University. “Even
as the tide rises, people are going to struggle; they’re going
to feel they’re chained to the bottom.”  Elected in May 2010 after 13 years of  Labour Party  rule,
Cameron was forced to form a government with the Liberal
Democrats in the first U.K. coalition since World War II.  David Laws , the incoming chief secretary to the Treasury, found a note
at his desk from his Labour predecessor,  Liam Byrne : “Dear
Chief Secretary, I’m afraid to tell you there’s no money left.”  Cash Squeezed  Now, it’s British households that are squeezed for cash,
says Labour, which is leading in opinion polls by as much as  11
percentage point s over the past months.  “Wages for millions of people have been in decline for far
too long,” Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said in a speech in London
Nov. 5. “We have a low-pay emergency in this country. More of
Britain’s poor children today are being brought up in working
families than in jobless families.”  The  Institute for Fiscal Studies  estimates the erosion of
real incomes since 2008 is unprecedented as workers accepted pay
cuts as the price of keeping their jobs.  Over the past four years, consumer-price inflation has
averaged 3.3 percent and wage growth 1.6 percent, Office for
National Statistics data show.  Since Cameron took office, average earnings have risen 5.4
percent and consumer prices 11 percent, figures from the Office
for National Statistics show.  Austerity Payoff  Cameron spent his first three years as prime minister
promising that his austerity program to restore the government’s
finances would be worth the price. It took until this year for
the first signs of a payoff.  The European Commission forecast Nov. 5 that the U.K.
economy will grow 2.2 percent next year, twice the pace of the
euro area and more than Germany and  France .  Services activity in October grew at the fastest pace since
May 1997, the month that  Tony Blair ’s Labour Party won a
landslide election victory, a report from Markit Economics
showed. In September, industrial production rose more than
economists forecast, climbing 0.9 percent. U.K. jobless claims
fell the most in 16 years in the same month.  Still, the Conservatives trail Labour in polls, with a
survey of 1,876 voters by  YouGov Plc (YOU)  on Nov. 4-5 showing Labour
at 40 percent and the Conservatives at 34 percent. No margin for
error was given. A poll by the same company of 1,885 adults from
Oct. 31 to Nov. 1 found 19 percent thought the government was
good for “people like you” while 54 percent thought it was
bad.  The cost-of-living squeeze has become the focal point of
British politics since the party conference season in September.  Price Cap  Miliband announced at his party’s gathering in Brighton,
southern  England , that he would cap U.K. gas and electricity
prices until the start of 2017 if he wins the election. He would
also set up a new energy regulator with power to cut prices.  Cameron’s Conservatives dismissed the policy as a gimmick,
saying that the only way to narrow the gap between costs and
wages was to build a strong, diverse economy and only the
Conservatives have the policies to do so.  Yet Cameron shelved plans to announce a new policy to
tackle the rising cost of living at his own party’s conference
the following week because he didn’t want to be seen playing
catch-up, according to a person familiar with the party’s
planning who asked not to be identified because the discussions
were private.  On Oct. 10, eight days after the close of the Tory
conference in Manchester, northern England, the issue exploded.  Costs Rise  SSE Plc (SSE) , one of the so-called Big Six energy suppliers in
the U.K., announced that it was raising prices by an average of
8.2 percent.  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power Ltd.
and  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Npower all followed, leading to opposition
questions over the government’s commitment to keeping prices
down.  Cameron fought back on Oct. 23 with the announcement of a
probe into profit and competition among energy suppliers. He
also said he wants to “roll back” green levies on bills, which
provide investment for renewable energy and help to insulate the
homes of people on low incomes, putting him at odds with Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , a Liberal Democrat.  The Conservatives have also been enthusiastic supporters
for fracking for shale gas, which they say will bring down
prices. On a visit to  New York  in May, Cameron said he envied
the boom in the U.S.’s gas production.  Election Hope  The key for his political hopes is that the gap between
wages and household costs eases before the election and the
effects are felt beyond London and the southeast of England in
northern formerly industrial areas where Cameron will have to
win seats if he has any hope of a majority.  “You would expect wages to gain some traction as the
economy recovers but it will take some time,” said  Alan Clarke ,
an economist at Scotiabank in London. “The squeeze goes from a
vice-like grip to a bear hug. It will probably be another year
before wages are in line with inflation.”  Even when that happens the electoral math may make it too
big a task for Cameron to win.  The distribution of votes within parliamentary boundaries
tends to favor Labour in the 650-seat House of Commons, meaning
that the Conservatives need to be several points ahead to win an
outright majority. Labour can win by matching the Tories’ share
of the vote.  “Will Cameron benefit from the economic recovery?”
Roehampton’s Driver said. “My sense is that he will, but not
enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Hertling in London at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  