-- Canada Stocks Rise Amid Earnings, Precious Metals Gain
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-11-06T21:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/canada-stocks-rise-as-commodity-shares-climb-before-data.html
Canadian  stocks  rose as a rally in
 gold prices  boosted materials shares while investors analyzed
earnings before employment data later in the week.  Magna International Inc. advanced 1 percent after boosting
its 2013 forecasts for sales. Avigilon Corp., a surveillance
equipment maker, soared 25 percent as sales topped estimates.
Semafo Inc. and Taseko Mines Ltd. rallied at least 5.2 percent
as the price of gold climbed from a two-week low.  Indigo Books &
Music Inc. (IDG)  plunged the most ever on lower book sales and higher
costs.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  increased 18.70
points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,380.41 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark Canadian equity gauge has advanced 7.6 percent this
year to trade near a two-year high.  “We’re moving now into a period of data-watching and
you’ll find people less inclined to make large bets going into
Friday’s report,” said  Andrew Pyle , fund manager with
ScotiaMcLeod Inc. in Peterborough, Ontario. He manages about
C$210 million ($201.6 million). “We haven’t had the same
momentum there was in  New York .”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose to a record close
today as Federal Reserve officials said the U.S. economy
warrants continued stimulus. The U.S. and  Canada  are scheduled
to report jobs data for last month on Nov. 8. Economists
forecast fewer workers hired and an increasing unemployment rate
in both countries. The U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner.  “You have to look at the Fed, with a new chairman coming
in January, they will err on the side of generosity,” said
 Irwin Michael ,  fund manager  with ABC Funds in Toronto. The firm
manages about C$6 billion ($5.76 billion). “Keep rates low with
the $85 billion monthly bond buyback, until they’re absolutely
sure the economy has turned. And the market is happy to see
that.”  Resource Rally  Raw-materials shares increased 0.5 percent as a group to
lead gains in the S&P/TSX as seven of 10  industries  advanced.
Trading volume was in line with the 30-day average.  Taseko Mines climbed 5.2 percent to C$2.24 and Semafo
increased 7.2 percent to C$2.98 as gold futures for December
delivery rose the most in almost two weeks.  Magna International rose 1 percent to C$89.77 after
increasing its forecasts for 2013 sales to $33.9 billion to
$34.8 billion, from $33 billion to $34.7 billion previously.  Avigilon rallied 25 percent to C$25.55, a record high, as
the Vancouver-based company posted third-quarter revenue of
C$51.1 million, ahead of analysts’ projections for C$40.5
million. Gross margin rose to 53 percent from 51 percent a year
ago, as demand worldwide for the company’s high-definition
surveillance equipment grows, said Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Fernandes in a statement.  Indigo plunged 20 percent to C$8.75 as the company lost
C$10.1 million in the quarter, more than double the net loss in
the same period a year ago. Indigo blamed the loss on lower book
sales as well as higher operating, selling and administrative
costs related to increased marketing and product initiatives.  Penn West  Penn West Petroleum Ltd. slumped 16 percent to C$9.74, the
biggest decline in more than four years, as the Calgary-based
company reported third-quarter production declined 4.5 percent
compared with the previous quarter. Penn West has also targeted
as much as C$2 billion in asset sales before 2015 as part of a
strategic review.  Air Canada, the nation’s largest airline, slipped 7 percent
to C$5.42 after reporting that  load factor  decreased 1.6
percentage point in October to 81.3 percent from a year ago.
Capacity across the airline’s system rose 3.2 percent in the
month as traffic climbed 1.3 percent. Load factor is a measure
of airline efficiency relative to capacity.  The airline also said it has been told by market regulators
the stock was halted this morning after triggering a circuit
breaker. The company said no pending material news will be
issued and external sources have suggested to Air Canada the
halt may have been triggered by an “erroneous trade order.”  The company is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings
on Friday before the markets open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  