-- Carlyle Third-Quarter Profit Falls 21% on Investment Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-06T21:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/carlyle-third-quarter-profit-falls-21-on-investment-fees.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
real estate, said third-quarter profit decreased 21 percent as
it earned less for  investment performance  and sold fewer assets
than a year ago.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of profit
excluding some costs, fell to $160.2 million, or 51 cents a
share, compared with $203.6 million, or 66 cents, a year
earlier, Washington-based Carlyle said today in a statement.
Earnings missed the 60-cent average estimate of 14  analysts  in a
Bloomberg survey.  Carlyle, like peers  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR) , has
diversified its business beyond traditional leveraged buyouts to
bolster assets dedicated to real estate and credit investments,
reducing its reliance on volatile LBO earnings. The firm is
seeking money for 14 funds and raised $6.5 billion in the third
quarter, putting Carlyle on track for the second-best
fundraising year in its 26-year history, co-founder  David Rubenstein  said on a call with analysts and investors today.  “We have been in the process of reloading our capital,”
Bill Conway, Carlyle’s co-chief executive officer, said on the
call. “Notwithstanding the present challenges of finding the
right assets at the right prices, we have been doing what we
should be doing. While we are far from perfect, our job is to
generate attractive absolute returns.”  Carlyle rose 1.4 percent to close at $30.54 in  New York .
Carlyle, which held its initial public offering last year, has
 gained  17 percent this year.  Fund Gains  Together, all of Carlyle’s funds from which it can collect
a slice of profits -- which in addition to buyouts include real
estate, energy and certain Global Market Strategies pools --
appreciated 4 percent in the quarter and 13 percent this year
through September. That compares with gains of 4.7 percent in
the third quarter and 24 percent in the first nine months of the
year for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of large U.S.
companies.  The firm’s private-equity portfolio rose 5 percent in the
third quarter, compared with 10 percent at  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG) , 5.9 percent at KKR and 4.2 percent at Blackstone.  The value of buyout holdings at private-equity firms
affects economic net income, or ENI, because the metric depends
on quarterly mark-to-market valuations of those investments.
Accounting rules require the firms to value their portfolio
holdings every quarter.  Flagship Fund  Carlyle, like other alternative-asset firms, reports profit
that differs from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
The quarterly profit under those rules, known as GAAP, fell 88
percent to $2.3 million, or 4 cents a share, compared with $18.6
million, or 40 cents, a year earlier.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments
as a carried interest.  Carlyle expects to close its newest U.S. buyout fund,
Carlyle Partners VI, in the next few weeks with at least $12.9
billion, Rubenstein said on the call today. The fund, which
exceeded its $10 billion target, follows a $13.7 billion pool
raised in 2007, which was generating a 13 percent net internal
rate of return as of Sept. 30.  Distributable Earnings  Carlyle said distributable earnings, a measure of cash
profitability, were $105 million in the quarter, compared with
$207 million in the third quarter last year. The company plans
to pay shareholders a  dividend  of 16 cents a share on Nov. 27.  Assets under management climbed to $185 billion from $180.4
billion at the end of the second quarter, Carlyle said.
Blackstone, the largest manager of alternatives to stocks and
bonds, last month said its assets under management reached an
industry record of $248 billion.  Carlyle, like Blackstone, is selling real estate holdings
as the industry recovers post-recession. The firm is considering
apartment sales as rent growth slows and a wave of multifamily-housing construction adds to supply, Robert Stuckey, Carlyle’s
head of U.S. real estate investing, said in an interview last
month.  The firm, meanwhile, plans to invest in real estate through
its fund-of-funds business. In September it agreed to acquire
Metropolitan Real Estate Equity Management LLC, which invests in
more than 80 asset managers, as a strategic purchase.  Carlyle earlier this week said it hired veteran deal maker
Kewsong Lee from  Warburg Pincus  LLC to become its No. 2 buyout
executive. Lee, who spent 21 years at New York-based Warburg
Pincus, will become deputy chief investment officer, reporting
to Conway, who acts as chief investment officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  