-- CBS Profit Climbs 22% on Revenue From Streaming Outlets
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-11-07T17:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/cbs-profit-climbs-22-on-sales-to-streaming-outlets.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. broadcast network, reported third-quarter profit growth
that met analysts’ estimates, lifted by sales of shows to
streaming services from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Amazon.com Inc.  Revenue advanced 11 percent to $3.63 billion, beating the
$3.53 billion average of analysts’ projections. Income from
continuing operations increased 22 percent to $469 million, or
76 cents a share, from $385 million, or 59 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based CBS said yesterday in a statement.  “A solid revenue quarter all around, but expenses were a
little higher than expected,”  Paul Sweeney , a Bloomberg
Industries analyst, said in an e-mail. “CBS is leveraged to
advertising, retransmission fees and licensing fees -- all of
which appear to be trending in the right direction.”  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , fell 1.7
percent to $58.63 12:32 p.m. in  New York . Through yesterday, the
shares had increased 57 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  is boosting sales by
selling streaming rights to “The Good Wife,” “Under the
Dome” and “Dexter,” which played on its Showtime cable
network, to Web-based services. CBS is also increasing
programming fees it charges pay-TV providers such as  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-biggest U.S. cable system.  Advertising Sales  Profit matched analysts’ projection for 76 cents, the
average of 25 estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Advertising gained 4.3 percent to $1.86 billion, while
licensing and distribution revenue rose 18 percent to $1.1
billion, the company said. Affiliate and subscription fees,
including retransmission revenue, jumped 23 percent to $611
million.  CBS stands to gain from changes Nielsen is making to how
audiences are counted, Moonves said on a conference call.
Nielsen, which produces the ratings broadcasters use to set
advertising rates, began counting video-on-demand viewing this
season and will start adding audiences on some mobile devices
next year.  Online Viewing  “We are on the way to monetizing every eyeball that is
watching our content,” Moonves said.  The company sold its billboard operations in Europe and
 Asia  to Los Angeles-based private equity firm Platinum Equity
LLC for $225 million, resulting in a $147 million gain,
according to the statement. The results of those businesses were
classified as discontinued operations.  CBS plans to split off its U.S. billboard unit, convert it
to a real estate investment trust and sell shares in the new
entity.  The company had debt of $6.31 billion and $226 million in
cash as of Sept. 30, according to the statement.  Profit at CBS’s  entertainment  division, which includes the
 broadcast network , increased 14 percent to $394 million. Sales
grew 12 percent to $1.88 billion.  Showtime Gains  Income at CBS’s cable division, home to its Showtime
premium cable channel, rose 15 percent to $255 million on sales
that increased 37 percent. Profit from local broadcasting, which
includes the company’s TV and radio stations, fell 15 percent to
$161 million from a year ago, when the division benefited from
political campaign advertising. Revenue dropped 3 percent to
$641 million.  CBS’s Simon & Schuster publishing division lifted profit by
7.9 percent to $41 million on sales that gained 6.7 percent to
$224 million. The best-selling titles in the quarter included
“Doctor Sleep” by  Stephen King  and “Si-cology 1” by Si
Robertson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  