-- Chile Peso Lures Deutsche Bank on Trade Balance: Market Reversal
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-11-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/chile-peso-lures-deutsche-bank-on-trade-balance-market-reversal.html
Chile ’s peso is poised to reverse its
biggest decline in five months as a measure of the Latin
American nation’s trade balance signals improvement.  Copper relative to crude oil has risen to the highest
level since June. The Andean country depends on the metal for
more than half of its exports while it buys almost all of the
oil it consumes. The last time this happened was in June and
September 2012, and the peso rose 2.2 percent on average.
Trading patterns in the currency indicate the peso’s 3.2 percent
drop in the past month will be hard to sustain.  “The depreciation is a bit stretched,” Guilherme Marone,
a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest currency
trader, said in a phone interview from New York yesterday.
“Copper prices are stable. It doesn’t justify such a big
decline in a short period of time. The peso is a candidate for a
retracement trade.”  An economic recovery in  China , Chile’s main trading
partner, will stabilize copper prices and benefit the peso,
which is among the cheapest currencies in developing nations,
according to Morgan Stanley. The peso declined the most after
 Brazil ’s real among 31 major dollar counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg over the past month as the Andean country’s central
bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and the  economy slowed.   The peso declined 0.5 percent yesterday to a three-month
low of 515.16 per dollar as a report showed the economy grew in
September at the slowest pace in four months and minutes of the
central bank’s Oct. 17 meeting showed policy makers voted
unanimously to reduce  borrowing costs .  Technical Gauge  Some measures indicate a reversal in the peso may be
coming. The “k-line” of  stochastics , which gauges current
price relative to highs and lows, has increased to 97, above the
80 threshold deemed as oversold for the peso, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A signal to buy the peso would be
confirmed if the k-line crossed below its own moving average of
92.  While the Andean nation’s economy has slowed, trade
prospects have brightened. The price of copper, which makes up
more than half of Chile’s exports, has risen 7 percent in the
second half of the year to  $3.2585 a pound on speculation
demand will rise as growth in the world’s largest economies
accelerate.  Crude oil, which makes up 14 percent of Chilean imports,
has plunged 13 percent in the past two months to $93.64 a barrel
as concern faded that the U.S. would intervene militarily in
 Syria . The copper-to-oil ratio has increased to 3.5 from a five-year low of 2.9 in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China Services  China, the largest buyer of Chile’s copper, said Nov. 2
that its  services industry  grew in October at the fastest pace
this year, adding to evidence of the Asian nation’s rebound.
Chile’s  trade deficit  will narrow to $116 million in October
from $220 million in the previous month, according to the median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chile’s central bank cut its target lending rate a quarter
percentage point to 4.75 percent Oct. 17 as inflation and
economic growth slowed. One policy maker said in minutes
published yesterday that a weaker peso would be more desirable
as the international outlook turns against  emerging markets .  The implied yield money managers can earn by investing in
the Chilean peso through the forwards market plunged after the
central bank’s surprise rate cut. The  12-month yield  fell to
4.37 percent on Nov. 5 from 4.84 percent before the rate cut.  While Barclays Plc.’s Sebastian Brown recommended on Nov. 4
that clients exit a trade to sell the peso, he expects that the
currency will weaken to as low as 530 per dollar in a year as
the economy slows.  ‘Gradual Transition’  “The gradual transition of the Chilean economy to a lower
growth state” will weigh on the peso, Brown wrote in a research
note.  The peso’s decline has made it the most-undervalued among
18 emerging-market currencies tracked by Morgan Stanley after
the Polish zloty and the Colombian peso. At the current level,
it is about 5 percent below its fair value of 490 per dollar,
according to Morgan Stanley’s model.  Chilean exporters may take advantage of the peso’s weakness
to buy the currency as a hedge, limiting further declines,
according to Eugenio Cortes, the head of currency forwards at
EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA.  “We may only get a couple more days of depreciation,”
Cortes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  