-- China Money Rate Drops for Fifth Day as PBOC Boosts Cash Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-06T03:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/china-money-rate-drops-for-fifth-day-as-pboc-boosts-cash-supply.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell for a fifth day, poised for the longest run of declines
since July, as the central bank boosted cash supply.  The People’s Bank of China added 8 billion  yuan  ($1.3
billion) yesterday by selling seven-day reverse-repurchase
contracts at 4.1 percent. The monetary authority today asked
lenders to submit orders for 91-day bills, 28-day repurchase
contracts and 14-day reverse repos, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The  seven-day repo rate  declined 42 basis points, or 0.42
percentage point, to 3.82 percent as of 10:49 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The falling streak is the longest
since the 14 days through July 10.  “The injections in the past week helped to boost market
confidence,” said Tian Jiachao, an analyst at China Merchants
Bank in Shenzhen. “Whether the PBOC will continue the reverse
repo operations depends on whether it’s satisfied with the
current rate levels.”  The cost of one-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo, fell one basis
point to 4.22 percent.  The PBOC said it will maintain prudent monetary policy, and
will continue stabilizing inflation expectations as the
foundation for stable consumer prices is not very solid,
according to a report posted on the central bank’s website
yesterday.  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 rose three basis points to 4.25 percent, according to data
provided by the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  