-- China Scraps Floor Price for Air Fares to Boost Budget Travel
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-11-06T05:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/china-scraps-floor-price-for-air-fares-to-boost-budget-travel.html
China  scrapped a rule that required
airlines to keep a minimum domestic ticket price as the world’s
most-populous nation seeks to spur  air travel  demand.  Eliminating the floor level for fares will help carriers
attract more travelers by offering cheaper prices, the People’s
Daily reported today, citing Xia Xinghua, the civil aviation
regulator’s deputy director. The regulator may also consider
adding a  budget air terminal  in the planned second airport in
Beijing, Xia was quoted by the Beijing Youth Daily today.  “The regulator has a mass-market strategy to make sure
that Chinese people can afford air travel,” Li Yanhua, a
professor at Tianjin-based Civil Aviation University of China,
said by phone today. “This is a trend around the world and
there’s no exception for China.”  Airlines in China had to set fares not higher than 1.25
times and not lower than 60 percent of a base price, according
to a rule published in 2004. The nation is easing aviation
regulations and boosting infrastructure spending as Chinese
carriers are forecast to require more than 5,000 planes in the
next 20 years.  Two calls to the regulator’s office in Beijing went
unanswered today.  Spring Airlines Co., based in  Shanghai , is the only low-cost operator in China, and budget carriers account for 6
percent of the country’s total seats. By comparison, discount
airlines, led by Malaysia’s  AirAsia Bhd (AIRA) , took 27 percent of seat
capacity in  Singapore  last year, according to data from CAPA
Centre for Aviation.  Juneyao Airlines Co., based in Shanghai, has sought
approval from the regulator to set up a low-cost carrier based
in south China’s Guangdong province, China Business News
reported Nov.3, citing an interview with chairman Wang Junjin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  