-- China Tells Norway It Must Take First Step to Heal Nobel Rift
-- B y   I l a n a   F r i e d m a n - S c h r o i t
-- 2013-11-06T14:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/china-tells-norway-it-must-take-first-step-to-heal-nobel-rift.html
Norway  needs to make the first move
and pledge to not cross “red policy lines” to solve the
diplomatic freeze triggered by the Nobel Peace Prize three years
ago, the Chinese ambassador said.  “As long as the Norwegian side has the political will and
takes the initiative to undo the knot, it’s likely that we’ll
see an early normalization of our bilateral relations,” Zhao
Jun,  China ’s ambassador, said yesterday in a speech at the
Chamber of Commerce in Stavanger, on Norway’s west coast.  China put a freeze on top-level contact between the two
nations after a committee appointed by the Norwegian parliament
awarded the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize to imprisoned Chinese
dissident  Liu Xiaobo . The rift has caused Norwegian salmon
exports to the country to plunge amid restrictions.  Norwegian Foreign Minister Boerge Brende, part of the new
Conservative-led government that took power last month, has said
that improving relations with China, its sixth-biggest trading
partner, will be his top priority.  “Unfortunately, the Chinese-Norwegian relationship has
been severely damaged by the Nobel Peace Prize issue,” said
Zhao, who started his term as ambassador to Norway about 18
months after the feud started.  One of the conditions is that Norway doesn’t repeat the
same transgression, he said.  “The policy red lines should not be crossed,” he said.
“For the Chinese side, the core interests are including
preserving its basic state system, defending its national
security, safe guarding its sovereignty and territorial
integrity, and ensuring sustained stable economic and social
development.”  The Norwegian government has maintained that it has no
power over the Nobel Committee’s decisions in awarding the Peace
Prize.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilana Friedman-Schroit in Stavanger at 
 ifriedmansch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  