-- China’s Wealthy Heirs Demoralize Young, Xinhua Commentary Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2013-11-06T09:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/china-s-wealthy-heirs-demoralize-young-xinhua-commentary-says.html
The children of  China ’s newly rich
commit “offenses against social order” and represent a
widening wealth gap that can only be addressed through political
change, the official Xinhua News Agency said in a commentary.  “Many offenses against social order by the second
generation of China’s wealthy families in recent years have also
demoralized the country’s social working spirit,” the
commentary, which carried the bylines of three Xinhua writers,
said today. “A widening wealth gap has appeared between cities
and the countryside, different regions, jobs and groups of
people.”  The commentary, titled “Chinese leadership seeks maximal
reform consensus,” was tied to a Nov. 9-12 meeting of the
Communist Party at which the government may spell out economic
reforms for the next decade. The commentary acknowledged that
any reform is “entangled with intricate problems and
conflicts” brought about by the country’s development.  China has no tax on inheritances while property taxes in
some cities are at the pilot stage, helping fuel the country’s
wealth gap.  The offspring of people who profited from China’s economic
boom in the last 30 years have their own moniker -- “fuerdai,”
Mandarin for second-generation rich. Many drive the
Lamborghinis, Ferraris and Bentleys that prowl Beijing’s wealthy
eastern district of Chaoyang.  So-called mass incidents -- strikes, riots and other
demonstrations -- are being fueled by land appropriations,
pollution and labor disputes, the Xinhua commentary said.  “Without incorporating political restructuring into
economic restructuring, social wealth can not be redistributed,
and the new strength of social energy can not be invigorated,”
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in  Hong Kong  at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  