-- Christie Says Presidential Talk Won’t Divert His Focus
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-11-06T22:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/christie-says-presidential-talk-won-t-distract-him.html
Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican
who won a lopsided re-election victory yesterday in Democratic-leaning New Jersey, said he won’t be diverted by talk of a
possible 2016 presidential bid as he heads into his second term.  Christie, 51, said today entreaties to seek the White House
can be “flattering,” as someone who makes such a suggestion
“thinks you can do it well enough that you might be worthy of
consideration for the most important leadership job in this
country.” However, he said, “I don’t get distracted easily.”  Among his second-term priorities, Christie said he’ll push
for more charter schools and vouchers. Speaking at a Union City
school, he also said it’s time to examine the possibility of in-state tuition for the children of undocumented immigrants. The
governor said he believes he has become a better executive than
he was two years ago, when he declined appeals to run for
president from Republican supporters. He won with 60 percent of
the vote, an Associated Press tally shows.  His crushing victory over state Senator Barbara Buono, a
Metuchen Democrat, gives him “a narrative” for a 2016 White
House run, according to  Jennifer Duffy , senior editor of the
Cook Political Report, a Washington newsletter.  Christie attracted political independents with his
leadership after  Hurricane Sandy  struck in October 2012, and
pre-election surveys showed almost a third of Democrats
supported him, along with a majority of women. That cross-party
appeal and backing from voters who often lean Democratic may
bolster a view of Christie’s general-election chances yet it may
hamper him in Republican primaries.  Obama Embrace  In Sandy’s aftermath of devastation, Christie embraced
President  Barack Obama , earning the enmity of some in his
party’s leadership, who faulted him for boosting the president’s
re-election campaign just days before the Nov. 6 vote last year.
Today, Obama called him before leaving for a fundraising event
in  Dallas , according to  Jay Carney , a White House spokesman.  “Obviously, he and the governor have spent a lot of time
together, in person and on the phone, because of superstorm
Sandy,” Carney told reporters.  While saying he plans to focus on New Jersey, the governor
said he hopes to use his position as chairman of the  Republican
Governors Association  to expand the party’s ranks in statehouses
nationwide. As head of the group, he plans to travel the country
to help Republican candidates raise money and get elected. That
may give him a chance to enhance his national visibility and win
favors from party leaders in key states.  New Hampshire  Also today, the  New Hampshire  Republican State Committee
said a Christie campaign aide, Matt Mowers, will become its
executive director, in a statement on Twitter Inc.’s website.
Mowers was a regional political director for the governor’s re-election drive. The Granite State is a crucial part of the
presidential vetting process as it traditionally holds the first
primary of the race.  As governor, Christie said he doesn’t plan to tone down his
public persona to broaden his appeal to a national audience. In
his first term, Christie was criticized after he called the only
openly gay lawmaker a “numb-nuts” and when he implored
reporters to “take a bat out on” one of his political
opponents in Trenton, state Senator Loretta Weinberg.  “This is who I am,” he said today. “You’re asking me at
51 years old to become another person.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton,  New Jersey , at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 