-- Christie-Cuccinelli 2016? Maybe Not
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-06T16:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/christie-cuccinelli-2016-maybe-not.html
All politics is not local. So it’s no
surprise that tea leaves are much in demand today as political
prognosticators  seek meaning  -- and no small amount of
affirmation -- in off-year election results in  Virginia , New
Jersey and elsewhere. The fate of the  Tea Party , President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care reform law, immigration reform,
abortion rights and much more were all on the line yesterday. Or
so we are told.  In Virginia, voters sent a clear message: Republican
gubernatorial candidate  Ken Cuccinelli  was too socially
conservative and politically combative. Unless, of course, the
hidden meaning of Cuccinelli’s  surprisingly narrow  loss to
Democrat  Terry McAuliffe  was that the electorate is now in open
revolt against Obamacare, which Cuccinelli focused on late in
the campaign and almost rode to victory.  Or perhaps the election instead shows the abiding appeal of
McAuliffe’s hardy pro-business perspective. Although he ran as a
liberal -- with an “F” rating from the  National Rifle
Association , no less -- the victorious Democrat’s career and
philosophy owe more to Phineas T. Barnum than to  Franklin D. Roosevelt . But it wasn’t business that put McAuliffe over the
top, it was minority voters; he won with  only 36 percent  of the
white vote.  Hold those disparate thoughts while turning your attention
to New Jersey, where Republican Governor  Chris Christie  won a
landslide re-election in a notoriously blue state. The  governor
won  a majority of Hispanic and 1-in-5 black votes, proving that
ideological moderation, support for immigration reform and
racial inclusiveness can succeed for Republicans.  Except that Christie is stylistically as Tea Party as they
come -- combative, scolding, in your face and  occasionally
downright rude  to his constituents. Oh, and the same voters who
gave Christie a second term? They also ensured that Democrats
 retained control  of both houses of the legislature and voted
overwhelmingly to raise the state minimum wage and index it to
inflation -- anathema to Republicans everywhere.  Elections matter for both the who and the why: Not only do
voters choose an actual candidate, they do so for (presumably)
identifiable reasons. So it is inevitable, and maybe even
salutary, for the political class  to try to divine  some larger
meaning in the hours and days after an election.  With all due apologies to Dr. Freud, however, sometimes a
 New Jersey  gubernatorial election is just a New Jersey
gubernatorial election. Same for Virginia. Moreover, American
politics in 2013 is in high flux, with multiple currents
coursing through its byways and new tributaries carving the
landscape. In Virginia, voters opted for the better side of a
bad choice. In New Jersey, they chose a politician who has made
his resistance to national partisanship, national labels and
national mindlessness the foundation of his national ambitions.  Presuming Christie ramps up an expected presidential run,
it will be interesting to see how well his mismatched socks work
in another time and place: 2016 in the land of matched (white)
sets. All politics is not local. But much is.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 