-- Clarence ‘Ace’ Parker, Oldest NFL Hall of Famer, Dies at 101
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-11-07T03:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/clarence-ace-parker-oldest-nfl-hall-of-famer-dies-at-101.html
Clarence “Ace” Parker , a star of
 New York  City football in the 1940s and the only Pro Football
Hall of Fame member to reach 100, has died. He was 101.  He died yesterday, according to the Canton, Ohio-based Hall
of Fame, which didn’t provide details. He had been hospitalized
with a pulmonary condition since late last month, the Virginian-Pilot newspaper  reported  on its website.  Parker was the oldest living person to have played in the
NFL, according to Saleem Choudhry, a researcher at the Hall of
Fame. That distinction is now believed to belong to Don Looney,
96, who played with the  Philadelphia Eagles  in 1940 and the
Pittsburgh Steelers in 1941-1942, Choudhry said.  Parker, whose career was interrupted by a three-year stint
in the U.S. Navy during World War II, starred as quarterback for
the  Brooklyn  Dodgers and Boston Yanks of the NFL and the  New
York Yankees  of the All-America Football Conference. He was
named NFL Most Valuable Player in 1940, when he led the Dodgers
on offense and defense to a second-place finish in the Eastern
Division. In his final season, 1946, he led the Yankees to a
division title.  An all-around athlete, he played basketball at  Duke
University  in Durham, North Carolina, and professional baseball
for two seasons with the  Philadelphia Athletics .  “I always thought I was a better baseball player than I
was a football player,” Parker said in 1985, according to the
Virginian-Pilot. “But football seemed to work out better for
me.”  He was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1972.  ‘Too Small’  “There was no thought in my mind of ever being put in the
Hall of Fame of professional football,” he said in his
 induction speech . “In the first place, I always thought I was
too small. I weighed 168 pounds and was” 5 feet, 10 inches tall.
“I couldn’t compare with the others, so I just thought I would
be passed over, but since I was selected I want to say that I’m
sure glad it happened while I’m still here.”  Stephen Perry , president of the Hall of Fame, said in a
statement today, “We reflect on a full life lived and will
forever remember the football legacy created by Ace Parker.”  Parker suffered one concussion, in his first season with
Brooklyn in a game against the  Chicago Bears , according to
“What a Game They Played,” Richard Whittingham’s 1984  book .
The hit occurred as he stood on his toes to watch his pass sail
downfield toward a receiver.  Knocked Out  “And that’s all I remember until I woke up at the
hospital,” he is quoted saying in the book. “I still played
the next week.”  Clarence McKay Parker was born on May 17, 1912, in
Portsmouth,  Virginia , the son of Ernest R. and Mabel H. Parker,
according to  a death notice  on the website of B.W. Foster
Funeral Home in Portsmouth. In high school he earned letters in
football, baseball, basketball, golf and track.  He remains in the Duke football  record book  with the
longest play in school history, a 105-yard kickoff return
against the University of  North Carolina  in 1936. A halfback, he
led Duke to a record of 24 wins and 5 losses during his three
seasons, 1934-1936. The university presents an annual Ace Parker
Award to a player “who displays unparalleled commitment to the
team and overcomes adversity to contribute.”  Parker was picked by the Dodgers in the NFL’s second-ever
draft, in 1937. For two seasons, 1937 and 1938, he played both
baseball with the Athletics and football with the Dodgers.  In a Dodgers win over the Cleveland Rams on Nov. 17, 1940,
Parker had a hand in all 29 of his team’s points. He ran back an
interception for a touchdown, threw two touchdown passes, served
as holder for a successful field goal, set up a touchdown with a
second interception and kicked two extra points.  Loud Ovation  According to the Hall of Fame, “Parker eventually left the
game after he twisted his leg, the same one he had earlier
injured in baseball. He received a loud ovation as he limped to
the sidelines.”  After his playing days, he worked as an NFL scout for the
 St. Louis Cardinals  and  San Francisco 49ers  until his retirement
in 1987, according to the death notice.  His wife of 67 years, Thelma Sykes Parker, preceded him in
death, as did two sisters and three brothers. Survivors include
his sister, Marion Pauline Miller of Jacksonville,  Florida , and
three nieces and six nephews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  