-- CME Spends $30 Million a Year on Open-Outcry Trading
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-06T23:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/cme-spends-30-million-a-year-on-open-outcry-trading.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  spends about $30
million a year to maintain traditional open-outcry floor trading
at the  Chicago  Board of Trade building, the company’s chief
operating officer testified.  “It’s a part of our history,” Bryan T. Durkin said today
when asked why CME, the owner of the world’s largest futures
market, would spend that money as electronic trading makes its
pit markets illiquid.  Durkin testified on the fourth and final day of an  Illinois 
state court hearing in Chicago in a case brought by 20 CBOT
traders and brokers protesting a change in trade-settlement
pricing methods that they say is putting them out of business.  The traders claim last year’s shift from closing prices
based solely on floor trading to those blended with electronic-platform trading cost them volume and betrayed CME’s promise to
maintain open-outcry trading.  They are seeking an order blocking the change so it can be
put to a vote.  Testifying before Cook County Circuit Judge Jean
Prendergast Rooney, Durkin said maintaining both electronic and
floor-trading platforms provides exchange customers with a
choice of where to do business.  Executives Testify  Durkin is the third high-ranking CME executive to testify
in the hearing. Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive
Officer Phupinder Gill also have been called to the witness
stand since the hearing started on Nov. 1.  The floor traders, led by Anthony McKerr, 51, of Glenview,
Illinois, have told the court their trade volume and income have
declined since the rule took effect in June 2012.  While traders who took the stand told Rooney they also
trade electronically from the pit, they said they can’t compete
on that platform with larger firms engaged in computerized high-speed trading.  Answering questions from traders’ attorney Richard
Goldwasser, Durkin said that while the federal Commodity Futures
Trading Commission hadn’t directly asked CME to change its
pricing method, that message was implied in the regulator’s
November 2011 letter to CME management and an ensuing meeting in
 Washington .  Also testifying today was former CBOT Chairman Charles Carey, who later served as CME Group vice chairman after the
exchanges merged in 2007.  CBOT 10  Carey told the court that after the merger he also led a
board subcommittee known as the CBOT 10, which voted in favor of
the price-settlement rule change before voting against it. The
panel was disbanded in 2012.  Carey said the CBOT 10 reversed its position after learning
it would only apply to CBOT agricultural traders and not to
cattle and hog traders on the CME.  “We didn’t want this to be our final act,” he said.
Knowing the full CME board would address the issue two months
later, after the CBOT 10’s agreed five-year duration expired,
“I kicked the can down the road,” Carey said.  Still, the former chairman said, he believed the exchange
was right to change its pricing methodology, explaining he had
been receiving customer complaints for three to four years.  “We had to allow electronic trades to be some part of the
settlement process,” Carey said. Called to testify by CME’s
lawyers, he was the last witness in the four-day hearing.  Closing Briefs  Rooney dispensed with closing arguments, telling lawyers to
file closing briefs, starting with the plaintiffs’ on Nov. 20,
with final reply papers due by Dec. 23, after which she will
rule by mail.  Outside the courtroom, McKerr said Carey’s “kick the can”
comment proved the traders’ case.  “They broke the rules,” he said.  If Rooney rules in the traders’ favor, the rule change
would be subject to a vote of the approximately 1,500 members of
the Board of Trade and would need to be approved by a majority
of those members, not merely those who vote, to be made
effective, McKerr and traders’ attorney George Sang said after
the hearing.  The case is McKerr v. Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago, 12CH23185, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in state court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  