-- Coach K’s Lessons Drive Morgan Stanley Alum to Soccer Postseason
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-11-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/coach-k-s-lessons-drive-morgan-stanley-alum-to-soccer-postseason.html
Jonathan Kraft, whose family business
includes two professional sports franchises, says his soccer
coach would be an asset to the parent company’s manufacturing,
real estate or private equity units, too.  The president of Boston-based Kraft Group, which also owns
the  New England Patriots , said he could easily switch New
England Revolution coach Jay Heaps into any role in his 5,000-employee organization that does business in 80 countries.  “Jay is one of the select few who we would feel
comfortable putting into any business situation that we have and
feeling that he could add value,” said Kraft, whose father,
Robert, is the company’s chief executive officer.  Unlike many coaches -- even three-time Super Bowl winner
 Bill Belichick  of the Patriots -- the 37-year-old Heaps has a
background in sports and finance. A former Morgan Stanley
private wealth manager, his college athletics experience
included four years as a walk-on player with  Duke University ’s
basketball team and its Hall of Fame coach,  Mike Krzyzewski ,
which he said was more like an apprenticeship for his future
job. Heaps also won college soccer’s highest honor.  The Krafts hired a familiar face last year when they
plucked the former Revolution player from Morgan Stanley’s
private wealth unit to become their manager, a term used in
soccer’s English Premier League and one that team President
Brian Bilello says better fits the position’s day-to-day
responsibilities in these times of salary cap management and
statistics-driven player evaluations.  Many Parts  “Running a team at the professional level is not just
about coaching anymore,” said Bilello, a former soccer player
at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  who previously
worked as a  management consultant  at Bain & Co. in the retail,
consumer products and entertainment industries. “There’s so
much more complexity. It helps framing that conversation with
someone like Jay.”  The Revolution won nine games in Heap’s first season in
charge, up from five the year before. They won 14, losing 11
with nine draws this season, qualifying for the playoffs for the
first time since 2009.  “He inherited a turnaround and very quickly put us in a
very strong position.” Kraft said in a telephone interview.
“His intellectual horsepower, interpersonal skills and common
sense make him unique.”  Growing up the son of a community bank owner in Longmeadow,
 Massachusetts , Heaps said in an interview that he always figured
he’d end up working in wing tips, not cleats.  “I was always around the banking industry,” said Heaps,
whose Revolution tonight face Sporting  Kansas  City in the second
leg of their two-game playoff series in Kansas after winning the
first game 2-1. “Big preparation for finance, whether
 investment banking  or private equity.”  MLS Beginnings  Heaps arrived at Duke in 1995, a year before the launch of
what at the time was a 10-team MLS, a league that has since
attracted international stars that include  David Beckham  and
 Thierry Henry  and commanded a $100 million fee for an expansion
franchise in  New York . MLS now has 19 teams and, according to
the players association, an average salary of about $165,000.  Because there was no established U.S. professional league,
Heaps as a teenager never envisioned a career in soccer. He won
the  Hermann Trophy , college soccer’s equivalent of college
football’s Heisman Trophy, as a Duke senior in 1998.  While soccer enabled the 5-foot-9, 155-pound Heaps to
showcase his fleet feet, his basketball success was more about
acumen than athletic ability, said former Blue Devils teammate
 Shane Battier , who now plays with  LeBron James  on the National
Basketball Association-champion Miami Heat.  “When you’re at a considerable disadvantage size-wise, you
better have a brain,” Battier said in an interview. “Heaps
could be a CEO, sure. He’s the sort of guy who’ll be successful
in whatever he wants to do, whatever his passion is.”  Potential Captain  That sentiment is echoed by Krzyzewski, winner of four
National Collegiate Athletic Association championships, tying
him with Adolph Rupp for second-most behind  John Wooden ’s 10.
Even though Heaps was a walk-on who scored just eight points in
his career, he garnered so much respect from teammates who would
go on to the NBA that he could’ve been team captain, said
Krzyzewski, known as Coach K.  “He’s like a catcher in baseball, the chatter box of a
team,” Krzyzewski said. “He felt the pulse of the team all the
time.”  Heaps said he took notice of the coach’s detailed
preparation, something he’s adopted with the Revolution.  “Players knew they were ready so they could just focus on
playing,” he said.  Pay Cut  Heaps, who graduated in 3 1/2 years, originally majored in
economics with a minor in history but flipped the two because of
a scheduling conflict with basketball practice.  As a senior, he interviewed at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , but passed
on the opportunity to play professional soccer at a starting
salary of about $45,000.  “Definitely a pay cut,” Heaps said with a chuckle. “I
never played soccer for the money.”  While MLS players aren’t paid at the same level as their
counterparts in the National Football League or NBA, salaries
are going up -- in part because of Heaps. He was a player
representative to the  union , helping to negotiate a five-year
labor contract in 2010 that increased payroll budgets by more
than 34 percent and minimum salaries by 42 percent.  “His business acumen was a real asset,” Jon Newman, union
general counsel and a partner in the Washington law firm Sherman
Dunn Cohen Leifer & Yellig PC, said in a telephone interview.  Finance Internship  While playing professional soccer, Heaps sharpened that
acumen through an internship at Morgan Stanley, where he said he
matched wits with MBAs from  Columbia University ,  Dartmouth
College  and  Georgetown University .  Heaps performed so well that the company offered him a
full-time job on the same day his 11-year playing career ended
in 2009. He wound up working in Morgan Stanley’s Boston office
alongside Jim Geraghty, 50, an  executive director  in the firm’s
private wealth group, who said his friend and former colleague’s
potential was -- and is -- limitless.  “Jay would have gone very far in finance,” Geraghty said
in a telephone interview, noting that he will be asking for free
tickets should the Revolution advance. “He’s one of those
people who has it all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  