-- Colleges Cut Alternative Investments to Recoup Losses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-06T18:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/colleges-cut-alternative-investments-to-recoup-losses.html
U.S. college endowments are cutting
holdings of alternative investments, such as private equity, as
many seek to recoup record losses from four years ago.  Colleges on average allocated 47 percent of their
investment portfolios to alternative assets in the 12 months
ended in June, down from 54 percent the year before, according
to a preliminary report from the National Association of College
and University Business Officers and the Commonfund Institute.  The drop “may indicate a pause in the long-term trend of
growth” in private equity, hedge funds and other alternative
investments, the groups said in the report released today that
reflects data from 461 U.S. colleges. A final report with data
from more schools will be released in January, they said.  Harvard University and other wealthy schools redefined how
endowments are invested by aggressively expanding holdings of
private equity and hedge funds as well as other less liquid and
more risky alternatives. Those investments backfired in the wake
of the global credit crisis that peaked in 2008, resulting in
record losses and leaving institutions short of cash.  Harvard is among the institutions still seeking to recover
from fiscal 2009 losses. While the university in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , posted an 11.3 percent investment return in the
year ended in June, the value of the endowment at $32.7 billion
is still well below the peak of about $37 billion set before the
credit crisis.  Domestic Equities  Colleges posted an average endowment investment return of
11.7 percent in the year ended in June, after losing 0.3 percent
the year prior, according to the preliminary NACUBO-Commonfund
study. Domestic equities generated the biggest gains at an
average of 20.5 percent while alternative strategies produced a
return of 8.6 percent, the groups said.  Yale University, the world’s richest school after Harvard,
in September  trimmed  a target for private equity investments to
31 percent of its $20.8 billion endowment from 35 percent.
Harvard said in September it is “actively focused on honing”
its private equity strategy as returns have trailed
expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  