-- Commerzbank Says Board Members to Leave Amid Job Cuts
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-06T14:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/commerzbank-says-board-members-to-leave-amid-job-cuts.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German lender
that plans to cut 5,200 jobs by 2016, said two executives will
leave its management board as part of the reductions.  Jochen Kloesges, 49, and Ulrich Sieber, 47, who oversee a
unit that is winding down assets to boost the bank’s capital
levels, will step down on Dec. 31, Frankfurt-based Commerzbank
said in an e-mailed statement today. Their departure will shrink
the board to seven members.  Commerzbank is eliminating staff to lift profit as soured
shipping and commercial real estate loans in the unit managed by
the two board members eclipse earnings from corporate and retail
banking.  Martin Blessing , the company’s 50-year-old chief
executive officer, said in August that senior management would
be included in the headcount reduction.  Kloesges, who requested for his mandate on the board to be
terminated at the end of the year, will join ER Capital Holding
as chief operating officer in April before becoming CEO of the
Hamburg-based shipping company in July, Commerzbank said.  ER Capital, founded by entrepreneur Erck Rickmers, said
Kloesges will have a contract of at least five years and replace
Nicholas Teller, 54, as CEO, according to a statement published
on the company’s website today.  Sieber’s mandate will also conclude at the end of the year,
Commerzbank said, without providing information on his plans.
The two men’s responsibilities will be split between their
colleagues on the board, according to the statement.  Michael Reuther, 54, who leads Commerzbank’s investment
banking unit, will oversee the public finance business while
Markus Beumer, 49, the head of the bank’s division catering to
small- and medium-sized companies, will be responsible for the
commercial real estate and shipping loans, the company said.  Commerzbank said it will decide on assigning responsibility
for human resources on the board level in “coming weeks” after
consulting employee representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  