-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall; Alcatel-Lucent Plans Bond Offering
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-06T22:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-alcatel-lucent-plans-bond-offering.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
declined from the highest level in three weeks as Federal
Reserve officials advocated persistent economic stimulus. A unit
of  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  plans to issue $750 million in notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.9 basis points to 72.6 basis points at 5:10 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure closed at
74.5 basis points yesterday for the highest closing level since
Oct. 15.  The index fell on the outlook for Fed policy as two papers
from central bank officials said the level of slack in America’s
economy justifies an accommodative monetary-policy stance.
Investors are reading the papers as a sign that the Fed may
refrain from tapering at its December meeting, according to
Robert Grimm, head of corporate trading at Odeon Capital Group
LLC in New York.  “At this point in time, the Fed is not going to taper any
time soon and rates are going to stay where they are,” Grimm
said in a telephone interview.  The central bank’s near-zero target interest rate and $85
billion a month in bond purchases have bolstered credit markets.  William English , head of the Fed’s Division of Monetary
Affairs, wrote that the strategy of not raising  interest rates 
if unemployment is above 6.5 percent has provided effective
stimulus, and that an even lower threshold could be helpful. A
paper by David Wilcox, the research and statistics chief, says
that slack in the economy argues for loose policy at a time of
contained expectations for inflation.  Alcatel-Lucent  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. is planning to issue the seven-year
dollar-denominated notes as part of a push to raise $2.7 billion
to finance Chief Executive Officer  Michel Combes ’s overhaul of
the network-equipment maker.  The sale may be as soon as this week, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction. The Paris-based company’s
notes may be rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Ford Sale  Ford Motor Credit Co., the finance arm of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
sold $1.25 billion in three-year fixed- and floating-rate notes,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt may be rated
Baa3 by Moody’s, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering, who asked not to be identified, citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sold $2.5 billion of three-year debt
in two parts, including $1.5 billion of 1.125 percent bonds that
yield 60 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 9.1 basis points to 351.8 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries rose 0.9 basis point to 127.2 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt rose 5.2 to 547.3.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  