-- Crude Surges the Most in Five Weeks as Fuel Demand Climbs
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-11-06T20:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/crude-rebounds-from-five-month-low-as-fuel-supplies-drop.html
West Texas Intermediate crude surged
the most in five weeks as U.S. gasoline demand rose to the
highest level since July, trimming fuel inventories.  Futures jumped after the Energy Information Administration
reported that consumption of the motor fuel climbed 2.6 percent
last week and gasoline supplies decreased 3.76 million, more
than nine times the 400,000-barrel drop forecast by analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. Crude inventories increased for a seventh
week, extending the longest stretch of gains since March.  “The shocker number is the draw in gasoline,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “Demand is picking up, and it’s supportive for the
market. The market is definitely responding to the products
numbers. Crude oil is oversold.”  WTI for December delivery rose $1.43, or 1.5 percent, to
settle at $94.80 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the biggest one-day advance since Oct. 2. The contract dropped
to $93.37 yesterday, the lowest closing price since June 4. The
volume of all futures traded was 1.6 percent below the 100-day
average at 3:52 p.m.  Brent for December settlement slid 9 cents to $105.24 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, the
lowest close since July 2 . Volume was 19 percent above the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude was at a premium of
$10.44 to WTI, compared with $11.96 yesterday.  Gasoline Climbs  Gasoline futures rallied 1.3 percent to $2.548 a gallon on
the Nymex after settling yesterday at the lowest level since
December 2011.  Consumption of the motor fuel increased to 9.29 million in
the seven days ended Nov. 1, the most since July 5, the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, reported. It was the second
weekly advance. Gasoline  supply  decreased for a fourth week to
210 million barrels, the least since Nov. 23, 2012.  The surge in demand came as the average price for regular
retail gasoline in the U.S. fell to $3.265 a gallon, the lowest
level since Dec. 24, according to a separate EIA report on Nov.
4. AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group, said the  price  fell to
$3.232 a gallon nationwide yesterday, also the least since
December.  Pump Prices  “Lower gasoline pump prices are having an impact on
demand,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management specialist at
Intl FC Stone LLC in  St. Louis Park ,  Minnesota . “Other than
that, there is not much reason for demand to run up. This is not
a time that we normally see gasoline demand break out.”  Inventories of distillate fuels, including diesel and
heating oil, fell 4.9 million barrels to 117.8 million last
week, the EIA said. Analysts had expected a drop of 1.5 million.  “Products numbers were definitely more bullish than
expected,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund
manager at Tyche Capital Advisors. “The gain in gasoline demand
is a bit surprising.”  Supplies of crude increased 1.58 million barrels to 385.4
million, the most since June 21. The Bloomberg survey forecast a
gain of 2.1 million. Inventories have climbed 29.8 million since
Sept. 13. Last week’s rise was the smallest in the period.  “It’s marking the end of huge builds,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Most of the sell pressure has been
factored in. I expect the market to hold firm.”  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , where WTI futures are
delivered, rose by 991,000 barrels Nov. 1 to 36.5 million
barrels, the highest level since August.  Technical Indicators  WTI also increased as technical indicators showed recent
losses are excessive. The futures tumbled 5.4 percent in the
previous six days.  The relative strength index of front-month WTI futures fell
below 30 for three days, a sign that prices are due for a
rebound. The 14-day RSI index reached 25.9 yesterday, the lowest
reading since June 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Futures rebounded in April from as low as $85.61 a
barrel when the chart indicator was most recently below 30. The
RSI rose to 33.6 today. WTI is trading below the 9-, 14- and
200-day moving averages.  “If you take a look at technicals, be it the RSI or the 9-and 14-day moving averages, we are oversold,” said Tom Finlon,
director of Energy Analytics Group LLC based in Jupiter,
 Florida . “There are going to be up days in a  bear market , and
this is one of them. The crude build was a little smaller than
most people anticipated.”  Fixing Allegations  Four longtime oil traders claimed in a lawsuit that some of
the world’s biggest  oil companies  including  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  conspired with Morgan Stanley and
energy traders including Vitol Group to manipulate the closely
watched spot prices for Brent for more than a decade.  The traders who brought the lawsuit allege the oil
companies and energy-trading houses submitted false and
misleading information to Platts, an energy news and price
publisher whose quotes are used by traders worldwide, according
to the proposed class action filed Oct. 4 in Manhattan federal
court. The defendants used methods including “spoofing” --
placing orders that move markets with the intention of canceling
them later, the filing showed.  Plaintiffs include Kevin McDonnell, a former Nymex
director, as well as independent floor traders Anthony Insinga
and Robert Michiels, and John Devivo, who held a seat on Nymex
and traded for his own account. Representatives of Shell, Vitol,
Trafigura Beheer BV,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and BP declined to comment
on the latest suit.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 20.2 percent, down from 21.8 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 540,729
contracts as of 3:52 p.m. It totaled 486,615 contracts
yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.74 million contracts, the least since June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  