-- Dan Loeb Helped Himself, Not Yahoo
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-11-06T16:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/dan-loeb-helped-himself-not-yahoo.html
(Corrects share buyback price in seventh paragraph and
Apple stock ownership in last paragraph.)  Dan Loeb, the billionaire founder and
principal owner of Third Point LLC, the $14 billion activist
hedge fund, has made about $1 billion for himself and his
investors from a two-year crusade to increase  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s
stock price. He’s been extraordinarily  successful ; the shares
trade for about $33 these days, up from about $13.50 when Loeb
started buying them in September 2011.  But while Loeb was busy cashing in, what benefit did
Yahoo’s 627 million unique monthly visitors (me among them) get
from his 26 months (and counting) of ownership?  The answer: not much, except for some major new headaches.
This raises the legitimate concern that the saber-rattling by
certain activist hedge-fund managers is designed to benefit
them, not the companies they target or their customers.  In his typically  aggressive  fashion, Loeb indeed rattled
every possible Yahoo cage. He  criticized  the board for hiring
 Carol Bartz  as chief executive officer. He said the board made a
gross error by turning down Microsoft Corp.’s $31-a-share offer
for Yahoo in 2008. (The stock was trading at $13.61 at the
time.)  He accused Yahoo founder  Jerry Yang  and board chairman  Roy Bostock  of “strategic bungling.” He  described  Bostock as “a
lame duck outgoing Chairman.” Loeb famously uncovered the
“discrepancies” in the education record of new Yahoo CEO  Scott Thompson , who had claimed his degree from Stonehill College,
outside  Boston , was in accounting and computer science when it
was just in accounting. “Now more than ever Yahoo! investors
need a trustworthy CEO,” Loeb  wrote  in May 2012.  CEO’s Resignation  He called for Thompson’s dismissal; 11 days later, Thompson
 resigned . Loeb then joined the board, as did his two designees,
 Harry Wilson , an investment banker, and  Michael Wolf , a media
consultant. In July 2012, Loeb recruited high-profile Google
Inc. executive  Marissa Mayer  to lead Yahoo. According to company
filings, the Yahoo board offered her a pay package of $60
million, including future bonuses and other compensation, to
make up for what she lost by leaving Google.  Loeb’s payoff for all this hard work came a year later,
when the company announced an unusual arrangement: It would buy
two-thirds of Loeb’s 60 million shares at the market price of
$29.11 per share, for a total of $1.2 billion. He still owns
20.6 million Yahoo shares -- worth about $700 million -- and
remains the company’s sixth-largest shareholder, although
neither he nor any of his designees is still on the board.  While Loeb and Mayer have done well, Yahoo’s users,
especially the estimated 275 million Yahoo Mail users, have
suffered mightily. Last month, Mayer announced a revamp of the
Yahoo Mail user interface. Many people think, not
coincidentally, that it looks like a clone of Google Inc.’s
Gmail.  According to the  New York Times , there have been tens of
thousands of user complaints: everything from “The new Yahoo is
so bad it’s tragic” to “IF IT AIN’T BROKEN DON’T FIX IT” and
“It just feels like Yahoo doesn’t care about users like me:
Longtime, loyal, paying customers who were happily using the
Yahoo service.”  A Yahoo forum contained additional complaints, such as
“new page layout sucks! Have to scroll through two screens to
find send button. Hate it” to “left navigation column does not
show photo folder any longer. Bam...gone. just like that. Who
knows where all my photos went? Please don’t tell me they are
all stuck within all of the thousands of email message now.”  My own recent experience with Yahoo Mail is just as
frustrating. Beginning about two weeks ago, my premium Yahoo
Mail -- I pay for extra storage -- would no longer load my e-mails. The redesigned template appeared, but instead of my e-mails, I received a succession of technical-error messages
telling me the problem was only temporary and would soon be
resolved, “usually within minutes.”  E-Mail Problems  This went on for about 10 days, making it virtually
impossible for me to communicate by e-mail. Who knows what
commercial opportunities I lost as a result? I wrote Mayer an e-mail from a different account -- my Apple iCloud e-mail --
informing her of my ongoing problem and seeking her help. I
never heard back. (An unrealistic expectation, you say? Well,
she did respond -- in the negative -- to my request for an
interview when I profiled Dan Loeb in  Vanity Fair  recently.)  Twice, I managed to speak to a live person in  customer
service , which is a major accomplishment because Yahoo is
notorious for making it difficult for customers to reach a human
being. (Yahoo prefers to receive complaints through a customer-service e-mail template.) Anyway, one of the Yahoo
representatives I spoke to told me the problem was with my  Apple
computer (AAPL) , not with Yahoo, and that I should try to access my
Yahoo e-mails from a PC, not a Mac. (I tried; no luck.)  My personal computer guru, Eliot Burkett, e-mailed me at my
Apple account that “none of this has anything to do with the
problem. The issue is totally on their end.”  Although quite friendly, the other Yahoo representative
told me he couldn’t help me but said customer service would send
me an e-mail. You guessed it: It was another of those useless e-mails that go nowhere and fix nothing.  At the moment, my Yahoo Mail is still blinkered.
Occasionally, my e-mails will load into the template, but
individual e-mails do not open, except on the rare occasion, and
they can’t be deleted or responded to. I am at least able to see
who e-mailed me to ask them to reach me through my new Apple
account. That has been a saving grace. At the moment, my Yahoo
Mail tells me -- incorrectly -- that I have more than 170,000
unread e-mails.  In the “even paranoids have enemies” category, I note
with interest that my Yahoo Mail trouble began just as my recent
(and critical)  profile of Loeb  was about to hit the newsstands.
It seems highly unlikely that Loeb would call up Mayer, or
otherwise arrange, to sabotage my Yahoo Mail account. After all,
other users have had problems, too. For instance, on Oct. 30,
user Todd Gordon  wrote : “Yahoo mail sucks. Not working AGAIN!
You mess with the codes and this is what happens, millions of
pissed off campers. FIX IT!”  On the other hand, my Yahoo Mail really doesn’t work
anymore and there appears to be no prospect of a near-term fix,
just an interminable stream of temporary error messages.  So as of this moment, loyal readers, please note that my
new e-mail address is  wdcohan@me.com , a part of the Apple
universe. I really hope this works, although I note with concern
that Loeb’s activist hedge-fund buddies  Carl Icahn  and  David Einhorn  sure own an awful lot of Apple stock.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard Freres
& Co., Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 