-- Democrat McAuliffe Wins Close Virginia Governor’s Race
-- B y   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2013-11-06T04:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/democrat-mcauliffe-wins-virginia-governorship-ap-says.html
Democrat Terry McAuliffe won a tight
race for  Virginia ’s governorship, defeating a Tea Party-backed
Republican in a contest that will be analyzed for its impact on
the 2014 midterm elections.  McAuliffe led Ken Cuccinelli, 48 percent to 46 percent,
with 99 percent of precincts reporting in an Associated Press
tally. Libertarian Robert Sarvis had 7 percent of the vote.  A former Democratic National Committee chairman and ally of
Bill and Hillary Clinton, McAuliffe depicted Cuccinelli, the
state’s attorney general, as part of a “political fringe”
who’d promoted gridlock and whose focus on such issues as
opposing gay rights would be a distraction from growing the
state’s economy.  Some Republican business leaders also concluded that
Cuccinelli’s election would distract from a  jobs  agenda, and
several raised money for McAuliffe and cut commercials on his
behalf.  McAuliffe, in his victory speech to cheering supporters
tonight, said his goals would include promoting Virginia as “a
model for pragmatic leadership that is friendly to job
creation.”  He also pledged to continue “the mainstream, bipartisan
tradition” that he said has marked recent Virginia
gubernatorial administrations.  Poll Leads  McAuliffe, 56, had taken a lead in the summer over
Cuccinelli, 45, in public opinion polls by focusing on the
Republican’s record of opposing abortion rights and same-sex
marriage. The Democrat solidified that advantage during the 16-day partial shutdown of the federal government pushed by
Republicans in Congress allied with the anti-tax Tea Party
movement.  Virginia’s population includes more than 172,000 federal
civilian workers, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, among the
country’s highest concentration per capita.  As today’s election neared, some Republicans worried that
the trends working against Cuccinelli were indicative of larger
concerns for their party.  “As Republicans, we have to ask, is there a business model
issue here?” said Thomas M. Davis III, a former U.S. House
member from Virginia who is now director of federal affairs for
Deloitte Consulting LP. “We have a Republican who’s opted to go
the Tea Party route, and it’s absolutely clear it’s a losing
strategy -- that’s going to be the message of this” election.  Cuccinelli focused his closing message on the botched
rollout of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. He filed
suit, in his role as attorney general, aimed at stopping the
2010 Affordable Care Act the day the president signed it into
law. The glitches plaguing the website that began operation last
month for those seeking coverage under the law exemplify the
measure’s problems, Cuccinelli said.  McAuliffe, a native of Syracuse, New York, becomes the
first candidate of a sitting president’s party to win Virginia’s
governorship in 40 years. He succeeds Bob McDonnell, a
Republican limited to one term by state law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Frederick in Washington at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  