-- Detroit Seeks Loan That Moody’s Calls Unprecedented
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-06T22:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/detroit-seeks-loan-that-moody-s-calls-unprecedented.html
Detroit  sought court permission to
borrow $350 million to help fund its record municipal
bankruptcy, a loan that Moody’s Investors Service Inc. called
“unprecedented.”  The city, in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Detroit,
said most of the loan would be used to buy out interest rate
swaps that have cost the city about $50 million a year. Moody’s,
in a report for investors released today, said the city’s
proposed use of financing known as a debtor-in-possession loan
is unusual compared to corporate bankruptcies.  “The impact of the proposal on the city’s existing
creditors, as well the city’s near-term financial position and
long-term financial recovery, are difficult to assess at this
point given the number of contingencies that remain,” Genevieve
Nolan, a Moody’s assistant vice president, said in a statement
today.  Detroit, Michigan’s biggest city, sought  bankruptcy
protection  in July after decades of population decline and
dwindling manufacturing jobs left it too poor to pay
bondholders, retired cops and current city workers. The city
said it owes about $18 billion, making it the biggest municipal
bankruptcy ever filed in the U.S.  The annual $12 million payments on the proposed loan would
be far less than the $50 million the city would save each year
by buying out the swaps, Detroit told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Steven Rhodes in its filing yesterday.  Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Detroit’s emergency manager,
Kevyn Orr, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the report.  Orange County,  California , the last large municipality to
borrow while in bankruptcy, used the money to help pay some
creditors early and reduce the size of its obligations. That
legal strategy was designed by  Bruce Bennett , a bankruptcy
lawyer who is among the attorneys leading Detroit’s case.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at 
7606 or  schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  