-- Deutsche Bank Faces Probe in Kirch Case Testimony Review
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-06T08:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/deutsche-bank-faces-probe-in-kirch-case-testimony-review.html
Munich prosecutors opened an
administrative probe of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as part of a review of
testimony related to a lawsuit that alleges the lender helped
cause the collapse of a German media company.  The bank was informed of the probe on Oct. 10 and asked for
access to relevant files on Oct. 18, Thomas Steinkraus-Koch, a
spokesman for the prosecutors, said in an e-mail today. German
newspaper  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported the investigation of
whether Deutsche Bank failed to meet its obligations in the case
in today’s edition.  The prosecutors have informed the bank that it may face a
fine in the administrative probe, Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman
for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mail.  Companies that formed the empire of the late media German
tycoon  Leo Kirch  say in lawsuits that Germany’s biggest bank
secretly plotted the group’s demise in 2002. Deutsche Bank was
forced to almost wipe out its third-quarter profit last week by
setting aside an additional 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) for
legal costs as it grapples with litigation and regulatory fines.  The Kirch litigation has also led to probes of current and
former bank executives’ testimony in the dispute.  Prosecutors told Deutsche Bank co-CEO Juergen Fitschen he
is being investigated over “suspicion that incorrect
information was deliberately provided when giving evidence to
bring about the dismissal” of an appeal filed by a Kirch unit,
Christian Streckert, a bank spokesman, said earlier this week.  Former Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officers  Rolf Breuer 
and  Josef Ackermann , former Supervisory Board Chairman  Clemens Boersig  and former board member Tessen von Heydebreck were
already under investigation over their testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  