-- Deutsche Bank Ordered to Pay Fired Rate Traders $500,000
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-07T10:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/deutsche-bank-ordered-to-pay-fired-rate-traders-493-370.html
Four  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  traders who won
reinstatement of their jobs after they were dismissed following
an internal probe into rate-rigging were awarded almost $370,000
($500,000) in back pay.  The total monthly pay of the four men, who were fired in
February, ranged from 10,833 euros to 22,083 euros on average,
according to the written version of the judgment made Sept. 11
and released by the Frankfurt Labor Court yesterday. The men,
whose names weren’t disclosed, returned to work on Nov. 4,
according to the bank.  The traders included two managing directors, a vice
president and a director, according to the ruling. The managing
directors were awarded bonuses of 2.7 million euros and 780,000
euros for 2011, while the two more junior bankers were awarded
200,000 euros and 180,000 euros, according to the judgment.
Investment bank bonuses are typically paid over several years.  Regulators around the world are investigating whether more
than a dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank, colluded to rig
benchmark  interest rates . Barclays Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc are among companies that have been fined
about $3.7 billion for rigging the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities worldwide.  Inappropriate Behavior  The traders said that before they were dismissed, their
bonuses for 2011 were reduced as a sanction for their allegedly
inappropriate behavior and that an unidentified Deutsche Bank
official said they would be compensated once “the situation had
calmed down,” according to the ruling.  Deutsche Bank disputes that account, the document shows.
Deutsche Bank is reviewing whether to appeal the rulings,  Ronald Weichert , a spokesman for the lender, said.  The court found “indications” that the fired staff
wrongfully took derivatives trading positions of colleagues into
account when deciding which rates to submit, the judges wrote.  Chat transcripts showed that one of the men in July 2007
told a derivatives trader he would try to “keep the 1M fixing
low,” asking him whether that was ok and whether he had “any
interest” in two other rates to be submitted. The derivatives
trader replied by saying he wished them to be high, “if that
was also okay,” according to the court documents.  Fixing Rates  Though it’s against the bank’s  rules  to fix rates, the
lender couldn’t use it as a reason to fire the traders in the
case because it didn’t have sufficient guidelines on rate
submissions, didn’t control the process, and had systems in
place that fostered the behavior, the court ruled.  Having submitters who were also derivatives traders caused
a “permanent conflict of interest, the judges said. Deutsche
Bank ‘‘is complaining about a behavior the bank itself only made
possible.’’  The court said the total value of the wrongful dismissal
claims is 1.9 million euros. That figure reflects the pay owed
to the plaintiffs, including any potential future earnings under
their employment contract.  The cases are ArbG Frankfurt am Main, 9 Ca 1551 to 1554/13  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  