-- Dimon Says Keep Higher Standards in Warning to Employees
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-11-06T16:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/dimon-says-keep-higher-standards-in-warning-to-employees.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  called on employees to be vigilant about
their language in e-mails and instant messages amid growing
regulatory scrutiny of traders’ written communications, said two
people with knowledge of his comments.  “Don’t exaggerate, don’t ruminate, don’t bullshit,”
Dimon, 57, told employees at a town hall meeting at the bank’s
office in London’s Canary Wharf last week, according to an
attendee who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly. “I’m serious,” said Dimon.  Regulators have swooped on electronic communications among
traders in the industry, using them as evidence of wrongdoing in
their investigations into the manipulation of benchmark  interest
rates  and the foreign exchange markets. Five firms have been
fined a total of $3.7 billion over Libor-manipulation so far.  “We all need to keep a higher standard,” Dimon said at
the Oct. 28 meeting.  Firms across the industry and regulators have in recent
months been reviewing records of instant messages, e-mails,
phone calls and trading data as regulators scrutinize the
foreign-exchange market.  Investigators are focusing on an instant-message group
dealers set up to share information about their positions and
client orders and boast about their trading prowess over a
period of at least three years, four people with knowledge of
the probe said last month.  Eight Investigations  JPMorgan put its chief currency dealer in London, Richard Usher, on leave last month after his communications with
counterparts at other firms were scrutinized by regulators.
Usher went on leave by mutual agreement with his employer and
hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing.  Dimon addressed employees as the  U.S. Department of Justice 
conducts at least eight separate investigations into its
activities, ranging from its relationship with Ponzi scheme
operator  Bernard Madoff  to last year’s record trading loss
attributed to Bruno Iksil, known as the London Whale.  The lender last month posted its first quarterly loss since
Dimon took over as CEO following a $7.2 billion charge to cover
the cost of rising litigation and regulatory probes.  Rabobank Groep, the co-operative formed in 1898 to lend to
Dutch farmers, was last month fined 774 million euros ($1
billion) and Chairman Piet Moerland resigned after traders’ e-mails showed the routine manipulation of benchmark interest
rates such as the London interbank offered rate. Internal e-mails cited in the U.S. Justice Department’s case against the
bank were laced with jokes and requests to raise or lower rates
depending upon the traders’ positions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net  