-- Doric Aims to Clinch A380 Order to End Airbus Jumbo Sale Drought
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-11-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/doric-aims-to-clinch-a380-order-to-end-airbus-jumbo-sale-drought.html
     Nov. 6 (Bloomberg) --- Doric Lease Corp. said it plans to
sign an order for 20 A380 superjumbos by the end of the year and
is confident of finding operators for an aircraft that has
failed to attract a single buyer this year.  The leasing company plans to firm up its first A380 client
in early 2014 after closing the contract with manufacturer
Airbus SAS, Doric Chief Executive Officer Marc Lapidus said in
an interview in Toulouse,  France , where Airbus is based. He
declined to give names of prospective customers. Lifting seat
count to 630 on the A380 will help woo operators, Lapidus said.  Lapidus, who unveiled his plan for the A380s at the  Paris
Air Show  in June, is betting on the double-decker jet’s appeal
with airlines that only want a small number of the aircraft to
serve global routes while avoiding large upfront financial
commitments to Airbus. Doric would only need to sign up three or
four carriers to make its A380 order work, Lapidus said.  “As the global economy enters a different state, where
we’re not in the great financial recession any longer, the
mindset is changing, and we’ll see airlines wanting to put the
biggest planes on trunk routes,” Lapidus, 51, said in the
interview. “We’re on the crest of the wave where airlines are
starting to look for growth in their business models.”  Test Case  The order from closely held Doric is a litmus test for the
A380, which has been a tough sell for Airbus, with no firm
orders this year.  Boeing Co. (BA)  has also struggled with its 747-8
jumbo and has reduced output for a second time to adapt to slack
demand. Lapidus’s plan to take 20 A380s would be the largest
single contract since Emirates signed for 32 more in 2010, for a
total of 90.  While Emirates, the largest operator of the A380, has said
it’s considering a further follow-up purchase, other customers
are retreating. Qantas Airways Ltd. has deferred orders, as has
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has dropped
purchase plans this year for three A380s, and  Air France (AF)  KLM-Group said on Oct. 31 that it’s exploring whether to swap its
last two units still pending for something smaller.  Airbus has targeted production at 30 aircraft a year. With
about 150 A380s still on order, that suggests five years of
work. The company plans to deliver A380s profitably from 2015, a
year for which it still has some open manufacturing slots.  Moving West  Lapidus, a native of  Russia  who emigrated to the West with
his family when he was 17, works with a team of about a dozen
other people at London-based Doric, criss-crossing the globe to
speak with airline customers and investors about his plan. He’s
seeking interest particularly from private equity to invest in
the equity portion of the aircraft financings, and said he
spends even more time courting investors than he does airlines.  The executive said he doesn’t rule out  Malaysian Airline (MAS) 
Systems BhD., which already has six of its own A380s and has
said it could use more, as a possible customer, or Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd., which so far operates none of the planes.  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  CEO Temel Kotil said yesterday he’ll stick
with his fleet of Boeing 777 wide-bodies for now rather than
opting for the A380.  “The aircraft very quickly becomes expensive versus new-generation twin-aisle jets,”  Celine Fornaro, an analyst at
 Bank of America  Merrill Lynch said in a report on Nov. 4.
Airbus’s claim that the A380 boasts the lowest fuel burn per
seat of any aircraft doesn’t provide an advantage if airlines
can’t fill the plane, she said.  Key Routes  Operators typically require two to three A380s to serve a
given city pair, with the number depending on the distance of
the flight and how fast an airline can turn around the plane.
Lufthansa, for example, is able to serve  Frankfurt  to  Tokyo  with
just two A380s. Lapidus said airlines leasing A380s for just one
or two key routes mean Doric only needs a handful of customers
for the 20 planes he’s ordering.  One keystone of Lapidus’s plan is to outfit the A380s with
more seats. His will have 11-abreast in economy compared with 10
in the current version. Lapidus also expects to maintain comfort
levels by raising the floor under the seats on the main deck to
boost available width, he said.  While Airbus markets the double-decker as easily
accommodating 525 people in a standard three classes, operators
have generally preferred less-dense configurations. The majority
seat fewer than 500, outfitting the plane as a luxury flagship.
 Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  carries only 407 people in its A380s.  “When we put the proper seat count on the plane, the
economics are unbeatable and will remain unbeatable,” Lapidus
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  