-- Drake & Scull Quarterly Profit Surges on Higher-Margin Projects
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-11-06T08:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/drake-scull-quarterly-profit-surges-on-higher-margin-projects.html
Drake & Scull International PJSC (DSI) , a
Dubai-based construction company, said third-quarter profit
climbed almost sixfold, meeting analysts’ estimates, as it
focused on more profitable projects.  Net income rose to 23.8 million dirhams ($6.5 million) from
3.9 million dirhams a year earlier, the company said in a
statement today. The mean estimate of four analysts was for a
profit of 24.7 million dirhams, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “They are picking up the pace on projects in  Saudi Arabia 
and  Abu Dhabi  at a time when their productivity has improved,”
said Taher Safieddine, an analyst at Shuaa Capital PSC. Drake &
Scull is focusing on oil and gas as well as mechanical,
electrical and plumbing work, which tend to have higher profit
margins than other civil engineering projects, the analyst said.
He rates the stock “hold” with a price estimate of 0.71
dirham.  Construction companies in the  United Arab Emirates  are
beginning to benefit from a real estate rebound in Dubai and
increased government spending across the Gulf region. The Dubai
property crash in 2008 caused most contractors to seek work in
regional markets as projects dried up in the U.A.E.  Drake & Scull’s order backlog climbed to 12.4 billion
dirhams at the end of third quarter from 7.5 billion a year
earlier, the company said. Quarterly contract revenue surged 60
percent to 995 million dirhams. Selling and general expenses
fell to 6.6 percent of revenue in the first nine months of the
year from 10.5 percent a year earlier.  “Improved collections and advance payments on major
projects” boosted net operating cash flow to 230 Million
dirhams from 83 million in the previous quarter, Chief Executive
Officer Khaldoun Tabari said in the statement. Working capital
“significantly improved” as the company focused on collecting
payments more quickly.  “They were burning cash and their receivables were
increasing significantly,” Shuaa’s Safieddine said. “Now they
seem to be moving in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  