-- Drunk on Debt, U.S. Tells Teetotaler to Sober Up
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-11-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/drunk-on-debt-u-s-tells-teetotaler-to-sober-up.html
It seems almost laughable for a
country that can’t keep its government up and running to
criticize other nations, but that’s what the  U.S. Treasury  did
last week in its  semiannual report  on International Economic and
Exchange Rate Policies.  Of course, the report is  required  under Section 3005 of the
Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, whatever that is.
Even when a country artificially depresses the value of its
currency to make its exports more competitive, the Treasury is
hesitant to label it a currency manipulator. (The last time was
in 1994, when it designated China as the villain.) Instead, the
Treasury declares a currency to be “significantly undervalued”
and leaves it at that.  This time around, the Treasury took issue with  Germany , one
of the countries in the euro area -- along with the Netherlands
-- “with large and persistent surpluses” that “need to take
action to boost domestic demand growth.” Last year, Germany’s
 nominal current account surplus  was larger than China’s,
according to the report.  What did Germany do to inspire censure from the U.S.
Treasury? Mercantilist countries typically intervene to keep
their currencies undervalued in order to gain a trade advantage.
Germany doesn’t even have its own currency. Instead, it shares
the euro with 16 other nations. Nor does Germany have its own
central bank, much as it might like. Instead, the  European
Central Bank  sets policy for the euro area.  ‘Good Stuff’  To the extent that Germany has an advantage, it’s because
it shares the one-size-fits-all euro with other,  less productive
countries  such as Greece and  Portugal . In other words, the euro
“is set at the lowest common denominator,” says  Jim Glassman ,
senior U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. So yes, Germany
has an export advantage compared to its euro-zone compatriots,
but so what? Just maybe Germany’s competitive edge has nothing
to do with the currency or any other government policy. After
all, it was only when Germany relinquished the deutsche mark for
the euro in 1999 that its trade surpluses soared.  “The Germans make good stuff that you want to buy,” says
 Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High Frequency Economics in
Valhalla,  New York . You don’t have to be an economist to
understand that model. Think of it this way, he says: “Germany
makes,  Europe  takes.”  What about tariffs and other forms of trade protectionism,
which are characteristic of mercantilist economies? In 2012, 69
percent of  German exports  went to European countries and 57
percent to members of the European Union. When one considers
that practically all of Europe is a free-trade zone, it puts the
kibosh on that theory. And as for subsidizing certain domestic
manufacturing industries, Germany does “neither more nor less
than any other country,” Weinberg says.  The Treasury is concerned that “Germany’s anemic pace of
domestic demand growth and dependence on exports have hampered
rebalancing at a time when many other euro-area countries have
been under severe pressure to curb demand and compress imports
in order to promote adjustment,” according to the report. “The
net result has been a  deflationary  bias for the euro area, as
well as for the world economy.”  Surely the experts at the Treasury know that deflation is a
monetary phenomenon, not some fiscal manifestation. Perhaps the
2.1 percent annual growth rate of M3, the ECB’s broad monetary
aggregate, has something to do with any deflationary impulse.  How did other countries fare in the Treasury report? China,
the usual suspect, needs “greater exchange rate flexibility,”
not to mention increased transparency on the management of the
 renminbi . As for  Japan  -- whose trade surplus  turned into a
deficit  in 2012 -- the U.S. “will continue to closely monitor”
its policies to ensure that it calibrates “the pace of fiscal
consolidation to the recovery in domestic demand and take
ambitious and effective steps to increase domestic demand.”
Without missing a beat, the Treasury cited a projection by the
 International Monetary Fund  that  Japan’s gross government debt 
will reach 247 percent of gross domestic product this year, the
highest among advanced economies.  Home Schooling  How is it the U.S. is so good at advising other countries
and so lousy at running its own? The advice on stimulating
domestic demand comes from a country that overconsumes and
borrows beyond its means to support its habits. As a nation, we
refuse to forgo current consumption -- in fact, spending is a
policy goal -- for future consumption. U.S.  real personal
consumption expenditures  exceed 70 percent of GDP, compared with
58 percent in Germany.  While the Treasury was dishing on Germany and  China , it
wasn’t shy about tooting its own horn. “The Administration’s
policies to promote growth and jobs are bearing fruit,”
according to the report. “U.S. real GDP grew by an annual rate
of 1.8 percent during the first half of 2013, accelerating from
the 1.5 percent pace in the second half of last year.”  Talk about splitting hairs. What Treasury didn’t say was
that the 1.8 percent “acceleration” was actually a
deceleration from real GDP growth of 2 percent in 2012, 2.1
percent in 2011 and 2.8 percent in 2010 (all four-quarter
averages, not year-over-year).  In the old days, like the late 1990s, U.S. officials could
attend economic summits and feel confident offering advice.
After all, growth was strong and the  federal budget  posted back-to-back surpluses for the first time since the 1950s.  That’s no longer the case. U.S.  gross public debt  now
exceeds nominal GDP and is growing faster than output -- a
situation that is “unsustainable,” in economist-speak. Instead
of offering unwanted advice to countries that seem to be doing a
better job of managing their affairs, the U.S. should figure out
how it plans to keep the promises it has made to future
generations without imposing usurious taxes on those who are
working.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 