-- Donald Wilson Sued by CFTC Over DRW Investments Trades
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-06T22:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/drw-investments-sued-by-cftc-over-manipulative-futures-trades.html
Donald R. Wilson and his DRW
Investments LLC were sued by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission over what the agency called “manipulative” futures
trades that allegedly made them $20 million.  Wilson and his Chicago-based investment fund manipulated
prices for interest-rate swap futures contracts traded on the
 Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ)  Futures Exchange and cleared through the
International Derivatives Clearinghouse, or IDCH, from January
through August 2011, according a complaint the CFTC filed today
in  Manhattan  federal court.  Specifically, DRW allegedly manipulated the IDEX USD Three-Month Interest Rate Swap Futures Contract. The CFTC said the
contract was listed by the IDCH in 2010 and marketed as an
alternative to over-the-counter products that trade outside the
exchanges. At the end of 2010, DRW took a long position in the
three-month contracts with a value of more than $350 million,
the commission claimed.  Wilson and DRW knew that the settlement price of the
contract relied on bids placed on the futures exchange during a
15-minute “settlement window” each day, before the close of
trading, according to the complaint. The firm artificially
increased the value of its position by “banging the close,”
making bids within the settlement window and then canceling them
so transactions weren’t completed, the CFTC said.  DRW denied all wrongdoing in a statement today.  Inflated Prices  Wilson and DRW used the strategy to profit from inflated
prices over at least 118 trading days, affecting more than 1,000
futures contracts, the agency claimed.  “Traders cannot engage in manipulative acts to affect the
price of futures contracts to achieve their desired profits,
regardless of the so-called motive,” Gretchen Lowe, the CFTC’s
enforcement director, said in a statement today.  The CFTC is seeking unspecified fines and restitution.  DRW sued the CFTC in September in federal court in  Chicago ,
seeking to block the regulator from its “stated intention to
bring an enforcement action.”  In today’s statement, DRW said the CFTC “brazenly filed”
the New York case before giving the Chicago court the
opportunity to consider its claims. The firm said it entered
fair and open bids that complied with exchange rules.  ‘Legitimate’ Practices  “The CFTC’s application of the Commodity Exchange Act to
DRW’s activity disregards legitimate and important market
practices related to the provision of liquidity and violates
DRW’s constitutional rights to due process of law and freedom
from arbitrary and unreasonable government action,” DRW said in
the statement. “It is unfair and unconstitutional to impose
punishment without giving fair notice of what conduct is
prohibited.”  Interest-rate swaps  -- exchanges of interest-rate exposure
from floating to fixed or vice versa for a notional amount of
money -- are used by speculators and those looking to hedge
risks.  In the Chicago suit, DRW claimed the CFTC in August 2011
began reviewing whether the IDCH swaps contract orders produced
an “artificial price” because they deviated from prevailing
yields of comparable OTC swaps. Those swaps weren’t economically
equivalent, DRW said.  In April, the CFTC sent DRW a Wells notice, informing it of
the regulator’s preliminary intent to start an enforcement
action for alleged market manipulation, according to the firm.  The New York case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Wilson, 13-cv-07884, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The Chicago case is DRW
Investments LLC v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
13-cv-06630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  