-- Russian Seizure of Greenpeace Ship Challenged at UN Court
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-06T13:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/dutch-urge-release-of-greenpeace-crew-in-court-clash-with-russia.html
Russia must release a Greenpeace ship
and 30 crew members who risk as long as seven years in jail on
hooliganism charges for protesting drilling in the Arctic, the
Netherlands told an international tribunal.  The Dutch-flagged Arctic Sunrise and the activists must be
allowed to return home, Liesbeth Lijnzaad, an aide to the
country’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs , told the judges at the
 International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea  in Hamburg today.
An interim order is needed to safeguard their rights of liberty
and security, she said.  “They have been held for almost six weeks now,” said
Lijnzaad, adding that Russian arguments to keep them are
“evidently unfounded.”  Russia has faced protests around the world since it
detained members of the icebreaker’s crew for their role in a
Greenpeace campaign against Arctic drilling in September and
charged them with piracy, which is punishable by as long as 15
years in prison. Russian authorities later said they would
downgrade the charges to hooliganism which carries a sentence of
up to seven years. Greenpeace has said that  Russia  still hasn’t
formally dropped the piracy charge.  21 Judges  The tribunal, composed of 21 judges, including one from
Russia, is hearing a request by the Netherlands seeking an
interim ruling while an arbitration court can be established to
rule on the dispute.  The Netherlands started an arbitration case against Russia
at the tribunal in early October under the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, a treaty governing the
international maritime regime. Additionally, the Netherlands on
Oct. 21  asked  the judges for the interim order.  A day later, Russia told the tribunal that while it was
open to an amicable solution, it would boycott the hearing
because the court has no jurisdiction over the arrest of the
activists since it was an internal law enforcement action.  Russia has also failed to nominate an arbitrational judge -
- a step necessary to get the arbitration process going.  While coastal states may exert jurisdiction and exploit
resources in the so-called exclusive economic zone, extending to
a maximum of 200 nautical miles, they can’t hinder the free
passage of vessels and must exert their powers with restraint,
Dutch representative Rene Lefeber told the court. These vessels
are under the authorities of the nation whose flags they fly not
of the coastal state, he said.  ‘Overstepped’ Limits  “Russia overstepped these limits,” said Lefeber. “The
Netherlands, a coastal state itself, has always defended the
freedom of navigation and it is doing so here today.”  Vladimir Golitsyn , a Russian judge at the tribunal, asked
Greenpeace lawyer Daniel Simons whether the activists weren’t
aware they were violating Russian laws since the group briefed
them beforehand on the legal situation.  “We didn’t find any rules in Russian law that would have
banned the activities,” said Simons, who testified as a witness
for the Netherlands.  Russia’s decision not to appear in court today doesn’t
prevent the judges from issuing a ruling, Lijnzaad said, citing
international rules applying in such a case. A tentative ruling
date was scheduled for Nov. 22 in the 22nd case since the
tribunal’s inauguration in 1996.  Erecting Banner  “All of this simply because two of them put up a banner
protesting oil drilling in the Arctic Sea,” Kumi Naidoo,
Greenpeace’s executive director, told reporters before the
hearing. A year ago the group staged a similar action and Russia
let it happen without intervening, he said.  On Oct. 1, activists delayed a Champions League soccer game
between Basel and  Germany ’s Schalke 04, sponsored by OAO
Gazprom, unfurling a protest banner. Demonstrations were staged
outside Russian diplomatic missions and Gazprom offices in 30
countries, including Brazil, France and the U.S.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said last month that
discussions about the ship had been held with Dutch Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte .  Today’s case is: International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea,  Case No. 22 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  