-- The Founders Prayed, Why Can’t the City Council?
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-11-06T20:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/the-founders-prayed-why-can-t-the-city-council-.html
Do you say a little prayer (for the
markets, maybe) before you get down to work?  Since 1999, the wonderfully named town of  Greece , New York,
has been doing that. At town council meetings, a volunteer
chaplain -- generally but not invariably Christian -- prays
before the opening of business. The U.S. Supreme Court now must
decide whether these prayers, which frequently invoke Jesus
Christ by name, violate the constitutional ban against
establishing religion.  Begin with the easy part: The Founders wouldn’t have
objected. Their prohibition on establishment  was meant  to stop
the state from giving money to religious institutions and
forcing people to participate in religious worship. They viewed
public prayers at the start of legislative sessions as optional,
and even appointed a chaplain to offer them for the first
Congress. Nor would they have been constitutionally offended by
the mention of Jesus, even though their strong preference was
for nondenominational appeals to the Creator or sometimes
Almighty God.  The plaintiffs in Town of Greece v. Galloway suggest that
in practice, in order to have the town consider their petitions,
they are coerced to stand and listen to the opening prayer. If
they are truly obligated to be there, they should win the case.
After all, coerced attendance at prayer is an archetypal form of
religious establishment that the framers knew and rejected.  Subtle Coercion  If the coercion is more subtle, however, things get
complicated. In the 1992 case of Lee v. Weisman, Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the majority, said that a nondenominational
prayer offered by a rabbi at a middle school graduation ceremony
violated establishment because the secondary school environment
created “subtle coercive pressure” and “the student had no
real alternative which would have allowed her to avoid the fact
or appearance of participation.”  Justice Antonin Scalia went predictably ballistic, charging
the court with inventing “a boundless, and boundlessly
manipulable, test of psychological coercion” in place of the
good old definition of coercion as requiring legal sanction. But
this opinion came, like most of Scalia’s best work, in dissent.  The court has never extended this subtle-coercion test from
juveniles to adults. But if the court is prepared to do armchair
social psychology, evidence gathered since the Milgram  fake-electroshock experiments  of the late 1960s suggests that adults
are as susceptible as teens to unspoken coercive pressures.  Logically, in the Greece case, Justice Kennedy should be
willing to consider subtle coercion. But practically, it is hard
to picture him extending the doctrine against school prayer to
grown-up legislative settings. The reason has everything to do
with a basic conflict between accepting public legislative
prayer as a relic of our religious past and enforcing a more
modern view of separation of church and state.  Since World War II, the court has gradually strengthened
the establishment clause by prohibiting a range of practices
that might’ve been acceptable in the 97 percent Protestant
America of 1789, but seem more troubling in the face of present
religious diversity. Bible reading and prayer in public schools
were both prohibited in the 1960s.  In the 1980s, under the influence of then-Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, the court began to decide constitutionality by
asking whether the government practice endorsed religion, making
some people feel that they were favored members of the political
community and others feel disfavored by exclusion. This approach
draws no distinction between sectarian religion and the
nondenominational variety, each of which would send a message of
exclusion to the nonbeliever. Under the endorsement test, a
legislative prayer like the one offered by the town of Greece
certainly violates the Constitution by communicating exclusion
to atheists and non-Christians at the very moment of potential
political participation.  Endorsement Test  But the court has declined to apply the endorsement test to
legislative prayer -- precisely because that would mean banning
the practice. In 1983, in Marsh v. Chambers, the court upheld
 Nebraska ’s practice of legislative prayer on grounds of its
“unique history,” which is a polite way of saying that the
usual constitutional principles do not apply to practices that
are archaic and routine. Purists don’t care for the decision,
but there was something sensible and Burkean about maintaining
old practices, particularly if they offend almost no one.  The trouble is that the prayer in the town of Greece isn’t
old at all. It dates to 1999, not 1789. Culturally, its origins
belong to the evangelical revival that began in the 1970s and
may well be here to stay. Preserving it doesn’t respect our
ancient heritage, only the political power of contemporary
evangelicalism, which itself leaves many people feeling
uncomfortable, not just atheists and non-Christians.  The court, then, is on the horns of a dilemma. Legislative
prayer, which it has allowed as a concession to the past, has
become in some places a tool for the endorsement of religion.
One solution for Justice Kennedy, who has never accepted the
endorsement test, would be to split the difference and declare
this particular legislative prayer coercive on the facts.  Don’t count on it, though. What’s most likely is that the
court will reaffirm the exceptional nature of legislative
prayer, warn the town against official coercion, and live with
the contradictions between past and present.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
 @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at  mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 