-- Lead Obamacare Architect Urges Sebelius to Speed Repairs
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-06T20:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/lead-obamacare-architect-urges-sebelius-to-speed-repairs.html
The lead architect of Obamacare in
the Senate urged U.S. Health Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  to
“meet, and I’d prefer you beat” an end-of-the-month deadline
for repairing the insurance exchanges as the agency overseeing
the fixes shook up management.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said implementation of the 2010 law he helped write
has been unacceptable. It’s disappointing that Sebelius and
others in the Obama administration “say they didn’t see the
problems coming,” Baucus said today at a hearing.  The Obama administration has lowered expectations for
initial enrollment because of website outages, garbled data and
other flaws plaguing the government-run health-insurance
marketplaces created last month. Some senators said they were
misled about the readiness of the healthcare.gov site and urged
Sebelius to delay the deadline for Americans to buy insurance.  “You assured us that the implementation was on track, that
it was all going smoothly, and that the exchanges would be
ready” on Oct. 1, said Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican.
“There is a long track record of broken promises and untruthful
answers to both this committee and the American people.”  Sebelius, who runs the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services, said workers have installed monitoring tools and are
making “a couple of hundred functional fixes” to get the site,
which is costing taxpayers about $630 million, fully operational
by the end of November.  Extended Deadline  The online exchanges, where people can shop for private
health insurance with the help of government subsidies, is the
core of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
Getting the federal exchange fixed soon is critical because
Americans have until Dec. 15 to enroll in coverage that would
start Jan. 1. Those who don’t find health insurance by March 31
may have to pay a fine of as much as 1 percent of their income.  “For millions of Americans delay is not an option,”
Sebelius said. “People’s lives depend on this. Too many
hardworking people have been waiting for too long for the
ability to obtain affordable health insurance.”  Separately, 16 Senate Democrats met with President  Barack
Obama  at the White House today to discuss “challenges with
implementation” of the health law, the administration said in a
statement. Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat, told the
president to extend the open-enrollment period past the March 31
deadline.  Seeking Changes  The law, pushed by the Democratic president, was passed in
2010 with only Democratic votes when the party controlled both
houses of Congress. As Obama traveled to  Dallas  today to thank
volunteers working to enroll uninsured Texans, two of the
Democrats who attended the White House meeting sought support
for measures to delay the fines for people who don’t get
insurance, and to let people keep their existing health plans
even if they don’t meet the law’s more rigorous requirements for
medical coverage.  The proposals by Senator  Mary Landrieu  of  Louisiana  on
existing policies and Senator  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia  to
delay fines for a year underscore Democrats’ anxiety over the
failures of the online exchanges.  Humana Inc. (HUM)  is anticipating some concession by the Obama
administration, including a possible extension of the six-month
open enrollment period beyond March, said James Murray, chief
operating officer for the Louisville, Kentucky-based company.  Awaiting Guidance  “There’s a problem with the enrollment, and because of
that, the likely enrollment that we’ll receive will be changed
from what we thought,” Murray told investors today on an
earnings conference call. “We’re waiting for guidance from the
government.”  The administration had a target of 800,000 Obamacare sign-ups for the first two month and the  Congressional Budget Office 
has projected that 7 million people would enroll through 2014.  Sebelius said today the initial enrollment from October
will be “very low,’” though she declined to provide specific
figures, saying a full report will be released next week.  “Until the site is improved and we really open up the
doors wide to more people, we’re going to have a struggle to get
significant numbers of people signed up,” she said.  “It’s unacceptable, I am focused on fixing it, and I am
accountable,” Sebelius said.  Senator  Pat Roberts , the Kansas Republican who last month
called for Sebelius to resign, today said he wasn’t satisfied.  ‘Any Regrets?’  “I have to wonder if you have any regrets, any regrets at
all that you failed to heed the warnings” that the exchanges
wouldn’t be ready, Roberts said. “I repeat my request for you
to resign.”  Sebelius, who wasn’t given an opportunity to respond to
Roberts, appeared before a House committee last week where she
apologized for the site’s flaws, saying “hold me accountable
for the debacle.”  While Sebelius today steered clear of discussing her future
or that of her deputies, the agency that oversaw the building of
the exchanges disclosed the departure of a top administrator.
 Tony Trenkle  is leaving his job as the chief information officer
of the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services after Nov.
15, according to a letter to employees.  Still Time  “Tony made a decision that he was going to move to the
private sector,” Julie Bataille, a spokeswoman for the agency
told reporters on a conference call. Congressional committees
with authority over CMS weren’t alerted about the move before it
was announced, two Republican aides said.  Trenkle, who had been with the agency since 2005, oversaw
$2 billion in annual technology spending, including the money
used to help build the Obamacare exchange website.  David Nelson ,
the director of the agency’s office of enterprise management,
will take Trenkle’s position temporarily.  “This wasn’t how we envisioned the first introduction to
the brand,”  Timothy Ryan , general manager of  Weber Shandwick ’s
advertising company Sawyer Miller, who helped craft ads for the
federal exchange. “If after Thanksgiving there’s the functional
website that we’re all being promised, this will be in the rear-view mirror very quickly. If there’s still problems festering,
we’re going to have a bigger issue on our hands.”  Market research suggests the uninsured won’t decide whether
to enroll until closer to the coverage deadline, leaving time to
repair the exchange’s reputation, he said.  U.S. officials have blamed some of the site’s troubles on
unanticipated customer demand that overwhelmed the computer
systems. Other issues can be traced back to the race to
construct an online insurance exchange by Oct. 1 that spurred
the Obama administration to use an expedited bidding system
limiting its choice of a builder to just four companies.  Th administration has identified a number of software flaws
that led to the problems, criticized  CGI Group Inc. (CJ5A) ’s handling
of the work, and named  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ’s Quality
Software Services unit to now be the lead contractor, overseeing
CGI’s work. The government also has pulled in engineers from
Google Inc.,  Red Hat Inc. (RHT)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  to help get the
website working.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  