-- EBRD to Extend 600 Million Euros in Funding to Romania This Year
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-11-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ebrd-to-extend-600-million-euros-in-funding-to-romania-this-year.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development plans to invest as much as 600 million euros
($810 million) in  Romania  in 2014, possibly matching this year’s
level, to support its energy and banking industries.  The London-based lender invested 612 million euros in
Romania last year, part of 6.4 billion euros it has spent there
since the 1990s,  James Hyslop , the EBRD’s country manager for
Romania, said in an interview in Bucharest yesterday.  “We had a very strong year in Romania and we still have a
few significant projects to close,” Hyslop said. “I would
certainly envisage that if we did 600 million euros last year,
we’re doing about the same amount this year, and we should be
doing 400 to 500 to 600 million euros next year.”  Romania, the European Union’s second-poorest member in
output per capita, is the EBRD’s fourth-largest recipient of
funds after  Russia ,  Poland , and Ukraine, according to the bank’s
 website . The development bank has lent 3 billion euros in the
country of 21 million people over the last five years to support
its transformation from a former-communist state to a market-driven democracy, Hyslop said.  The EBRD, which bought a 1.9 percent stake in natural-gas
producer Romgaz SA through Romania’s biggest initial public
offering ever last week, may participate in other asset sales
planned by the government, Hyslop said. Romania plans to sell a
15 percent stake in hydropower generator Hidroelectrica SA and a
majority stake in energy distributor Electrica SA by June.  Future Listings  “Romgaz was a test case for future listings in 2014,”
Hyslop said. “There’s domination by the state in the energy
sector, so it’s extremely important to increase private sector
participation in these core energy assets.”  The EBRD bought 2 percent of Romanian oil and gas company
OMV Petrom SA in 2004, according to its website. It sold 20
percent of that stake a year ago.  Under the EBRD’s plan to support the development of local
capital markets, it’s “actively looking” to help companies
fund themselves through bond sales, he said. Raiffeisen Bank
Romania SA and UniCredit Tiriac Bank SA have already attracted
775 million lei ($236 million) in funds, including from the
EBRD, via 2 bond sales this year.  The EBRD provided 56.3 million lei to Raiffeisen through
the bond sale and 110 million lei to UniCredit, according to
data published on the bank’s website. It also arranged a 225
million-euro syndicated loan to the local unit of Cosmote Mobile
Telecommunications SA to develop fourth-generation mobile phone
services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  