-- Ecclestone Says Shakedown by Banker Nothing to Do With F1
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-06T16:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ecclestone-says-shakedown-by-banker-had-nothing-to-do-with-f1.html
Bernie Ecclestone  told a U.K. court
that payments he made to a banker before the sale of a
controlling stake in Formula One were the result his being
“shaken down” and had nothing to do with his role as chief
executive officer of the racing series.  Ecclestone was asked whether he denied making the payments
to newspapers and the Formula One board in 2011 after Gerhard Gribkowsky was arrested on suspicion of receiving bribes. “This
issue was nothing to do with anyone but Mr. Gribkowsky and
myself,” he said today. “I was being shaken down.”  German media company Constantin Medien AG is suing
Ecclestone in  London  over allegations he bribed Gribkowsky to
ensure the 47 percent stake was sold to his favored bidder, CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., in 2005 for $814 million. Constantin
claims it lost as much as $171 million because the deal
undervalued the racing series.  Ecclestone is facing criminal charges in  Germany  and an
investigation by Swiss prosecutors into the deal. Gribkowsky was
convicted in Munich of receiving a bribe last year and is
serving 8 ½ years in prison.  Ecclestone had told a newspaper in 2011 the bribery
allegations were “absolute nonsense,” said Philip Marshall, a
lawyer for Constantin.  The 83-year-old billionaire today admitted making payments
and denied being dishonest when asked about it afterward.  Public Eye  “I was more concerned with this whole matter being kept
out of the public” because of Gribkowsky’s threats to tell
British tax authorities about a family trust, Ecclestone said.
He said he told the truth to journalists, Formula One executives
and investigators from CVC.  Ecclestone is worth at least $2.8 billion, according to
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. This excludes the value of Bambino
Holdings Ltd., the multi-billion dollar trust that Ecclestone
said Gribkowsky threatened to tell tax officials about and that
is held for his ex-wife and children.  The delays caused by the German and U.K. court proceedings
have slowed Formula One’s progress toward a planned share sale.
The racing circuit suspended plans for an initial public
offering in June of last year, citing market conditions, and
hasn’t resurrected the plans amid Ecclestone’s legal wrangles.  German prosecutors are waiting for a court to rule on
whether they have enough evidence to take Ecclestone to trial on
the bribery charges.  Ecclestone has repeatedly said the payments were made to
Gribkowsky following threats that he would inform U.K. tax
authorities about the family trust controlled by his then wife.  Keep Quiet  Ecclestone told the court that it wasn’t the first time he
had been blackmailed and he didn’t normally go to the police.
“I had made up my mind I needed to keep him quiet,” he said,
referring to Gribkowsky.  The case is  Constantin Medien AG (EV4)  v. Bernard Ecclestone,
case no. 11-02586,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  