-- Techint Sues Batista’s OSX on Production Unit Payments
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-06T21:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/techint-sues-batista-s-osx-on-production-unit-payments.html
Billionaire Paolo Rocca’s engineering
and construction company Techint Group is suing  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , a
shipbuilder controlled by former billionaire  Eike Batista , for
payments related to two production units.  A Brazilian unit of the Italian company filed a complaint
in a  Rio de Janeiro  court, according to information published on
the court’s website. Amanda Lopez, a Techint spokeswoman who
works for Approach Comunicacao Integrada, confirmed the filing
and declined to comment on details of the case.  OSX, which Batista created to supply his oil company  OGX
Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA with equipment and services,
ordered two wellhead platforms from Techint in 2011 for the
Tubarao Azul field where OGX was preparing to produce its first
oil. Output at the field faded and has been shut since July. OSX
said Oct. 30 it was removing a production vessel from the field.  OSX is planning to file for  bankruptcy protection  by early
next week after its main client, OGX, canceled orders, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter said. OGX sought
bankruptcy protection on Oct. 30, ending a 16-month decline that
wiped $30 billion from Batista’s personal fortune.  OSX’s press office in Rio didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment. A court official, who declined to be be named because
of court policy, said Techint filed the case yesterday.  OSX was created to profit from Brazil’s local content
rules, which limit the use of imported equipment and services by
the oil and natural gas industry. The company’s shares have
plunged since the March 2010 initial public offering, closing
today at 52 centavos in  Sao Paulo .  The case number is 0384626-17.2013.8.19.0001, 28th Civil
Chamber, Rio de Janeiro State Court (Rio de Janeiro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  