-- EDF’s Edison Seeks Arbitration Against Gazprom, Eni on Gas Price
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-06T15:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/edf-s-edison-seeks-arbitration-against-gazprom-eni-on-gas-price.html
Edison SpA will seek arbitration as
the Italian natural-gas arm of  Electricite de France SA  failed
to renegotiate long-term deals with  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  on Russia supply
and  Eni SpA (ENI)  over Libyan supply to better reflect market prices.  “There wasn’t another solution,” Edison Chief Operating
Officer Pierre Vergerio told a Paris energy conference. “High
risk, high reward” action against suppliers takes an average 21
months and “arbitration doesn’t exclude negotiation,” he said.  Utilities are seeking supply deals that track lower market
rates rather than the current link to crude-oil prices, which
rose in the past four years. While weak demand in  Europe  pushed
gas market prices lower, exporters argue that the 40-year-old
supply link to oil secures flows, fair pricing and investment.  Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, said in July
Edison had been seeking revised prices since the end of 2012.  “Buyers didn’t sign long-term gas contracts to lose
money,” Vergerio said. Italy has become a “battleground.”  Eni supplies gas from  Libya , while Edison also has long-term supply contracts for the fuel from Algeria and  Qatar .  Edison won lower prices from Algeria’s Sonatrach through
international arbitration in April, and from Libya and Qatar in
September 2012 after a previous round of talks failed in 2010,
Vergerio said. It agreed on a Gazprom deal without arbitration.  New Agreements  A second round resulted in new agreements in July with the
Algerian state supplier and Qatar, he said. The Edison board
decided to seek arbitration on Libyan and Russian contracts.  “All of our clients are asking for prices that are hub
based,” Alessandro Della Zoppa, senior vice president, long-term gas supply negotiation at Eni, told today’s conference.
“It’s up to suppliers to acknowledge this new reality.”  EDF and French utility  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  face government pressure
to win spot-market rates from suppliers as the country seeks to
cut energy bills. GDF Suez contracts include a requirement to
seek arbitrage should it fail to reach agreement with suppliers,
according to Philippe Vedrenne, head of long-term gas supply.  “When we prepare to enter into discussions we prepare for
possible arbitrage,” he said in an interview. The company’s
policy “hasn’t been to systematically go to arbitrage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  