-- Mediclinic First-Half Profit Gains on Debt Refinancing
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-11-06T11:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/mediclinic-first-half-profit-gains-on-debt-refinancing.html
Mediclinic International Ltd. (MDC) ,  South
Africa ’s largest private-hospital owner, said first-half profit
increased 66 percent as it gained from a debt refinancing and a
buy-out of minority partners in its  Middle East  unit.  Net income advanced to 1.4 billion rand ($137.4 million),
from 843 million rand a year earlier, the Stellenbosch-based
company said in a statement today. Finance costs fell to 610
million rand, from 820 million a year earlier.  Mediclinic refinanced 28 billion rand of debt in South
Africa and Switzerland due October 2014 last year, saving 550
million rand in annual interest charges, and raised 5 billion
rand in a rights offer. Part of the proceeds were used to buy
shares it didn’t already own in Emirates Healthcare Holdings
Ltd. to take advantage of growth in the Middle East.  “The refinancing has saved us on interest rate costs in
Switzerland and has lowered our Swiss  tax rate ,” Chief
Financial Officer Craig Tingle said in a phone interview.  A weaker rand against the Swiss franc and United Arab
Emirates dirham also had a “significant positive effect” on
results, he said.  While investing in existing platforms provides Mediclinic
with its most favorable returns, the opening of its first Abu
Dhabi clinic in February 2014 will give the company a “toe in
the water” in that region, Chief Executive Officer Danie Meintjes said in a phone interview. The company may also
consider expansion into dedicated psychiatric units in South
Africa, he said.  Mediclinic shares, which have gained 36 percent this year,
declined 0.4 percent to 74.35 rand as of 1:26 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  Netcare Ltd. (NTC)  has risen 26 percent this year and
 Life Healthcare Group Holdings Ltd. (LHC)  has increased 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  