-- Egypt and Ethiopia Disagree on Probe of Nile Dam Impact
-- B y   A h m e d   F e t e h a   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-11-06T13:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/egypt-and-ethiopia-disagree-on-probe-of-nile-dam-impact.html
Egypt  called for international
experts to help prepare a new study on the regional impact of a
$4.2 billion dam in  Ethiopia , which said a team made up of
officials from the two nations and  Sudan  is enough.  Egypt wants “trusted international consultancies” to look
into how the hydropower project on a tributary of the Nile River
will affect the waterway’s flow well as safety issues, Egyptian
Irrigation Minister Mohamed Abdel-Moteleb said after meeting his
Sudanese and Ethiopian counterparts in Sudan’s capital,
Khartoum, on Nov. 4. Ethiopian Water and Energy Minister
Alemayehu Tegenu said including such a group was unnecessary
after global experts completed a report earlier this year.  “We didn’t agree on the composition of the established
committee,” Alemayehu told reporters yesterday in Khartoum.
“We don’t have any difference with the Sudanese, the difference
we have is with the Egyptians.”  The 6,000-megawatt Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, set to
be  Africa ’s largest when its completed in 2017, has raised
concern in Cairo that it will reduce the flow of the Nile, which
provides almost all of Egypt’s water. Ethiopia’s government has
said it won’t pause construction or scale down the country’s
most important development project. Sudan backs the dam, which
will bring “many blessings and benefits for us,” Information
Minister Ahmed Bilal Osman said in June.  ‘Basic’ Analysis  In a June report, a group of international experts said
Ethiopia’s analysis of the dam’s downstream impact during
filling and operation was “very basic, and not yet at a level
of detail, sophistication and reliability that would befit a
development of this magnitude, importance and with such regional
impact.” This week’s meeting was to discuss ways of acting on
the report’s recommendations.  Egypt wants scientists from neutral countries to be
involved in assessing issues including the dam’s dimensions, how
it will be filled and discharged and “what will happen if it
collapses,” Abdel-Moteleb said. The international experts’
report said that Ethiopia hadn’t presented analysis of the
consequences of a dam collapse, although officials informed them
a study was being undertaken.  Ethiopia and Sudan don’t think a panel with neutral
representatives is needed to hire and oversee consultants to
conduct studies recommended by experts in June, Fekahmed Negash,
head of the Ethiopian Water Ministry’s Boundary and
Transboundary Rivers Affairs Directorate, said by phone from
 Addis Ababa  today. “The countries can handle it,” he said.  Officials will meet in the Sudanese capital again on Dec. 8
to try and resolve the issue, Alemayehu said.  Ethiopia is the source of 86 percent of the water that
flows into the Nile, the world’s longest river that runs 4,160
miles through 11 countries from Burundi in the south to Egypt,
where it empties into the  Mediterranean Sea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed Feteha in Khartoum at 
 afeteha@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  