-- Telecom Italia CEO Faces Tug of War With Bondholders
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-11-07T09:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/telecom-italia-faces-tug-of-war-with-bondholders-as-board-meets.html
As  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  Chief Executive
Officer Marco Patuano tries to persuade his board today to sign
off on a plan to trim the company’s $39 billion debt pile, he’ll
be juggling the disparate wishes of bondholders and stakeholders.  Directors will discuss proposals including a sale of some
wireless towers, issuance of securities to raise as much as 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) and potentially disposing of Latin
American assets, people familiar with the matter have said. It’s
their first meeting since Chairman Franco Bernabe quit Oct. 3
after clashing with  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the company’s top shareholder.  A lot is riding on today’s assembly:  Standard & Poor’s , due
to complete its review of Telecom Italia’s  rating  this month,
has said it may join Moody’s Investors Service in stripping the
carrier of its investment grade. Analysts predict third-quarter
sales fell about 9 percent to 6.64 billion euros, the lowest
level in more than three years, as the domestic phone business
slumped, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “A transfer of wealth from shareholders to bondholders is
inevitable but there are few existing shareholders willing to
foot the bill,” said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor
who helps manage $1 billion at FM Capital Partners in  London .
“The company has been procrastinating on major strategy reviews
for a long time but the pressure is now clearly on a reshuffled
management to take some hard decisions.”  Halting Spinoff  Telecom Italia’s  13-person board  is scheduled to meet at
the company’s Milan headquarters at 1 p.m. local time. Third-quarter earnings are scheduled for after market close.  Directors will also evaluate proposals including a new
cost-cutting program, a possible cancellation of a dividend and
the scrapping of a plan to spin off the company’s landline
network, people with knowledge of the matter have said. They
asked not to be identified because the deliberations are
confidential.  The stock fell 2.6 percent to 73.3 cents at 10:11 a.m.,
valuing the company at 13.3 billion euros, less than half of its
adjusted net debt. Net debt probably fell to 28.2 billion euros
at the end of last quarter from 28.8 billion euros as of June
30, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Argentina  Through yesterday, the shares had gained 19 percent since
Bernabe’s resignation, while the cost of insuring its debt using
credit default swaps dropped about 17 percent, on optimism that
Patuano, a Telecom Italia veteran who was most recently chief
operating officer, would jump-start the carrier with major asset
sales.  Outside  Italy , a potential disposal of the smaller
 Argentinian business  will be discussed by the board today,
people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Telecom
Argentina SA accounted for about 13 percent of Telecom Italia’s
2012 revenue.  Another proposal that will be debated is a sale of bonds
that can be converted into Telecom Italia shares over time, a
move that wouldn’t immediately dilute shareholder interest,
people familiar with the matter said.  Brazil Future  While Telefonica is in principle not opposed to a small
capital increase by Telecom Italia, the Spanish company favors
selling Telecom Italia’s Brazilian division,  Tim Participacoes
SA (TIMP3) , people familiar with the matter have said. Tim has a market
value of $12 billion and Telecom Italia owns a 67 percent stake.  Representatives for Telecom Italia and Madrid-based
Telefonica declined to comment on today’s board meeting.  “A sale of the Argentine asset is a small part of a bigger
recovery picture that Telecom Italia needs to complete,” said
Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffe, a professor of business strategy
at Milan’s  Bocconi University .  A disposal of the Brazilian holding is the “real key
challenge” that Telecom Italia’s CEO will have to face next
year, Carnevale Maffe said. “Patuano is aware that the sale
could deprive the company of its fastest growing asset,” he
said.  Marco Fossati, which owns about 5 percent of Telecom Italia
shares, met with investors in London yesterday. In a
presentation seen by  Bloomberg News , he called for the setting
up of an independent board and said a forced sale of Tim will
not realize full value for the company.  Telefonica’s Playbook  Telefonica, which owns  Brazil ’s largest wireless carrier,
in September increased its influence in Italy by agreeing to
gradually buy out co-investors in Telco SpA, the vehicle that
owns 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia and controls its board.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , one of Telco’s investors, said
today it will review Telecom Italia’s plan. CEO  Mario Greco  said
on a conference call that the insurer will support the
turnaround proposal if it’s “convincing.”  The plan to shore up Telecom Italia’s finances mirrors
Telefonica’s own efforts to protect its debt ratings.  Last year, CEO Cesar Alierta sold assets including
Telefonica’s call-center business and a stake in China Unicom
( Hong Kong ) Ltd. and halted  dividend  payments. It also
introduced aggressive commercial offerings in  Spain  to reverse
market share declines and prevent debt-ravaged consumers from
switching to discounters such as Jazztel Plc.  The Spanish company, which continued with asset disposals
this year and this week agreed to sell its controlling stake in
the  Czech Republic ’s biggest telephone company for $3.4 billion,
is betting on a recovery in Spain and Italy and growth in
 Germany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  