-- Most Emerging Stocks Fall as Ibovespa Leads World Losses
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-11-06T22:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/emerging-currencies-fall-on-fed-as-stocks-trade-little-changed.html
Most emerging-market stocks declined
as homebuilders led  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  to the biggest slump among
global equity gauges. Russian stocks slid after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch cut its outlook for the nation’s shares.  More than 400 stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell, while 379 gained. The gauge dropped less than 0.1 percent
to 1,016.19. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded fund rose 0.3 percent as Federal Reserve officials said
weakness in the U.S. economy warrants continued stimulus. The
Ibovespa fell 0.8 percent as PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes posted a wider-than-forecast loss.  More than half of the companies that reported quarterly
earnings in the gauge for developing nations missed analysts’
sales estimates, according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg. The
Fed’s policy of seeking to drive down the U.S. unemployment rate
is effective, and the level of slack in the economy justifies an
accommodative stance, according to two separate papers by top
officials at the U.S. central bank.  “You’ve had some real headwinds for some of the companies
and people are still very skeptical,” Michael Holland, who
oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in
New York, said in a phone interview. “The Fed tapering is
beginning to be less of a problem for the U.S. market, but on
the other hand, it causes currency problems for other countries.
There’s a currency element that also works against the  emerging
markets .”  Technology Shares  A measure of technology shares on the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index dropped today, while commodity companies advanced. The
broad measure trades at 10.6 times projected earnings, compared
with the  valuation  of 14.4 for the MSCI World Index.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced to $42.01. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, slid 1.6
percent to 23.46.  Brazil’s Ibovespa retreated to the lowest level since Oct.
11. It posted the steepest drop among 94 equity gauges tracked
by Bloomberg. PDG sank 8.9 percent. The real swung between gains
and losses after touching an eight-week low as Finance Minister
Guido Mantega sought to reassure investors that the government
is taking steps to keep the budget deficit in check.  Russia, India  Russian stocks  dropped to the lowest level in more than
four weeks as Bank of America cut its outlook for equities in
the world’s biggest energy exporter on concern oil prices will
fall. OAO Pharmstandard, the nation’s biggest drugmaker, fell
4.3 percent. Benchmark gauges in the Czech Republic,  Turkey  and
 Poland  gained at least 1 percent.  India ’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  lost 0.4 percent, reversing an
earlier gain.  State Bank of India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
lender, fell the most in more than a month. The S&P BSE Bankex
index dropped for a third day, paring last month’s 19 percent
surge. The rupee fell the most in two months.  China’s stocks  declined to a one-week low, led by consumer
discretionary and financial companies, before the start of a
Communist Party meeting later this week.  Great Wall Motor Co. (601633) 
sank 8.5 percent. Ping An Bank Co. and Poly Real Estate Group
Co. slid at least 2.1 percent.  Egypt ’s EGX 30 Index rallied to the highest level since
2011 as the trial of former President Mohamed Mursi was delayed
until Jan. 8.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 323 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  