-- Enbridge Profit Increases as Demand for Crude Transport Gains
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-11-06T12:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/enbridge-profit-increases-as-demand-for-crude-transport-gains.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest
transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S., said third-quarter
profit increased as demand to move oil on its pipeline network
exceeded its capacity.  Net income rose to C$421 million ($403 million), or 51
cents a share, from C$189 million, or 24 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said in a statement on Marketwired
today. Excluding one-time items, per-share profit missed the 36-cent average of 14 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising production from  Alberta ’s oil sands has increased
demand for infrastructure to move the crude to refiners.
Enbridge has C$36 billion worth of projects through 2017,
including new and reversed conduits, Chief Executive Officer Al Monaco said on Oct. 1 at an investor meeting in Toronto.  “We forecast higher earnings from liquids pipelines
primarily attributable to higher results from the regional oil-sands system and incremental contribution from the Seaway
expansion,” Robert Kwan, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets ,
wrote in an Oct. 22 note to clients.  The company’s pipeline network is  Canada ’s biggest for
liquids, shipping more than 2.2 million barrels a day on 24,738
kilometers (15,375 miles) of pipe, according to its website.  The company is also proposing a conduit called Northern
Gateway to transport bitumen to Canada’s Pacific Coast, allowing
oil-sands producers to access markets in  Asia .  Enbridge rose 0.3 percent to C$45.59 yesterday in Toronto.
The release came before the start of regular trading in North
American markets. The shares have 16 buy, two hold and two sell
ratings from analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  