-- EOG Resources Profit Rises as Crude Prices and Output Climb
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-11-07T00:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/eog-resources-profit-rises-as-crude-prices-and-output-increase.html
EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , the second-largest U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer by market
value, said third-quarter profit surged 30 percent after crude
prices rose and output surpassed a company forecast.  Net income climbed to $462.5 million, or $1.69 a share,
from $355.5 million, or $1.31, a year earlier, the Houston-based
company said in a statement today. Excluding one-time items such
as a loss from energy contracts, per-share profit was $2.32,
exceeding the $2.06  average  of 37 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  EOG has remade itself to focus on oil production through
work in the Eagle Ford and Bakken formations in the onshore
U.S., and it’s also exploring in the Permian Basin. The
company’s daily volumes rose 9.6 percent from a year earlier to
the equivalent of about 526,400 barrels of oil in the third
quarter, surpassing an earlier forecast. EOG boosted its full-year output growth target to 9 percent from 7.5 percent.  “This company just continues to run on all cylinders
here,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst with  Edward Jones  in
 St. Louis  who has a buy rating on EOG shares and doesn’t own
any, citing production growth, commodity prices and keeping
costs in line. “That’s a winning combination.”  Revenue rose 20 percent from a year earlier to $3.54
billion in the third quarter.  EOG has said it expects an estimated 88 percent of its
North American  revenue  to come from crude and natural gas
liquids this year, according to an Oct. 2 presentation.  Oil Prices  Oil futures traded in  New York  climbed 15 percent from a
year earlier to average $105.81 a barrel in the third quarter.
Gas futures traded in New York averaged $3.555 per million
British thermal units in the quarter, a 23 percent increase from
a year earlier.  Today’s earnings report was issued after the close of
regular trading on U.S. markets. EOG fell 1.7 percent to $176.64
at the close in New York. The company’s shares have risen 46
percent this year.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is the largest U.S. oil and gas producer
that doesn’t own refineries or a chemical business, based on
market value.  (EOG scheduled an earnings conference call tomorrow at 9
a.m. New York time. To listen, go to
 http://www.eogresources.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  