-- Tesla Drops on Vehicle Deliveries, Outlook: Mover
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-06T21:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/tesla-drops-on-vehicle-deliveries-outlook-mover.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker led by billionaire Elon Musk, slid the most in more than
21 months after reporting quarterly vehicle sales that missed
some estimates and lower revenue from regulatory credits.  The shares plunged 15 percent to $151.16 at the close in
New York, the biggest one-day slide since Jan. 13, 2012. Tesla
was the worst performer today in the Nasdaq-100 Index. The
company also projected little-changed fourth-quarter earnings
yesterday.  Before the results, the stock had surged more than fivefold
this year, valuing the carmaker at 294 times projected earnings
even as Tesla faces a number of challenges. The company is
expanding into Europe and Asia while ramping up factory output,
building out its North American retail network and developing
its first sport-utility vehicle.  “Expectations may have gotten a bit too far ahead of
reality,” said Phil Gott, an auto technology analyst for IHS
Automotive. “Once Elon Musk proved he could beat the odds,
people have grown to expect that will always be the case.”  Model S deliveries totaled about 5,500 in the third
quarter, the company said in a  statement  yesterday on its
website. Brian Johnson, an auto analyst at Barclays Plc, had
expected 5,820 Model S sales. Dan Galves of Deutsche Bank AG
estimated the company would ship 5,850 cars in the quarter.  Tesla said it plans to deliver “slightly under 6,000”
Model S sedans this quarter with an adjusted profit “about
consistent” with third-quarter levels.  Fourth Quarter  Excluding some items, Tesla earned 12 cents a share in the
third quarter. That compares with a per-share loss of 92 cents a
year earlier. The average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a profit of 10 cents a share.  The results were “light of our expectations on lower sales
beat, development services loss and higher expenses,” Johnson
of Barclays said in a research note yesterday. “Results with
somewhat slower ramp of Tesla S deliveries reinforce our view
that Tesla had overshot in the past few months and is more
properly valued at $141.”  Production of the Model S at Tesla’s Fremont, California,
plant is being held back by parts supplies, particularly of
lithium-ion battery cells, Chief Executive Officer Musk said on
a conference call yesterday.  “We really are production constrained, not demand
constrained,” said Musk, 42. “We are working really hard to
improve production.”  Tesla and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  last month announced a deal to
supply at least 1.8 billion cells over four years. The supply
agreement is “more of a floor than a ceiling,” Musk said.
Panasonic, Tesla’s main cell supplier, also owns a  1.2 percent 
stake in the Palo Alto, California-based company.  ‘Giga Factory’  Musk said Tesla is considering building a new “giga
factory” that would produce battery packs needed as the
carmaker’s output grows. He didn’t provide details on when or
where such a plant would be built and how much it would cost.  Besides the Model S, now in production and priced from
$70,000 to more than $100,000, Tesla plans a Model X electric
sport-utility vehicle starting in 2014 and a less expensive
sedan by about 2016.  Sales of zero-emission vehicle credits, generated from cars
Tesla sells in  California  and other states, totaled $10 million,
the company said. That’s down from the $51 million in the second
quarter and $68 million in the first quarter.  California is considering revisions to its program that
would cut the number of credits Tesla gets for the Model S by as
much as 40 percent from 2015. The California Air Resources Board
on Oct. 24 deferred a decision on the matter until next year.  Model S Targets  Tesla plans to deliver 21,500 units of its flagship Model S
this year, up from a previous goal of 21,000, Musk said in the
statement. The increase gets the company closer to the CEO’s
initial goal for a combined 25,000 Model S deliveries through
2013. Tesla delivered about 2,650 Model S cars last year,
falling short of a 5,000 target.  Revenue surged to $431.3 million from $50.1 million a year
ago. Tesla’s net loss totaled $38.5 million, or 32 cents a
share, compared with $110.8 million, or $1.05, a year earlier.  About 1,000 cars went to Europe during the quarter, the
company said. Shipments to  China  should begin in January, with
initial sales planned for February, Musk said on the call. Musk,
the company’s  biggest investor , has said that over time two-thirds of Tesla’s sales will come from overseas.  The company reported a gross margin of 21 percent in the
quarter.  Production of components for a new electric luxury model
for  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz begins next year, Musk said.
Daimler, along with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , are both Tesla investors
and customers.  Company Plans  “Maybe some people forgot this is an automotive company --
it requires lots of cash, a lot of long-range planning,” Alan Baum, an auto analyst at Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,
 Michigan , said by telephone. “This industry devours cash.”  The carmaker named for inventor Nikola Tesla plans to build
on this year’s first profits, coming after a decade of losses.
The prospect for extended gains will be influenced by continuing
expenses to add more company-owned stores, expand its rapid-charge station network and develop a lower-priced battery car
due within three years.  The stock’s rise this year coupled with expenses to expand
could restrain further share price gains even as Tesla vehicle
sales grow, said Ben Kallo, a San Francisco-based analyst for
Robert W. Baird & Co.  “Execution on several of these fronts is already priced
into the stock and could limit further price appreciation in the
near-to-intermediate term,” Kallo, who rates the shares
neutral, said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  