-- Let’s Not Overstate the U.S. Manufacturing Revival
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-11-06T23:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/let-s-not-overstate-the-u-s-manufacturing-revival.html
The revival of the U.S. manufacturing
sector has been sufficiently robust to convince many Americans
that a factory renaissance is under way.  Boston Consulting Group  predicted that increased exports
promoted by stagnant U.S. wages and lower energy costs will
result in 2.5 million to 5 million new jobs by 2020 and a
reduction of the 7.3 percent unemployment rate by two to three
percentage points.  I also believe manufacturing is likely to continue its
expansion. However, big gains in exports and jobs are far less
likely. In 2010, President  Barack Obama  set a goal of doubling
U.S. exports in five years, but he didn’t specify which
countries would buy them.  Deleveraging by global financial institutions and by U.S.
consumers has been under way for five years. After past
financial crises, this process of unwinding debt has taken about
a decade. So despite the huge fiscal and monetary stimulus,
deleveraging and the resulting slow growth of about 2 percent a
year in U.S. real gross domestic product are likely to persist
for another five years.  In this environment, the traditional big buyers of global
exports -- the U.S. and European countries -- have muted demand
for everything.  Trade Deficit  The U.S. manufacturing trade deficit remains at the high
levels it reached early in this  recovery . The total  trade
balance  has deteriorated as the revival of  consumer spending 
favored imports. Although exports are up 40 percent since 2009,
they have leveled off recently and have a long way to reach the
goal of doubling by 2015.  Manufacturing employment has revived, to 11.96 million in
September, from a February 2010 low of 11.5 million. Still, that
is a tiny increase compared with the 19.6 million peak in June
1979. Manufacturing output has picked up along with the economy,
though with the sluggish recovery, it’s still below the 2007
peak.  More important,  productivity , as measured by output per
employee, has resumed its robust long-term 3.4 percent annual
growth rate. As a result, the gains in manufacturing jobs look
more like an interruption in the long-run decline than a decided
upturn.  As measured by output per hour worked, manufacturing
productivity has been rising at an annual rate of about 2
percent, far faster than total nonfarm productivity, which was
flat in the second quarter compared with a year earlier. So,
with compensation rising at about the same rate -- 1.7 percent
in manufacturing year over year, and 1.6 percent for all nonfarm
employment -- unit labor costs in manufacturing (the ratio of
compensation growth to productivity growth) actually declined
0.4 percent year over year, though it rose 1.6 percent for the
nonfarm sector as a whole.  Wage increases have been rising more slowly than the
 consumer price index , which means real wages are falling. The
good news is that falling unit labor costs, the result of low
wage increases in a high unemployment economy and significant
productivity growth, are retarding manufacturing output prices
along with export prices.  Nevertheless, U.S. real wages would need to drop much more
than is likely in coming years to be competitive with those
prevailing in  China  and other  developing countries . China has
increased minimum wages about 25 percent over the past year in
the hopes of creating more consumer purchasing power as the
country shifts from an economy led by now-weak exports and now-excessive infrastructure spending to a domestic demand-led
economy. Also, with Chinese labor costs jumping, low-end
manufacturing is shifting to lower labor-cost countries such as
Bangladesh, Vietnam and  Pakistan ; Chinese production is moving
to higher technology exports such as telecom equipment and
computers.  China Exports  The result is that labor-intensive products such as
textiles and shoes may only account for about 15 percent of
 Chinese exports . Also, even if Chinese hourly compensation rose
at the extremely high rate of 25 percent a year, it would still
take 15 years for it to climb from the $1.15 level in 2009 to
the $35.53 an hour average U.S. compensation in manufacturing in
2011.  With these labor cost differences, it’s not surprising that
the U.S. share of global manufactured goods exports dropped to
11 percent in 2011 from 19 percent in 2000. Meanwhile, the
European Union’s share fell to 20 percent from 22 percent, but
China’s portion leaped to 21 percent from 7 percent. Today, U.S.
exports to China only represent 20 percent of Chinese exports to
the U.S.  Of course, global competitiveness in manufacturing isn’t
only affected by labor costs. Logistics play a large role, tool.
After the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and the
subsequent supply chain disruptions, many importers in  North
America  and  Europe  looked for closer sources. But that interest
wasn’t enough to overcome huge labor and other cost differences
and cause large shifts of production to the U.S. and Europe.
Instead, the disruption benefited low-cost producers, notably
 Mexico .  Infrastructure is another concern. Anyone who has spent
three hours in traffic getting from the Sao Paolo airport to
downtown has a first-hand understanding of  Brazil ’s
deficiencies. Then there is government bureaucracy and the
accompanying corruption that adds to costs in developing
countries.  India  insists that big-box retailers such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. must buy from local suppliers as a condition for
opening stores. Wal-Mart has thrown in the towel on expansion.  China’s new leaders are trying to curb rampant corruption
among Communist Party higher-ups, as exemplified by the recent
trial and conviction of one-time party rising star  Bo Xilai .  Nonlabor costs are important.  Boston Consulting Group 
estimated that this year, manufacturing labor costs in China are
only 13 percent of those in the U.S. but the costs of materials,
parts, containers, packaging and so on are 74 percent of those
in the U.S. That means total costs are 93 percent of the U.S.
average. That’s up from 82 percent in 1982, when Chinese labor
costs were 7 percent of compensation for U.S. manufacturing
workers.  (Gary Shilling is a Bloomberg View columnist and president
of A. Gary Shilling & Co. He is the author of “The Age of
Deleveraging: Investment Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth
and Deflation.” This is the first in a two-part series.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 