-- Euro Is Little Changed Before ECB Decision; Aussie Drops on Jobs
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-11-07T12:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/euro-holds-gain-versus-peers-before-ecb-meeting-u-s-gdp-data.html
The euro was little changed versus
the dollar and yen before the  European Central Bank  announces
its monthly monetary policy decision.  A dollar gauge was about 0.3 percent from the highest since
September before data economists said will show U.S. growth
slowed last quarter. Australia’s dollar dropped against all but
one of its 16 major peers after a report showed employment rose
less than analysts predicted. Norway’s krone slid as
manufacturing fell. The euro halted a five-day drop versus nine
developed-market counterparts yesterday. ECB President Mario Draghi is due to speak after the central bank’s decision.  “We had some speculation about a rate cut but this is
fading more and more,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “They don’t have to
cut rates. They could also do some other liquidity-providing
measures. If the ECB really doesn’t change anything today it
should be euro positive.”  The euro traded at $1.3510 at 12:01 p.m.  London  time after
rising 0.3 percent yesterday. The common currency was at 133.33
yen. The dollar was also little changed, at 98.69 yen.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, was at 1,014.12 after climbing to
1,017 on Nov. 4, the highest since Sept. 18.  ECB Bets  The ECB will leave its main refinancing rate at a record-low 0.5 percent today, according to 67 of 70 economists  surveyed 
by  Bloomberg News . Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and UBS AG predict the central bank will reduce
borrowing costs by 25 basis points.  ECB staff forecasts for growth and inflation are scheduled
for publication in December. Under Draghi’s predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet , those factors traditionally provided the
justification for a shift in interest rates.  “It’s extremely likely there will be a rate cut in
December,” Yannick Naud, a  money manager  at Glendevon King Ltd.
in London said on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with
Manus Cranny. “Cutting the  interest rate  will not be a boost to
the economy, but what we will see is that there will be an
effect on euro-dollar or euro-yen.  Mario Draghi  has to do
everything to lower the euro because the recovery in  Europe  will
come from exports.”  Euro-area gross domestic product shrank 0.3 percent this
year, improving from a 0.7 percent decline in 2012, according to
the median of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Economists predict the region will grow 1 percent in 2014.  The euro has strengthened 5.5 percent this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has advanced
2.7 percent and the yen has slumped 11 percent.  BOE Decision  The pound was little changed after the  Bank of England  kept
its key interest rate and bond-buying target unchanged, as
predicted by all analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Sterling traded at $1.6072. It was at 84.05 pence per euro
after appreciating to 83.79 pence yesterday, the strongest level
since Oct. 3.  U.S. GDP grew at a 2 percent annualized rate in the third
quarter, down from 2.5 percent in the previous three months,
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said before the data due
today. Nonfarm payrolls rose by 120,000 last month after a
148,000 gain in September, a separate Bloomberg survey indicated
before the Labor Department data tomorrow.  “If we get a weak payrolls number, the dollar could weaken
back to the 97 yen level,” said Yasuhiro Kaizaki, vice
president of global markets in  New York  at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Bank Ltd. “But if it’s a strong number, I doubt we’ll be able
to test 100 yen again, at least for now.”  ‘Immediate Selloff’  Australia’s dollar slid after a government  report  showed
employers added 1,100 jobs in October. Economists forecast a
gain of 10,000 workers, according to the median response in a
Bloomberg survey.  “We still expect employment to remain weak and the
 unemployment rate  to rise in the months ahead, given that growth
remains below trend,” said Martin Whetton, a Sydney-based
interest-rate strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The market
reaction to the jobs data was an immediate selloff in the Aussie
dollar.”  The Australian currency dropped 0.4 percent to 94.90 U.S.
cents.  Norway’s krone slid after a report showed manufacturing
production fell 0.2 percent in September from a month earlier.
The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.7 percent gain.  The krone weakened 0.4 percent to 5.9798 per dollar. It
also slid 0.4 percent against the euro, to 8.0774.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  