-- Mexican Peso Rallies on Fed as Broader Energy Reform Proposed
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-11-06T17:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/mexican-peso-rallies-on-fed-as-broader-energy-reform-proposed.html
Mexico ’s peso rebounded from a three-week low amid speculation that the Federal Reserve will maintain
record U.S. monetary stimulus.  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 13.1228 per U.S.
dollar at 9:44 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The peso closed yesterday at its weakest level
since Oct. 9. Yields on benchmark peso bonds maturing in 2024
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.15 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso gained along with most emerging-market currencies
today as two papers published by top Fed officials argued that
the level of slack in the economy justifies an accommodative
stance, helping quell speculation that policy makers will move
quickly to wind down their $85 billion-a-month bond purchases.  “It’s really being driven by what’s going on in the U.S.,
maybe to a lesser extent Europe,”  Win Thin , global head of
emerging-market strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said
in a phone interview from New York. “At the current levels it’s
probably a little bit undervalued.”  The peso, which slumped the most in two months yesterday,
may gain should lawmakers approve legal changes to open up the
energy industry more than the government first proposed in
August, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  President Enrique Pena Nieto is seeking to end a 75-year-old state monopoly on pumping crude and to attract investment
from companies like Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. The
government says the plan would boost growth by 1 percentage
point by 2018.  Mexico’s two largest parties have reached a preliminary
accord that would give oil producers more control over some
projects than the original proposal would have allowed,
according to three people with direct knowledge of the
agreement.  “The market is simply not looking at the huge potential
impact if the energy bill ends up including a production-sharing
agreement or even licenses,”  Benito Berber , a Nomura
strategist, wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  