-- Eye-Scarred Bolshoi Maestro Demands $108,000 From Acid Attackers
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-11-06T16:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/eye-scarred-bolshoi-maestro-demands-108-000-from-acid-attackers.html
Sergei Filin, the artistic director
of the Bolshoi Theater whose eyesight was scarred by an acid
attack, is seeking 3.5 million rubles ($108,000) in damages.  Filin, 43, told a criminal court in Moscow today that he’s
filing a civil lawsuit demanding material and moral compensation
from the three defendants, who include Bolshoi soloist Pavel
Dmitrichenko, according to a transcript of the hearing on legal
information portal  Rapsi , which is run jointly by state news
service RIA Novosti and the country’s top courts.  Filin accused Dmitrichenko, 30, of seeking compromising
information about him and indirectly threatening him during a
conflict between the two men. In a courtroom appearance last
week, Dmitrichenko denied masterminding the Jan. 17 attack.
Police said in March he had confessed to organizing the crime
and was motivated by “personal animosity.” Two other men are
charged with playing the role of driver and the assailant.  The Bolshoi,  Russia ’s most famous theater, founded in 1776
by Catherine the Great, has been riven by scandals that included
the acid attack and a resignation by Filin’s predecessor over
the publication of explicit photos on the Internet in 2011.  Ballet star Nikolai Tsiskaridze was forced out in June
after he’d called for Anatoly Iksanov to resign as Bolshoi head.
Iksanov himself was replaced in July.  In February investigators cited rivalries at the Bolshoi as
probable motives for the crime, particularly between supporters
of Filin and Tsiskaridze, who was locked in a battle with the
ballet company’s management.  Open Letter  More than 300 members of the ballet came out in defense of
Dmitrichenko and signed an open letter to President  Vladimir Putin , calling the idea of Dmitrichenko masterminding the crime
“absurd.”  Iksanov has said he didn’t believe that Dmitrichenko was
behind the acid attack. Tsiskaridze has repeatedly denied
involvement in the assault.  The theater has also been criticized for mismanaging a six-year, $680 million overhaul. Anastasia Volochkova, a ballerina
who was fired in 2003, claimed that dancers were pimped out as
escorts for wealthy and influential patrons’ parties, which
Iksanov dismissed as “nonsense and dirt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  