-- Fed’s Williams Says Economic Data Disappointing With No Pickup
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-11-06T00:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/fed-s-williams-says-economic-data-disappointing-with-no-pickup.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said economic growth in recent months
has fallen short of his expectations, partially eroding his
confidence gains in the labor market will endure without
monetary stimulus.  “Up until recently, I was thinking we would start seeing
more of that self-powered growth in the second half of this
year,” Williams said to reporters today in San Francisco. He
doesn’t vote on policy this year. “Unfortunately, that’s not
really been happening,” and “we haven’t seen a real pickup.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last week decided to
maintain $85 billion in monthly bond buying until seeing
indications of sustained gains in the economy. Three Fed
officials who vote on policy signaled yesterday that
unprecedented accommodation will probably continue for some time
to combat unemployment, which was 7.2 percent in September.  “We’re still a long ways from where we want to be,”
Williams said to reporters at the San Francisco Fed.  Economic growth will probably accelerate early next year,
Williams said, differing from the view of Richmond Fed President
 Jeffrey Lacker .  “My baseline doesn’t have a pickup in growth next year,”
Lacker said today to reporters in Charlotte, North Carolina,
adding that he expects just a 2 percent expansion in 2014. “I
just don’t see where it is likely to come from.”  Economists in a Bloomberg survey last week predicted a
report will show the economy expanded 2 percent in the third
quarter, down from 2.5 percent the previous quarter. The
Commerce Department plans to release its initial estimate of
third-quarter growth on Nov. 7.  ‘Highly Accommodative’  “ Monetary policy  in the United States is likely to remain
highly accommodative for some time,” Fed Governor Jerome Powell
said yesterday in a speech in San Francisco. St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  said in an interview on CNBC he wants
the Fed to “meet our goals,” singling out inflation, while
Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  backed further easing to “achieve full
employment within a reasonable forecast horizon.”  Rosengren said today in an interview with CNBC that the Fed
will probably keep its main  interest rate  “quite low for quite
some time,” possibly until 2016, amid languid economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  