-- Floods to Drought Curbing China Corn Harvest: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-06T19:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/floods-to-drought-curbing-china-corn-harvest-commodities.html
China’s corn harvest is poised to
decline for the first time in four years after flooding in its
biggest-producing province and drought in its fifth largest cut
yields, easing a global glut as the U.S. reaps a record crop.  Output by the world’s second-biggest corn grower fell 3.2
percent to 199.1 million metric tons, according to  SGS SA (SGSN) , which
carried out 302 interviews in the seven largest growing areas
during the harvest in September and October for Bloomberg. The
state-owned China National Grain & Oils Information Center
expects a 4.6 percent advance to 215 million tons, and a unit of
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  projects a 2.1 percent gain
to 210 million tons.  Smaller harvests and benchmark prices that slumped 50
percent from the record set in 2012 signal Chinese buyers will
import the maximum 7.2 million tons allowed by annual government
quotas. Futures have tumbled to a three-year low, curbing income
for farmers from  Brazil  to Ukraine while lowering costs for
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and other poultry producers.  “There is obviously speculation on whether some of the
current projections for Chinese production are incorrect,” said
 Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  in Sydney. “If the market is overestimating the size
of the Chinese corn crop, and therefore imports are more than
the market previously expected, we will see upward momentum in
global grain prices.”  Import Orders  U.S. corn for shipment to China in December already costs
18 percent less than local grain, according to Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co., a research company. Feed mills bought at least
1.3 million tons of U.S. supply in October and began placing
orders for next year, according to Shanghai JC, which is
forecasting a 4.6 percent gain in the Chinese crop.  Futures plunged 40 percent to $4.2125 a bushel on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade this year, the biggest drop among 24
commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot Index (SPGSCI) ,
which slid 5.7 percent. Corn on China’s Dalian Commodity
Exchange retreated 3.7 percent to 2,344  yuan  a ton. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities advanced 17 percent, and the
Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.4 percent.  Chinese farmers planted 35.3 million hectares (87 million
acres) of corn, 0.7 percent more than in 2012, Geneva-based SGS
estimated. That compares with 39.4 million hectares in the U.S.
SGS used five teams of two surveyors to conduct face-to-face
interviews with farmers in central-north and northeast China.
Its estimated margin of error is 5.7 percent.  Severe Drought  The harvest in Heilongjiang province in China’s northeast,
the biggest growing region, contracted 5.7 percent because of
flooding while water damage in Shandong cut output by 22
percent, according to SGS. A severe mid-season drought in Henan
reduced its crop by almost 15 percent, SGS said. Production in
Jilin rose 13 percent while in Liaoning it climbed 9.2 percent.  Excessive rainfall was cited as the cause of bad weather in
52 percent of cases, from 19 percent a year earlier, SGS said.
Reports of severe insect damage increased by 10 percentage
points to 23 percent of the total, SGS found. Reports of crops
severely damaged by disease rose to 6 percent from 4 percent.  “It’s been an extremely variable year,” said Mark Oulton,
the market research director for SGS. “When you have two top
producing provinces suffering from serious problems, it has a
big drag effect.”  The average yield across the survey area was 5.65 tons a
hectare, 3.8 percent less than last year’s official government
data, according to SGS. The average yield for this year’s U.S.
crop was forecast at 9.75 tons by the USDA in September. More
than half of Chinese  corn farms  are holdings of one hectare or
less and tended by the landowner, according to SGS.  Net Importer  Even a smaller-than-expected Chinese harvest won’t be
enough to erase the global surplus that the International Grains
Council in  London  says will swell stockpiles by 26 million tons
in the 2013-14 crop year. China has been a net importer of corn
every year since 2010, data from its customs agency shows.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators have bet on lower
corn prices in Chicago since July, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. They held a record net-short
position of 159,242 futures and options in the week ending Oct.
22, according to the data, which was disrupted by the U.S.
government shutdown.  U.S. farmers will reap a record 14.03 billion bushels (356
million tons) this year, 30 percent more than in 2012, according
to the average of estimates from 36 analysts and trading firms
compiled by Bloomberg. Output is rebounding from the country’s
most  severe drought  since the 1930s.  Global Production  Tyson, the largest U.S. meat processor, reported earnings
and revenue that beat analysts’ expectations for the three
months ended June 29 as demand strengthened and feed costs fell.
The Springdale, Arkansas-based company produced an average of
41.4 million chickens, 132,000 cattle and 403,000 hogs a week
last year, data on its website show.  The International Grains Council increased its forecast for
global production by 5 million tons to 948 million tons on Oct.
31 and said stockpiles by the end of the season would reach a
13-year high of 152 million tons.  Forecasting and comparing output estimates for  China  is
complicated by the lack of a baseline figure agreed on by
government and private researchers. SGS used the China National
Grain & Oils Information Center’s 2012-2013 crop estimate of
205.6 million tons and an area of 35.03 million hectares as its
benchmark for comparisons.  China’s per-capita disposable  income  jumped almost fourfold
since 2000, expanding  meat consumption  and demand for feed for
livestock. The nation will produce about 711 million hogs this
year, almost double the amount two decades ago, USDA data show.  Li Xuejuan, a 50-year-old farmer from Weiqiao county in
Shandong, who sells some of her crop to local feed mills, said
output slumped 30 percent this harvest.  “It’s been a very difficult year for us -- heavy rain,
strong winds, flooding,” Li said in an interview in September,
squashing an insect between her fingers as she inspected
corncobs drying on the road. “And too many worms.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  