-- Food Bandits Face Smartcard Check on Theft From India Poor: Tech
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-11-06T10:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/food-bandits-face-smartcard-check-on-theft-from-india-poor-tech.html
Mohanlal Kapoor, a street vendor in
north  India , holds a card entitling him to subsidized food for
his wife and four children. To get supplies, the Kapoors must
battle an estimated 15 million families in their state toting
similar pieces of paper that they’re not entitled to.  “When I go to the ration store, I only receive enough to
feed half my family,” Kapoor said, frying samosas and bright-orange sweets in a wok-shaped karhai pan to earn about $3 a day
in Vrindavan, a city about halfway between New Delhi and the  Taj
Mahal . “They tell me I came too late and all the food is gone,
but everyone around here knows it’s being sold in markets for
profit.”  To curb such abuses, which can add as much as 60 percent to
what the government spends on wheat, grain and sugar, India is
trying a new solution. In the past year, ration cards such as
Kapoor’s laminated piece of paper with a glued-on or photocopied
passport photo are being replaced with smartcards that hold
biodata and can track food doled out in the world’s biggest
distribution system for the poor.  Working on a state-by-state basis, the  National Informatics
Centre  is spending 42 billion rupees ($684 million) over three
years on computerized systems to monitor food from when the
government buys it at the farm gate until it reaches the
intended targets.  Digitized System  “We’re pushing this digitized system as hard as we can,”
said Ranjna Nagpal, the centre’s deputy director general.
“Without it, the rest of the country’s efforts to save public
distribution will be fruitless.”  Almost 60 percent of the more than  $14 billion  India plans
to spend on wheat, rice and sugar for the poor this year is
likely to go missing, if  World Bank  estimates prove accurate.  Politically connected gangs siphon off food to sell for
profit -- in Kapoor’s state of  Uttar Pradesh  alone, as much as
$14.5 billion was stolen between 2002 and 2012, Bloomberg News
reported last year. Or else it rots in the open because
warehouses can’t contain the bulging stockpiles fattened each
harvest by India’s bumper crops.  Against this backdrop of theft and waste, more than three-quarters of India’s population eats less than the minimum
targets set by the government, and the nation is home to one in
three of the world’s malnourished children. About 5,000 Indian
children aged 5 or younger die every day because of their poor
diets, according to  Unicef .  Pondicherry  “The most important challenge in solving India’s
malnutrition problem is ensuring supply,” Michael Jensen,
country director of the  United Nations ’  World Food Programme ,
said in an interview at his New Delhi office. “Technology can
certainly help to get rid of fake ration cards.”  About 1,300 miles south of Kapoor’s hometown, the former
French enclave of Pondicherry that was the setting for Ang Lee’s
2012 movie “Life of Pi” is among the first six regions turning
to technology to improve oversight. The government has recorded
the fingerprints of Pondicherry’s almost  1 million  people as
part of a digitized system to track every welfare transaction,
along with each truck, barrel and sack of food distributed to
370 subsidy stores and the territory’s residents.  The tracking makes it harder for ration-store owners to
game the system by selling their subsidized grains to anyone
other than the holder of a digital card, said Gopi Swaminathan,
head of the National Informatics Centre’s local branch.  Online Profile  When Murugesan, a 60-year-old construction worker with one
name, goes to his neighborhood ration shop, he inserts his card
into a reader linked to a statewide database that documents the
transaction and checks his entitlements. His purchases are
tracked in his online profile, which includes his family’s
eligibility for subsidized food and kerosene, each member’s
name, age, gender, occupation and income, along with their
pictures and scans of their left thumb print.  “These simple technological solutions have saved millions
of tons of food from being sold into the black market,” said S.
Anburaj, senior assistant to Pondicherry’s public-private
cooperative, which manages many of the territory’s discount
supply stores.  Electronic tracking is also being tried in the central
state of Odisha, where the World Food Programme has collected
fingerprints and iris scans of the 1 million people in Rayagada
district to set up a system with  3M Co. (MMM)   Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS)  has joined forces with northern Haryana state,
which is preparing to issue smartcards to 25 million people, and
global positioning systems are used in parts of  Tamil Nadu  to
track trucks carrying food from storage facilities.  Unique ID  State initiatives complement efforts by the publicly funded
Unique Identification Authority, led by  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  co-founder
Nandan Nilekani, who quit India’s second-biggest software
exporter for the mission to assign a unique ID number to all
1.23 billion Indians.  The national government has already invested $550 million
on the program. One proposed extension of the system is to
replace subsidized food and kerosene with cash transferred
directly into the bank accounts of beneficiaries to use as they
see fit, Nilekani said in an interview.  “Technology and systems will certainly help fill in the
gaps that are hindering India’s food supply from reaching the
mouths of the malnourished,” he said. “But the ultimate
responsibility will fall on the shoulders of local stakeholders
like discount shops, teachers, parents or beneficiaries.”  Supreme Court  The plan faces hurdles. On Sept. 23, India’s  Supreme Court 
ruled that ID cards can’t be made mandatory, in part because
many Indians lack the documentation to prove their identities.  There are also concerns over whether government funds will
be spent wisely and the possibility that a database of ID
numbers for every Indian could be manipulated to commit  identity
theft  or voting fraud, said V. Suresh, a Chennai-based attorney
in Tamil Nadu and an adviser to the Supreme Court on  food
security .  “Governance and accountability has to improve,” Suresh
said at his office outside the  High Court  in  Chennai , Tamil
Nadu’s capital. “All this technology can’t save India from poor
execution of its systems.”  The state of 66 million people started its own program five
years ago that hasn’t moved beyond the pilot stage and is about
to be folded into a National Informatics Centre initiative, said
 M.P. Nirmala , the Tamil Nadu food secretary.  Even so, she denied there was a malnutrition problem.  “Our systems are working and making things better,”
Nirmala said. “There is no supply problem. Anyone who wants to
buy food or eat for free has that option.”  While the state is “recognized for performing well in the
areas of child survival and social development” about a third
of children younger than 3 are still considered underweight, and
child malnutrition and neonatal mortality remain “major
concerns,”  according to Unicef , the UN’s children fund.  Uttar Pradesh  In Uttar Pradesh, where poverty is on par with sub-Saharan
 Africa , about 35 percent of the state’s 44 million  ration cards 
are held by ineligible people who bribe crooked bureaucrats to
get them, said Ram Kumar, head of the Dynamic Action Group, a
local human-rights organization. Nationwide, the objective for
many is to manipulate the government’s welfare programs, whether
it’s for food, water, kerosene or power, Kumar said.  Written proof that Kapoor is even entitled to receive food
aid is almost untraceable, stacked along with the millions of
other ration-card registrations at the state’s food ministry.  To confirm his allowance, Kapoor would depend on some of
the same politicians and bureaucrats who pocket much of the 100
billion-rupee annual budget to feed India’s poorest and most-populous state, according to the August 2012 investigation by
 Bloomberg News .  The card “doesn’t mean anything if the supplies aren’t
reaching this place,” Kapoor said. “Then who do I complain to?
The people in charge are the ones looting us.”  Idle Tills  At the discount store where Kapoor collects his food, the
owner keeps a paper register that he agrees is impossible to
authenticate. An electronic point-of-sale device provided by the
state government sits on a ledge beside a boarded-up window, the
unconnected power cords dangling uselessly. The shop doesn’t get
reliable enough electricity to keep the unit charged, the owner
said.  The Uttar Pradesh state government has doled out these
point-of-sale devices to many of its 766 discount supply stores
-- one shop for every 57,000 ration card holders. The state has
been slow to provide the National Informatics Centre the data it
needs to complete a network like Pondicherry’s and issue
smartcards, said Nagpal, the centre’s deputy director general.  Raja Bhaiya  Uttar Pradesh’s top official overseeing food, Deepak
Trivedi, didn’t reply to e-mails, faxes and phone calls seeking
comment on the state’s public distribution program. Jiwesh
Nandan, head of the technology department, said his officials
were in the process of providing NIC with information for a
database, without saying when it would be available.  Raja Bhaiya, who as food minister presided over Uttar
Pradesh’s distribution system, has cases pending against him for
attempted murder, kidnapping, armed robbery and electoral fraud
under his formal name, Raghuraj Pratap Singh, according to the
 legal declaration  candidates must make to the election
commission. He hasn’t been convicted and has denied the charges
and involvement in the food scam.  After being forced to step down in March over allegations
his party was behind the murder of a policeman, Bhaiya was last
month reappointed as food minister. Calls to his office went
unanswered.  As Kapoor’s 12-year-old son, Chhottu, pushes their food
cart home at the end of a day that earned $1 less than India’s
 $4.20  average income, he said he worries about the boy’s future.  “Nothing’s got better in my lifetime” he said. “Unless
they bring an end to all this corruption, he’s probably going to
end up living the same miserable kind of life as I’ve had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  