-- Fortum Grid Sale Said to Attract CKI, Borealis, Macquarie
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-11-06T19:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/fortum-grid-sale-said-to-attract-cki-borealis-macquarie.html
Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) ’s sale of its Finnish
electricity grid has attracted interest from potential buyers
including Hong Kong-based  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd. (1038)  and  Canada ’s Borealis Infrastructure, according to people
familiar with the talks.  They are competing with bidding groups led by  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s European infrastructure unit and Hastings Funds
Management Ltd., said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. The grid may fetch about 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) and a decision on the winner is
expected by December, they said.  Infrastructure assets are attracting rising interest from
institutional investors and pension funds because of their
relative safety and steady cash flows. Espoo, Finland-based
Fortum, the country’s largest utility, is weighing sales of its
distribution networks in the Nordic region to allow it to focus
on generating power.  Fortum also plans to sell its larger Swedish grid, which
could be worth about 4 billion euros, next year, the people
said. Some of the bidders for the Finnish unit may try to buy
the Swedish grid as well, one of the people said. Investors have
criticized the sale plan, saying it will leave Fortum more
exposed to swings in demand.  Pauliina Vuosio, a spokeswoman for Fortum, said by phone
the company is assessing future options for its power
distribution unit assets and plans to conclude the assessment by
the end of the year.  Grid Revenue  Representatives for Cheung Kong, Borealis and Macquarie
declined to comment. Officials at Hastings couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment outside of business hours.  Revenue from Fortum’s grids in  Sweden ,  Finland , and Norway
totalled 1 billion euros in the 12 months through September
2012, the company said in January.  Borealis, an arm of the Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System, is teaming up with investors including First
State Investments and Nordic pension funds, the people said. A
representative for First State couldn’t be immediately reached
for comment.  Cheung Kong, also known as CKI, is working with UBS AG on
its potential offer, one of the people said. Founder  Li Ka-Shing , Asia’s richest man, is seeking assets outside his Hong
Kong base as economic growth slows in the city. The 85-year-old
tycoon is also spinning off the city’s second-largest electric
supplier in an attempt to raise as much as $5 billion, people
familiar with the matter said in September.  The Wall Street Journal reported Cheung Kong’s interest
earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  