-- Fortescue Races Iron Ore Drop to Cut Debt Cost: Australia Credit
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-11-06T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/fortescue-races-iron-ore-drop-to-cut-debt-cost-australia-credit.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  is racing
both a forecast drop in iron ore prices and the tapering of U.S.
stimulus as it seeks to reduce costs of the biggest debt load
among junk-rated miners.  Australia ’s third-biggest iron ore exporter wants to shave
about 50 basis points from interest payments on a $5 billion
loan it borrowed in the U.S. last year after prices for the
commodity plunged, said a person familiar with the matter.
Fortescue also has $2.64 billion of bonds it can repay
immediately, the company highlighted in an Oct. 17 report.  “Paying down debt should be Fortescue’s number one
focus,” said Chris Walter, a credit research analyst at Westpac
Banking Corp. in Sydney. “They have essentially enjoyed a free
kick with stronger-than-anticipated  iron ore  prices in the last
two months. They should utilize that.”  Fortescue wants to cut its $12 billion  debt  as the volume
of loans to junk borrowers in the U.S. approaches a level last
seen in 2007, and before a predicted four-year slide in the
price of its sole product. A rebound in Chinese demand has
driven a 30 percent iron ore  recovery  since Sept. 17, 2012, the
day before Fortescue’s loan deal was agreed. The company’s bonds
have returned 16 percent since then, compared with 9 percent for
junk mining peers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Bull Market  Iron ore, Australia’s biggest export  by value , entered a
 bull market  in July as  China  replenished stockpiles that shrank
in March to the lowest level since 2009. Prices have rallied 24
percent from this year’s low on May 31 to $136.80 a ton Nov. 5,
according to The Steel Index Ltd. Australian  goods exports  to
China, its biggest trading partner, rose to a record during
September, according to data released yesterday by the
 Australian Bureau of Statistics .  “Fortescue has been the riches to rags to riches story of
the Australian resources market in 2013,” UBS AG analysts led
by Glyn Lawcock said in a Nov. 5 report,  upgrading  the stock to
‘Buy’ from ‘Neutral’. “We’ve misjudged the iron ore market this
year and Fortescue’s ability to deliver on its objectives.”  Still, prices are set to decline to an average of $114 a
ton next year, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, and are forecast to slide every year until at least
2017 as companies boost supply to meet demand from China.  Rio
Tinto  Group and  BHP Billiton  Ltd., the world’s second- and
third- biggest shippers, last month reported record quarterly
production, while BHP raised its annual output forecast.  Covenant-Light  Fortescue said Oct. 30 it was refinancing its $5 billion
facility to cut interest payments. The so-called covenant-light
loan is being arranged by Credit Suisse Group AG, a person
familiar with the matter said Oct. 29. The company is proposing
to pay interest at 375 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, down from 425 basis points on the
existing loan, the person said.  Loans to junk-rated companies in the U.S. have exceeded
$870 billion since Dec. 31, and this year is poised to be the
biggest since before the global financial crisis, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Fed policies have kept global
 interest rates  near historic lows, spurring a hunt for yield.
The central bank will start paring its bond purchases in March,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists on Oct. 17-18.  Syndicated Loan  As well as the loan refinancing, Fortescue in September
said it will repay A$140 million ($133 million) of preference
shares, its most expensive debt, to cut interest costs.  “We have the flexibility to pay down debt well in advance
of maturity dates,” said Yvonne Ball, a spokeswoman for
Fortescue. “Our first debt repayment will occur next week with
the redemption of our preference shares, and we will consider
further repayments in the months ahead.”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. is also
syndicating a loan funding the forward purchase of iron ore from
Fortescue, which is set to be increased to $300 million from
$200 million after high demand, a person familiar with the
matter said on Oct. 30.  “Their view is, let’s sell as much iron ore forward as we
can, let’s high-grade our bodies to maximize  cash flow  in a
volatile market,”  Paul Young , a resources analyst with Deutsche
Bank AG in Sydney, said in an interview. “It’s a short-term
strategy to get the  balance sheet  under control.”  The company’s total debt stands at $12 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, giving the company a net debt-to-equity ratio of 199 percent during 2013, according to Deutsche
Bank. That compares with gearing of 34 percent for Rio Tinto.  More Impurities  The positive return on Fortescue’s debt comes amid a rout
in bond markets which has seen sovereign rates rise globally.
The yield on the  10-year U.S. Treasury (USGG10YR)  bond climbed to 2.66
percent as of 5 p.m. yesterday in Sydney, up 0.9 of a percentage
point since the end of 2012. The 10-year Australian government
bond yield was at 4.21 percent, up 93 basis points this year.
The Australian dollar has dropped 8.4 percent to 95.17 U.S.
cents since the end of 2012.  Fortescue, which cut production costs by 33 percent during
the September quarter, is nearing the end of a $9 billion
spending program to nearly triple iron ore production capacity
at its mine, port and rail operations in Australia’s Pilbara
region to 155 million tons. Compared to  peers  BHP Billiton and
Rio Tinto, Fortescue’s iron ore has more impurities and lower
grades, and is sold at a discount to benchmark prices.  “Their operating cost performance has been strong and they
beat expectations of a lot of people,” said Westpac’s Walter.
“They’re in a strong free cashflow position and should be able
to pay back $1 billion to $1.5 billion through to the end of
their current financial year,” said Walter, with Fortescue’s
fiscal year ending on June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  