-- Foster Small Stocks With Special Exchanges, SEC’s Gallagher Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-11-06T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/foster-small-stocks-with-special-exchanges-sec-s-gallagher-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission should encourage the creation of special exchanges
for trading smaller and less liquid stocks in an effort to boost
the number of companies going public, a top regulator said
today.  Such “venture exchanges” could offer incentives to go
public, such as reduced disclosure requirements and market
makers that are paid to promote active trading, SEC Commissioner
Daniel M. Gallagher said in remarks prepared for the FIA Futures
and Options Expo in  Chicago . Regulators may have to exempt such
exchanges from some rules, he said, including those mandating
trades occur at the best price available on any public market.  “The key to establishing venture exchanges is to create a
platform which could encourage smaller companies to enter our
public markets while at the same time providing adequate
protection for investors,” said Gallagher, a Republican.  The SEC’s Advisory Committee on Small Business on March 21
endorsed the creation of separate markets for shares issued by
companies with market values less than $250 million. The
committee, whose members are appointed by SEC commissioners,
said exchanges don’t provide sufficient liquidity for small
stocks while imposing “onerous” listing requirements.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  has recommended the SEC allow small
and emerging companies to trade only on their listed markets for
a period of time after an initial public offering. Nasdaq says
trading on a single market would boost liquidity by
concentrating buy and sell offers.  Tick Size  The SEC’s advisory committee also has proposed changing SEC
rules to widen the minimum quoting increment for small stocks.
Advocates of widening tick size say it would promote liquidity
by providing more revenue to securities firms that make markets,
or promote orderly trading, in less liquid stocks. Skeptics say
it wouldn’t boost trading and will cause people to pay more when
they trade.  The SEC has been developing ideas for a pilot program to
widen tick size, SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said Oct. 2. White
said she expects the staff to recommend such a program, which
would be time-limited and establish rules for what types of
companies can participate.  Wider tick sizes could be allowed for companies whose
shares trade on venture exchanges, Gallagher said in his speech
today. Regulators also should consider eliminating some
disclosure requirements for such businesses, such as the
quarterly financial reports that provide updated information to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  