-- Gazprom Rally Ending to BCS on Spending: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-11-06T02:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/gazprom-rally-ending-to-bcs-on-spending-russia-overnight.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD) ’s 40 percent rally from a
four-year low is poised to falter, BCS Financial Group said.  The world’s largest natural gas company has failed to
sustain previous rallies of 20 percent over the past three
years, and the stock is down 20 percent during that period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and BCS. The firm
reiterated a hold recommendation on the stock yesterday, citing
concern spending will rise as a deal to supply Chinese consumers
by pipeline looms.  Global depositary receipts of  Russia ’s biggest company
dropped 1.7 percent to $9.11 in  London  yesterday, after climbing
to a nine-month high Oct. 18. Gazprom fell to the lowest in a
month in  New York . The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the
most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. slipped 1.1 percent,
led by OAO Sberbank. RTS index  futures  expiring in December
declined 0.3 percent to 145,380 in U.S. hours.  “Every time Gazprom rallies, it’s pulled back more than it
gained,”  Luis Saenz , head of equity sales and trading at BCS in
London, said in an interview by phone yesterday. “This is no
different this time.”  American depositary receipts  of Gazprom fell 1.7 percent to
$9.09 yesterday, declining for the fourth time in five days. BCS
Financial Group increased its share-price estimate on the
company’s London-listed depositary receipts by 11 percent to $10
in a report yesterday.  “The rally is not sustainable, there are no triggers to
fuel further gains,” Andrey Polischuk, an analyst at ZAO
Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “Concerns
are rising as there is no clarity on what kind of price Gazprom
will agree on to begin supplies to  China . It’s clear that a
contract with China would mean more spending short-term.”  China Contract  Gazprom aims to sign a contract with China by year’s end,
Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said in Komsomolsk-na-Amure Oct. 24. Gazprom is concluding talks that have been under
way since at least 2002.  China’s appetite for gas will double by 2018 as  Asia ’s
biggest economy seeks to replace dirty coal-burning  power
plants , International Energy Agency forecasts show. Gazprom,
which supplies  Europe  with 25 percent of its gas, is looking for
new markets as westward exports stagnate.  While a gas deal would be a “major breakthrough” for
Russia and could make China its largest trading partner, the
economics of the pipeline proposal may still scuttle it,
according to Fyodor Lukyanov, the head of the Moscow-based
Council on Foreign and Defense Policy.  The  stock  fell 1.1 percent to 148.95 rubles, or the
equivalent of $4.58, in Moscow yesterday.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S. exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, dropped 1.7 percent to
$29.03 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, fell 1.9 percent to 22.16.  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY)  slid 2.7 percent to $12.53 in New York
yesterday, the lowest level since Oct. 8, settling at a 0.5
percent discount to the company’s Moscow-listed shares.  United Co. Rusal, a Moscow-based aluminum producer,
declined 1.3 percent to HK$2.36 in Hong Kong trading as of
10:33 a.m. local time, heading for the lowest close since Oct.
18. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  