-- Germany Rules Out Asylum for Snowden Amid Spy Inquiry
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-06T18:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/germany-rules-out-asylum-for-snowden-amid-intelligence-inquiry.html
The German government ruled out
granting asylum to Edward Snowden as a top aide to  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  expressed optimism that Germany and the U.S. can
rebuild trust after a fallout over spying.  Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  said there’s no
basis for asylum in Germany for the former U.S. National
Security Agency contractor because he’s not a victim of
political persecution. German authorities will instead seek ways
to take testimony from Snowden in Moscow as part of a probe of
NSA activity.  Ronald Pofalla, Merkel’s chief of staff, said President
 Barack Obama  will present a new intelligence-cooperation
framework between the U.S. and Germany in mid-December.  “This way I think we will be able to win back the trust
that’s been lost,” Pofalla told reporters in Berlin today after
a meeting of a parliamentary  committee  that oversees
intelligence matters.  The overture is aimed at helping mend a rift that opened
following revelations last month that the NSA may have tapped
Merkel’s mobile phone. Even as lawmakers prepare to call a
parliamentary investigation of mass U.S. surveillance, Merkel’s
government has made clear this week it won’t risk a break with
the U.S.  “Hardly any other country has profited so much from the
trans-Atlantic relationship as Germany has,” chief government
spokesman Steffen Seibert said today in Berlin.  Moscow Meeting  Snowden offered to testify to German authorities as part of
any probe, according to Greens party lawmaker Hans-Christian Stroebele, who met with the fugitive in Moscow on Oct. 31.
Stroebele, the most senior member of the oversight committee,
disputed Friedrich’s objection to an asylum status.  “Obviously this can be done, one only needs to want it,”
Stroebele said. The Greens veteran last week presented a  letter 
attributed to Snowden in which he accused the U.S. government of
“systemic” crimes and offered to give testimony in Germany if
he could remain in the country safely.  Snowden, wanted on espionage charges in the U.S. for
disclosing top-secret NSA surveillance programs, is residing at
an undisclosed location in  Russia  under a one-year visa. His
lawyer, Anatoly Kucherena, has said he would forfeit his refugee
status if he left Russian soil.  Sarah Harrison, an adviser for the anti-secrecy group
WikiLeaks who accompanied Snowden from Hong Kong and remained
with him in Russia, traveled to Berlin over the weekend after
concluding that the fugitive was safe.  ’Violation of International Law’  “Whilst Edward Snowden is safe and protected until his
asylum visa is due to be renewed in nine months’ time, there is
still much work to be done,” Harrison said  in a statement 
posted on WikiLeaks’s  Twitter account . Legal advisers warned her
not to return to her native U.K., Harrison said.  The chairman of the oversight board in  Germany ’s lower
house, Social Democrat Thomas Oppermann, said the 11-member
panel discussed gathering testimony from Snowden as long as it
didn’t “bring him into difficulty.” He also said the panel
wants access to the NSA documents disclosed by Snowden.  Merkel dispatched a team of intelligence officials last
week to the White House to “rebuild trust” after the mobile-phone tapping revelation prompted a phone call to Obama on Oct.
23 in which the chancellor vented her criticism.  The reverberations in Berlin over surveillance spread
yesterday, when German diplomats called in the British
ambassador following a report that its embassy housed a
listening post to monitor German government communications.  Germany’s top European-affairs diplomat “made clear that
listening to communications from the premises of a diplomatic
mission would be considered an activity in violation of
international law,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  