-- Spain’s Bonds Drop a Third Day Before Nation Sells Debt Tomorrow
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-06T17:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/germany-s-bonds-rise-before-five-year-note-auction-ecb-meeting.html
Spain’s  government bonds  declined for
a third day before the nation sells as much as 4 billion euros
($5.41 billion) of securities tomorrow, when European Central
Bank policy makers meet to set  interest rates .  Italian securities also dropped as the nation sold 22.3
billion euros of inflation-linked bonds to individual investors.
Benchmark  German (GDBR10)  bunds were little changed as a report showed
factory orders increased in September and the nation auctioned
five-year notes. Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and UBS AG predict the ECB will cut its benchmark rate
this week. Spain plans to offer debt due in five, 10 and 13
years tomorrow.  “Spanish bonds have cheapened before the sale tomorrow and
I don’t think the market will have any problem taking the supply
down despite some uncertainty about the ECB,” said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Our view is that the
ECB won’t do much tomorrow. They will probably want to wait
until they get new economic projections next month.”  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.15 percent as of 5 p.m. London
time. The 4.4 percent security due October 2013 fell 0.37, or
3.70 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.01.  Spain last sold 10-year debt on Oct. 3 at an average yield
of 4.269 percent, compared with 4.503 percent at a previous
auction on Sept. 5.  The rate on Italian 10-year bonds climbed four basis points
to 4.21 percent after dropping as much as five basis points.  Italian Sale  Italian government bonds rose earlier as demand for
inflation-linked securities being sold to individual investors
climbed to a record.  Italy ’s debt sale is the single biggest-ever by a European government after the 18 billion euros secured
by Italy over four days in October last year. The four-year
bond, dubbed BTP Italia, carries a 2.15 percent coupon that
proved attractive to buyers even amid weak consumer prices.  The ECB, led by President  Mario Draghi , will keep its main
rate at a  record-low  0.5 percent, according to all except three
of 70 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Strategists added predictions for an interest-rate cut this
year after a report on Oct. 31 showed euro-area inflation
unexpectedly slowed to 0.7 percent in October, the least since
November 2009. The ECB’s inflation target is just below 2
percent.  “The market is focusing on the ECB meeting tomorrow and
U.S. jobs data on Friday,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at broker RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “I don’t expect the central bank to cut rates this
month, but Draghi is likely to be dovish in order to pave the
way for a cut in December.”  German Yields  Germany ’s 10-year yields were at 1.74 percent after
declining as much as two basis points.  Factory orders in the nation jumped 3.3 percent in
September from August, when they fell 0.3 percent, the  Economy
Ministry  said. Analysts forecast an increase of 0.5 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The German government sold 3.27 billion euros of five-year
notes at an average yield of 0.71 percent, compared with 0.81
percent at a previous auction on Oct. 9. Investors bid for 2.3
times the amount allotted versus 2 times in October.  Portuguese bonds rallied, with 10-year yields falling to
the lowest in five months, amid signs the fiscal situation has
improved.  Portugal  is likely to meet its fiscal target this
year, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said yesterday.  Portuguese 10-year yields declined 20 basis points to 5.89
percent after sliding to 5.86 percent, the  least  since June 6.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in the euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Ireland and Belgium,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Spanish securities gained 11 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italy’s
returned 6.5 percent, while Germany’s lost 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  