-- German Factory Orders Beat Estimate as Euro-Area Recovers
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-06T11:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/german-factory-orders-beat-estimate-as-euro-area-recovers.html
German factory  orders (GRIORTMM)  increased more
than estimated in September in a sign that  Europe ’s largest
economy is benefiting from a recovery in the euro area and
rising domestic investment.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, jumped
3.3 percent from August, when they fell 0.3 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a gain of 0.5
percent, according to the median of 37 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey . Orders advanced 7.9 percent from a year ago, when
adjusted for the number of working days.  Europe’s largest economy stands to benefit as the 17-nation
euro area, its biggest export market, rebounds from a recession.
Car sales in the currency bloc climbed the most in two years in
September and economic confidence rose more than expected in
October. The Bundesbank said last month that German gross
domestic product probably expanded last quarter, albeit at a
slower pace than in the three months through June.  Today’s data “is much stronger than expected and it shows
some improvement in the German factory sector at the end of the
third quarter,” said Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge
Group in  London . “We would not see today’s German orders as a
sign of solid acceleration in factory activity but just a
technical correction, consistent with a modest pace of increase
in orders.”  Euro Gain  The euro rose after the report. The currency was at $1.3518
at 12:46 p.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.3 percent today. European
stocks remained higher, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gaining
0.6 percent.  Overseas orders climbed 6.8 percent in September, while
those from within the country dropped 1 percent, today’s report
showed. Demand from the euro area surged 9.7 percent as
investment goods jumped 23.6 percent. Over a two-month period,
international demand contracted while domestic orders rose, led
by investment goods.  “Foreign demand continues to remain rather weak despite
the September increase,” the ministry said in the statement.
“The data confirm the picture of an increasingly domestically
driven economic recovery.”  Volkswagen AG posted third-quarter operating profit on Oct.
30 that beat estimates as the financial contribution from the
Porsche sports-car brand surged and the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
automaker reined in spending.  Growth Forecasts  German GDP probably rose 0.4 percent in the third quarter
after expanding 0.7 percent in the prior three months, according
to Bloomberg’s monthly economic survey published Oct. 10. The
Federal Statistics Office is due to release preliminary growth
data on Nov. 14.  The European Commission yesterday trimmed its growth
forecast for the euro-area economy in 2014 to 1.1 percent from
the 1.2 percent it predicted in May. Growth was 0.3 percent in
the three months through June. European Central Bank officials
are in  Frankfurt  tomorrow for their monthly policy meeting.  “The economic situation in Europe is still affected by
some uncertainty but I’m confident we will see growth next
year,” said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at Deutsche Postbank
AG in Bonn. “The German economy is growing slowly but steadily
and that’s good news for the entire euro area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  