-- Ghana CAL Bank Sees Profit Growth Slowing on Rates
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-11-06T15:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ghana-s-cal-bank-sees-profit-growth-slowing-on-interest-rates.html
CAL Bank Ltd., a lender in Ghana,
said profit growth will be slower next year as  interest rates 
decline. The shares fell for the first time in five days.  “We see interest rates trending downwards,” Philip
Owiredu, executive director of the bank, said today in an
interview in the capital, Accra. “As rates fall, we expect the
profit that we make from lending to be affected a bit.”  Net income in the nine months through September more than
doubled to 66.7 million cedis ($29.8 million). Net interest
income, the money banks make from lending, advanced 95 percent
to 107.9 million cedis.  Yields on Ghana’s 91-day treasury bills, used by banks in
determining lending rates, will continue to fall as the
government moves toward issuing more long-term debt, Owiredu
said.  Shares fell for the first time in five days, declining 2
percent to 98 pesewas at by the close in Accra. The shares have
gained 158 percent this year, compared with the 78 percent gain
on the  Ghana  Stock Exchange Composite Index.  Next year “is not going to be as bright as this year for
CAL Bank, especially due to the trend in interest rates,”
Derrick Mensah, a stock trader at African Alliance Securities
Ltd., said by phone from Accra. “I believe that some investors
were disinvesting in CAL to invest in other companies that they
think will deliver better growth.”  Falling Rates  Ghana’s  three-month borrowing costs , which reached 23.12
percent on Feb. 22, declined to 19.68 percent at the most recent
auction on Nov. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The West African nation’s  inflation  rate rose to 11.9
percent in September, the highest this year, from 11.5 percent
the month before. The central bank is targeting inflation of 9
percent plus or minus two percentage points.  CAL Bank will seek to earn more through fees, commissions
and trading income to make up for the expected losses in
interest income, said Owiredu. These income streams at the
moment account for between 30 percent and 35 percent of the
bank’s total income, he said.  The bank plans to increase its branch network to 21 by the
end of this year and 30 by 2015, Managing Director Frank Adu Jr
said at a conference today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andres R. Martinez at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net  