-- Giacometti Fetches Record $33 Million in Listless Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-11-06T04:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/giacometti-s-diego-portrait-fetches-record-32-6-million.html
Christie’s flopped for a second
consecutive night in  New York , as top-priced lots by Picasso,
Modigliani and Leger failed to find buyers at a listless
Impressionist and modern-art auction.  The $144.3 million tally last night was 23 percent short of
the $188 million low estimate; 11 of 46 lots didn’t sell.  “There wasn’t a lot of enthusiasm out there,” said Tom
Elghanayan, a New York developer who collects German
expressionism. “You could feel it in the room.”  Monday night’s sale of art dealer Jan Krugier’s collection
damped the mood, dealers said. It brought in $92.5 million, a
third below the low end of its estimate. Including yesterday’s
day sale, the Krugier works totaled $113.7 million.  Last night’s sale “also suffered from overestimation on
several of the top lots,” said art adviser Mary Hoeveler.
“Buyers don’t need to be told when something is a
‘masterpiece.’”  Alberto Giacometti ’s portrait of his brother Diego,
estimated at $30 million to $50 million, didn’t attract a bid in
the room or on phone banks.  The painting was guaranteed by an undisclosed third party
before the sale and the guarantor took it home for $32.6
million, a record for a Giacometti painting. Prices include
commissions. Estimates do not.  The 1954 piece was sold by Jeffrey Loria, an art dealer and
owner of the Miami Marlins baseball team, according to a state
regulatory filing.  Young Prostitute  Until last night, the highest price for a Giacometti
painting was $14.6 million, paid in 2008 at Sotheby’s New York
for a 1964 portrait of Caroline, a young prostitute the artist
met in 1959.  Modigliani’s 1918 portrait of an androgynous young man,
“Monsieur Baranowski,” had a presale range of $25 million to
$35 million. It failed to generate a single bid.  Picasso’s colorful 1963 painting “Le Peintre et Son Modele
Dans un Paysage” had the same estimate -- and outcome.  The failure of the two lots knocked as much as $70 million
off the evening’s tally.  “People are extremely selective,” Hoeveler said. “Unless
the material is exceptional and fresh, they are just going to
sit and watch.”  Mid-range prices inspired more bidding. And as on Monday
night, Asian collectors won several pieces.  Three Chagalls  Chie Banta, Christie’s specialist for Impressionist and
modern art in  Japan , picked up at least three paintings by  Marc Chagall  for her telephone clients. The priciest, “Le Rappel,”
fetched $4.4 million, exceeding the high estimate.  Rebecca Wei, managing director of Christie’s  Asia , snagged
a small  Van Gogh  drawing for $1.4 million, a Monet view of
Giverny in winter for $5.2 million and a Picasso for $2.7
million. She also underbid Chagall’s “Au Cirque” painting.  The night before, Wei placed the winning bid on behalf of
 China ’s richest man, Wang Jianlin, who bought Picasso’s painting
of his young children, Claude and Paloma, for $28.2 million,
according to Christie’s. It was the Krugier collection’s top
lot.  Last night’s Picasso, the 1965 “Tete de Femme au Chapeau”
was also bought by Wang to join the corporate collection of
Dalian Wanda Group, the real-estate conglomerate where he serves
as chairman and president.  “Chinese collectors only want A-list artists, the names
they don’t have to explain to their friends,” said Wei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  