-- Global Climate Deal Should Include Emissions Budget, CMIA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-06T09:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/global-climate-deal-should-include-emissions-budget-cmia-says.html
The global climate deal for 2020
being negotiated through 2015 by United Nations envoys should
include a budget limiting greenhouse gas emissions, according to
the Climate Markets & Investment Association.  The  London  lobby group which represents banks and law firms
called on almost 200 nations meeting in Warsaw starting next
week to agree on the “legal form” of the deal to be sealed at
a meeting in Paris in two years, CMIA said today by e-mail.  The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change outlined
estimates for a budget for the first time in a Sept. 27 report.
The world risks blowing through that limit in 21 years,
threatening to cause global warming of more than double the
threshold deemed safe by the panel, the global accounting firm
PwC said Nov. 2 in a study. The IPCC is a group of scientists
overseen by the UN.  “Given that the IPCC is viewed by many commentators as
being overly conservative, it is hard to imagine a starker
warning,” said Anthony Hobley, president of the association
whose members include Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank
AG. “There is already evidence of loss of life due to climate
change. Continued inaction is at best callous and at worst
negligent,” Hobley said in the statement.  Nations failed to agree a global deal at a meeting at the
end of 2009 in Copenhagen. Still, they did make emission-limiting pledges, including for 2020. The U.K. has installed a
program of carbon budgets over five-year periods through 2050,
backed by law. Under a system of carbon budgets, where emissions
rise in one industry, the nations would need to achieve
corresponding falls in another or potentially buy emission
credits.  National Budgets  There is scant evidence nations are drawing up more
ambitious national budgets to include in the 2015 deal, said
Daniel Rossetto, managing director of Climate Mundial Ltd. in
London, which advises companies on emissions trading.  “The absence of prior national approval of carbon budgets
and the failure of developed nations to come good on their
Copenhagen climate finance pledges are the most important
barriers to getting carbon budgets in the deal,” he said today
by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  