-- Greenhouse Gases Rise to Record Levels in Atmosphere, WMO Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-06T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/greenhouse-gases-rise-to-record-levels-in-atmosphere-wmo-says.html
Concentrations in the atmosphere of
the three main global warming gases rose in 2012 to the highest
on record, increasing impacts of  climate change  including ice
melt and rising sea levels, the  United Nations  said.  Carbon dioxide, responsible for about 80 percent of the
warming effect of greenhouse gases, gained 0.56 percent to 393.1
parts per million molecules of air, the UN World Meteorological
Organization said today in an e-mailed  bulletin . The methane
concentration increased 0.33 percent and the nitrous oxide level
climbed 0.28 percent.  Increasing levels of the gases are at odds with the UN-endorsed goal of keeping the temperature rise since pre-industrial times to below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit). The  World Bank  says the Earth is on track to warm
by 4 degrees, and UN scientists said Sept. 27 that humans have
already emitted more than half the carbon compatible with the
temperature target.  The observations “highlight yet again how heat-trapping
gases from human activities have upset the natural balance of
our atmosphere,” WMO Secretary-General Michel Jarraud said in
the statement. “As a result of this, our climate is changing,
our weather is more extreme, ice sheets and glaciers are melting
and sea levels are rising.”  Climate treaty envoys from more than 190 nations will
gather in Warsaw next week for two weeks of talks to try to help
craft by 2015 a legally binding global deal to cut  greenhouse
gases .  Pledges made by nations to curtail emissions between now
and 2020 are insufficient to keep to a 2-degree pathway, the UN
Environment Program said yesterday. At best, greenhouse-gas
output by the end of this decade will be about 18 percent above
levels needed, it said.  If countries take a “business-as-usual” approach, total
warming since industrialization may reach 4.6 degrees by 2100,
with “devastating” consequences, Jarraud said.  The methane concentration in 2012 was 1,819 parts per
billion molecules of air, according to the WMO bulletin. The
nitrous oxide concentration was 325.1 parts per billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  