-- Liberty Global Adds European Subscribers With Speedier Broadband
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-11-06T16:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/liberty-global-adds-european-subscribers-with-speedier-broadband.html
Liberty Global (LBTYA)  Plc, the cable company
controlled by billionaire John Malone, added customers in the
third quarter as more signed up for packages combining phone,
Web and television service.  Liberty Global added 314,000 subscribers last quarter. That
beat the 223,000 additions estimated by Vijay Jayant, an analyst
with ISI Group. Shares rose as much as 6.9 percent, the biggest
gain in two years.  Customers in markets such as Germany, the Netherlands and
 Belgium  are signing up for more triple-play packages and paying
for Internet speeds twice as fast as a year ago, the company
said. Subscribers in Switzerland are signing up for service
that’s three times as fast, Liberty Global said. The company
generated about 90 percent of its  revenue  from Europe last year.  “Broadband remains our core product and anchors our
bundled plans in every market,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Fries said in a conference call today. “We should have a huge
advantage in broadband for the foreseeable future, and this
gives us a lot of comfort.”  Liberty Global repurchased $500 million worth of shares
last quarter. The company is on track to complete its two-year
target to repurchase $3.5 billion in shares by the middle of
2015, Fries said in a statement.  Liberty Global rose 6.6 percent, to $81.04 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading at 11:29 a.m. in New York. The shares gained 21
percent this year through yesterday.  Wider Loss  Liberty’s net loss widened to $830.1 million, or $2.09 a
share, from $22.4 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, the
London-based company said in a statement yesterday. Revenue rose
74 percent to $4.37 billion, missing analysts’ $4.42 billion
average estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Liberty Global blamed the loss on its investments in
derivative instruments, as well as higher expenses from interest
and income taxes. Malone said in July that he’s willing to take
on debt to expand his European operations because he expects the
cost of paying back loans to decline as economies improve and
inflation rates rebound from crisis levels.  Interest expenses increased to $605.7 million from $351.8
million a year earlier while debt and lease obligations more
than doubled to $854.1 million from $363.5 million, the company
said. Losses from derivative investments, investments that can
be used to hedge risk, rose to $675 million from $569.9 million.
Earnings last year were helped by a sale of interest in Austar
United Communications in the second quarter.  U.K. Subscribers  In the U.K.,  Virgin Media  -- which Liberty Global bought
this year -- lost 6,800 customers after BT Group Plc began
offering free access to premium sports programs for its
broadband customers. TV and phone customers fell by 12,600 and
24,400 respectively, while 30,200 signed up for Internet
service, Virgin Media said in a statement on its  website . An
agreement to offer BT Sport channels to Virgin customers helped
mitigate losses.  Liberty Global said in the statement it expects to
recognize as much as $360 million in cost savings from the
Virgin Media deal, double its initial forecast.  In September, Liberty Global was the first cable company to
team up with subscription-video service Netflix Inc., allowing
the streaming site to be included on the Virgin Media platform
in the U.K. Netflix later signed similar deals with cable
operators in Sweden and  Denmark .  Liberty Global agreed on Oct. 28 to sell its Chellomedia
international content unit to AMC Networks Inc., the owner of
the U.S. cable-TV channel that broadcasts “Breaking Bad” and
“Mad Men,” for 750 million euros ($1 billion), as Malone’s
company focuses on acquiring rivals in Europe and building out
network capacity.  German Obstacles  The company was less successful in the Netherlands and
Germany. Dutch pay-TV provider  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  said last month it
rejected a takeover offer from Liberty Global, which had a 28.5
percent stake as of a July 25 filing. Malone’s company was also
outbid for Germany’s Kabel Deutschland Holding AG by  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  in June.  Liberty Global’s attempts to build up its German business
were further sidetracked in August when its antitrust clearance
to buy cable operator Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH was
overturned by a court that ruled the competition authority
didn’t demand tough enough concessions.  Fries said today he doesn’t expect any future concessions
to be “material” to Liberty Global’s business in the country.
Losing Kabel Deutschland to Vodafone this year may be beneficial
since Liberty Global can now argue that the German market is
more competitive, Fries said on the conference call.  “Some people have questioned our commitment to the German
market, which is absurd,” Fries said. “Our long-term potential
in  Germany  has never looked better.”  Liberty Global bought Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany’s
third-largest cable operator, from EQT Partners in March 2011
for about 3.16 billion euros, to benefit from demand for
broadband Internet access via cable. Two years earlier, it
bought Unitymedia, Germany’s second-largest cable operator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  