-- Ibovespa Futures Rise as Commodities Gain Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-11-06T11:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-commodities-gain-boosts-export-outlook.html
     Nov. 6 (Bloomberg) --Ibovespa  futures  climbed, after the
stock index fell yesterday to a three-week low, as higher
commodities prices bolstered the outlook for Brazil’s exporters
of raw materials.  Homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  may move after reporting third-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates while  PDG
Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes (PDGR3)  posted a loss that was
wider than forecast.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilder founded by
former billionaire  Eike Batista , may be active after people
familiar with the matter said the company plans to file for
bankruptcy protection by early next week.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in December advanced
0.4 percent to 54,180 at 9:15 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real
strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.2857 per dollar. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials added 0.6 percent amid
optimism growth is picking up in the U.S., Brazil’s biggest
trading partner after China.  A report from the Getulio Vargas Foundation today showed
inflation in Latin America’s largest economy was slower than
forecast in October. An index of wholesale, construction and
consumer prices increased 0.63 percent from a month earlier,
less than the 0.74 percent median  estimate  among economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  In an Oct. 31 statement, OSX said it was ready to seek
 bankruptcy protection  if management decided that was the
best way to protect its interests.  The Ibovespa entered a bull market Sept. 9 after rising 20
percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 21 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 3.6 percent for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.81 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.61 billion
reais this year through Oct. 22, according to the latest data
available from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  