-- Iceland’s Wow May Add Larger Jets to Bring U.S. Within Range
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-11-06T17:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/iceland-s-wow-air-may-add-larger-jets-to-bring-u-s-within-range.html
Icelandic carrier  Wow Air  said it may
buy  Boeing Co. (BA)  757 or Airbus SAS A321 jets to bring more U.S.
routes within range of Reykjavik and help rebuild a tourism
industry after the country’s financial collapse five years ago.  The discount carrier is evaluating flights to destinations
in eastern North America and will tomorrow announce a service to
Boston, its first route beyond Europe, founder and Chief
Executive Officer Skuli Mogensen said in an interview.  Building a U.S. network would boost Wow’s share of the
burgeoning Icelandic tourism market, which grew 20 percent last
year, according to Mogensen, while opening up one-stop trans-Atlantic connections like those offered by Icelandair. Wow’s
Airbus A320 planes have a range of 6,000 kilometers, 1,000 km
less than Boeing’s 757-200ER, which can reach  Florida .  “One of the reasons we’ve started with  Boston  is because
it’s within range but we are actively looking at what aircraft
would be the most suitable for new, longer destinations,” the
CEO said. “I’m very excited about adding North America.”  Boeing’s 757, the world’s longest single-aisle plane and
the mainstay of  Icelandair ’s fleet, is “perfectly suited” to
U.S. operations though having ended production in 2004 is
“getting outdated,” Mogensen said in London, where he was
attending the World Travel Market industry expo.  Fuel Tanks  The A321 is also an “interesting opportunity,” he said,
which when equipped with extra fuel tanks, can match the A320’s
range while carrying 185 passengers, about 15 short of the 757.  Wide-body aircraft aren’t attractive because they wouldn’t
fit with European routes, Mogensen said. While the current fleet
is hired from Bulgaria-based Air Via, which also provided pilots
until Wow secured its own operating certificate last month, the
carrier is keen to add new planes in line with low-cost norms
and is exploring both direct purchases and leases of new jets.  Wow, which consolidated its position with the purchase of
discount rival  Iceland Express  a year ago, operates its winter
schedule with three A320s, serving eight cities. The airline had
four planes in operation during the busier summer season, when
it flew to 14 locations, and will move to five A320s next year,
helping it to add services to  Stockholm , as well as Boston.  Mogensen said he’s less focused on transfer traffic than
Icelandair, which has 12 North American routes and 24 to Europe.  Economic Revival  “I think Icelandair is now selecting new destinations that
really have nothing to do with Iceland,” he said. “That’s
where we differ. The main driver for us is the growth of tourism
to Iceland, though I do think North America will also strengthen
our European destinations using Iceland as a via-hub.”  Icelandair CEO Birkir Holm Guonasonsaid in an interview
that new services must tap more than one traffic flow. The
carrier has made a virtue of flying to smaller cities such as
Edmonton and Halifax in  Canada  which don’t have direct European
flights and from where the shortest path passes near Reykjavik.  “We always try to find a good mix of traffic to and from
Iceland with trans-Atlantic traffic,” he said. “We’ve targeted
secondary markets because we can offer an advantage in going via
Iceland in terms of total journey time, and those routes also
feed our European flights and allow us to add frequencies.”  MAX Order  Icelandair has 18 757s and will expand to 21 with planes
from charter unit Loftleidir Icelandic, plus an order for 16 of
Boeing’s re-engined 737 MAX 8 and 9 jets to be used for flights
to less distant North American cities. The carrier serves Europe
by day, with evening departures on U.S. and Canadian routes.  Wow’s destinations include  London , Paris and Berlin, plus
Poland and  Lithuania , which provide migrant labor, a couple of
Mediterranean resorts and a ski route to Salzburg,  Austria .  Iceland’s turnaround since an $85 billion bank default in
2008 has been spurred by a weaker krona that’s made prices
cheaper for visitors. An economic revival and volcanic eruptions
have attracted adventurous travelers.  Wow faces competition from more established carriers
including  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  and  Air Berlin
Plc (AB1) , as well as from Icelandair, whose stock has surged 93
percent this year following a 63 percent gain in 2012 for a
market value of 80 billion Icelandic kronur ($650 million).  Opening up North America will reduce Wow’s reliance on a
crowded market while targeting a market that accounts for 25
percent of all Icelandic air travel, according to Mogensen.  Some 17 airlines fly Iceland-Europe during the summer and
five or six continue operating through the winter, he said,
while only Icelandair and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  serve Iceland-U.S. routes in the summer and Icelandair alone in the winter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  