-- ICG’s Credit Fund Favors Leveraged Loans Over High-Yield Bonds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-11-06T17:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/icg-s-credit-fund-favors-leveraged-loans-over-high-yield-bonds.html
Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP) , an
asset manager that oversees 13 billion euros ($18 billion), is
increasing investments in European leveraged loans because they
offer better value than high-yield bonds.  The volume of loans in ICG’s  Total Credit Fund (ICGTCEA)  has risen to
42 percent from 36 percent when the fund started in July 2012,
according to Garland Hansmann, a high-yield  fund manager  at ICG
in London.  “We are finding it easier and easier to find attractive
loan investments than in high-yield bonds, where value is
evaporating a lot faster than loans on a risk-adjusted basis,”
Hansmann said.  Returns on junk-rated corporate bonds in euros shrank to 7
percent this year from 21 percent in November 2012, according to
Bloomberg bond index  data , while the average yield on the
securities fell to 4.2 percent from 5.6 percent over the same
period. Demand for speculative-grade debt will erode  credit
quality  among first-time issuers, Moody’s Investors Service
predicted this week.  ICG also reduced the fund’s investments in collateralized
loan obligations to 2 percent from as much as 20 percent last
year, said Hansmann. The average spread of BB rated European
CLOs tightened by 725 basis points over benchmark rates this
year while A grade notes narrowed by 250 basis points, according
to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  CLOs pool high-yield loans and slice them into debt
securities of varying risk and return that typically get ratings
ranging from AAA to B.  ICG’s Total Credit fund generated returns of 9.2 percent
this year, according to the  money manager .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  