-- Miller Says Puerto Rico to Get Management Advice Without Aid
-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-06T16:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/miller-says-u-s-will-give-puerto-rico-help-on-fiscal-management.html
Mary Miller , the U.S. Treasury
Department’s undersecretary for domestic finance, said there is
no “deep federal assistance right around the corner” for
Puerto Rico and the U.S. government will give “any assistance
we can on fiscal management.”  “We can be helpful in making sure that every federal
dollar that Puerto Rico is entitled to is being spent
effectively and efficiently,” Miller said at the Bloomberg Link
State & Municipal Finance Conference in New York today.  “There are many conversations that are taking place
between the island and  Washington  more broadly,” Miller said.
“But I don’t want to convey that that translates into a direct
ask for federal direct assistance, because that is not
contemplated at this time.”  The average yield on a  Puerto Rico  general-obligation bond
maturing in 2041 fell to about 7.7 percent yesterday from as
much as 10.2 percent in September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Puerto Rico’s credit rating is one step above junk. The
fiscal health of the self-governing commonwealth of 3.7 million
people affects the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market  because
more than three-quarters of U.S. muni mutual funds hold the
island’s obligations, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The
securities are tax-exempt nationwide.  Default Unlikely  A debt default by Puerto Rico would be “very hard to
happen” given how the commonwealth directs revenue to bond
payments and the diversity of the territory’s credits, said
Melba Acosta, the island’s treasury secretary, who also spoke at
the conference.  Miller, who is acting deputy Treasury secretary, also said
there’s a “real opportunity” for regulators to complete this
year the Volcker rule ban on banks trading for their own
accounts.  “There’s still work to do before this is completed, but I
am very heartened by the progress that I’m seeing and that we’ll
get something this year,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diane Brady in  New York  at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Rohner at 
 mrohner@bloomberg.net  