-- Illinois Evading Pension Fix Leads State Gaps Wider: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/illinois-evading-pension-fix-leads-state-gaps-wider-muni-credit.html
Led by  Illinois , U.S. states have
lost ground for five straight years in socking away enough
assets to pay retired workers.  Illinois was the most-populous of five states, including
 Kentucky , North Dakota,  Oregon  and  Vermont , where pension-funding ratios fell at least 21 percentage points from 2007 to
2012,  data compiled by Bloomberg show .  The nationwide median ratio of 69 percent is down from
almost 83 percent in 2007, according to the  data . The longest
recession since the 1930s devastated portfolios and pushed some
officials to forgo pension allocations as tax revenue sank. Even
with investment returns rebounding, many states haven’t funded
enough to fill the gap. In some cases, including Illinois,
proposals to cut payouts by reducing benefits have stalled.  “A lot of states are not making their full
contributions,” John Carlson, vice president in the Federal
Reserve Bank of  Cleveland ’s research department, said in an
interview. “When they’re underfunded, they’re supposed to make
additional contributions to close the gap.”  For states and municipalities nationwide, the swelling
obligations are leaving officials with the quandary of where to
allocate tax dollars -- to services such as education or toward
retiree benefits. In Illinois, which has $5.3 billion in unpaid
bills, Democratic Governor Pat Quinn has likened the pension
expense to a python strangling state finances.  Lawmakers’ Limits  States with weaker funding levels can pay a price in the
$3.7 trillion municipal-debt market. Illinois,  Pennsylvania  and
New Jersey have had their credit ratings cut since the start of
2011 in part because of pension burdens.  Illinois lawmakers have failed to enact a pension fix at
least five times in the past 15 months. Legislators are meeting
today as part of a session that is scheduled to last through
tomorrow.  The state has seen the  extra yield  on its bonds swell to
more than five times that of  California , even though the latter
is rated just one level higher by Standard & Poor’s. Increased
relative borrowing costs mean more money going to repay debt and
less left to pay for services for residents.  Investors’ Choice  “I’d rather invest in a state that is more underfunded and
making its contributions than a state that is less underfunded
but not trying to catch up,” said Eric Friedland, head of
municipal credit research in New York at Schroder Investment
Management North America, which oversees about $3 billion of
munis.  States may have to reduce benefits, increase taxes or limit
services to keep pension promises, said Eileen Norcross, senior
research fellow at George Mason University’s Mercatus Center in
Arlington, Virginia.  “There’s going to have to be a structural reform of a lot
of these plans,” she said.  Forty-eight states have enacted pension changes since the
18-month recession that ended in June 2009, according to Luke
Martel, senior policy specialist at the Denver-based National
Conference of State Legislatures.  “In some states they need multiple rounds of reform, and
Illinois would be one of those,” he said.  Illinois, whose 12.9 million residents make it the fifth-biggest state, has seen its funding level fall to 40.4 cents on
the dollar, from almost 63 cents in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  Illinois Void  Chris Ryon, who helps oversee $10 billion of munis at
Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New Mexico, said
his firm owns no Illinois general-obligation bonds, in part
because of the pension challenge.  Illinois has the lowest grade among U.S. states from the
three biggest rating companies, at four steps above junk.  To catch up, some states have turned to alternative assets
such as hedge funds or private equity to boost returns.  Such holdings, which are harder to value and sell, more
than doubled to 24 percent of public-pension portfolios from
2006 to 2012, according to Cliffwater LLC, a Marina del Rey,
California-based firm that advises institutional investors.  “In the past few years, they’ve embraced this idea that if
they take on more risk on the asset side, somehow it’s going to
make up for market losses,” Norcross said. “There’s been a
troubling shift overall towards higher-risk investments.”  Diversification Drive  Illinois State Board of Investment, which oversees three of
the state’s five plans, has 10 percent of assets in hedge funds,
compared with about 9 percent to 9.5 percent in the past few
years, William Atwood, its executive director, said in an
interview. Hedge funds help diversify away from stocks, he said.  In the fiscal year through June, Illinois’s portfolio
earned 14.4 percent, compared with 11.8 percent for its
benchmark and an assumed return of 7.75 percent, according to
Atwood.  Improved returns won’t help if contributions don’t
increase, said Atwood. Illinois’ pensions have been underfunded
for decades, he said.  “You’re not going to invest your way out of the Illinois
funding problem,” Atwood said. “The best thing you can do is
reliably hit your return assumption over a lengthy time period,
and then fund the system.”  Overhaul Reward  States such as Rhode Island have improved funding ratios by
reducing payouts, said Carlson, who warned that because of legal
issues involved in cutting benefits, “some of this will be
played out in the courts.”  Rhode Island has the 11th-lowest funding ratio. Yet the
figure in 2012 was about 62 percent, up from about 54 percent in
2007.  The state overhauled its system in 2011, pushing back the
age for full retirement for public workers and introducing
401(k)-type savings plans to supplement traditional pensions. It
also suspended cost-of-living increases for retirees.  In the municipal market this week, issuers from  Hawaii  to
 Maine  are offering about $5.8 billion in long-term debt, up from
$4.9 billion last week. They’re borrowing with benchmark yields
rising from the lowest level since June.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.68 percent , the highest
since Oct. 25, Bloomberg data show. That compares with  2.67
percent (USGG10YR)  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 100 percent, the lowest since June 21. It compares with an
average of 94 percent since 2001. The smaller the number, the
more expensive munis are compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  