-- Time Warner’s Profit Tops Estimates as Network Revenue Gains
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-11-06T21:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/time-warner-tops-profit-estimates-as-cable-network-revenue-gains.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of cable
channels TNT,  CNN  and  HBO , reported third-quarter profit that
surpassed analysts’ estimates after its television networks
benefited from higher programming fees and advertising.  Excluding some items, earnings rose to $1.01 a share in the
period, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had predicted  89 cents  on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pay-TV companies such as Comcast Corp. and DirecTV are
paying more to carry Time Warner programming, whether it’s
“Game of Thrones” on HBO or college basketball and
professional baseball games on TNT and TBS. That subscription
revenue climbed 4 percent the quarter. Advertising grew 11
percent, bringing the company’s total sales from that division
to $3.5 billion.  “TBS was the No. 2 ad-supported cable network in prime
time across adults 18-34 and 18-49,” Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Bewkes said in the statement. “And TNT finished the
quarter as the No. 2 network among adults 25-54 in total day,
thanks to a lineup of originals that included four of the top 10
scripted shows on ad-supported cable.”  Time Warner shares  fell less than 1 percent to $67.69 at
the close in New York. The stock has risen 42 percent this year.  Spinoff Strategy  Bewkes has focused Time Warner’s growth strategy on its TV
business, which accounts for more than  70 percent  of operating
income. After spinning off AOL Inc. and Time Warner Cable Inc.
in recent years, he’s now offloading the magazine publisher Time
Inc. That business, Time Warner’s worst-performing division,
will be spun off in the first half of next year, following
unsuccessful talks to merge the unit with Meredith Corp., owner
of Ladies’ Home Journal.  Total sales were little changed at $6.86 billion, compared
with an analyst estimate of $6.94 billion. Lower revenue at Time
Inc. and  Warner Bros . dragged down results.  Advertising was a bright spot, due in part to improved
ratings at CNN, TBS and the Adult Swim programming block on the
Cartoon Network, which is popular with adults age 18 to 49 -- a
group advertisers pay more to reach.  The company repurchased $1.2 billion of its stock in the
quarter, part of a $4 billion buyback program. Time Warner has
spent $3 billion buying its own stock this year.  Separately, Time Warner reaffirmed its full-year forecast,
saying adjusted earnings would grow in the “mid-teens” from
$3.24 a year ago. That doesn’t include one-time items such as
the planned spinoff of Time Inc.  Media Breakups  In July, Time Warner named Joseph Ripp as CEO of Time Inc.,
ahead of the planned split. Bewkes’s move to spin off the
shrinking magazine business and focus on the more valuable
television and film divisions mirrors plans by other media
companies.  News Corp . split in two at the end of June to form
separate newspaper and entertainment businesses, and Tribune Co.
announced earlier this year that it would spin off its
newspapers, which include the Los Angeles Times, while keeping
its TV stations.  Bewkes named Chief Financial Officer  John Martin  to lead
its Turner Broadcasting unit in July, part of his plan to move
his lieutenants into key posts as the company evaluates possible
successors in anticipation of the end of his employment
agreement in 2017, when he’ll be 65.  In January, Bewkes named Kevin Tsujihara to lead the
company’s Warner Bros. film and TV studio, and a few months
earlier, he hired Jeffrey Zucker to lead the ailing CNN. In
September, Bewkes named Richard Plepler head of HBO. Last month,
HBO Chief Operating Officer Eric Kessler, a 27-year veteran of
the cable network, announced he would be stepping down at the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  