-- India Panel Recommends Airwaves’ Price to Be Cut, Official Says
-- B y   S a n t o s h   K u m a r   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-11-06T13:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/india-panel-recommends-airwaves-price-to-be-cut-official-says.html
A panel in  India ’s telecom ministry
has recommended the minimum price for an auction of wireless
airwaves be cut to almost a third, a government official said.  The panel has suggested the reserve price for 900 megahertz
spectrum in the country’s capital New Delhi be set at 3.6
billion rupees ($58 million), said the official asking not to be
identified citing rules. At the last auction held in March the
base price for the city was  9.7 billion rupees , according to the
Department of Telecommunications website.  The recommendations follow auctions that raised money that
fell short of government targets as Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram aims to narrow the budget  deficit  to 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year started April 1 from 4.9
percent a year earlier.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest
mobile-phone carrier, and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  were among wireless
companies that did not bid at the March auction.  The next auction is likely to be held in January,
Telecommunications Secretary M.F. Farooqui told reporters in New
Delhi today. The panel consists of government officials and is
headed by Farooqui.  “The pricing should be welcomed by the industry in January
when they open up the bidding,” said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based
analyst with Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. “There’s some pent-up
demand for spectrum, which should help the government fill its
coffers.”  The auction in March attracted just one bidder. In
September, the nation’s telecommunications regulator recommended
lowering reserve prices by about 60 percent.  Both Bharti and Vodafone will need to renew licenses to use
airwaves in some regions by the end of next year to continue
providing services in those areas.  The recommendations will now be reviewed by a group of
empowered ministers, said the official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  