-- India Paves Way for HSBC to Citigroup to Add Local Branches
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-11-07T05:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/india-boosts-scope-for-foreign-banks-to-expand-with-dbs-poised.html
India will let foreign lenders led by
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  set up more branches in the most sweeping opening
of the banking industry since 2004 as central bank chief
 Raghuram Rajan  seeks to spur competition and revive the economy.  Overseas banks will be allowed to set up subsidiaries with
minimum capital of 5 billion rupees ($80 million) and a capital
adequacy ratio of 10 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in
a  statement  yesterday. Locally incorporated units would be
permitted to open branches “anywhere in the country at par with
Indian banks,” it said.  Rajan’s policy shift eases the way for overseas banks to
compete in a market where Citigroup and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
haven’t opened a branch for three years and operate 0.1 percent
of India’s 92,000 outlets. The changes mirror moves by Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government to open sectors from
aviation to retail to increased foreign investment as  India’s
economy  grows at the slowest pace since 2009.  “A large market always piques interest, and more so for
under-penetrated markets,” Ismael Pili, head of Asia bank
research at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mail before the RBI statement. “India certainly fits that bill
with its huge population base.”  The S&P BSE Bankex Index, which tracks 13 bank  stocks ,
dropped 1 percent as of 10:49 a.m. Mumbai time. The benchmark
S&P BSE Sensex gauge was little changed.  Expansion Plans  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast Asia ’s largest bank, is
ready to act as soon as limits are lifted, Vijit Yadav, chief
operating officer of the lender’s Indian operations, said in an
interview in Mumbai on Oct. 7. The Singapore-based group, which
has opened 12 Indian branches since 1995, “is bullish” on the
new model and aims to add 50 outlets within three years of
getting approval, Yadav said.  As much as 65 percent of India’s population of 1.2 billion
doesn’t have access to a bank account, the  World Bank  estimates.  India had previously limited foreign banks operating within
its borders to opening a combined 12 new branches a year. New
York-based Citigroup and London-based HSBC haven’t opened an
outlet in the nation since 2010. The two lenders operate just 93
of India’s more than 92,000 branches, central bank data show.  Rajesh Joshi, a Mumbai-based spokesman for HSBC, and  James Griffiths , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup, declined
to comment on the new rules.  Government Control  Rajan said on Sept. 4, when he took over at the monetary
authority, that he would seek to encourage foreign banks to move
to a wholly-owned subsidiary structure, giving them greater
ability to expand in return for increased regulatory oversight
of their local operations.  India has 26 state-run banks, led by  State Bank of India ,
that accounted for 76 percent of outstanding loans as of March
31, according to RBI data. The country’s 20 private lenders,
including ICICI, held 19 percent of the loan market, while 43
foreign banks accounted for the rest.  In 2004, the government raised the limit for foreign direct
investment in India’s non-state banks to 74 percent and began
allowing overseas banks that met certain criteria to set up
wholly owned units.  Yesterday, the RBI said it will consider allowing foreign
banks’ local subsidiaries to buy as much as 74 percent of
private-sector banks. India’s largest non-state lenders include
Mumbai-based  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , HDFC Bank Ltd. and Yes Bank Ltd.  Less Control  Loosening the branch restrictions is an effort to lure
banks that may be concerned about losing control of their local
operations if they set up a subsidiary, said Vishal Narnolia, a
Mumbai-based analyst at SMC Global Securities Ltd.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the largest foreign bank operating
in India by branches, said it’s too early to comment in detail
without reviewing the guidelines and its implications, according
to an e-mailed response to queries.  Relaxing the rules for branches takes forward a road map
first unveiled in 2005 for the evolution of foreign banks’
Indian operations. The government then sought to make local
incorporation more palatable by amending the income tax law in
2012 to exempt foreign banks from capital gains taxes when they
shift to operating through subsidiaries.  Indian Nationals  At least a third of the local subsidiaries’ directors
should be independent of the unit’s management and at least a
third should be Indian citizens residing in the country,
according to the RBI statement yesterday.  The central bank is endorsing the subsidiary model to
improve oversight of foreign bank operations and curb capital
flight in times of financial stress, according to Dina Wadia, a
Mumbai-based partner at  law firm  J. Sagar Associates who has
helped several foreign banks to set up  India  branches. She
declined to name them, citing company policy.  Having just branches “allows the lenders to move all their
assets outside India overnight,” Wadia said by phone on Oct.
18. The RBI doesn’t want “a situation where there is no money
in the coffers of a foreign bank to pay back the depositors when
the next crisis brews.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  