-- Indonesia GDP Grows Less Than 6%
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2013-11-06T08:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/indonesia-gdp-grows-less-than-6-.html
Indonesia  said it will allow foreign
investment in airports and ports as the government seeks to
revitalize an economy growing at the weakest pace since the
global recession.  The country may also ease limits on overseas holdings in
its telecommunications and pharmaceutical industries, the
Investment Coordinating Board said today, hours after a report
showed economic expansion slowed for a fifth quarter.  Gross
domestic product  increased 5.62 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, as a declining rupiah
restrained investment in Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy.  Indonesian policy makers are grappling with a depreciated
 exchange rate , elevated inflation and diminished foreign capital
inflows undermining President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s legacy
of economic stability before he steps down next year. His
failure to fix infrastructure gaps in his two terms has added to
price pressures, threatening his party’s chances at elections in
2014.  “The dust has yet to settle on the slowdown definitely,”
said Wellian Wiranto, a Singapore-based investment strategist at
the wealth-management unit of Barclays Plc. “Hopefully it will
be replaced by construction dust coming from new infrastructure
investment if they stick to these opening up measures.”  The rupiah fell 0.5 percent to 11,415 per dollar as of 3:45
p.m. in Jakarta today, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It has dropped more than 15 percent this
year, the worst performer among Asia’s 11 most-active currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Foreign Ownership  The government will allow foreign ownership of as much as
100 percent on airports, airport services and ports, Mahendra
Siregar, chairman of the Investment Coordinating Board, told
reporters today. For ground and freight terminals, it may be as
high as 49 percent, while a cap on overseas holdings in 10 other
industries may be eased, he said.  Bank Indonesia  has raised its key rate by 1.5 percentage
points since early June to shore up the rupiah and stem price
gains, while the government predicts growth next year will be
slower as it reins in spending to narrow a record current-account gap. The central bank will announce its next rate
decision Nov. 12.  The year-on-year expansion compares with a revised 5.83
percent pace for the second quarter and the median estimate of
5.6 percent in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 23 economists. GDP
increased 2.96 percent last  quarter  from the previous three
months, when it expanded 2.61 percent.  Stepping Down  “Growth is still some way from bottoming,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “The combination of the lagged effects of higher
 interest rates ,” a downturn in commodity-related industries and
weaker real income growth will hurt expansion in private
consumption, he said.  The country will hold parliamentary elections in April and
a presidential one in July. Yudhoyono can’t run for a third term.  Bank Indonesia cut its 2013 economic growth forecast last
month to between 5.5 percent and 5.9 percent, from as much as
6.2 percent earlier. Inflation remained above 8 percent for a
fourth month in October.  “The increase in prices -- such as transportation costs as
a result of higher subsidized fuel price and the rise in
electricity tariffs -- all of these have put a cap on  consumer
spending ,” Henri Honoris, President Director of PT Modern
PutraIndonesia, the franchise holder of 7-Eleven convenience
stores in the country, said in an Oct. 31 interview.  Foreign direct investment into Indonesia rose 18.4 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, after increasing about 19
percent in the April-June period.  Delay Expansion                        “We have to delay our expansion, this year we won’t open
new shops as aggressively as the previous years,” Honoris said.
“We are adjusting our products and services over the next one
or two years as we observe the economic conditions.”  The  World Bank  said last month downside risks to
Indonesia’s economic outlook are sizeable, as higher borrowing
costs and inflation may have a greater-than-expected effect on
domestic demand. Exports have dropped for 18 consecutive months.  “External demand continues to provide little boost to
growth,” as exporters’ earnings remain under pressure from low
commodity prices, Gundy Cahyadi, a Singapore-based economist at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said before the report.  The current-account shortfall was a record 4.4 percent of
GDP in the three months through June, and central bank Governor
Agus Martowardojo has said it may have narrowed to about 3.3
percent to 3.5 percent of GDP last quarter.  Bank Indonesia and the government are serious about
addressing the current-account deficit, Finance Minister Chatib
Basri said Oct. 25. “To manage it, our macro policies must be
tight” for both monetary and fiscal matters, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  