-- ING's Hamers Says EU Banking Union Needs All Elements
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-11-06T12:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ing-s-hamers-says-eu-banking-union-needs-all-elements.html
Ralph Hamers, chief executive officer
of  ING Groep NV (INGA) , said a proposed European banking union will
only work if all the planned elements are in place.  The  European Central Bank  takes on oversight of all euro-area banks next year, the first step in leaders’  June 2012
pledge  to break the cycle in which banks and nations compound
each other’s financial strains. The ECB and the European
Commission, the European Union’s executive arm, are now pushing
for a joint authority to handle  bank failures .  “The banking union consists of  separate pillars ,” Hamers
told reporters in Amsterdam today, when asked if he was
concerned about continued disagreements among EU member states
on the proposed Single Resolution Mechanism. “The banking union
will really only work if all those pillars are fulfilled and
agreed upon.”  The bank-failure blueprint, presented in July by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, has met with a
barrage of complaints from governments, with  Germany  among those
to have expressed the strongest concerns.  As originally conceived, the banking union would also have
included a third “pillar” in addition to ECB supervision and
the single resolution system: pooled deposit guarantees. That
idea has since been abandoned in favor of pursuing an agreement
on “a common network of national deposit-guarantee schemes,”
 according to the commission .  Hamers said ING, which has operations across  Europe , “can
only benefit” from a banking union, which would help to promote
economic recovery and provide a solution to “the euro-zone
issues that we currently face.”  Specifically, Hamers said the banking union is needed to
ensure a “level playing field” for European lenders and to
spur the free flow of capital and liquidity across borders,
which “isn’t happening” at present.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net  