-- ING to Speed Up Reorganization After Revised Deal With EU
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-11-06T15:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ing-net-falls-85-on-charge-related-to-sale-of-korean-unit.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, will complete its reorganization two
years earlier than planned after winning regulators’ permission
to combine its Japanese insurance unit with European operations
in a 2014 initial public offering.  Under its agreement with the European Commission, ING will
accelerate the sale of its European insurance and investment
management activities by two years to the end of 2016, the
Amsterdam-based company said today. The deadline to sell more
than half of ING Life Japan was extended by two years to the end
of 2015 after the company failed to find a buyer. The stock
reached a five-year high.  “The positive news is they found a solution for Japan,”
said JanWillem Knoll, an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro
Group NV. “Now they can sweat the bad assets out rather than
being a forced seller.” Knoll has a buy rating on the shares.  Since taking over in October, Chief Executive Officer Ralph Hamers, 47, has cut ING’s stake in its U.S. insurance unit to
about 57 percent and reached a deal with the Netherlands on how
the nation will sell U.S. mortgage bonds it took over in a 2009
bailout. ING today reported third-quarter profit excluding one-time items that was in line with analysts’ estimates.  The shares  rose  as much as 6.5 percent to 9.88 euros, the
highest value since Oct. 15, 2008, before ING’s first bailout.
The stock was up 4.4 percent to 9.68 euros as of 3:59 p.m. in
Amsterdam and has increased 37 percent this year.  Net Income  Net income dropped 85 percent to 101 million euros in the
third quarter from a year earlier, after a 950 million-euro
writedown on the sale of its South Korean life insurance unit,
ING reported. Profit excluding one-time items rose 5.6 percent
to 891 million euros, compared with the 899 million-euro
estimate of analysts.  ING is paying the Netherlands 1.13 billion euros in state
aid received in 2008 with interest today, a step toward resuming
dividend payments to investors. It will make a subsequent
payment in March and a final reimbursement by May 2015.  “We look to pay the next one on the due date next year,”
Chief Financial Officer Patrick Flynn told reporters on a call
today. “Thereafter we’ll see what the lay of the land is. Our
ambition would be to exit the state as fast as possible whilst
maintaining prudent capital ratios.”  ‘End Phase’  ING got a 10 billion-euro capital injection from the Dutch
government in 2008 and transferred the risk on 21.6 billion
euros of U.S. mortgage assets to the state in 2009. The rescue
was approved by EU regulators on the condition that the company
sells its global insurance operations and returns the financial
aid with a premium and interest.  With progress made in recent weeks, ING is “advancing
further into the end phase” of its transformation, Hamers said.  Underlying pretax earnings at ING’s European insurance unit
rose to 136 million euros from 10 million euros a year earlier,
helped by cost cuts.  A sale of the Japanese unit was precluded by its complex
structure, Flynn said, as it consists of separate corporate-owned life insurance and variable annuity businesses folded into
one legal entity.  Japan Unit  The  Japan  unit made an operating profit of 161 million
euros in the first nine months of the year, ING said in a
presentation today. The company stopped selling variable
annuities -- products offering guaranteed benefits that a
provider generates through investment returns -- in Japan in
2009 and about 90 percent of the portfolio will run off by 2019,
releasing capital.  Preparations to sell stakes in the European and Japan
operations, to be named NN, in an initial public offering in
2014 are progressing well, ING said. The Japanese unit may make
the business more attractive to investors, Flynn said.  Cor Kluis, an analyst at Utrecht, Netherlands-based
Rabobank International, said the revised plans may increase his
price estimate on ING’s stock by 10 cents. Kluis recommends
clients buy the shares and currently has a price target of 10
euros.  While working through the restructuring, Hamers has to deal
with struggling European economies, including a recession at
home.  Sluggish Economy  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, yesterday cut its forecast for euro-area growth. Gross
domestic product in the 17-nation currency bloc will rise by 1.1
percent in 2014, less than the 1.2 percent forecast in May,
according to the forecast.  The commission also lowered its 2014 economic forecast for
the Netherlands, citing weak domestic consumption that will only
gradually pick up in the course of next year.  Pretax profit excluding one-time items at ING’s banking
operations fell 0.6 percent to 1.1 billion euros, beating the
1.03 billion-euro estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The bank set aside 552 euros for bad loans in the third
quarter, less than the 608 million-euro estimate of analysts.  Loan-loss provisions, while lower than the previous
quarter, are expected to remain high in the foreseeable future,
Chief Risk Officer Wilfred Nagel said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  