-- ING Says Real Estate Capital Buffers Suffice Before ECB Test
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-11-06T17:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ing-says-real-estate-capital-buffers-suffice-before-ecb-test.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, said the buffers to absorb losses on
its real estate finance loans are sufficient to meet Dutch and
European regulators’ scrutiny.  “Our capital and the provisions we hold against our credit
portfolio are more than adequate,” Chief Risk Officer Wilfred Nagel of the Amsterdam-based company said in a call with
reporters today. “There is no reason in particular at this
point to take drastic steps in any direction.”  The Dutch central bank is conducting an asset quality
review of the nation’s biggest lenders’ commercial real estate
books before the  European Central Bank  takes over supervision of
European banks, including ING, Rabobank Groep and ABN Amro Group
NV, next year. The ECB will review loans to small- and medium-sized companies and shipping loans, as well as commercial real
estate, Rabobank board member Sipko Schat said in an interview
last week. Residential mortgages aren’t included at this point,
he said.  That may change as home loans make up a large part of Dutch
banks’ books, both Schat and Nagel said.  Prices on the Dutch commercial  property market  have fallen
by an average of 15 percent from a market peak before the
financial crisis, the country’s central bank said last month.
The six biggest Dutch banks had about 110 billion euros ($149
billion) in domestic and international property loans,
accounting for about 4 percent to 5 percent of their total
balance sheet on average, the central bank said in July.  Stress Tests  The ECB is running a three-stage probe into the health of
the euro-area banking industry as a precondition for taking over
supervision. A series of stress tests, which pit the banks’
balance sheets against a range of adverse scenarios, will be
conducted with the European Banking Authority as the final step.  The EBA’s definition of bad debt is “substantially less
conservative” than ING’s, Nagel also told analysts today. The
bank continues to qualify loans as non-performing until they
have been back to performing for six months, he said.  Under ING’s definition, 1.8 percent of its Dutch mortgage
book is non-performing, while under the EBA definition that
would be about 1.1 percent, he said.  “The operational challenge may be the biggest in this
review,” Nagel said, referring to the data banks have to submit
for the reviews. “We are not so much concerned on the
outcome.”  The company’s banking unit already meets stricter Basel III
regulatory requirements, according to a presentation today.  Nagel said the bank has assigned tens of people from within
the company to the effort, a number that will increase when the
ECB actually begins its reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  