-- IPhone Deals Seen Helping Ambani Revive Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-11-07T12:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/iphone-deals-seen-helping-ambani-revive-profit-corporate-india.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  is offering iPhone contracts for the first
time in  India  as it counts on data users to help revive earnings
that shrank about 89 percent in four years.  The country’s third-biggest operator by market value aims
to extend the plan to include models other than  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL) ,
seeking customers who surf the Internet, download music and
videos and help boost revenue from data services, Chief
Executive Officer Gurdeep Singh said in a telephone interview.
The company started giving out the iPhone 5C model last week on
a two-year contract for a monthly payment of as little as 2,599
rupees ($42), he said.  The wireless carrier is betting on smartphones to help
increase income in a country where the average monthly revenue
per user is $1.60, compared with about $69 in the U.S. The
arrangement also helps Apple -- whose $550 iPhone 5C is
unaffordable to most Indians -- make inroads in the world’s
fastest growing smartphone market, where it ranks a distant
eighth and is struggling to close the gap with leader  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)   This plan is likely to help the carrier lure higher paying
customers onto the network, boosting revenue per user through
lucrative data subscriptions, Singh said. “We are hungry for
growth and this could be the tipping point,” he added.  Partnering Banks  The company has tied up with banking partners that would
take on the risk of collecting money from customers, according
to Singh, a decade after a similar plan failed when buyers
disappeared with phones without making the monthly payments.  The stocks with the Mumbai-based company were sold out in
the first 37 minutes of the launch, said Singh.  Carriers in India, grappling with more than $25 billion of
debt after paying for third-generation airwaves in 2010, have
slashed fees for data subscribers by as much as 90 percent,
betting cheaper rates will help fuel a surge in mobile social
networking and gaming.  Manufacturers shipped about 28 million smartphones to
India, the fastest growing market, as of March 2013, compared
with 301 million units to  China  that accounted for 33 percent of
the global market, according to data provided by researcher IDC.
India is growing fivefold annually, versus China’s 52 percent.  Almost 80 percent of Samsung’s smartphone sales in India
come from models priced below 23,870 rupees ($382), according to
IDC. Handsets priced below $200 are the fastest-growing
smartphone segment in the Indian market, which is projected to
overtake the U.S. as the second-largest by 2017, according to
IDC.  Young Spenders  Revenue from data usage as a share of total sales for
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the nation’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
is about 7 percent, versus 32 percent at China Mobile Ltd. For
the local industry, that may climb to 20 percent by 2017,
according to Nitin Soni, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in
 Singapore .  “The tie-up with Apple will provide positive traction for
Reliance Communications,” said Abhinav Ganeshan, a Mumbai-based
analyst with Canara Bank Securities. “It has never been easier
for India to buy an iPhone and now this U.S. model will really
get young spenders to buy into Reliance’s offer.”  China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s third-biggest mobile
phone company by users, and  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , both
carriers that offer the iPhone, beat earnings estimates in the
three months ended Sept. 30 aided by iPhone sales.  China Mobile (941) ,
which has yet to reach to agreement with Apple, missed
estimates.  In  Japan ,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  agreed to offer the latest
iPhones in September to help reverse a loss in market share.  Locked In  Customers in India aren’t used to a long lock-in period
with a service provider and a two-year contract may be a deal
breaker for many Indian subscribers, said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based telecom analyst with Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities.  “Six months maybe, but not two years,” he said. “Lock-in
period is an established concept in developed countries. I am
not sure about here.”  Reliance is also offering the costlier iPhone 5S for 2,999
rupees a month over a two-year period. The plan bundles the
handset with unlimited local and inter-city calls,  text
messages , roaming and 3G data usage, according to the company.
There is no down payment for the 16 gigabyte device, nor will
users receive a separate usage bill for 24 months, it said. Only
international calls and international roaming will have to be
paid for separately.  Flagging Profit  Group profit at Reliance Communications  dropped  to 6.2
billion rupees in the financial year ended March 31 from as high
as 60.4 billion rupees in the 12 months through March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales declined to 192.9
billion rupees from 207.4 billion rupees in the same period.  Reliance Communications deactivated 10 million connections,
it said in a statement on Nov. 5, in a move to weed out
customers generating low revenue and those who hadn’t used their
phones for more than two months.  “This is in line with industry practice,” according to
the statement.  Reliance Communications  shares  fell 4.4 percent to 139.95
rupees at the close in Mumbai, the most since Aug. 21. They have
jumped 145 percent since the end of March, as  Anil Ambani  and
estranged elder brother Mukesh ended a prolonged feud and
announced their first cooperation.  In April, the two signed a 12 billion-rupee deal to share a
fiber-optic network and in May, Mukesh’s  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL)  said it will share Anil’s mobile-phone towers in a
transaction valued at 120 billion rupees.  “We created the zero plan” with this iPhone offer, said
Singh. “It has zero down payments, zero bill of usage for 24
months, zero limits on your use, zero hidden charges and zero
conditions apply.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  