-- Iran Nuclear Deal Edges Closer as Geneva Talks Gather Pace
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-11-07T20:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/iran-nuclear-talks-resume-as-u-s-backs-initial-sanctions-deal.html
Iran and world powers edged closer to
breaking the decade-long stalemate over the Islamic republic’s
nuclear program, saying an initial accord is possible when they
convene for a second day of negotiations tomorrow.  Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif canceled a
trip to  Rome  to extend his stay in Geneva, where he’ll hold a
second meeting with European Union foreign-policy chief
 Catherine Ashton . Zarif said in an interview that the sides have
agreed on the framework for an accord, and will try to fill in
details tomorrow. His deputy, Abbas Araghchi, said a deal may be
reached in Geneva even if that involves extending talks into a
third day. Ashton’s spokesman,  Michael Mann , said negotiations
have entered a “serious phase.”  Iran has been offered “limited, targeted and reversible
relief” from sanctions in return for concrete and verifiable
concessions on its nuclear work, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in Washington. An accord along those lines would be
intended as a first step toward a comprehensive deal to remove
the specter of another  Middle East  war. The U.S. and  Israel  say
they’re ready to use force to stop Iran getting nuclear bombs,
which Iran denies seeking.  Hassan Rouhani’s election as Iran’s president in June and
his pledge to restore an economy squeezed by the sanctions has
given new momentum to diplomacy.  Cooperation ‘Reversible’  Iran has signaled it’s willing to make compromises,
shelving a demand for immediate recognition of its right to
enrich uranium, and saying it may be ready to limit its
stockpile of uranium enriched to 20 percent purity, Zarif said
Iran’s cooperation would also be “reversible” if the U.S.
failed to ease sanctions, he said.  Efforts toward an accord have run into opposition that
leaders on both sides are seeking to assuage.  Some U.S. lawmakers, with support from Israel, are pushing
for sanctions to be tightened, not eased. Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said today that any deal easing the pressure
on Iran would be “ a mistake of historic proportions.” U.S.
allies among Arab monarchies in the Persian Gulf, led by Saudi
Arabia, have also signaled reservations.  ‘Transformative Course’  A group of 79 former U.S. military officials and diplomats,
including three former ambassadors to Israel, expressed backing
for the pursuit of a diplomatic solution, calling it an
“ambitious and transformative course” toward a more peaceful
Middle East. “You will undoubtedly face opposition to your
decision to engage Iran,” they said in an open letter to
President  Barack Obama .  Last week, Obama sent top officials to Congress to urge
lawmakers to allow time for diplomacy to work, instead of
pressing for tighter sanctions that may derail it. Zarif said he
expects Obama to resist the domestic pressure.  Iranian conservatives have criticized Rouhani and Zarif for
taking too soft an approach. In a speech on Nov. 3, the eve of
anti-American rallies in Iran to mark the anniversary of the
1979 takeover of the U.S. embassy by Islamic revolutionaries,
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  sent a message of support
for the negotiators. He said they’re “sons of the revolution,”
carrying out a mission that he endorses.  ‘Basic Concerns’  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors who monitor
Iran’s 17 declared nuclear facilities are due to fly to Tehran
next week. They’re seeking access to sites that they’ve been
barred from visiting, to investigate a possible military
dimension to  Iran’s nuclear program .  “Iran has to understand that significant sanctions relief
cannot happen if it’s not going to cooperate with the IAEA and
solve these basic concerns,”  David Albright , a founder of the
Institute for Science and International Security in Washington,
said on a conference call today.  The Geneva talks involve officials from the U.S., China,
 France , Germany,  Russia  and the U.K. as well as Ashton and the
Iranian delegation, and were scheduled to end tomorrow.  Araghchi and U.S. negotiator Wendy Sherman had a separate
meeting today that lasted about an hour, according to a State
Department official who asked not to be named in line with
department policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in Geneva at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  