-- Miranda Detention Over Snowden Files Unlawful, His Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-06T14:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/miranda-detention-over-snowden-files-unlawful-his-lawyer-says.html
The nine-hour detention of the
partner of a Guardian newspaper journalist at  Heathrow airport 
was unlawful and breached his right to freedom of expression,
his lawyers said at a court hearing challenging his arrest.  David Miranda was held for nine hours on Aug. 18 by British
security forces, which seized 58,000 classified documents
obtained by the former U.S. security contractor Edward Snowden.
Miranda is asking a U.K. court to determine whether the arrest,
made under counterterrorism powers, was lawful.  The data “revealed mass surveillance carried out,” by
U.S. and U.K. governments that hadn’t been known about,  Matthew
Ryder , Miranda’s lawyer, said at the start of the two-day
judicial review hearing in  London  today. “The articles have
started an international debate that may never have happened.”  Miranda was used as a courier to carry information for his
partner Glenn Greenwald, who reported on Snowden’s allegations
about U.S. surveillance programs. Snowden, who faces U.S.
espionage charges, has been given temporary asylum in  Russia .
Lawyers for the U.K.  Home Office  said that the material posed a
serious threat to national security and it was within its rights
to seize the material.  The Home Office needed to know “where Mr. Miranda fitted
in the broader” Snowden network,  Steven Kovats , a lawyer for
the Home Secretary, said in court papers. Miranda never claimed
to be a journalist or that he was carrying any journalistic
material during his detention, he said.  ‘Ideological Cause’  “Mr. Snowden and those involved in publishing the
classified material that he stole are seeking to influence
governments, and that they are acting for advancing a political
or ideological cause,” which means it has to fall under the
definition of terrorism, he said.  U.K. police opened a criminal investigation into the
documents on Aug. 22. They said a thorough examination is
necessary to protect the public. The court ruled earlier that
the material seized from Miranda could only be examined for
national security purposes and the protection of the public.  The case is The Queen on the application of Miranda v
Secretary of State Home Office, case no. 13-11732,  High Court  of
Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  