-- Third Navy Official Charged in Singapore Bribery Scheme
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/third-navy-official-charged-in-singapore-bribery-scheme.html
A third U.S. Navy official was
charged with receiving bribes, including cash and prostitutes,
from a Singapore-based contractor who provides port services for
American ships in Southeast Asia.  U.S. Navy Commander Jose Luis Sanchez, 41, was arrested
yesterday in Tampa,  Florida , according to a statement from the
U.S. attorney’s office in San Diego. He’s accused of providing
classified information to Leonard Glenn Francis, the chief
executive officer of Glenn Defense Marine (Asia) in Singapore,
who was arrested in September.  Glenn Defense Marine provides hundreds of millions of
dollars in goods and services, including supplying food, water,
fuel, tugboats and trash removal for the Navy ships in at least
a dozen countries, according to the statement.  “According to the allegations in this case, a number of
officials were willing to sacrifice their integrity and millions
of taxpayer dollars for personal gratification,” U.S. Attorney
Laura Duffy said in the statement.  Sanchez, who was deputy logistics officer for the commander
of the U.S. Navy Seventh Fleet in Yokosuka,  Japan , and later
director of operations for Fleet Logistics Command in Singapore,
provided Francis with Navy schedules and other classified
information to help Glenn Defense Marine win business, according
to the U.S. attorney’s statement.  ‘Lion King’  Sanchez, who referred to Francis as “Lion King” and
“Boss” in e-mails, received more than $100,000 in cash and
prostitutes that Francis arranged for him and his friends in
Kuala Lumpur and  Manila , according to the statement.  In September, the U.S. attorney in San Diego charged
Francis, a Navy commander and a Navy Criminal Investigative
Service officer in the bribery scheme. Francis and the other two
defendants have pleaded not guilty to the allegations. A Glenn
Defense Marine employee in  Singapore  was accused of overbilling
the Navy, according to yesterday’s statement.  The investigation is continuing, the U.S. attorney’s
statement said.  Kelly Thornton, a spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney’s
office, said prosecutors didn’t know whether Sanchez has
retained a lawyer yet.  The case is U.S. v. Sanchez, 13-MJ-4027, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in federal court in Los Angeles at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net  