-- Ireland Still Needs a Safety Net
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-06T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ireland-still-needs-a-safety-net.html
Six years after its banks collapsed
under a ton of toxic mortgages, and three years after receiving
a $93 billion international bailout, Ireland is about to make
history: On Dec. 15, it will be the first euro-area country to
emerge from its rescue program.  An inspection team from the European Union, the European
Central Bank and the  International Monetary Fund  -- the so-called troika -- descended on Dublin on Oct. 29 for a 10-day
negotiation over what comes next.  Ireland sees its exit from the bailout and the demanding
conditions that went with it as restoring the country’s
sovereignty. It’s impatient to break free. That’s why the
government is hesitant to seek an emergency line of credit,
which would again come with strings. This hesitation is
understandable, but it’s a mistake nonetheless.  The Irish  recovery  is weak, and new setbacks are possible.
A credit line, preferably one that would preserve Ireland’s
eligibility for the European Central Bank’s bond-buying program,
would help to calm investors’ nerves. The troika should urge
Prime Minister Enda Kenny to accept a safety net -- and make it
easy for him to do so. It shouldn’t demand more budget cuts or
tax increases, which would stifle growth and inflame popular
opposition. Unlike  Greece , Ireland has met most of its reform
commitments. It’s earned some leeway.  Ireland came close to bankruptcy after a property-market
collapse caused its banks to implode in 2008. Instead of making
creditors take losses and possibly setting off a Europe-wide
chain reaction, Ireland assumed $80 billion of bank debt, and it
soon needed a rescue of its own.  Two recessions later, the  economy  is much smaller -- but
growing again, albeit at a glacial pace. Unemployment is still
high at nearly 14 percent but inching down. The budget deficit
is expected to narrow to 4.8 percent of gross domestic product
next year, from 7.3 percent in 2013.  Earlier this year, Ireland tapped the capital markets for
the first time in three years by selling $10 billion of long-term bonds -- a small yet symbolically important feat. Recently,
the  yield  on 10-year Irish bonds has been just 1.78 percentage
points higher than Germany’s. Ireland’s 10-year borrowing cost,
now 3.46 percent, is down from 14 percent in 2011.  With renewed access to the capital market, why not go it
alone? The frail expansion isn’t the only factor; the country
remains heavily indebted as well. Ireland’s ratio of debt to GDP
stands at 120 percent. Among the developed economies, only
Greece,  Italy ,  Japan  and Portugal are deeper in debt, by IMF
accounting.  Meanwhile, Ireland’s banks are still fragile. Nonperforming
loans are on the rise. And the ECB is putting the five largest
banks through stress tests. If they fail, the banks will need
more capital, possibly from the European Stability Mechanism,
the new bank bailout fund.  Germany , however, is signaling it
isn’t willing to let the ESM fund Ireland’s legacy bank debt.  Germany poses another problem: Before accepting Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s invitation to form a governing coalition, the
Social Democrats are demanding that she force Ireland to
overhaul its corporate-tax system in return for the credit line.  There’s plenty here to make investors anxious. The need to
fill a bank-capital hole quickly could trigger a bond-market
panic. That could drive interest rates back up and Ireland back
to the EU for another bailout. If the panic spreads, as it
might, it would be a disaster for all of Europe, not just for
Ireland.  A transitional credit line with few strings attached would
lessen the danger. That doesn’t have to mean condition-free.
Ireland, for example, could offer to negotiate over its status
as a tax haven for multinational corporations, which irritates
Germany and other EU countries to no end. The government already
said on Oct. 15 that it would close the loophole that allowed
Apple Inc. to transfer profits to an Irish unit but pay no
income tax. It could offer more such reforms without raising the
low corporate tax rate that brings in much-needed jobs.  In its own interests, the European Union should offer a
post-bailout safety net on easy terms, and in Ireland’s
interests, Dublin should go along.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 