-- Israel’s Liberman Cleared of Fraud, Breach of Trust Charges
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   A m y   T e i b e l
-- 2013-11-06T10:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/israel-s-liberman-cleared-of-fraud-breach-of-trust-charges.html
Former Israeli Foreign Minister
Avigdor Liberman was acquitted of fraud and breach of trust
charges, a verdict that will let him resume a job where he
questioned the possibility of peace with the Palestinians.  Liberman, a key ally of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ,
was indicted in December on suspicion he improperly intervened
in the appointment of an ambassador who had given him
confidential information about police investigations into his
business activities. Today, the three-judge Jerusalem
magistrate’s court cleared him unanimously.  “This chapter is behind me and I will focus my attention
on the challenges that await us, and there are plenty of them,”
Liberman said outside the court.  The 55-year-old politician had resigned as minister after
being indicted, while remaining in parliament as head of its
Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee.  Netanyahu, who had been holding the foreign ministry
portfolio since, said he phoned Liberman and welcomed him back
to the Israeli cabinet, according to a text message from the
prime minister’s office.  By questioning the loyalty of  Israel ’s Arab minority,
criticizing the Palestinians and confronting Israel’s foreign
critics, Liberman has become a powerful figure in Israel’s
politics while sometimes rankling its allies.  Questions Peacemaking  Liberman, who lives in a West Bank settlement, has
repeatedly voiced skepticism about reaching an accord with the
Palestinians. He has called Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
an “obstacle to peace,” and in September said Palestinians
“have no true intent of reaching a peace agreement.”  The sides renewed U.S.-sponsored negotiations in July after
a three-year breakdown. Throughout the process, the Palestinians
have been critical of Israeli settlement construction on
captured land they claim for a future state. U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry , who is meeting today with Israeli and
Palestinian leaders to prod peace efforts, said he was confident
difficulties could be “worked through.”  A senior Palestinian official said Liberman’s acquittal was
further evidence that extremists control Israel’s agenda.  ‘Extreme’ Agenda  “This proves again that the extreme right wing coalition
controls and exposes its agenda, especially at this time, and
imposes facts on the ground for the Palestinian people,”  Wasel
Abu Youssef, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization’s
executive committee, said by phone.  Liberman is the founding head of the Yisrael Beitenu party,
which draws much of its support from immigrants from the former
 Soviet Union . The faction ran together on a joint parliamentary
list with Netanyahu’s Likud party in January elections.  Cameron Brown, a research fellow at the Institute for
National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University, said the
acquittal would have greater implications for Israeli politics
than for peacemaking. Liberman, he said, wants to be Israeli
prime minister one day and will line up behind peacemaking if
that would help him achieve that aim, Brown said.  “Liberman is more politician than ideologue,” he said.
“He knows very well how to use things to promote himself
politically, and he has always seen himself as a one-day future
candidate for prime minister.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  