-- Italy Issues Record $30 Billion Retail Bonds in Two-Day Sale
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-11-06T16:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/italy-issues-record-30-billion-of-retail-bonds-in-two-day-sale.html
Italy  sold 22.3 billion euros ($30
billion) of government inflation-linked bonds aimed at retail
investors, setting a record and allowing the Treasury to
potentially cut the size of debt auctions for the rest of the
year.  The government, which initially planned to take orders
through Nov. 8, said yesterday it would close the books
early because of strong demand. Orders reached 16.8 billion
euros yesterday, almost double the amount sold on the first day
of the previous sale in April. The Treasury received orders for
another 5.4 billion euros today.  The debt sale is the single biggest-ever by a European
government after the 18 billion euros secured by Italy over four
days in October last year. The four-year bond, dubbed BTP
Italia, carries a 2.15 percent coupon that proved attractive to
buyers even amid weak consumer prices.  “As a result of today’s large placement, we expect smaller
than average auctions in mid November and end of November, and
the cancellation of the mid-December BTP auction,”  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income analyst at Unicredit SpA in  London ,
wrote in a note to clients. “The decline in supply pressure
will be a supportive factor for Italian yields until year-end.”  Diversify Funding  The Treasury last year began trying to get Italians, who
are among the biggest savers in  Europe , to help manage its 2
trillion-euro public debt as contagion from the debt crisis
triggered an exodus of foreign investors. In the previous four
sales of the BTP Italia since March 2012, Italy has raised more
than 44 billion euros.  “Currently very low Italian inflation is not perceived to
be anything more than transient,”  Marc Ostwald , a rates
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London, said by e-mail. It also shows that “domestic retail investors do not see
any medium-term risk of default and perhaps that retail
investors trust their money more with the government than with
local banks.”  Italy had raised about 90 percent of its 470 billion-euro
issuance target for this year before the BTP Italia sale,
according to the Treasury. Italy will give details of demand for
the four-year bond tomorrow.  “This has proven a very popular instrument and is a very
good way of funding,”  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan, said by phone. “From the
success gathered in the market, Italy should do more lines next
year.”  Italian 10-year yield rose 2 basis points to 4.2 percent at
5:25 p.m. in  Rome , pushing the spread over comparable German
bunds to 244.6 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  