-- Liverpool, Arsenal to Compete for Cabaye, Express Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-06T11:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/liverpool-arsenal-to-compete-for-cabaye-express-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Cabaye Rivals  Liverpool is set to rival Arsenal for the signing of
Newcastle United midfielder Yohan Cabaye in January, the  Daily
Express reported .  Newcastle is said to be unwilling to sanction Cabaye’s
departure unless its 18 million-pound ($29 million) valuation of
the 27-year-old is met, the newspaper added.  Spurs Target Coentrao  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas is considering
a January move for Real Madrid defender Fabio Coentrao after
failing to sign him in the offseason, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Villas-Boas is interested in taking his fellow Portuguese,
who has dropped out of Real’s starting lineup, on loan until the
end of this campaign, the Mail added.  Neilton Interest  Tottenham’s interest in Brazilian winger Neilton increased
after the 19-year-old’s agent said contract negotiations with
his club Santos have stalled, the  Daily Express reported .  Neilton’s current agreement expires next year and the
player rejected a new deal last month, the Express said. Spurs
are said to have had a 7 million-pound bid for Neilton rejected
in the offseason, the Express added.  Wilshere Worry  Arsenal midfielder  Jack Wilshere  is struggling to be fit
for the Nov. 10 match at  Manchester United  because of an ankle
injury that may also keep him out of  England ’s final two games
of 2013, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “I will know more on Thursday, when he will have another
test,” the Mirror cited Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  as
saying. “If that’s not successful, he will definitely be out
for Sunday; and if he is out for Sunday, then he will be out for
England as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  