-- Japan Government Green Fund Wants to Set Local Investment Model
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-11-06T08:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/japan-government-green-fund-wants-to-set-local-investment-model.html
A clean energy fund established by
the Japanese government will target projects with the potential
to become business models used by regional communities to
promote and profit from renewable sources of energy.  “One of the green fund’s roles is to show models to
regional communities which aren’t aware of their potential” to
develop clean energy, said Takejiro Sueyoshi, head of  Green
Finance Organisation , the body selected by the Ministry of the
Environment to oversee the fund. “We want to tell them you can
do it in your village and town with your partners.”  Set up by the environment ministry with an initial budget
of 1.4 billion yen ($14 million), the fund has already committed
to two projects, with each getting 100 million yen.  The fund is backing a solar project in Wakayama prefecture
being developed by Kyoto-based Plus Social Co. Plus Social plans
to start building a 2-megawatt plant next year, Kentaro
Matsushima, a company official in charge of project development,
said by phone today.  The project is soliciting investments from residents and
companies in Kyoto and Wakayama, both in western  Japan ,
according to Matsushima. Profits will help support regional low-carbon efforts, Green Finance said in a statement on Oct. 4.  A biogas project being developed by  Eneres Co. (6079)  has also
received backing. The Tokyo-based company is planning a plant at
the site of a food factory in Gunma prefecture that will use
waste to generate power, according to the statement. Power
produced at the plant will be supplied at a discount.  The ministry is requesting 7 billion yen for the fund for
the fiscal year starting Apr. 1, according to a budget request
posted on the ministry’s website.  The fund may expand investment to other types of clean
energy such as offshore wind and district heating.  “This is not about some special people doing projects at
the sacrifice of profits,” Sueyoshi said. “We need an economy
and society that let companies working hard to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions be profitable and survive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  