-- Japan Small-Caps Seen Overheating After Yen-Led Shift
-- B y   T o m   R e d m o n d   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-11-06T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/japan-small-caps-seen-overheating-after-yen-led-shift.html
Japan ’s smaller stocks surged too
far, too fast after investors turned away from larger exporters
as the yen slowed its slide, said Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.  Markets overheated as investors shifted into small and mid-cap shares that benefit from domestic demand amid an improving
economic outlook, Tatsuro Nigauri, a senior portfolio manager at
the  investment company , said in an interview in Tokyo on Oct.
25. Construction, real-estate and Internet-game stocks look
particularly unappealing, while opportunities remain to buy
cheaper equities in other industries, he said.  “Investors are now seeking growth-oriented shares,” said
Nigauri, whose small-cap fund was ranked  seventh  in the nation
as of the end of September for five-year performance by
Morningstar Japan K.K. “The yen has slowed its decline and
overseas economies aren’t as good as we’d hoped. It’s natural
then to turn to Japan’s emerging stocks. But the trend has gone
too far and I for one won’t be following it.”  While the initial benefits of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s 
three-pronged policy program of monetary easing, fiscal stimulus
 and reforms were felt by the country’s big exporters, investor
attention has been shifting to smaller companies as the large-cap 
rally slows. Trading volume on the TSE Mothers Index of emerging 
companies reached a record in October, according to  Tokyo  Stock 
Exchange data, after the gauge surged 30 percent in September.  The TSE Mothers advanced 109 percent this year through
yesterday, while the Jasdaq Index, another measure of smaller
equities, rose 68 percent. That compares to a 39 percent advance
for the Topix. Even after the gains, analysts remain optimistic
about the prospects for small-cap shares. Stocks on the TSE
Mothers will boost earnings by 95 percent in the next 12 months,
compared with a  20 percent increase  seen for the Topix index,
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yen Stabilizes  The yen advanced 0.9 percent against the dollar in the
three months ended September after weakening 21 percent the
previous three quarters. Japan’s currency held steady against
the greenback last month, slipping less than 0.1 percent, amid
speculation a partial shutdown of the U.S. government would
prolong Federal Reserve stimulus and weaken the dollar.  A Topix subgroup tracking carmakers added just 1.2 percent
in October, compared to a  surge  of 28 percent in the last two
months of 2012, suggesting larger exporters have lost some of
their appeal to investors.  Construction companies may trail the broader market as
investor confidence that the government will spend the proceeds
from a sales-tax increase on public-works projects is misplaced,
Nigauri said. Developers also lack appeal amid the risk of a
property bubble, he said.  Fund Returns  Nigauri’s Daiwa SB Japan Small Cap Fund returned 47 percent
from its establishment in June 2004 through the end of October
this year, assuming reinvestment of dividends, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a total gain of 20
percent for the Topix.  The fund had holdings in 83 companies as of the end of
September, according to Daiwa SB’s website. Its biggest
investments include  Asukanet (2438)  Co., which provides photo-album
creation services; Watts Co., a 100 yen store operator; and Step
Co., which runs preparatory schools. Asukanet has surged more
than seven-fold this year through yesterday, Watts is up 56
percent and Step has gained 20 percent.  The Jasdaq’s rally this year drove its  price-to-earnings 
multiple to 16.1 times estimated profits as of yesterday,
compared with 12.2 a year before. The Topix traded at a multiple
of 14.8 times yesterday, from 13.8 at the same time last year.  Overlooked Equities  Outsized gains for the TSE Mothers and Jasdaq indexes were
led by surges in stocks with larger market capitalizations, with
some shares being bought without any clear reason, according to
Nigauri. That means there’s still cheap equities that have been
overlooked, he said.  Rakuten Inc., an e-commerce site operator that accounts for
 16 percent  of the Jasdaq, jumped 97 percent this year through
yesterday. GungHo Online Entertainment Inc., a gamemaker that
accounts for 6 percent of the gauge, surged 553 percent.  GungHo and other online-game companies don’t appeal to
Nigauri.  “It looks like the pie for this market is still getting
bigger, but the way it’s expanding isn’t stable,” he said.  Bigger gains on smaller Japanese stocks come with wilder
share swings. The 100-day  historic volatility  for TSE Mothers
stood at 48.38 yesterday, more than twice the 21.79 level of the
Topix.  Nigauri worked as an analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research
Ltd. before joining Daiwa SB in 2002. He started managing the
small-cap fund in 2003.  “Finding good small-cap stocks is a process of
elimination,” he said. “You have to start by picking the ones
nobody is excited about, the ones that haven’t risen. That’s the
logic of this type of investment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Redmond in Tokyo at 
 tredmond3@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  