-- Japan Exchange and Nikkei to Start Index Focusing on ROE
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-11-06T09:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/japan-exchange-and-nikkei-to-start-new-index-focusing-on-roe.html
Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) , operator
of the world’s second-biggest equity market, will create an
index with Nikkei Inc. that selects members based on return on
equity, in a bid to highlight the nation’s best stocks.  The bourse operator and Nikkei, which also runs the Nikkei
225 Stock Average, will compile the measure from Jan. 6,
according to a  statement  on  Japan  Exchange’s website. The gauge
will have 400 shares, with 386 Tokyo Stock Exchange first
section companies, one from the second section, two from the TSE
Mothers market and 11 from Jasdaq. Stocks will include  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as well as  Rakuten Inc. (4755)  and
GungHo Online Entertainment Inc., the bourse said.  Eligibility for the JPX-Nikkei Index 400 is based on
quantitative criteria such as return on equity, operating profit
and market value, as well as qualitative aspects such as having
at least two independent outside directors and providing
earnings disclosure in English, the statement said.  “The new index will be composed of companies with high
appeal for investors,” according to the statement. “The new
index will promote the appeal of Japanese corporations
domestically and abroad, while encouraging continued improvement
of corporate value.”  Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund, the world’s
biggest manager of retirement savings with 121 trillion yen
($1.24 trillion), will invest in the new index as part of plans
to boost allocations to  growth stocks , the Nikkei newspaper
reported on Oct. 5, without citing anyone.  GPIF Investment  “As the new gauge may become the benchmark for GPIF, it
will certainly be a driving factor in the market tomorrow,”
said Kenji Shiomura, a Tokyo-based senior strategist at Daiwa
Securities Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest brokerage. “But
we don’t know how much the fund will invest or when it will
actually move.”  The new index has outperformed the broader Topix index in
four of the past seven years, according to data compiled by the
bourse and Nikkei Inc. The measure rose 42 percent this year
through August, compared to a 44 percent gain for the Topix, the
statement showed.  “The market will surely react to this new measure and
shares included in it will be bought,” Daiwa’s Shiomura said.
“The impact will be big especially for emerging shares outside
the Topix that made the cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  