-- Japan’s Unpopular Secrets Bill Could Be Revised, Says Law
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-11-06T09:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/japan-s-unpopular-secrets-bill-could-be-revised-says-law.html
Japan’s ruling coalition is open to
revising a bill giving the government sweeping power to keep
secrets, a law critics say could limit disclosure on anything
from Fukushima-like nuclear accidents to corruption.  The government is willing to consider changes from the
opposition, Isamu Ueda, who heads coalition member New Komeito’s
security panel, said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. Debate
on the measure in Parliament begins tomorrow, Ichiro Aisawa,
chairman of the lower house’s steering committee, said today.  “The bill has already been modified to include suggestions
from New Komeito,” Ueda said. “If there are opinions from the
opposition, I think there will be flexibility about revisions.”  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said the bill, along with one
setting up a national  security council , is needed to enable
closer defense ties with allies, and U.S. officials have praised
the proposal. The law stiffens penalties for bureaucrats who
leak secrets and for the journalists who report them, and
broadens the definition of secret information from defense to
cover diplomacy, terrorism and safety threats. That will allow
the government to suppress virtually anything, opponents say.  Secret “Forever”  “It damages the public’s right to know,”  Banri Kaieda , a
lawmaker for the opposition  Democratic Party of Japan , told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday. “Although it may be necessary to
withhold information for a time,” ruling Liberal  Democratic
Party  officials are calling for protecting secrets for “30 or
50 years,” he said. “That opens up the possibility of covering
it up forever.”  The changes already adopted at Komeito’s behest include a
phrase saying that the public’s right to know and journalists’
right to report should be taken into account. The opposition has
yet to make specific suggestions for amending the bill.  The law “tries to protect secrets with heavy penalties,
without making clear what information is actually secret,” said
Tsutomu Shimizu, a Tokyo-based lawyer from the  Japan  Federation
of Bar Associations’ task force on the bill.  A call for public comment on the bill by the Cabinet
Secretariat in September drew about 89,000 opinions, 70,000 of
them negative. A poll conducted by phone Oct. 26-27 and
published by Kyodo News on Oct. 28 found 35.9 percent of
respondents approved of the bill and 50.6 percent were opposed.
Almost 83 percent said it should be cautiously examined in
parliament, according to the poll, which didn’t give a margin of
error.  400,000 Pieces  The Nikkei newspaper reported Nov. 2 that 400,000 pieces of
information were likely to be initially defined as secret when
the law passes. Bureaucrats could be imprisoned for as much as
10 years, compared with five under the current law, with
journalists facing jail terms of up to five years.  “Secrets are necessary to enable us to protect the lives
of the people and the safety of the country,” LDP lawmaker and
the former defense agency chief and Gen Nakatani said in a
television program broadcast by NHK on Nov. 3.  Japan needed to be able to receive military information
from other countries including the U.S. and keep it secret, he
said. “If we don’t protect our codes and the specifications of
our equipment we can’t defend the country, so we need a stronger
system than the one we have.”  Expanding Defense  The changes come as Japan seeks to bolster its strategic
ties with countries across  Asia  and expand its defense capacity,
with its first ever national security strategy to be completed
by the end of the year. Abe is looking to counter  China ’s
growing military assertiveness in Asia, with the region’s two-biggest economies embroiled in a territorial dispute over
islands in the  East China Sea .  “Japan will be a more effective alliance partner if they
can appropriately safeguard shared national security
information,” Kurt Tong, U.S. Charge d’Affaires in Tokyo, told
an Oct. 29 symposium in Tokyo.  The DPJ has called for the secrets bill to be discussed
alongside another piece of legislation on information
disclosure. Any modifications to the bill would depend on the
progress of debate in the Diet, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  