-- Jefferson County Debt Sale Given Investment Grade by S&P
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-11-07T03:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/jefferson-county-refinancing-bonds-rated-at-investment-grade-1-.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , received
an investment-grade rating from  Standard & Poor’s  for $1.74
billion of sewer-refinancing securities that may be issued in
two weeks to help exit a two-year bankruptcy.  The rating company said in a statement today that it
assigned a preliminary BBB score to the issue’s senior debt, two
levels above speculative grade. S&P assigned a BBB- rating to
the subordinate securities.  “The ratings, while reflective of our view of the credit
quality of the issuer’s operations, the specific security, and
the legal protections in place, also reflect our view of the
potential residue a bankruptcy can leave on the municipality’s
reputation,” S&P said in a statement citing analyst James Breeding.  The offering, which will price as soon as Nov. 19, is a
result of a deal reached last month between the county and
creditors to reduce the money the county must pay on its $3.1
billion in obligations. The accord replaced a settlement reached
in June that became unworkable as  interest rates  rose. That deal
provided $1.84 billion in cash to settle the debt.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  bankers met tonight with dozens of potential
investors in the securities at The Club, a private establishment
atop Red Mountain with sweeping views of Birmingham, the county
seat and the most-populous city in Alabama. County and bank
officials wouldn’t allow a reporter to remain in the room during
presentations and discussion of the deal.  Rate Increase  Banks underwriting the debt, which matures from October
2015 to 2053, according to a sale document, are being managed by
Citigroup. The issue is divided between $500 million of senior
warrants and about $1.24 billion of subordinate securities.  Sewer rates will rise almost 7.9 percent each year from
2014 through 2017, and by almost 3.5 percent thereafter through
2053, according to the document. For fiscal 2014, the county
will have money to pay 180 percent of debt service.  Under covenants in the sale document, the county will
adjust sewer-system fees and charges if the operation fails to
meet debt-coverage ratios. The court can force the county to
increase sewer rates, S&P said.  To repair its reputation and maintain its  credit rating ,
the county, which has 660,000 residents and is home to
Birmingham, Alabama’s most populous city, needs to demonstrate
consistent willingness to pay its debts on time and in full
without court intervention, Breeding said. It must meet
forecasts for water-and-sewer usage and maintain the revenue
available for debt service that is spelled out in the covenant
for the new bonds.  High Turnover  S&P said the ratings are subject to Jefferson County’s
timely emergence from bankruptcy.  In July, Citigroup said it would present a picture of
securities poised to gain over the next five years as the
finances improve, according to its underwriting proposal.  “Our targeted buyers for the warrants will not be long-term holders as is often the case with high-grade municipal
bonds, but rather savvy short-term buyers who recognize the
significant potential for improvement in the county and its
warrants over time,” according to Citigroup’s proposal.  S&P said it didn’t anticipate rating changes “in the near
term.”  Jefferson County became what was then the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy in 2011, when it couldn’t pay what it owed
on more than $3 billion in bonds sold to finance sewer work.  Troubled Tunnels  Construction of the sewer system and a refinancing led by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were riddled with corruption.  Larry Langford , a former county commission president, was
convicted of accepting bribes for arranging the 2003 refinancing
with JPMorgan and is serving a 15-year sentence. Two associates
pleaded guilty, and two JPMorgan bankers are fighting Securities
and Exchange Commission charges.  In all, 21 former county officials or contractors have been
accused or convicted of crimes connected to the county sewers.  JPMorgan provided more than $900 million in concessions to
allow the county to end its bankruptcy. In 2009, JPMorgan agreed
to a $722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments that the agency said its bankers made
to people tied to county politicians to win business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  