-- JFK Airport Customs Kiosks Pay Off in Shorter Wait Times
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-11-06T19:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/jfk-airport-customs-kiosks-pay-off-in-shorter-wait-times.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s financing of
automated passport-control kiosks at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport cut wait times in half a month into their
use, according to  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection statistics.  The average wait for all time slots is now 16.6 minutes,
down from 34.9 minutes in October 2012, according to agency
data. The average maximum wait is now 58.2 minutes, down from 97
minutes a year ago.  “Cutting wait times in half is dramatic early evidence
that automated kiosks work in relieving the unacceptably long
wait times JFK has experienced,” said Joe Sitt, chairman of
 Global Gateway Alliance , a trade organization advocating for
improvements at New York’s airports.  JFK is the busiest U.S. entry point for international
passengers, according to the the Manhattan-based group. The
alliance pushed Customs to install automated passport control
after complaints of lengthy lines holding up travelers by as
much as five hours. Delta’s decision to pay for the kiosks was
one way private-industry partners are helping roll out the
program, CBP said in September.  Congress and the administration of President  Barack Obama 
need to allocate funds to hire more CBP officers, create ‘rapid
response teams’ that would move between terminals as crowds
form, and make more data on wait times available to the public,
Sitt said.  Five-Hour Waits  During early morning periods the results were more
dramatic. Between 7 a.m. to 8 a.m., passengers now wait an
average of 11 minutes, down from 53 minutes in October 2012,
according to agency data. Maximum wait times in that slot have
dropped to 25 minutes, compared with 163 minutes a year ago.  “Now it’s time for CBP and Congress to bring the
technology to all of our international terminals and implement a
comprehensive solution,” Sitt said.  The delays at airports “hurts the brand and economy of New
York and the U.S. as a whole,” he said.  Staffing shortages that customs officials blame on
automatic U.S. budget cuts have extended waits to as long as
five hours during peak times at the busiest airports, including
JFK, the U.S. Travel Association said in a report Sept. 18.  Peak wait times reached a high of 4.5 hours at JFK in
December 2012, the Washington-based group said. At Miami in
April 2013, the peak wait times were 4.7 hours. Delays that long
put as much as $95 billion of tourist spending at risk over the
next five years, the group said.  Delta Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson , whose
company opened a $1.4 billion international terminal at JFK this
year, has called the delays an “embarrassment” that
discourages tourism and threatens U.S. economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  