-- K+S Calls Moody’s Credit Downgrade to Junk Incomprehensible
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-06T11:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/k-s-calls-moody-s-credit-downgrade-to-junk-incomprehensible.html
K+S AG (SDF) , the worst performer on
 Germany ’s benchmark DAX index this year, said the decision of
Moody’s Corp. to downgrade the potash producer’s credit rating
to junk is incomprehensible.  K+S has a cash position of more than 1.2 billion euros
($1.6 billion) and an unused credit line of more than 1 billion
euros, Michael Wudonig, a spokesman for the Kassel, Germany-based company, said in an e-mail today. The stock dropped the
most in six weeks in Frankfurt trading.  Moody’s yesterday downgraded K+S’s debt two levels to Ba1,
one grade below investment, from Baa2. The credit rating company
said the move was triggered by the German producer’s decision to
proceed with investment in its greenfield potash mine, Legacy,
and the resulting deterioration of the company’s financial
profile  “The higher indebtedness caused by the Legacy Project is
only of temporary nature,” K+S’s Wudonig said in the e-mail.
The company can reduce indebtedness again once Legacy has
started production, he said.  The shares fell as much as 5.2 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since Sept. 24, to 19.74 euros. The stock was
trading down 3.4 percent at 20.11 euros as of 11:19 a.m. local
time. Today’s decline brings the stock’s loss since the
beginning of the year to 43 percent. The market value is 3.8
billion euros.  K+S remains convinced that it will remain able to tap
capital markets if needed, Wudonig said today. The company is
considering a hybrid bond to raise one-third of the investment,
or about $1.4 billion, for Legacy in  Canada , Chief Financial
Officer Burkhard Lohr told analysts at a meeting on Oct. 7.  Greater Scrutiny  The German miner’s business model has been under scrutiny
since competitor OAO Uralkali said July 30 that the fertilizer’s
price may tumble to less than $300 a ton from more than $400 as
the Russian company ramps up production to full capacity. K+S is
forecasting that potash prices will bottom out in the last three
months of this year and rise again in 2014, Lohr told the
analysts.  Moody’s said yesterday that its rating assumes a potash
price of about $350 a ton with some risk that it will drop in
2014. Lower selling prices mean that K+S won’t be able to
generate as much cash in the medium term, Moody’s said.  The German company’s debt is rated BBB+ at Standard &
Poor’s, the third-lowest investment grade, and the credit-reporting company has a negative watch on K+S, meaning it may
downgrade the debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  