-- Kasparov Seeks Latvia Passport to Oust Russian World Chess Chief
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-11-06T14:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/kasparov-seeks-latvia-passport-to-oust-russian-world-chess-chief.html
Garry Kasparov , the former chess
champion and self-exiled opponent of President  Vladimir Putin ,
is seeking Latvian nationality to end the 18-year tenure of the
Russian head of the World Chess Federation.  Kasparov, 50, said that he wants a second passport to avoid
the possibility that the Russian government will pressure him
over his election challenge to Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, a former
Russian regional leader.  “I can’t put my freedom of movement at the mercy of
Putin’s Foreign Ministry,” Kasparov said in a statement posted
on his website today, adding that he will need to travel around
the world to campaign for the post. “That’s the main reason why
I want dual nationality.”  Iluymzhinov, 51, the former leader of southern  Russia ’s
majority Buddhist region of Kalmykia, has been president of the
chess federation, known by its French acronym FIDE, since 1995.  Ilyumzhinov claims that he was abducted by aliens in 1997
and built a chess city in the capital of Kalmykia. Having fought
off a challenge to his FIDE leadership in 2010 from former chess
champion Anatoly Karpov, he will seek to extend his term at
elections in August next year.  Kasparov, who became the youngest world chess champion at
age 22 and was a top player for 18 years, is a leading member of
the Solidarity opposition movement in Russia. He fled the
country earlier this year, saying he feared arrest.  Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis declined to
comment yesterday on Kasparov’s request for nationality, for
which he’s seeking an act of parliament in the Baltic state.
Ainars Latkovskis, also from the prime minister’s party Unity,
said on Latvian television yesterday that granting citizenship
to Kasparov might not help relations with Russia.  Ilyumzhinov flew to Tripoli in 2011 to play a game of chess
with Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , four months before Qaddafi
was killed by rebels who overthrew his more than four-decade
rule. In April 2012, Ilyumzhinov held talks in Damascus with
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who’s fighting a civil war
that began in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  