-- Kazakh President Replaces Finance Minister With Aide in Shakeup
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-11-06T14:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/kazakh-president-replaces-finance-minister-with-aide-in-shakeup.html
Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev
named his deputy chief of staff as finance minister and deputy
premier after faulting the government for its shortcomings on
spending policy and fighting the shadow economy.  Bakhyt Sultanov will replace Bolat Zhamishev as finance
minister, according to a  statement  on the Kazakh presidential
website. Zhamishev will in turn  become  regional development
minister in the place of Bakytzhan Sagintayev, who will serve as
first deputy prime minister, according to the website.  Nazarbayev, who has ruled the central Asian nation since
1989, is shuffling top officials weeks after appointing a new
Senate speaker, the next in line should the president step down.
Kairat Kelimbetov, a deputy prime minister, replaced Grigori Marchenko as central bank governor on Oct. 1.  Speaking  on Oct. 11, Nazarbayev called on the government to
improve budget planning and execution as economic conditions
deteriorate. Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov yesterday  reprimanded 
deputies at government ministries, including the finance and
regional development ministries, stressing “the need for
quality and timely implementation of the president’s orders.”  Kazakhstan is the world’s largest uranium supplier and the
second-largest oil producer in the former Soviet Union after
 Russia .  “The problem is that ministerial teams come and go, while
the situation in many areas of development doesn’t change,”
Kazakhstanskaya Pravda, the government’s newspaper of record,
 said  in a Nov. 2 opinion piece. “Success will belong to
whomever approaches state programs and strategy with greater
responsibility before history and future generations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  