-- Kerry Asks Israel to Limit Settlement Building to Aid Talks
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-11-06T14:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/kerry-confident-can-work-through-difficulties-in-peace-talks.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
told  Israel  settlement construction should be “limited as much
as possible,” while voicing confidence that disputes troubling
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks could be resolved.  Kerry met today with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, amid reports
of growing differences and even a screaming match between the
sides.  “There are always difficulties, always tensions,” Kerry
said after a three-hour meeting with Netanyahu in Jerusalem.
“I’m very confident of our ability to work through them.”  Kerry has six months left on the nine-month clock he set
for progress in Israeli-Palestinian peace talks that resumed in
July. His arrival follows Israel’s announcement it will erect
more homes on land captured in 1967 and an Abbas campaign to
bring international pressure on Israel to stop building on
territory the Palestinians claim for a state.  After meeting with Abbas in the West Bank city of
Bethlehem, Kerry said settlement construction should be
“limited as much as possible to facilitate talks.”  A meeting yesterday between Israeli and Palestinian
negotiators dissolved in a screaming match, in part because of
construction plans, Israel’s  daily Haaretz  reported today.  Jewish State  The Palestinians also reject Netanyahu’s demand that they
recognize Israel as a Jewish state and give up claims on Israeli
cities such as Beersheva and Haifa with large Arab populations.  “I’m concerned about progress because I see the
Palestinians continuing with incitement, continuing to create
artificial crises,” Netanyahu said.  Kerry said he plans a second round of meetings with both
sides. In Bethlehem today, he announced the U.S. would commit an
additional $75 million to Palestinian Authority infrastructure
projects in the West Bank, bringing its total contribution to
$100 million.  “The Americans should intervene now or the talks will
reach a dead end,” said Abbas adviser Nimer Hamad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  