-- Krugman Says Greek-Like Crisis Could Not Occur in U.S. or U.K
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-11-06T20:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/krugman-says-greek-like-crisis-could-not-occur-in-u-s-or-u-k.html
The U.S. and the U.K. are immune from
the kind of debt turmoil that engulfed five euro-area countries
because they’re not part of a monetary union and borrow in their
own currency, Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  said.  “Fear of a Greek-style fiscal and financial crisis has
loomed over much of our policy discourse over the past four
years, and has played a significant role in shaping actual
policy, constituting the principal argument for austerity in
countries that don’t face any current difficulties in
borrowing,” Krugman wrote in a  paper  he will present at an
International Monetary Fund conference in  Washington  tomorrow.  “However, despite repeated warnings that crises of
confidence are imminent in floating-rate debtors -- mainly the
 United States , the U.K., and  Japan  -- these crises keep not
happening,” he said in the paper.  Part of the reason is that, unlike individual euro-area
nations, the three countries have their own central banks to act
as a lender of last resort, Krugman said. Accordingly, every
time the  European Central Bank  signaled a willingness to play
that role in the past three years, borrowing costs of distressed
economies narrowed, he wrote.  The U.S.’s fiscal health was at the heart of political
wrangling that led to a 16-day partial government shutdown last
month. A temporary agreement pushed back a deadline for a budget
agreement to Dec. 13 and suspended the nation’s borrowing  limit 
through Feb. 7, setting the stage for more debates on acceptable
deficit and debt levels.  Confidence Loss  Even if confidence in U.S. or U.K. bonds dropped, the
outcome would be positive, said Krugman, a Princeton University
professor who won the 2008  Nobel prize  in economics for his
analysis of trade flows and location of economic activity.  “Claims about the vulnerability of floating-rate debtors
to crisis haven’t been given any specificity because they do
not, in fact, make sense,” he said in the paper. “Simple
macroeconomic models suggest that a loss of confidence in a
country like the United States, taking place at a time when
 interest rates  are at the zero lower bound, should, if anything,
have an expansionary effect.”  That’s because under floating rates, the adjustment would
occur through a depreciation of the dollar that would lead to an
increase in net exports, according to the paper titled
“Currency Regimes, Capital Flows, and Crises.”  Even if that generated some increase in interest rates to
tame concerns of inflation, “this story -- in which interest
rates are driven up by economic expansion, fears of inflation,
or both -- is not at all the kind of story told by those who
portray America as just a step from becoming  Greece ,” Krugman
said in the paper.  Asian Comparison  He also addressed a comparison with the Asian crisis of the
1990s, where large depreciations didn’t prevent an economic
slump. The difference is that those economies had large private
debt denominated in foreign currencies, he said.  “As a result,  currency depreciation  produced large
negative balance sheet effects, initially overwhelming any
positive effect from rising net exports,” Krugman said in the
paper.  His paper will be presented during a lecture at the IMF’s
two-day Jacques Polak  conference , which ends on Nov. 8 with a
panel featuring Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  