-- Kyrgyzstan Asks to Join SEC’s Global Industries Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-06T03:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/kyrgyzstan-asks-to-join-sec-s-global-industries-lawsuit.html
The Kyrgyz Republic seeks to join a
U.S. regulator’s insider-trading lawsuit, claiming trades in
Global Industries Ltd. were directed by the son of the Central
Asian country’s former leader.  Lawyers for the country filed a request today in federal
court in  Manhattan  asking to intervene in the Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit in an effort to recover public funds
allegedly stolen by Maksim Bakiyev. He is the son of
Kyrgyzstan’s former president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, who was ousted
in an April 2010 coup.  The SEC said in a complaint filed in September 2011 that
unknown buyers made more than $1.7 million in profit that month
by trading on non-public information about Global Industries, a
Sulphur, Lousiana-based oil-field construction company. A
Moscow-based investment firm, Ergoport Experts Ltd., identified
itself as the trader and denied acting on inside information.
The case was dismissed last month after the agency dropped it
without explanation.  A former financial adviser to the Bakiyevs, Eugene
Gourevitch, was charged in an indictment unsealed last month in
federal court in Brooklyn,  New York , with conspiracy and
obstruction of justice in the SEC case. He has pleaded not
guilty to those charges.  Both Gourevitch and Maksim Bakiyev have been accused by the
new Kyrgyz government of theft of public assets,  money
laundering  and other crimes “arising from corruption in the
deposed regime,” lawyers for the country said in today’s
filing.  ‘Complete Record’  “The intervention of the of the Kyrgyz Republic will
assist the court by providing a more complete record,
contributing to the full development of the underlying factual
issues, assisting with the just and equitable adjudication of
the legal questions facing this court” and support the mandate
of the SEC, lawyers for the country said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. One or
More Unknown Purchasers Of Securities Of Global Industries Ltd.,
1:11-cv-06500, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, at  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  