-- Nadal Seals Year-End No. 1 Spot by Reaching ATP Finals Last Four
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-11-07T01:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/nadal-gets-past-wawrinka-to-remain-unbeaten-at-atp-tennis-finals.html
Rafael Nadal  will finish 2013 as the
top-ranked men’s tennis player after beating Stanislas Wawrinka
to secure a semifinal spot at the ATP World Tour Finals.  Nadal won 7-6 (7-5), 7-6 (8-6) at the O2 arena in London
yesterday to become the first of the eight players at the
season-ending event to qualify for the final four. The victory
also ensured Nadal cannot be caught by world No. 2 Novak Djokovic atop the rankings.  It will be the third time Nadal, who missed parts of the
last few seasons because of injuries including a partially torn
patella tendon and knee inflammation, has finished the year as
No. 1. He needed two wins in  London  to keep the top ranking he
took from  Serbia ’s Djokovic last month.  It was “one of the best things that I did in my career:
come back to the No. 1 after three seasons,” said Nadal, 27.
“That’s very difficult in our sport, and after a very important
injury. That’s an emotional thing for me. In the same time, to
be able to qualify for the semifinals is an extra thing.”  Top-seeded Nadal, who has never won the ATP’s Tour Finals,
arrived in London with a career-best record of 71-6 for the
season. His 10 tournament victories this year include Grand Slam
titles at the French and U.S. opens that lifted his tally of
majors to 13, four behind  Roger Federer ’s career record.  Nadal secured his second win in 24 hours yesterday after
beating fellow Spaniard  David Ferrer  in his round-robin opener.
After losing all previous 24 sets against Nadal, Wawrinka twice
got close to snapping the streak.  Two Tiebreakers  Nadal took the lead and served for the first set before
Wawrinka broke for 5-5 and forced the tiebreaker. Nadal went 3-1
up in the second set, then Wawrinka won three straight games
before the rest of the set went with serve to set up another
tiebreaker. Nadal saved a set point with a smash before
clinching the win.  “I had the feeling that I couldn’t change the match, I
couldn’t change the score,” said Wawrinka, the No. 7 seed from
 Switzerland . “I was playing the right tennis, but maybe did a
few mistakes in the important points.”  The last time Nadal played at the ATP Tour Finals, in 2011,
he lost twice in the round-robin stage and failed to advance.
His best performance was in 2010, when he lost the final to
record six-time winner Federer.  “I am very far away from winning this title,” Nadal told
reporters. “Winning two matches already is a very positive
thing for me. But, seriously, even if I am in semifinals, on
this surface, I am not the favorite. I know that.”  In last night’s  Group A  singles match, fifth-seeded Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  defeated Ferrer 6-4, 6-4 to keep
alive his chances of qualifying for the semifinals. The two
players with the best results from each group advance.  Berdych next faces Nadal tomorrow, when Wawrinka meets
Ferrer. In today’s Group B matches, tournament favorite Djokovic
takes on  Argentina ’s Juan Martin del Potro and Federer of
Switzerland plays Frenchman  Richard Gasquet .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  