-- New World Resources Reports Quarterly Loss on OKK Sale
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-11-06T13:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/new-world-resources-reports-third-quarter-loss-on-okk-sale.html
(Corrects estimate in second paragraph.)  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the  Czech
Republic ’s largest producer of steelmaking coal, reported a
wider loss than estimated because of a one-time charge.  The total loss for the three months through September
reached 122.3 million euros ($165 million) compared with a 34.2
million-euro profit for the same period a year earlier, the
Amsterdam-registered company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected a 59.3
million-euro loss, according to the average of eight estimates.  NWR is battling a drop in coal prices amid shrinking demand
from steelmakers as well as an oversupply of thermal coal for
electricity. The company had a net loss of 132.2 million euros
after taking a charge of 83.7 million euros for the sale of its
OKK coking facility in September as part of a plan to scale down
operations and stem losses.  The loss “is significantly worse than expectations, but
the reason is the extraordinary item,” J&T Banka analyst
Bohumil Trampota said in a note after the results were
published. “Without this item, the loss would be 38.6 million
euros, which is above expectations.”  The shares rose as much as 7 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since Sept. 30, to 27.60 koruna at 12:19 p.m. in Prague.
The stock has lost 72 percent of its value this year.  The third-quarter operating loss reached 43.8 million euros
and revenue for the period fell 31 percent to 200.6 million
euros, the company said. NWR has pledged to shut down the
unprofitable Paskov mine, renegotiate the collective wage
agreement with unions by the end of the year and keep capital
expenditure below 100 million euros in the coming years.  Debt Waivers  NWR negotiated waivers and amendments to its debt covenants
twice this year. While it won’t be able to draw on its current
line of credit until it expires on Feb. 7, it hopes to extend it
for more than one year, Chief Financial Officer Marek Jelinek
said during a conference call today.  The miner expects to generate positive free cashflow next
year on the assumption that prices of coal won’t plunge further,
Jelinek said. That target doesn’t include costs of closing down
the Paskov mine, most of which won’t be incurred until after the
mine is shut, he said.  The company revised its target for full-year 2013 coal
production to 9 million metric tons to 9.5 million tons from 9
million to 10 million tons. Production next year is expected to
reach 8 million to 9 million tons, with 60 percent of the output
from coking coal, according to the statement.  NWR aims to bring down the cost of extracting 1 ton of coal
from the current 81 euros per ton to 60 euros per ton at the end
of next year. If achieved, the measure will bring the company
back to profitability, Jelinek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  