-- New York Casinos Approved as Voters Back Colorado Pot Taxes
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y ,   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-07T02:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/new-york-casinos-approved-as-voters-back-pay-hike-marijuana-tax.html
Voters agreed to let as many as seven
Las Vegas-style casinos open in  New York , approved an increase
to the  minimum wage  in  New Jersey  and set a tax on the legal
sale of recreational marijuana in Colorado.  The statewide ballot questions were among 31 decided in six
states across the U.S. yesterday. The measures focused on issues
related to business, taxes and borrowing, a break from recent
years in which social issues such as abortion and gay marriage
were put to referendums.  In Colorado, while approving a 25 percent tax on sales of
marijuana a year after legalizing the drug, voters rejected an
income-tax increase to raise money for schools, just as they did
two years ago.  “We are in the midst of a very fragile recovery,” said
Kelly Maher, a spokeswoman for Coloradans for Real Education
Reform, the campaign opposed to the measure. “It is definitely
the wrong time to raise taxes by the highest amounts in the
history of the Colorado ballots.”  In New York, voters supported Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s plan
to bring jobs to struggling parts of the state by allowing
development of casinos beyond Indian reservations. The decision
permits as many as seven, with four in the first seven years,
all of them upstate, to draw New York City residents and
tourists to the region. It won with 57 percent of the vote,
according to unofficial results from the state Board of
Elections.  Jobs, Tourism  “This vote will keep hundreds of millions of dollars spent
each year in neighboring states right here in New York,” Cuomo
said in a statement. “Today’s vote will further pave the way
for the creation of new jobs, construction and increased
tourism.”  The measure was supported by Kuala Lumpur-based  Genting
Bhd. (GENT) , which would continue to run the only  slot machines  in  New
York City  for the next several years, at the Aqueduct Racetrack
in Queens.  At least four casino developers are planning to compete for
licenses that will be available in the Catskill Mountains, about
100 miles (160 kilometers) northwest of Manhattan, including
Foxwoods Resort Casino,  Empire Resorts Inc. (NYNY)  and the Mohegan
Tribal Gaming Authority.  New York is following states such as Maryland and
Pennsylvania in expanding casino gambling to raise money or
create jobs.  Food Labeling  In other votes:  -- A proposition in Washington state to require labels on
genetically modified food was  defeated , 54 percent to 46
percent, according to the Secretary of State’s office. The
measure was fought by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  DuPont Co. (DD)  California
voters defeated a similar proposal last year following
opposition from food companies.  -- Texas voters allowed the state to put $2 billion of its
reserves into a fund to help pay for water projects. Republican
Governor  Rick Perry  endorsed the plan, which will finance
reservoirs, distribution systems and other public works to keep
pace with the state’s fast-growing population.  -- In 11 Colorado counties, voters cast ballots on
resolutions backing secession to create a 51st state, buoyed by
anger at political power wielded by urban areas. Creating a new
state would require approval from the state legislature and
Congress. The resolutions were failing in six counties,
including Weld, the most-populous where the question appeared,
and passing in five, according to early results from the
Secretary of State’s office.  Fracking Limits  -- Efforts to temporarily halt hydraulic fracturing to
drill for oil and natural gas, a technique that has raised
concerns about groundwater pollution, were also on the ballot in
cities in Colorado, where the practice known as fracking has
flourished.  In Boulder, a proposed five-year moratorium was leading
late yesterday. Measures in two other cities were also passing
in early results, while a third was failing by less than two
percentage points, according to county election office websites.  -- In  Massachusetts , voters knocked down a proposal to
build a $1 billion resort-casino at the Suffolk Downs racetrack
in East Boston, according to the  Associated Press .  -- In New Jersey, where Governor  Chris Christie  won a
second term, voters bucked his opposition to raising the wages
of the state’s lowest-paid workers, supporting a $1-an-hour
increase by 61 percent, with all but 1 percent of the precincts
reporting, according to the AP.  The measure would lift the minimum wage to $8.25 an hour
from $7.25, followed by annual cost-of-living adjustments. Ten
other states have minimum wages that increase along with the
 Consumer Price Index , according to the U.S. Labor Department.  Democrats, who control the New Jersey legislature, placed
the increase before voters after Christie vetoed it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  