-- New York Lawyer Wells to Lead NFL’s Probe of Dolphins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/nfl-picks-n-y-lawyer-to-lead-dolphins-probe-with-no-timetable.html
National Football League Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  said there’s no time limit for an independent
probe into alleged harassment in the Miami Dolphins’ workplace,
which will be led by New York attorney  Ted Wells .  Wells, a senior partner in the law firm of Paul Weiss
Rifkind Wharton & Garrison, will direct “a thorough and
objective” investigation and submit a report to Goodell, the
NFL said in an e-mailed statement last night.  “Ted Wells will have full authority to investigate as he
deems appropriate,” Goodell said. “Consistent with doing a
thorough investigation, we have not imposed a specific timetable
on him.”  The Dolphins asked the NFL four days ago to investigate
allegations that harassment led Jonathan Martin to leave the
team. Fellow offensive lineman Richie Incognito was indefinitely
suspended.  “I am committed to creating a professional environment for
all of the members of the Dolphins family,” Dolphins owner
Stephen Ross said in an e-mailed statement last night. “Once
the review is completed and I have all of the facts, we will
respond accordingly.”  Ross said the Dolphins will be “fully cooperating with the
review,”, while Miami coach Joe Philbin said the team will take
“all necessary steps” to correct anything that Wells finds
amiss.  Racial Slur  ESPN reported that Incognito, 30, asked Martin, 24, to
contribute financially to an unofficial team trip to  Las Vegas 
that Martin did not attend. The network also said the Dolphins
and the NFL have a copy of a voice message from April in which
Incognito used a racial slur and threatened Martin’s life.  David Dunn , Incognito’s agent, has not responded to
multiple e-mails and a message left at his office seeking
comment on the ESPN reports.  Goodell said harassment has no place in NFL facilities.
“Under league policy, all employees have the right to a
workplace free of any form of harassment,” the commissioner
said. “We are fully committed to an appropriate working
environment for all NFL personnel.”  Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill told reporters
yesterday that he had no sense there was any problem in the
relationship between Martin and Incognito.  “I would say Jonathan was like Richie’s little brother,”
Tannehill said. “(Incognito) gave him a hard time, he messed
with him, but he was the first one there to have his back in any
situation and it’s a big surprise what’s going on.  ‘‘The first guy to stand up for Jonathan when anything went
down on the field, any kind of tussle, Richie was the first guy
there,” the quarterback added.  Billy Hunter ’s firing in February as head of the National
Basketball Players Association came after an audit of the union
overseen by Wells.  The review concluded that, while Hunter did nothing
illegal, he failed to manage conflicts of interest, lacked
proper corporate governance and didn’t disclose that his $3
million-a-year contract wasn’t properly ratified.  Syracuse Probe  Wells also was involved in an internal investigation into
the men’s basketball program at  Syracuse University , where
federal prosecutors in November 2012 dropped a yearlong probe
into former assistant coach  Bernie Fine , saying there wasn’t
enough evidence against him to support allegations of sexual
abuse.  “My task is to assemble the facts and present my findings
to the commissioner,” said Wells, whose report for Goodell will
be made public. “I will do so fairly and comprehensively so
that Commissioner Goodell can address this matter properly. I
will begin my work immediately and report my findings to the
commissioner as soon as practical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net  