-- NFL Bullying Sees Intellectuals as Prey, Ex-Patriots Tackle Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-06T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/nfl-bullying-sees-intellectuals-as-prey-ex-patriots-tackle-says.html
Brian Holloway said he was one week
into his National Football League career when he learned that
his  Stanford University  education and academic interests would
make him a target.  To cope with verbal abuse from his  New England Patriots 
teammates that often took a racial turn, Holloway set aside his
true character to become a better, more enraged football player,
he said. It was a person he didn’t particularly like.  “I tapped into a dark side,” Holloway, 54, said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “The command to contain your anger
and aggression, that dam broke for me. And as an intellectual,
it feels extremely uncomfortable allowing that side of human
nature to come out.”  His experience from 1981 has made Holloway an admirer of
Miami Dolphins offensive lineman Jonathan Martin, 24, who showed
a different response to bullying when he walked out of the
team’s practice facility last week. After Martin’s
representatives told the Dolphins of alleged workplace
misconduct, Miami suspended offensive lineman Richie Incognito
and asked the NFL to conduct a review of the workplace.  Martin’s departure and Incognito’s suspension show that
bullying can occur even in an environment where 300-pound men
are paid millions of dollars to impose their physical strength,
sports psychologists said.  Abuse ’Trauma’  “His status as a football player and adept athlete does
not make him immune to needing treatment to overcome the trauma
of abuse,” Leah Lagos, a New York-based sports psychologist,
said in a telephone interview. “He’s human.”  Holloway said he was fined about $1,500 during his rookie
season with the Patriots for reading a legal textbook that the
team said was a distraction. He was also ridiculed by teammates
for typing LSAT notes during plane rides.  The offensive tackle, who listened to opera for pregame
inspiration, said there is an alliance that forms in locker
rooms to ostracize players with elite academic backgrounds or
eccentric interests.  “When they sense an intellectual is present, they will see
that as prey,” Holloway said.  To avoid becoming the hunted, Holloway said he made a
conscious change.  “I discovered that I could use that anger and that
aggression on the field,” he said. “What was difficult was
saying to myself, ‘If this is how and who I need to be in this
business, should this business really be part of my future?’”  The Patriots are now under different ownership. Spokesman
Stacey James did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Harvard Issues  Isaiah Kacyvenski, a former Harvard linebacker who played
seven NFL seasons, said he also can relate to Martin through
events from his own pro career.  The 36-year-old, who played for the Seattle Seahawks and St.
 Louis Rams , said he worked to avoid confirming a “preconceived
notion of what a Harvard grad was,” and often angered teammates
by raising his hand during meetings to ask questions about the
way things were being done.  “In no way should a Stanford or Harvard degree get held
against you,” said Kacyvenski, who now directs sports business
at the biomedical technology company MC10 Inc. in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  The son of two Harvard graduates, Martin left the Dolphins
practice facility on Oct. 28 after other offensive linemen stood
up and walked away from the lunch table when he sat down with
his food, according NFL.com.  Financial Demands  ESPN reported that Incognito, 30, asked Martin to
contribute financially last summer to an unofficial team trip to
 Las Vegas  that Martin did not attend. The network also said the
Dolphins and the NFL have a copy of a voice message from April
in which Incognito used a racial slur and threatened Martin’s
life.  David Dunn , Incognito’s agent, has not responded to
multiple e-mails and a message left at his office seeking
comment on the ESPN reports.  The league has not commented outside of saying it is
reviewing the matter. The NFL players’ union said it will insist
on a fair investigation for all involved.  The reaction around the NFL has varied.  New York  Giants
safety Antrel Rolle told WFAN, a New York sports radio station,
that Martin could have done more to prevent the bullying.  “Was Richie Incognito wrong? Absolutely, but I think the
other guy is just as much to blame as Richie, because he allowed
it to happen,” he said. “At this level, you’re a man. You’re
not a little boy. You’re not a freshman in college.”  Too Far  Other former players, such as ESPN analysts Tim Hasselbeck
and Cris Carter, have said that while hazing is a part of any
locker room, the alleged harassment in Miami went too far.  “What they must understand is that hazing, while often
portrayed as harmless and a rite of passage, creates a culture
and hierarchical system of power that promotes bullying,” Greg
Dale, a professor of sports psychology and sports ethics at  Duke
University , said in a telephone interview.  Incognito withdrew from the University of  Nebraska  in 2004
after being kicked off the football team for repeated violations
of team rules. The Omaha World-Herald reported that Incognito,
who had several fights with teammates and opposing players while
at Nebraska, in 2003 received anger management treatment at a
psychiatric and behavioral hospital in Topeka,  Kansas .  After leaving Nebraska, Incognito transferred to the
University of  Oregon  and was kicked off the team after one week.
Former Indianapolis Colts General Manager  Bill Polian  and former
Patriots executive Scott Pioli said this week that they took
Incognito off their draft boards due to character concerns.  Social Justice  Martin’s decision to walk away enhances the power of his
message, according to Dan Lebowitz, executive director of the
 Center for the Study of Sport in Society  at  Northeastern
University  in  Boston . The group uses sports as a way to begin
conversations about social justice, and three years ago assisted
the NFL with workplace conduct training.  “Had Martin simply started a fight, a lot of people would
have dismissed it as just a locker room isolated incident,”
Lebowitz said in a telephone interview. “This is a watershed
moment where someone who has made his living in what is
considered a sports battlefield, as a gladiator, is saying that
emotional abuse matters.”  Holloway now heads a brand consultant company and said he
has worked with more than 350 Fortune 500 companies, including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  He was in the
news recently after his New York home was vandalized by partying
teenagers.  Holloway said that while he often contemplated quitting the
NFL, he now regrets making the choice to keep playing with added
aggression. He said the transition from football player to
husband and father was difficult after his final season in 1988.  “Jonathan is not allowing that side of his humanity to
come out because he has more class and character than I had,”
Holloway said. “He’s going through a very important dialogue
with himself. It has nothing to do with soft or weak, it has
everything to do with how he wants his future to be defined.”  -- With assistance from  Scott Soshnick , Erik Matuszewski and
Aaron Kuriloff in New York. Editors: Dex McLuskey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  