-- Obamacare’s Defects Are the Price of Bad Politics
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-11-06T19:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/obamacare-s-defects-are-the-price-of-bad-politics.html
The rollout of Obamacare could hardly
have gone worse. To understand what happened and judge whether
things might improve, notice that the problems fall into three
fairly distinct categories: defects in the plan, defects in its
initial execution and defects in the way it was sold. In the
end, only the first will matter.  The  website failure  is a case of bungled execution -- a
landmark of managerial incompetence. Glitches were to be
expected, but this has turned into something else. Apparently,
officials  saw it coming . The only surprise is that the White
House, despite knowing what was at stake, stood there and let it
happen.  The other big embarrassment is that insurance policies are
being  canceled  despite President  Barack Obama ’s promise that
people could keep them. Again, the fault isn’t with the plan --
it’s with the way the plan was sold. Obama’s promise was either
an audacious oversimplification (if you’re feeling generous) or
a bald-faced lie (if you aren’t). Even so, the cancellations
don’t point to fatal defects in the design, any more than does
the website farce.  The  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act  was always
intended to disrupt the individual health-insurance market.
Forcing insurers to meet new standards was a core goal. The
grandfathering of pre-reform policies was presumably intended to
limit the initial disruption, but insurers declined to play
along.  Risk-Pooling  More generally, the reform aims to create new patterns of
risk-pooling, cross-subsidy and cost recovery across the
industry. It’s a far-reaching restructuring -- and its effects,
by the way, won’t be confined to the individual market.  Instead of trying to explain what was about to happen and
why -- no easy task -- Obama and his allies offered false
reassurance. They decided to say that the reform, though ranking
as a world-historical achievement, was at the same time no big
deal. This made no sense, but they said it anyway to get the law
passed.  Despite the current outcry, the reformers will be forgiven
for all this if the plan ends up working. Remember that its main
purpose -- to widen access -- is compelling. For that reason
alone, it deserves to succeed, and with running repairs, it
still might.  However, as I said  last week , it has flaws the country
hasn’t yet grasped. It fails to achieve fully universal
coverage. (The emerging Medicaid gap, caused by states failing
to expand eligibility, compounds that problem.) Instead of
simplifying the financing of U.S. health care, the reform makes
it even more complicated by providing means-tested subsidies in
the form of tax credits. Its defense against getting too many
sick people and not enough healthy ones in the risk pool is
questionable: The penalties for opting out may be too mild.
Above all, its cost controls are so far statements of intent,
not incentives embedded in the design.  These are all aspects of the compromise that the Obama
administration thought it had to strike with public opinion.
Rather than attempting to replace the employer-based model at a
stroke, the Democrats bolted new bits and pieces on to a badly
broken system. “ Medicare for all ” would have been one way to
solve or ameliorate all of the problems I just mentioned -- but
the White House calculated that the country didn’t want
government-run health care. That was no doubt correct, and the
past few weeks are unlikely to have changed the country’s mind.  Voucher System  But there are other and better possibilities. The approach
I’d like some future administration to take in building a
simpler and more effective system would be based on vouchers.
Every American would get a voucher entitling them to standard
insurance coverage, with no exclusions for pre-existing
conditions. Private insurance companies would compete for their
business. The value of the voucher would be risk-adjusted to
remove the insurers’ incentive to avoid riskier patients.  No more means testing, no more tax relief for employer-based plans. Medicaid, Medicare and other government programs
would be phased out and folded into the plan. A dedicated sales
tax would pay for it all, providing a strong and visible check
on  costs .  A proposal of this kind was introduced 10 years ago by
Victor Fuchs and Ezekiel Emanuel, and described by Emanuel in
his book, “ Healthcare, Guaranteed ,” which I recommend if
you’re curious to see the idea developed in more detail. Emanuel
has been an adviser to the Obama administration and has lately
been seen on  television  haplessly defending its efforts -- but
don’t let that put you off. Chapter 6, “The Mistake of
Mandates,” explains why the system he’s now obliged to advocate
for is likely to fall short.  Is there any point in even thinking about such radical
alternatives while U.S. politics are mired in the reality of
Obamacare? Perhaps not. Until further notice, Democrats will be
engaged in damage control, and Republicans show no interest in
advancing a plan of their own. It would take a much braver
administration than this one to champion such an undertaking,
not to mention a semi-functioning Congress to pass the
legislation. Brave presidents, purposeful legislators -- these
both seem very remote.  For now, a better model at least gives us a good benchmark
for judging what we have. And I wouldn’t write the idea off
altogether. Obamacare’s defects ensure that the topic isn’t
going away.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@ bloomberg.net. 