-- Obama Promotes Insurance Sign-Ups as He Raises Money
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-11-06T17:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/obama-promotes-insurance-sign-ups-as-he-raises-money.html
President  Barack Obama ’s political
and policy priorities are dovetailing this week as he helps
raise cash for Democratic congressional candidates and tries to
rouse interest from uninsured Americans in signing up for
coverage under his health-care law.  The outcome of both missions may determine how much he can
accomplish on the rest of his second-term agenda.  Obama travels today to  Dallas , and to Miami on Nov. 8, to
headline fundraisers for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee. Both are in states that have some of the highest
proportions of people lacking insurance.  Dallas is the U.S. city with the most uninsured residents
eligible to participate in the federal marketplace -- 670,000 in
2011 -- according to data from the Census Bureau and the White
House. The broader Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area has an
estimated 424,000 uninsured young adults, ages 19-24. There are
also 456,000 Hispanics lacking coverage.  Obama plans to visit Temple Emanu-El to thank volunteers
with the Dallas-area interfaith group working to enroll
uninsured Texans through the marketplaces set up under the law.  “It’s a key place for us to reach young consumers and
therefore one of the top priority areas,” Obama adviser David Simas said.  Texas and  Florida  also are the two states with the largest
Hispanic  populations  after  California . Hispanics, a growing
political force, disproportionately lack health-care coverage.  Flawed Website  The flawed rollout of the government website intended to be
the main gateway to get insurance under the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act and stories about canceled individual
policies after Obama’s repeated promises that people who liked
their insurance could keep it have driven down the president’s
public approval ratings.  Obama, seeking a rebound, plans to use his appearances to
promote the economic and social benefits of getting the
uninsured enrolled and to urge Republican governors to stop
blocking state expansions of Medicaid.  About one in four Texans and Floridians were uninsured in
2012 compared with 16.9 percent of the  U.S. population ,
according to the Census Bureau. The Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington
area had an uninsured rate of 24.3 percent, while 29.1 percent
were uninsured in the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach area.  Interfaith Alliance  The interfaith alliance represents 41 churches, synagogues,
schools and community groups with more than 90,000 members, said
Gwen Lummus, 65, chairwoman of the group’s health-care committee
and a member of the First Unitarian Church of Dallas.  In August, the alliance produced a booklet in English and
Spanish to address questions about the law and enrollment. Two
hundred members from 32 of the congregations were trained to go
back to churches to teach about how the marketplace would work.  Lummus said the health-care law has been portrayed by
critics as “all these things that it isn’t.”  “It’s a way to provide people who either have been denied
access because of pre-existing conditions or who couldn’t afford
health care,” she said. “It’s not a perfect law. We want to
work to make it better.” Lummus said while she and her husband
now are old enough to be covered by Medicare, they could have
cut their insurance costs by two-thirds under the law, which
protects patients with pre-existing conditions.  Frustrated Consumers  Obama’s visit comes as his administration is struggling to
overcome flaws with the health website that have frustrated
consumers and may hobble enrollment figures for young and Latino
uninsured.  “I’m very disappointed it didn’t have a better rollout,”
Lummus said, while “we have faith that it will get fixed.”  For the second time in a week, Obama will be on the road
promoting the law the same day that Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  was testifying before a
congressional committee about the healthcare.gov website.  Since opening Oct. 1, the website serving 36 states has
been plagued by delays, error messages and hang-ups that
prevented customers from completing applications.  Sebelius told the Senate Finance Committee today that there
are “a couple of hundred functional fixes” that need to be
made on the website. She said enrollment numbers will be
released next week.  On a conference call organized by the White House, Texas
supporters played down the long-term damage from the problems
with the rollout.  Engaging Consumers  Obama’s visit will be a “shot in the arm” for organizers
and consumers, said Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins. San
Antonio Mayor Julian Castro acknowledged concerns about
depressing Latino participation while saying the president’s
engagement will help.  “It’s important right now to play an active role and
that’s what we’re trying to do,” Castro said.  Obama also is scheduled to appear at two fundraisers for
the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in the Dallas area.
Ticket prices are about $32,000 per couple to attend a dinner
event at the home of lawyer Russell Budd, and $15,000 per person
to attend a reception at the home of lawyer  Peter Kraus ,
according to a party official who wasn’t authorized discuss the
events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  