-- Ohio Group Seeks Chance to Fight Liquor-Financed Job Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D e n i s e   T r o w b r i d g e
-- 2013-11-06T18:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ohio-plan-to-grow-jobs-using-liquor-profit-goes-to-court.html
JobsOhio, Governor  John Kasich ’s
initiative to spur private economic development by selling bonds
backed by state liquor sales profit, has twice eluded a legal
challenge by a nonprofit citizens’ group that claims the program
is unconstitutional.  Today,  ProgressOhio.org , which says it has 350,000 members,
went before the justices of the state’s highest court in
Columbus seeking to revive the case. Two lower  Ohio  courts have
ruled the group hasn’t shown it suffered any injury that would
entitle it to redress under Kasich’s plan to use public money to
spur private development.  “The  JobsOhio  arrangement violates numerous key structural
limitations imposed by the Ohio Constitution on state
government,” including one barring the state from making equity
investments in private corporations, ProgressOhio said in an
Ohio  Supreme Court  filing.  If the state supreme court agrees with the lower appeals
court that the group didn’t have public interest or taxpayer
standing to oppose the measure, “no Ohioan has the capacity”
to question the JobsOhio initiative, ProgressOhio said.  “We’re here today because the appellate court wrongly held
Ohioans always need a personal stake to enforce the Ohio
Constitution,” Maurice Thompson, a lawyer for ProgressOhio,
told the justices.  Who Challenges  “Who is positioned to bring this sort of challenge?”
Chief Justice Maureen O’Connor asked.  “That is the question we have also been asking all
along,” Thompson said. “Because it appears as though nobody
has standing if the plaintiffs here don’t have standing.”  The product of legislation signed by Kasich, a Republican,
in 2011, JobsOhio is a private entity that earlier this year
sold $1.5 billion in bonds to raise money for  job creation  and
to finance its 25-year lease of the state’s wholesale liquor
distribution system. Liquor sale profits -- a record
$251 million last year -- will be used to pay the bond debt.  In its first full year, the agency worked with 277
companies to create almost 21,000 jobs while retaining over
54,000 more, according to its 2012  annual report . It ended
fiscal 2013 with more than $181 million available for job-creation loan and grant programs, according to an audited
 financial statement .  Actually Suffered  The state maintains that the program is constitutional.
Stephen Carney, an attorney for JobsOhio, told the justices
today that the state constitution only allows those who have
actually suffered to bring a grievance into court.  “This case is not about the merits of JobsOhio as an
organization, it’s about constitutional limits to hear disputes
between actually affected parties,” he said. “There is no
investment of public money here. They say taxpayer standing, but
there is no taxpayer money being spent.”  A Kasich plan to expand Medicaid under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul was challenged in a state Supreme
Court lawsuit brought by six lawmakers and anti-abortion
organizations in Cleveland and Cincinnati.  Those plaintiffs claim that initiative was unlawful because
Kasich obtained approval for expansion of the joint federal-state insurance program for the indigent from a state panel that
considers agency spending requests after the governor was unable
to persuade legislators to go along with the plan.  The JobsOhio case is ProgressOhio.org Inc. v. JobsOhio, 12-1272,  Supreme Court of Ohio  (Columbus).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Denise Trowbridge in the Supreme Court of Ohio in Columbus at
;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  