-- Oil Industry May Invoke Trade Law to Challenge Export Ban
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-11-06T05:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/oil-industry-may-invoke-trade-law-to-challenge-export-ban.html
The U.S. oil industry, riding a
domestic energy boom, is preparing to challenge restrictions on
crude exports, possibly by arguing that limits designed to keep
petroleum in America may violate international trade rules.  “Export issues are something we’re going to have to
address,”  John Felmy , the chief economist for the American
Petroleum Institute trade group, said in an interview. “It’s a
debate we have to have.”  He declined to discuss lobbying strategy or trade rules,
though a June planning document on API letterhead obtained by
 Bloomberg News  says the group has begun to develop “the
necessary legal analysis” to support export approvals.  API is planning to “highlight potential violations of the
 World Trade Organization  rules against export restrictions,”
according to the draft document, prepared for the group’s
executive committee meeting.  Industry officials say the push is just starting to lift
the 1970s-era restrictions, and they acknowledge it will be an
uphill fight that raises sensitive political issues. The U.S. is
producing more oil than it has in nearly a quarter-century,
though, reducing its reliance on imports and putting the nation
closer to energy independence than it has been since 1989,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  Reid Porter, a spokesman for the Washington-based API,
said he wouldn’t comment on specific strategies, though he
confirmed the group supports lifting export restrictions.  “Supporting the free market and supporting open trade is a
key priority for our industry,” Porter said. “It creates
efficiencies, creates jobs, and increases revenue to our
government.”  Lobbying Spending  The document indicates that the industry is more focused on
protecting tax breaks as Congress considers a tax-code overhaul
than on export restrictions. The organization spent about $6.7
million on lobbying for the first nine months of the year,
according to public documents.  Still, removing trade restrictions is rising on the
industry’s list of priorities as U.S. production soars, said
 Stephen Brown , vice president and counsel for federal government
affairs at  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , a San Antonio-based oil refiner that is
not a member of API.  “It’s time it gets a full airing,” Brown said in an
interview.  The push represents a shift in the U.S. energy policy that
since the oil embargo imposed by Arab nations in the 1970s has
focused on reducing imports from places like Venezuela and
 Russia . The U.S. still imported about 11 million barrels a day
of crude oil and refined products in 2012.  Fracking Boost  Advances in techniques such as hydraulic fracturing, known
as fracking, and horizontal drilling have sparked a boom in
production. The  International Energy Agency  in Paris predicted
last year that the U.S. would overtake  Saudi Arabia  by 2020 as
the world’s largest producer.  Natural gas production has pushed prices for that fuel down
and led to a flurry of applications to the U.S. Energy
Department from companies seeking permission to export a
liquefied form of the fuel to gas-thirsty markets such as  Japan .  The department has approved four applications to construct
export terminals to sell natural gas to countries -- permission
that is necessary to export to nations that don’t have free
trade deals with the U.S. The department is considering another
20 applications.  Constraints on crude oil exports are governed by a
different law and date to the 1975 Energy Policy and
Conservation Act, enacted in the wake of the Arab oil embargo.  ‘National Interest’  With few exceptions, that measure prohibits exports unless
the U.S. Commerce Department finds those shipments to be
“consistent with the national interest.”  The restrictions apply to crude oil, not refined gasoline
or related products.  The U.S. exported about 2.6 million barrels of refined
petroleum products a day in 2012, more than double what it
exported in 2007, according to EIA data.  Some companies are setting up small refineries to process
certain grades of crude to qualify as refined so that they can
be exported, Bloomberg reported in February.  The U.S. produced about 6.5 million barrels a day on
average in 2012. In August, production had risen to 7.5 million
barrels per day.  Refinery Capacity  Without additional exports, oil production may soon exceed
the capacity for the type of light sweet crude being produced in
 North Dakota  and elsewhere in the U.S., said  Kevin Book ,
managing director of ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based consultancy group.  While in the short term, that means lower gasoline prices,
in the longer term it hurts consumers because it will discourage
U.S. production, Book said.  “Anyone who looks at this objectively can see this is
something that should be addressed,” Book said.  Other analysts said exports may not be a pressing concern
for producers for years.  “It really depends on how fast production would continue
to ramp up,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC, a Houston-based consultancy. He said a capacity crunch may
not come until 2017.  Exporting oil would give producers greater ability to get a
higher price for their crude.  Integrated Companies  In an interview,  Harold Hamm , chief executive officer of
Continental Resources Inc., the most active driller in the
Bakken field in North Dakota, said export controls put producers
at a disadvantage to the major integrated  oil companies . Those
big multinational companies can still sell gasoline, diesel or
jet fuel overseas, whereas Continental’s crude is bound to the
U.S. market.  “It’s an archaic law,” Hamm said at Bloomberg energy
conference in Houston last month. “Closed societies don’t
work.”  West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark price,
dropped $1.25 to $93.37 a barrel for December delivery on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Brent oil, the European
benchmark price, for December fell 90 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
close at $105.33 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Neither Felmy nor Porter of API discussed whether the group
would argue that U.S. restrictions on exports violate trade
rules developed by the World Trade Organization, as the planning
document indicates.  A country claiming harm from the restrictions would have to
bring a case before the body.  Gary Hufbauer , a fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in  Washington ,
said a country would likely have a strong case that the U.S.
restrictions do violate trade rules.  “There is a national security exemption, but I don’t think
it could be supported now,” Hufbauer, who published a paper
earlier this year about natural gas exports, said. “I don’t
think the arguments would prevail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  