-- London’s ‘Great Smog’ Provides Lessons for China
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M i h m
-- 2013-11-06T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/london-s-great-smog-provides-lessons-for-china.html
Fall may be in the air, but in  China ,
it’s the pollution that’s most visible. This is the time of year
when many northern industrial cities switch on coal-fired
heating plants to provide warmth to urban dwellers. When
combined with copious quantities of industrial pollution from
factories dependent on coal, entire cities shut down, as  Harbin 
did a couple of weeks ago.  The government’s response is hardly reassuring: more
pledges of conversion to cleaner fuels, even though coal use is
expected to double by 2030, as well as plans to set up a
 national monitoring system  in the hardest-hit cities. Fiddling
while Rome burns.  There are plenty of historical antecedents for China’s
dilatory response. As I noted  last week : Both the U.K. and the
U.S. tolerated staggering pollution levels in their industrial
cities in the 19th century. Nonetheless, so-called “killer
smogs” in the 20th century eventually led to serious reforms in
both nations. Whether China follows in those footsteps remains
to be seen.  In the U.S., the watershed event was a disaster that befell
 Donora , a suburb of Pittsburgh. In October 1948, a weather
inversion trapped sulfurous clouds of smoke and fog over the
settlement. Donora soon became, in the words of the  New York
Times , a “twilight world” where the sun disappeared, leaving
the city in a purgatory of pollution.  Soot Tracks  Strange things happened: When people walked down the
street, they left a trail of white tracks where their footfalls
had disturbed soot accumulating on the ground.  A zinc smelter continued to belch a toxic mix of pollutants
into the air, where it mixed with smoke from coal-fire furnaces.  By the fourth day, hospitals overflowed with patients
gasping for breath, most of them older and already suffering
from respiratory ailments. An elderly barber fell ill in his
shop. Terrified, he tried to flee town in his car, but never
made it: He was found slumped over the steering wheel, “his
face reddened in mortal cyanotic agony.”  By the time rain cleared the clouds on the fifth day, 20
people had died, along with 800 animals, and 43 percent of the
population had fallen seriously ill. In succeeding years, the
town’s steel mills and zinc smelter closed, though mortality
rates remained elevated. Subsequent studies suggested the
primary culprit was sulfuric acid generated in part by the coal-burning mills.  The disaster became a catalyst for state and local
legislation to regulate air pollution. Other cities became
synonymous with smog in the 1950s and 1960s, notably
“ Smogtown ,” or  Los Angeles , though its brown skies had more to
do with automobile emissions than the classic mix of fog and
smoke.      But in the U.S., nothing could match the Donora
tragedy as a symbol of what could happen if smog reached lethal
levels.  Four years after Donora,  London  offered a more terrifying
illustration of these hazards. In November 1952, unusually low
temperatures prompted Londoners to stoke up their coal furnaces
earlier than usual. As coal supplies dwindled, the National Coal
Board lifted restrictions on the use of a particularly low-quality, smoky fuel known as “nutty slack,” hoping that this
would keep people warm.  During the first week of December, a rare weather inversion
trapped vast quantities of smog over the metropolitan area.
Faced with darkening skies and clammy cold, city dwellers
cranked up their coal-powered furnaces.  In the center of the city, it soon became impossible to see
more than a few feet. People began to complain of difficulty
breathing; they noticed peculiar smells in the air. The London
Times reported that “those who ventured on to the roads in the
gloom of what should have been daylight made little progress,
and many had to abandon their cars and walk.”  BBC Lost  Wembley Stadium shut down for the first time in decades, as
did some of the city’s theaters. According to historian  Peter
Thorsheim , “even the  BBC  was affected, for a number of people
who were scheduled to go on the air found it impossible to reach
its studios.”  This was later dubbed the “Great Smog.” What made it
great wasn’t merely the density and lethality of the pollution,
which may well have been comparable to 19th-century episodes.
Rather, it was the belated recognition that the departing clouds
of pollution had just sent thousands of people to an early
grave.  Data collected via crude monitoring devices highlighted the
enormity of the environmental disaster. Normally, pollution
levels in London (already famous for its befouled air) averaged
around 250 micrograms per cubic meter of particulate matter and
sulfur dioxide. During the Great Smog, some monitoring stations
registered levels as high as 4,460 micrograms per cubic meter.  But in some parts of London, the levels probably were far
greater. According to historian  Peter Brimblecombe , the National
Gallery’s air-conditioning system routinely clogged on account
of the particulate matter in the air. At the height of the Great
Smog, it clogged at 54 times the normal rate. This crude measure
of air pollution implies that the levels in the neighborhood may
have hit a lung-choking 14,000 micrograms per cubic meter at the
peak of the disaster. (By contrast, a Chinese industrial city
such as Shenyang averages combined levels of particulate matter
and sulfur dioxide of about 200 micrograms per cubic meter.)  When members of the opposition  Labour Party  asked how many
people had died of respiratory diseases, the governing
Conservatives initially demurred. Public pressure mounted, and
in late December 1952, the health minister reported that 2,852
more people had died during the week of the Great Smog than had
died the previous year during the same time period.  The death toll was, in fact, far worse. As statisticians
began combing through the data, they realized that pollution
levels remained quite high through March, and that many people
suffering from respiratory ailments during the Great Smog died
in the succeeding weeks and months.  Higher Toll  Devra Davis, who studies air pollution and spent much of
her childhood in Donora, has  argued  that the total death toll
probably exceeded 12,000 people, though some of the fatalities
may have been caused by an outbreak of influenza.  Still, even a conservative estimate puts the total at more
than 7,000 fatalities. Worse, as one U.K. journal noted in the
wake of the disaster, “it was not, as has been occasionally
suggested, merely a matter of old people, who were due to die
soon in any case, being killed. Many of those affected might
have had years of useful life ahead of them.”  That observation is equally applicable to the Chinese
cities where smog has become a fixture of life. There is one
difference, however: In the U.K., the government was ultimately
accountable for the tragedy. Four years after the Great Smog,
Parliament passed the  Clean Air Act , and restrictions on
industrial emissions and the use of coal for heat gradually
brought the era of deadly air pollution to an end.  Unless something changes quickly, no such resolution awaits
China. In the past year, the government  has fought  attempts to
make accurate pollution data public. It has proven even less
forthcoming in releasing data on mortality rates during smog
events such as the one that hit Harbin.  Sooner or later, some city in China will find itself
trapped in a once-in-a-lifetime weather inversion. When that
happens, government mendacity and incompetence may ignite a
tragedy that makes the Great Smog seem tame by comparison.  (Stephen Mihm, an associate professor of history at the
 University of Georgia , is a contributor to the Ticker. Follow
him on Twitter. This article is the  last  of two on the history
of smog.)
 