-- Hong Kong Bourse Quarterly Profit Rises 20% as Trading Jumps
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-11-06T08:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/hong-kong-bourse-quarterly-profit-jumps-20-as-trading-increases.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
the world’s second-biggest bourse operator by market value, said
profit climbed 20 percent last quarter from a year earlier as
trading of shares and derivatives jumped.  Net income increased to HK$1.2 billion ($155 million) in
the three months through Sept. 30 from HK$1 billion a year
before, according to a statement today. The  profit  compares with
the HK$1.07 billion mean estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The average daily value of stocks traded on the
exchange surged 19 percent, while the number of derivatives
contracts bought and sold each day rose 18 percent.  Trading climbed as the Hang Seng Index, the worst performer
among developed markets tracked by Bloomberg in the first half
of 2013, rebounded 16 percent from a June 24. The London Metal
Exchange, which the Asian bourse bought for $2.2 billion in
December to expand into commodities, contributed HK$318 million
of profit in the first nine months of the year, Hong Kong
Exchanges said today. The LME is seeking its first foothold in
mainland  China , while facing increasing regulatory scrutiny of
its global warehouse network.  “LME has made some kind of an impact,”  Matthew Smith , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone today, adding
that the profit figures were in line with his expectations. “In
terms of growth going forward, the mainland warehousing is one
issue. If it does happen, it would justify or come close to
justifying why they did the deal in the first place.”  LME Lawsuits  Establishing LME’s first warehouses in mainland China is a
long-term aspiration, Hong Kong Exchanges Chief Executive
Officer Charles Li said in June. The earnings from LME in the
first nine months of the year equated to about 9 percent of the
Hong Kong bourse’s HK$3.5 billion profit in the period,
according to today’s statement.  The commodities exchange has been named as a co-defendant
in 18 class-action lawsuits filed in five U.S. district courts,
 Hong Kong  Exchanges said today. All the claims allege anti-competitive behavior in the warehousing industry in connection
with aluminum prices.  “Based on legal advice, an increase in the number of
similar class actions filed since the first lawsuit surfaced in
August 2013 does not increase the extent of the companies’
liability, if any,” Hong Kong Exchanges said. “LME management
continues to take the view that the lawsuits are without merit
and that both companies will contest them vigorously.”  Shares Rise  Hong Kong Exchanges shares rose 0.6 percent to HK$125.90,
reversing an earlier decline of as much as 0.6 percent and
paring their  2013 drop  to 4.6 percent. The Bloomberg World
Exchanges Index climbed 19 percent this year through yesterday,
while the  Hang Seng Index  added 1.7 percent.  Funds raised through initial public offerings in Hong Kong
increased 34 percent to HK$18.2 billion last quarter from the
same period a year earlier, according to the exchange operator’s
quarterly report.  Li last month called for a debate on how to handle
“innovative companies,” after losing out on hosting Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.’s IPO because the exchange wouldn’t bend its
rules to allow partners to nominate the majority of the board.
Alibaba may have raised about HK$100 billion in an initial sale,
Ernst & Young LLP said in June.  Trading Volumes  The average daily value of shares bought and sold on the
exchange rose 19 percent to HK$55.2 billion in the three months
through Sept. 30 from the same part of 2012, Hong Kong Exchanges
said today. The value of shares traded on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange more than doubled in the same period, while  Singapore ’s
bourse saw a 0.3 percent decline, according to data from each
company’s website.  China’s services  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINMAN)  climbed to 56.3
in October from 55.4 in September, a government report showed
Nov. 3. The increase follows better-than-estimated readings for
two gauges of manufacturing activity last week.  “Mainland  China’s economy  remains strong and is likely to
grow by more than 7 percent again this year, which has provided
some positive momentum,” Chow Chung Kong, Hong Kong Exchanges’s
chairman, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  