-- Orders for Italian Government Retail Bonds Top $27 Billion
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-11-06T11:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/orders-for-italian-government-retail-bonds-top-27-billion.html
Investors ordered more than 20 
billion euros ($27 billion) of Italian government inflation-linked bonds aimed at retail investors, easing funding pressure
on the Treasury.  Italy  had initially planned to take orders through Nov. 8,
and said yesterday it would close the books early because of
strong demand. Orders reached 16.8 billion euros yesterday,
almost doubling the amount sold on the first day of the previous
sale in April. The Treasury has sold 3.2 billion euros as of
11:20 a.m. in  Rome  today, a spokeswoman for  Borsa Italiana  said.  The four-year bond, dubbed BTP Italia, carries a 2.15
percent coupon that proved attractive to buyers even amid weak
consumer prices. The Treasury said it will close the sale at 2
p.m. local time, according to a statement.  “Currently very low Italian inflation is not perceived to
be anything more than transient,”  Marc Ostwald , a rates
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail. It also shows that “domestic retail investors do not see
any medium-term risk of default and perhaps that retail
investors trust their money more with the government than local
banks.”  The Treasury last year began reaching out to Italians, who
are among the biggest savers in  Europe , to help manage its 2
trillion-euro public debt as contagion from the debt crisis
triggered an exodus of foreign investors. In the four sales of
the BTP Italia since March 2012, Italy has raised more than 44
billion euros.  The sale allows the Rome-based Treasury “to potentially
lower the issuance volumes for November and December,”
Commerzbank AG analyst Peggy Jaeger wrote today in a report.  “This has proven a very popular instrument and is a very
good way of funding,”  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan said by phone. “From the
success gathered in the market, Italy should do more lines next
year.”  Italian 10-year yields dropped 3 basis points to 4.1
percent at 11:58 a.m. in Rome, pushing the spread over
comparable German bunds to 241 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  