-- Moscow Exchange Rises on MSCI Inclusion Bets: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-11-06T15:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/moscow-exchange-rises-on-msci-inclusion-bets-moscow-mover.html
OAO Moscow Exchange climbed the most
in more than two weeks on bets the bourse will be added to  MSCI
Inc. (MSCI) ’s  Russia  gauge, triggering capital inflows.  The shares increased as much as 2.9 percent and rose 0.2
percent to 61 rubles by the close in Moscow, the strongest
advance since Oct. 18. The amount traded was equivalent to about
6.6 times the three-month average.  MSCI will add Russia’s main equities and fixed-income
exchange to the Russia Index during its rebalancing tomorrow,
according to VTB Capital and MidLincoln Research. Moscow
Exchange’s weighting will equal 0.5 percent after the change,
VTB said, while MidLincoln sees its weighting at 1 percent.
Moscow Exchange has climbed 11 percent since its initial public
offering in February.  The stock “will see its weighting increase
significantly,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global Trading UK
Ltd., said by e-mail from  London . “I would be a buyer.”  The addition to MSCI Russia may bring about $300 million in
fund inflows to the Moscow Exchange shares, Ovanes Oganisyan, an
analyst at MidLincoln, said by e-mail today. The bourse’s
weighting may be increased to 0.9 percent in February, according
to Ilya Piterskiy, a Moscow-based analyst at VTB.  The Moscow Exchange moved on Sept. 2 from a system of T+0,
in which trades are settled on execution, to a T+2 mode. The
transition began in March. MSCI said on Oct. 24 that it will
combine the volumes on the T+0 and T+2 trading systems during
the transition period in order to calculate ratios used to
assess how liquid equities are, according to an e-mailed
statement.  The bourse, which raised 15 billion rubles ($463 million)
on its own exchange this year, was added to the 50-stock Micex
and RTS indexes in March, and currently has a 0.5 percent
weighting on the Micex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  