-- OSX Vessels Said Excluded From Planned Bankruptcy Filing
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-06T20:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/osx-vessels-said-excluded-from-planned-bankruptcy-filing.html
Eike Batista ’s shipbuilding company
intends to leave out from a  bankruptcy protection  filing three
oil vessels used as collateral for $1.77 billion of debt, said
two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  is planning to file a judicial recovery
petition, as the process is known in Brazil, by early next week,
the people said, asking not to be named because the decision
hasn’t been made public. The company’s leasing unit, through
which it owns the OSX-1, OSX-2 and OSX-3 platforms, won’t form
part of the filing, they said.  Credit Suisse Group AG was hired to help sell OSX-1 and
OSX-2 that guarantee two syndicated loans with a total value of
$1.27 billion, people familiar with the matter said last month.
OSX’s sole international bond of $500 million is also guaranteed
by a vessel, OSX-3, whose value was booked at 1.1 billion reais
($480 million) as of June 30.  The decision to file for creditor protection has already
been made and while it may be lodged as soon as this week, next
week is more likely, one of the people said. OSX would follow
Batista’s oil company and its biggest client,  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , into bankruptcy protection proceedings.  Asset Sale  In an Oct. 31 statement, the shipbuilder said it was ready
to seek bankruptcy protection if management decided that was the
best way to protect its interests. OSX continues to study the
measure, a press department official said by phone yesterday,
asking not to be named in line with company policy.  OSX and OGX were the only two of Batista’s six publicly
listed companies that sold  bonds  in international markets.
Batista either relinquished control of, or agreed to sell key
assets and stakes in, the four other startups. OSX was building
three vessels for OGX before the explorer’s tests uncovered an
absence of oil in a series of non-commercial wells.  OSX, the last of Batista’s companies to undertake an
initial public offering, was created to profit from  Brazil ’s
local content rules, which limit the use of imported equipment
and services by the oil and gas industry. The company’s shares
never recovered the March 2010 IPO price even as Batista
promised to create “the Embraer of the seas,” referring to the
world’s largest regional-jet maker.  Bank Deal  Until Sept. 2012 the company was saying it had firm orders
for vessels worth $7 billion. Since then, OSX has been shrinking
projects, firing staff and putting units on sale after contracts
were canceled and losses mounted. In March, OSX shelved plans to
sell a second international debt security amid a rout in its
securities, according to a memo from underwriters obtained by
Bloomberg News at the time.  Shares of OSX  lost  95 percent in the past 12 months,
reducing its market value to about 200 million reais. The stock
fell 19 percent to 52 centavos in  Sao Paulo  today, giving back
most of the ground made yesterday in a 21 percent surge.  OSX extended the maturity for a year on a 461 million-real
loan from state-run Caixa Economica Federal, which is guaranteed
by Banco Santander SA, according to a regulatory filing today.
Since Aug. 18 state development bank BNDES has been pushing out
maturities on a loan for 518 million reais.  OSX’s dollar bonds due 2015, which are backed by a contract
to lease the platform to OGX, have fallen 24 cents this year to
80 cents on the dollar yesterday. The notes rose to 83 cents at
today. Bondholders hired AlixPartners LLP to advise on a
possible restructuring, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  Bondholder Adviser  AlixPartners, the New York-based firm that advised General
Motors Co. on its restructuring when the automotive giant filed
for bankruptcy protection in 2009, will work alongside the
creditors’ legal adviser Bingham McCutchen LLP, said the people,
asking not to be identified as the contract is private.  Tim Yost, a spokesman for AlixPartners, declined to
comment. OSX’s press office said it wouldn’t comment on a
contract made by its bondholders.  Bingham approached prospective financial advisers on behalf
of the creditor group after investors hired the  law firm , two
people briefed on the arrangements told  Bloomberg News  in
September.  Timothy DeSieno, a partner at Boston-based Bingham, didn’t
reply to an e-mail and voice-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  