-- OTP Advances Sixth Day on Forex Loan Relief Plan: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-06T16:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/otp-advances-sixth-day-on-forex-loan-relief-plan-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, recorded the biggest six-day gain in four months on
speculation steps to support foreign-currency mortgage holders
will pose a smaller threat to lenders’ earnings than expected.  The shares rose 1.5 percent to 4,780 forint by close in
Budapest, extending their advance in the past six trading
sessions to 9.3 percent. The benchmark BUX stock  index , in which
OTP has the biggest weighting at 33 percent, gained 0.2 percent.  Lawmakers yesterday approved legislation that expanded a
program allowing temporary loan repayment at fixed exchange
rates. The state will provide a conditional guarantee for the
loans if the lenders forgive a part of the amount depending upon
collateral value, according to an amendment of the bill
introduced before its passage.  After the amendment, “the loan plan is still light-years
better than what the market had dreaded,” Zsolt Balasy, a
Budapest-based analyst at MKB Bank Zrt., a unit of  Bayerische
Landesbank , wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , one of OTP’s competitors,
expects “virtually no impact” on loan-loss provisions from the
mortgage relief measures, Susanne Langer, a Vienna-based
spokeswoman for the lender, said by phone today. The plan may
lower Raiffeisen’s Hungarian interest income by 1 percent at the
most, Langer said.  Any further help needs to safeguard financial stability and
banking operations, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said in an
interview at his office in Budapest yesterday. The cabinet may
accept proposals from the Hungarian Banking Association if the
majority of borrowers support them, Varga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  