-- Lower Ethanol Mandate Would Cost Consumers, Group Says
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-11-06T19:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/lower-ethanol-mandate-would-cost-consumers-group-says.html
U.S. motorists will spend $7 billion
to $11 billion more on gasoline next year if the government
scales back ethanol use requirements, the  Renewable Fuels
Association  said.  “Reducing the amount of renewable fuel required would
decrease refiner and blender purchases of ethanol, increase the
sales volume of gasoline and increase the price of gasoline,”
Geoff Cooper, a vice president of research and analysis for the
Washington-based industry group, said today on a conference call
with journalists.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which is
scheduled to release a proposal for the 2014 biofuel use this
year, would cut the mandate to 15.21 billion gallons from 18.15
billion, according to a draft proposal dated Aug. 26 provided to
Bloomberg.  Ethanol producers and corn farmers have fought changes to
the requirements, which escalates every year through 2022,
saying it could hurt rural income and increase the need for  farm
subsidies .  A cut in the mandate would also inhibit future investments
in plants, Christopher Standlee, an executive vice president of
institutional affairs for Abengoa Bioenergy Inc., said on the
same call.  The  American Petroleum Institute , which supports a repeal
of the ethanol mandate, said keeping it in place would hurt
consumers and put the nation’s economy at risk.  “This so-called analysis is just another distraction,”
Carlton Carroll, an API spokesman in  Washington , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Because of rigid ethanol
mandates, consumers are now faced with putting more ethanol in
their tanks than their engines were designed to accommodate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Houston at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  