-- Lloyds Opens Internal Probe Into Potential Currency Manipulation
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-11-06T10:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/lloyds-opens-internal-probe-into-potential-currency-manipulation.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage lender, opened an internal probe into its
currency-trading operations as regulators around the world
scrutinize the possible manipulation of foreign-exchange rates.  “We are aware that a number of regulatory and enforcement
authorities are investigating foreign-exchange trading,” Lloyds
said in a statement in response to questions from  Bloomberg
News . “It is prudent to review our own foreign-exchange trading
over recent years and we have commenced such a review. We will,
of course, report anything we find to the relevant authorities
and assist them as requested.”  Lloyds started the inquiry after the Financial Conduct
Authority asked the lender to review its trading operations and
report any irregularities, said two people with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly. The London-based bank isn’t being
formally probed by any regulators and no traders have been put
on leave, suspended or terminated, said the people.  At least seven banks including Britain’s  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have said they are being investigated by
authorities examining the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange
market and are co-operating.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and Barclays have all suspended or put on leave some of
their most senior currency traders amid the inquiry. No one has
been accused of wrongdoing. Lloyds ranked 38th by global market
share in currency trading, according to a May survey by
 Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc. (ERM)   WM/Reuters Rates  Bloomberg News reported in June that dealers in the
industry said they shared information about their positions
through instant messages, executed their own trades before
client orders and sought to manipulate the benchmark WM/Reuters
rates by pushing through trades before and during the 60-second
windows when the benchmarks are set.  The WM/Reuters rates determine what many pension funds and
money managers pay for their foreign exchange and are used by
index providers such as FTSE Group and  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  to calculate
daily valuations of indexes that span multiple currencies. Even
small movements could affect the value of what  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
estimates is $3.6 trillion in funds including pension and
savings accounts that track global indexes.  Because banks agree with clients to trade at the WM/Reuters
rates, regardless of later moves, dealers are at risk of losses
if the market moves against them.  The rates are published hourly for 160 currencies and half-hourly for the 21 most-traded. They are the median of all trades
in a minute-long period starting 30 seconds before the beginning
of each half-hour. Rates for less-widely traded currencies are
based on quotes during a two-minute window.  The data are collected and distributed by World Markets
Co., a unit of Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) , and  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News, competes with Thomson Reuters in providing news and
information as well as currency-trading systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  