-- Pakistan Bonds Better Choice Than Egypt’s, VTB Capital Says
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-11-06T13:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/pakistan-bonds-better-choice-than-egypt-s-vtb-capital-says.html
Pakistani debt is a safer bet than
that of similarly rated  Egypt  as the South Asian nation is
enjoying greater political stability, VTB Capital said.  The Asian country is benefiting from a recently finalized
International Monetary Fund program, the political transition to
its second elected government and resumption of U.S. support.
Egypt, meanwhile, has put IMF talks on hold and is trying former
President Mohamed Mursi while waiting to hold parliamentary and
presidential elections next year.  Pakistani bonds’ “downside is more protected than in
Egypt,” VTB’s Raza Agha, chief economist for Middle East &
 Africa , said in an e-mailed note. In Egypt, “there are
increasing indications that Islamist parties will remain
disenfranchised in the new permanent set-up post elections,”
that will hurt investor sentiment and economic activity, London-based Agha said.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent notes due April 2020 fell
two basis points today to 7.3 percent, paring the surge  this
year to 127 basis points. By contrast, the yield on  Pakistan ’s
6.875 percent Eurobonds due June 2017 has tumbled 165 basis
points to 7.72 percent. Both countries are rated Caa1, the
fifth-lowest ranking, at Moody’s Investors Service.  The Egyptian pound lost value in black market trading,
while the official  interbank rate  was little changed at 6.8889
pounds a dollar. The U.S. currency traded at 7.135 pounds, or a
3.6 percent premium to the official rate compared with 3.4
percent last week, according to three money changers surveyed by
Bloomberg. They asked not to be identified because trading
currency outside official rates is illegal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  