-- Paris Lures Billionaires as Perrotin Rivals Gagosian
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-11-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/paris-lures-billionaires-as-perrotin-rivals-gagosian.html
Emmanuel Perrotin remembers the
moment his art-dealing business changed forever.  “It was the fax machine,” he says. “For the first time
we were able to send information and an image in a minute. Now
with the Internet, we’re everywhere.”  Perrotin, 45, is in celebratory mood. He’s sitting in the
pale pink office of his headquarters gallery at 76 rue de
Turenne in the Marais district of Paris. This year is his 25th
as a dealer, an event that’s being marked by a 150-work
retrospective at the state-funded Tripostal museum in Lille.  He also has three selling shows running at his two spaces
in Paris, another in  Hong Kong , plus the street artist KAWS at
his gallery in New York. In addition, he’s acquired another 700
square-meter (7,535 square feet) property at 60 rue de Turenne
that will increase his Parisian capacity by about 50 percent.  “It’s crazy, I know,” says Perrotin, dressed in a blue
tweed jacket and open-necked shirt. “When the complete building
became available I just had to buy it. That’s going to take 20
years to pay for. Until then, I won’t make a lot of money.”  Perrotin is keen to play down comparisons between himself
and other expansionist dealers such as Jay Jopling and  Larry Gagosian , who has opened two spaces in Paris. Many others regard
Perrotin as  France ’s most ambitious “megagallerist.”  “I’m taking a risk with a high proportion of works for a
gallery with my capitalization,” he says.  He might also have mentioned that he doesn’t represent an
artist like  Damien Hirst , who last year racked up more than $110
million of sales at Jopling’s various White Cube galleries.  A Severed Head  Back in 1991, Perrotin took a risk by holding the first
commercial show of Hirst’s work. Though it wasn’t a success -- a
photo of the young artist beside a severed head was a tough sell
at the time -- he’s still in contact with Hirst and keen to work
with him again.  “Far more artists are able to survive from selling their
own works than was the case 25 years ago. That is a positive
thing,” Perrotin says.  His representation of  Takashi Murakami  and  Maurizio Cattelan  has proved more lucrative. Trophy works by both artists
have been ticked off the shopping lists of billionaires such as
 Francois Pinault .  Like most dealers in the “primary” market for new works,
Perrotin is reluctant to discuss the specifics of sales. He says
that of the 37 artists he represents, only seven of them are
commercial. He doesn’t divulge which.  Expanding Sales  An artist’s ambitious project and large-scale sculptures
can cost Perrotin as much as 3 million euros ($4 million), he
says -- more than the entire acquisition fund of the Pompidou
Center.  He welcomes the expansion of the art market, which for the
first time has seen auction sales of contemporary works raise
more than 1 billion euros over the last 12 months, according to
the French database artprice.com.  Perrotin originally hoped to be a screenwriter before
falling for the buzz of art dealing at the age of 20. His taste
remains theatrical.  “Dear,” his show in Paris of works by the Chinese artists
Sun  Yuan  & Peng Yu, includes a live actor talking to suited
mannequins with rocks as heads. In 2003 he helped his Italian
artist Paola Pivi photograph zebras in snow-clad mountains.  “We open new shows, participate in art fairs all over the
world,” he says. “You have to make the decision to sacrifice
your personal life or not.”  Almost as an afterthought, Perrotin mentions he is married
and has a two-year-old daughter -- and what keeps him motivated.  “I dream of the moment when I’ll show her a sculpture at
the corner of Fifth Avenue and the street of MOMA, and I tell
her, ‘That’s an artist of my gallery.’”  Muse highlights include  Catherine Hickley  on German art,
 Katya Kazakina  on the art market,  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining
and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 