-- PGA Championship’s Prize Money Jumps to Record $10 Million
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-06T20:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/pga-championship-s-prize-money-is-boosted-to-record-10-million.html
The purse for the  PGA Championship 
was increased by 25 percent to $10 million, equaling the Players
Championship for golf’s biggest prize pool.  The event, the last of the sport’s four annual major
tournaments, had an $8 million purse this year, with  Jason Dufner  receiving $1.45 million for his victory at Oak Hill
Country Club in Rochester, New York.  The 2014 PGA will be held at Valhalla Golf Club in
Louisville, Kentucky, from Aug. 7-10, with the winner’s share at
$1.8 million.  “It’s a fantastic thing for the players,”  Paul Goydos ,
who spent the past three seasons on the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s Player
Advisory Council, said in an interview in  Sea Island , Georgia,
the site of this week’s McGladrey Classic. “It’s a sign that
maybe the economy is getting a little bit healthier and maybe
sponsors are being a little more active.”  The  Masters Tournament , U.S. Open and British Open all had
$8 million prize purses in 2013.  Carl Pettersson said he doesn’t believe bumping up the
prize money for the PGA Championship is an attempt to boost its
stature among the majors.  “I think it’s one of the best majors we play all year
because the course set-up is the fairest,” Pettersson said.
“Sometimes they get a bad reputation for being, I don’t know,
the least established major to win, but their background goes
back to golf -- they’re trying to grow the game and they know
what they’re doing.”  Players Increase  The PGA Tour also increased the  Players Championship  purse
by $500,000 to $10 million.  PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said the tour likes
having the Players Championship as the biggest purse and joked
that it might increase that tournament’s prize money to $10
million “and 1.” This year’s Players will be held May 9-12 in
Ponte Vedra Beach,  Florida .  The PGA Tour, which runs the world’s richest golf circuit,
and the PGA of America, the largest professional golf
organization in the world with 27,000 club and teaching pros,
also said today they are expanding cooperative initiatives
designed to increase the sport’s growth. This includes a program
that highlights the teaching role of PGA of America
professionals.  Those professionals will meet with fans at several
tournaments in 2014, including the Players, the three U.S.-based
World Golf Championships, The Barclays, the Tour Championship
and Northern Trust Open, and will provide mini- lessons and
distribute information about golf instruction.  “We have always believed that working together with The
PGA of America enhances efforts to grow the game and benefits
the membership of both organizations,” Finchem said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  