-- Philippines-U.S. Military Talks Hit Snag on Access, Gazmin Says
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-11-06T07:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/philippines-u-s-military-talks-hit-snag-on-access-gazmin-says.html
Talks to boost the U.S. troop
presence in the  Philippines  as part of a broader military
cooperation pact have become bogged down in disagreement over
access to American facilities.  Discussions that started in August hit an “impasse” with
no fixed schedule for the next round, Philippine Defense
Secretary Voltaire Gazmin told reporters in Manila today. “We
want equal opportunity and equal access” to U.S. facilities
that may be built locally, Gazmin said.  Four rounds of talks held in Washington and Manila have
failed to yield an agreement that would expand a joint training
exercise under the two countries’ Mutual Defense Treaty.
Negotiators have said U.S. soldiers may be given access to
Philippine military camps as part of the new deal.  Negotiators should be transparent about the process to
secure public support for a broader agreement, Benito Lim, a
political science professor at the Ateneo de  Manila  University,
said by phone. “Things must be made clear so there is no
controversy and the terms must be mutually beneficial.”  The Philippines is seeking to boost its U.S. alliance and
modernize its military to counter what it sees as a Chinese bid
for greater influence over contested South  China  Sea waters rich
in oil, fish and gas. The Philippines has deepened strategic
ties with  Japan  to further offset China’s assertiveness in the
region even as China has agreed to talks on a code of conduct
for the seas.  “I am very optimistic that the issues will be resolved,”
Gazmin said of the U.S. talks. “It will be difficult at first,
but eventually there will be an understanding.”  ‘Still Gaps’  The last round of negotiations in early October narrowed
discussions to scope, agreed installations and prepositioning of
defense equipment, Defense Undersecretary Pio Lorenzo Batino
said in a statement Oct. 3. “There are still gaps in our
positions,” Batino said.  The Philippines may allow the U.S. to build structures on
its territory as part of a deal, he told reporters on Sept. 18.  The Philippines has sought arbitration by a United Nations
tribunal on its territorial spat with China, and has previously
said China could be building a structure on the disputed
Scarborough Shoal, a claim China denied.  Vietnam  and the
Philippines have rejected China’s claims in the waters as a
basis for joint development of oil and gas reserves.  Still, tensions over the shoal are not the “sum total of
our relations” with China, Foreign Affairs Secretary Albert del Rosario said on Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  