-- Philippines Orders Evacuation as Super Typhoon Haiyan Approaches
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-11-06T08:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/philippines-orders-evacuation-as-super-typhoon-haiyan-approaches.html
Philippine authorities will evacuate
thousands in provinces east of the country ahead of typhoon
Haiyan, which may become the strongest cyclone to hit the
Southeast Asian nation this year.  Haiyan  will enter Philippine waters tomorrow morning,
packing winds of at least 185 kilometers per hour when it lands
on the provinces of Samar and Leyte in the afternoon of Nov. 8,
state weather forecaster Glaiza Escullar said in a telephone
interview. The nation’s highest storm alert of 4 may be reached
in the provinces on the storm’s path while the capital may deal
with a signal number 3 cyclone, Escullar said.  Local governments have been directed to immediately
evacuate residents in coastal areas and to mobilize search and
rescue teams in places prone to landslides and flash floods,
Interior and Local Government Secretary Mar Roxas said in a
statement. Disaster-response troops, equipment and supplies have
been put in place in areas threatened by a possible “super
typhoon,” police Senior Superintendent Theodore Sindac said.  The  Philippines , battered by about 20 cyclones a year,
topped a list of 10 countries most affected by natural disasters
in 2012 with more than 2,000 deaths, according to a report by
the Brussels-based  Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of
Disasters . Monsoon rains swamped more than half of the Metro
Manila region in  August , killing at least 27 and shutting
offices and financial markets for two days.  Sustained Winds  The U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center  forecasts  super
typhoon Haiyan’s maximum sustained winds at 135 knots (250
kilometers) per hour and gusts of up to 306 kilometers per hour.
Tropical cyclone Usagi, the world’s strongest storm this year
had wind gusts of as much as 245 kilometers per hour, according
to  Taiwan ’s Central Weather Bureau on Sept. 20.  Local governments in Bohol province where more than 200
people were killed after a  7.2-magnitude earthquake  on Oct. 15
will move residents still living in tents and makeshift shelters
in open areas to alternative evacuation sites, said Flor Gaviola
from the provincial civil defense unit.  Classes Suspended  Ahead of the storm, Bohol and Cebu, which was also rocked
by last month’s tremor, suspended classes on Nov. 7 and 8, the
education department said on its Twitter account. Albay Governor
Joey Salceda, in his Facebook account, said offices and schools
in the province will be shut starting tomorrow.  Typhoon Ketsana killed more than 400 people when it swamped
 Manila  and parts of Luzon in 2009. Storm Washi killed more than
1,200 people, mostly in Mindanao, in December 2011. At least 222
died in the Oct. 15 earthquake in the Visayas.  Among the strongest typhoons to have crossed the
Philippines is storm Durian in 2006 with gusts of up to 320
kilometers per hour, according to the weather bureau.  Usagi ,
which mainly hit the Batanes islands in northern Philippines,
killed at least 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Baizhen at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net  