-- Pirelli to Look at Steel-Cord Partnership in Asset Revamp
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-11-06T09:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/pirelli-to-look-at-steel-cord-partnership-in-asset-revamp.html
Pirelli SpA (PC) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
tiremaker, will look at a partnership for its steel-cord unit
and will sell 150 million euros ($202.5 million) in financial
assets by 2017 as it adapts to shifts in global car markets.  The asset disposals, and gross cash generation of 3 billion
euros in the period, will finance 1.6 billion euros in
investments and a dividend payout of 40 percent of net income,
the Milan-based company said today. The board agreed to the
steel-cord division strategy to expand its international role.  The tiremaker scaled back earnings forecasts for 2013 and
coming years amid a contraction in Europe’s car sales to a two-decade low and questions about economic growth elsewhere. The
company has been pushing sales of its high-end products and
expanding into markets outside its home region to compensate for
changing demand.  “The positive news here is the start of the disposal
process, with the concrete step of the mandate to the chairman
to examine partnerships” for the cord business, Massimo Vecchio, an analyst at Mediobanca, wrote in a report to clients
today.  “It could mark the beginning of a process that should
reduce the net debt of the company through the disposal of
assets not properly incorporated” in Pirelli’s share price.  Pirelli  rose  as much as 5.3 percent to 10.79 euros, the
highest intraday price since Oct. 23, and was trading up 3.9
percent at 10:05 a.m. in Milan. The stock has gained 23 percent
this year, valuing the company at 5.17 billion euros.  Third-Quarter Earnings  Third-quarter operating profit rose 2.9 percent from a year
earlier to 201 million euros, Pirelli said yesterday. Earnings
were burdened by slower-than-estimated economic growth in  Russia 
that caused a drop in tire sales, greater difficulty in gaining
credit and plants operating at less than capacity, it said.
Sales fell 1.9 percent to 1.52 billion euros, mainly because of
currency shifts in  Latin America ,  Turkey ,  Egypt  and  Japan .  Earnings before interest and taxes this year will total 790
million euros ($1.07 billion), the tiremaker said. The previous
prediction, outlined in August, was for Ebit of 810 million
euros. Ebit excluding reorganization costs will amount to more
than 15 percent of sales in 2017. The previous target was for a
margin exceeding 16 percent in 2015.  “The automotive market will continue to be impacted by
external factors, such as persisting macroeconomic uncertainty,
regulatory obligations, exchange-rate volatility and the
evolution of demand in relation to consumer and lifestyle
habits,” Pirelli said today.  Possible Spinoffs  The company also plans spinoffs or partnerships for its
environmental and filter division to “focus on more
remunerative businesses,” it said.  “Value creation will be a key outcome of this plan,”
Chairman Marco Tronchetti Provera said today at an investor
meeting in  London .  Michelin & Cie. (ML) , Europe’s largest tiremaker, forecast in
October that full-year operating profit will rise by 150 million
euros before one-time items and currency effects, which will be
“more deeply negative” than anticipated earlier in 2013.
 Nokian Renkaat Oyj (NRE1V) , the biggest tire producer in the Nordic
region, cut sales and profit forecasts because of slowing
Russian sales and the ruble’s decline against the euro.  Pirelli’s eight main shareholders dissolved an agreement on
Oct. 31 that protected the Italian company from takeovers, six
months before the pact’s expiration in April 2014. The move
frees the investors to sell Pirelli stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  