-- Plug Power Sees Electric-Car Fuel Cells and First Profit
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-11-06T20:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/plug-power-sees-electric-car-fuel-cells-and-first-profit.html
Plug Power Inc. (PLUG) , a maker of fuel-cells that power fork lifts, may expand into a new market by
adapting its systems to extend the range of electric vehicles,
Chief Executive Officer Andy Marsh said.  The company is in talks with auto suppliers and component
makers about producing fuel cells that may be attached to
battery systems, Marsh said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. He didn’t name the
companies.  The combination would let vehicles continue on the road
after draining their batteries, potentially allaying some of the
range anxiety that has made them a tough sell to consumers for
everyday use. The strategy may help the Latham, New York-based
company report a profit by the third quarter of next year, he
said. Plug hasn’t had a profitable quarter since its 1999
initial public offering.  “When I look at cost trade offs, there is a right mix of
fuel cells and lithium-ion batteries,” he said. “It’s actually
really simple. This is right in Plug Power’s strike zone.”  Plug was formed in 1997 as a joint venture of Michigan
utility owner  DTE Energy Co. (DTE)  and  Mechanical Technology Inc. (MKTY)  to
develop fuel-cell systems to power homes and small businesses.
Fuel cells convert natural gas into electricity through a
chemical process.  Marsh joined in 2008 and refocused the company on power
systems for fork lifts. That boosted revenue to $7.5 million in
the second quarter from $2.6 million in the first quarter of
2009. Expanding into new markets will further drive sales, he
said.  “I can see the turn in the industry,” Marsh said. “All
those markets Plug Power chased will eventually be there.”  As the fuel-cell industry expands, costs will come down, he
said, making the systems more appealing for new markets
including electric vehicles, he said.  “These technologies will become much more competitive,”
he said. “It’s a much easier application than fork lift
trucks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  