-- Poland Pledges Steady Rates Till Mid-2014 on Slow Recovery
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-11-06T17:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/poland-leaves-rates-at-record-low-on-sluggish-economic-recovery.html
Poland ’s central bank pledged to keep
its  main interest rate  at a record low until at least the middle
of next year due to the “moderate” pace of recovery in the
European Union’s largest eastern economy.  The 10-member Monetary Policy Council left the  reference
rate  at 2.5 percent for a third meeting today, matching
forecasts from all 38  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The central bank also presented estimates from its
November staff projections, which forecast  inflation  staying
below the 2.5 percent target next year and into 2015.  Policy makers extended their earlier pledge to keep
borrowing costs steady until the end of this year after cutting
them by 2.25 percentage points between November and July. While
the economy is emerging from its worst slowdown in at least at a
decade, the growth will remain “below long-term averages,” the
European Commission said in its autumn forecast this week.  “What prompted us to extend the guidance were the data,
along with the projections,” Governor  Marek Belka  said at a
news conference today. The forecasts “are a bit more optimistic
but don’t suggest the appearance of any significant inflation
pressures.”  The zloty pared its gain after his comments, trading at
4.1788 per euro as of 6:15 p.m. in Warsaw, 0.2 percent stronger
from yesterday. The government’s two-year bond yield declined
two basis points to 2.86 percent.  Regional Easing  Countries including  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic  have
pledged to keep rates low to support their economies. The
Budapest-based Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced  borrowing costs  for a
15th month in October, while Czech rate setters have been
debating for almost a year whether to pursue a weaker currency
after cutting the benchmark  interest rate  to a “technical
zero” of 0.05 percent.  The pledge to keep rates unchanged will be a “stabilizing
factor” for the economy and financial markets, Belka said
today. It’s “hard to imagine something happening in the next
few months to change the Council’s view.”  The central bank raised its forecast for next year’s
inflation to 1.1 percent to 2.2 percent from 0.4 percent to 2
percent in the July projection. It sees a 50 percent probability
that consumer price growth will reach 1.1 percent to 2.6 percent
in 2015. Inflation has stayed below the central bank’s target
throughout 2013.  “We think the existence of significant slack in the
economy means inflation will remain subdued for several years,”
 William Jackson , emerging-market economist at  Capital Economics 
in  London , said in an e-mailed note today. “We continue to
expect the first rate hike in 2015.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  