-- Poland Upgrade Needs Growth Alongside Fiscal Cuts, Moody’s Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-11-06T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/poland-upgrade-needs-growth-alongside-fiscal-cuts-moody-s-says.html
Poland needs to narrow its  budget
deficit  in a sustainable way and boost economic growth to get a
credit-rating upgrade, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The country’s economic model of European Union-funded
investment has been “running out of steam,” according to Jaime Reusche, an analyst at the ratings company. Growth will probably
underperform Poland’s 3.8 percent potential rate this year and
next, he said in comments cleared for publication today.  Moody’s has kept Poland’s rating at A2, its sixth-highest
investment grade and the same level as Slovakia and Botswana,
since 2002. While it’s maintained growth throughout  Europe ’s
debt crisis, the government was forced to raise this year’s
 budget-deficit  target as the euro-area recession plunged the
economy into its deepest slowdown in more than a decade.  “When you are this high in the A category, the bar is
raised for each incremental rating upgrade,” Reusche said Nov.
4 during a conference call with reporters. “Faster growth,
lower deficit and debt burdens will become important components
of future rating triggers.”  Poland’s fiscal deficit will widen to 4.8 percent of
economic output this year as the economy expands 1.3 percent,
the slowest since 2001, the European Commission said yesterday
in its autumn forecast. The budget will post a 4.6 percent
surplus in 2014 because of the one-off effect of transferring
some assets from privately managed pension funds into the state-run system, according to the EU.  ‘Fiscal Slippage’  At the same time, the structural deficit, which strips out
the effect of the economic cycle as well as one-time expenses
and revenue, will narrow to 3.2 percent in 2014 from 4 percent
last year, according to the forecast.  “The fiscal slippage we’re seeing this year highlights the
importance of growth to  Poland ’s economic model and its overall
development model,” Reusche said. “Even though there’s been
some consolidation of the fiscal accounts, there’s still a very
rigid structural deficit that remains in place.”  Avoiding the “middle-income trap” in which economic
development tends to stall is a “significant challenge” for
Poland in the medium term, he said.  While the pension revamp will give the government some
leeway to boost public spending now, it may face pressure to
address the country’s “structural constraints” in “a year or
two,” according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  