-- Pound Climbs for Third Day Versus Dollar as Production Expands
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-11-06T16:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/pound-advances-for-third-day-before-u-k-industrial-output-data.html
The pound advanced for a third day
against the dollar after a government report showed U.K.
industrial production increased more in September than
economists forecast.  Sterling reached the strongest level in almost five weeks
versus the euro after Halifax said British house prices climbed
for the ninth month in October, adding to signs the recovery is
gaining momentum. The pound will struggle to extend gains after
its recent rally, according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
U.K. government bonds were little changed before the Bank of
England announces a policy decision tomorrow.  “There’s capacity to push a bit higher against the
dollar,” said Jane Foley, a London-based senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International. “There’s so much good
news in the price so it will be difficult to sustain gains much
above $1.61.”  The pound gained 0.2 percent to $1.6073 at 4:29 p.m.  London 
time after rising to $1.6118, the highest level since Oct. 29.
The U.K. currency dropped 0.2 percent to 84.11 pence per euro
after appreciating to 83.79 pence, the strongest since Oct. 3.  Sterling has rallied 4 percent in the past six months, the
best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro climbed 3.9
percent and the dollar advanced 0.1 percent.  Output Increases  Industrial output  jumped 0.9 percent from August, when it
fell 1.1 percent, the Office for National Statistics said. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for
an increase of 0.6 percent.  Home values  climbed 0.7 percent, the
biggest gain in three months, according to Halifax, the mortgage
unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  The Bank of England will keep its key  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent tomorrow and its asset-purchase stimulus
 target  at 375 billion pounds, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists. Governor Mark Carney will present new quarterly
forecasts on Nov. 13.  The central bank is likely to raise its estimate for this
year’s economic product growth toward 1.6 percent from 1.3
percent, Lee Hardman, a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in London, wrote in a note to clients.  “The pound has outperformed,” Hardman wrote. “However
with the first BOE rate hike still appearing some way off, the
pound will still likely struggle to strengthen materially in the
near term.”  Improving Outlook  The U.K. outlook has “improved substantially,” the
European Commission said yesterday. The Brussels-based group
said gross domestic product will grow 1.3 percent this year and
2.2 percent next year, more than it previously projected.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was at 2.71 percent after
rising to 2.74 percent yesterday, the highest since Oct. 22. The
price of the 2.25 percent bond due in September 2023 was 96.02.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.90 percent by year-end,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 26
analysts. The median was 2.75 percent in September.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 2.8 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
Treasuries fell 2.4 percent and German bonds slid 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  