-- Priciest London Homes Lose Shine as Sellers Aim Too High
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-11-06T13:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/priciest-london-luxury-homes-lose-shine-as-sellers-aim-too-high.html
Price gains for London’s most
expensive homes have stalled this year as concerns that taxes
may rise and high asking prices put off even the super rich.  Houses and apartments valued at more than 15 million pounds
($24 million) showed almost no gain in the year through
September, compared with rise of about 5 percent for properties
from 1.8 million pounds to about 5 million pounds, broker
 Savills Plc (SVS)  said in a report today. Luxury residences outside
central London rose by about 10 percent.  “There are a lot of vendors out there who think their
house is worth 3,000 pounds per foot because they’ve read that
somewhere,” said Alex Michelin, a founder of luxury developer
Finchatton Ltd. “The house that got 3,000 pounds was
immaculate, brand new, had facilities and technology. Their flat
is 20 years old.”  Luxury homes in central London will rise 23.1 percent
through 2018, compared with a 25 percent increase for British
residences overall, Savills estimated. Properties worth more
than 15 million pounds will climb at a slightly slower pace than
the rest of the capital’s prime market and the U.K. as a whole,
Lucian Cook, head of research at Savills, said in an interview
yesterday. Prices at the top end of the  London  market will be
supported by a lack of supply over that period, he said.  Extended Run  London luxury homes had been increasing since September
2009, according to the Savills data. Properties worth 15 million
pounds or more showed little or no rise for the first time since
about December 2009, the data showed.  Average asking prices for homes in the U.K. capital rose by
10.2 percent to 544,232 pounds last month, Rightmove Plc said in
an Oct. 21 report. The property website operator called the rate
“unsustainable.”  Home values in London’s best areas including Mayfair,
Knightsbridge, Belgravia and Chelsea increased at least 128
percent from mid-2005, compared with a fall of 19.3 percent in
the value of all U.K. homes in the same period, broker Savills
said in a September report.  Wealthy prospective buyers are being deterred by talk of
higher taxes, Finchatton’s Michelin said. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  raised a transaction tax to 7 percent
from 5 percent for properties priced above 2 million pounds in
March 2012. He is considering imposing capital-gains tax on the
second homes of foreign owners of U.K. property, The Telegraph
reported last month.  Worn Welcome?  “Clients are saying ‘well, are we welcome here?’”
Michelin said. “That’s really what’s causing a pause in the
market.”  Such a tax would probably generate very little income for
the U.K. treasury because foreign investors tend to buy at the
top end of the market and hold the asset for a long time,
Rosalind Rowe, a real estate tax partner at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said in an Oct. 31 statement.  Home prices  in the borough of Westminster, which includes
the affluent districts of Mayfair and St. James’s, have fallen
for three months in a row through August, dropping from an
average of 1.23 million pounds to 1.1 million pounds, researcher
Acadametrics said in an Oct. 11 report.  Top-tier buyers are “not in the mindset where they’re
desperate to buy anything at any price,” said  Liam Bailey ,
global head of residential research at London-based broker
Knight Frank LLP.  “There’s a slightly more sober mindset in
that price bracket.”  Most Expensive  Will Bax, director of Grosvenor Group Ltd.’s London assets,
said he’s cautious about the market for homes worth 5 million
pounds or more. The Grosvenor family’s ancestral London land
holdings are in Mayfair and Belgravia, districts that are
consistently among the world’s most expensive for leasing an
office or buying a home.  Two years ago there “was an extraordinary market” for
London luxury homes and demand led to a “kind of irrationalism
that has probably been tapered slightly,” Bax said.  Foxtons Group Plc (FOXT) , a London-based broker, said today that
it doesn’t expect to see a significant increase in London
property sales for the rest of the year.  Berkeley Group Holdings
Plc (BKG) , a homebuilder focused on London and southeast  England  whose
developments include luxury high-rises, will underperform for
the next 12 months because of its exposure to the region,
securities firm Davy said in September.  Berkeley hasn’t been doing as well as competitors with more
diverse regional presences as housing in areas outside of London
recovers, and that “underperformance will continue,” Dublin-based Davy said in a note. Berkeley, which has risen 29 percent
in London trading this year, didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  