-- Puerto Rico’s Finances Need Increased Transparency, Negroni Says
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-06T17:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/puerto-rico-s-finances-need-increased-transparency-negroni-says.html
Puerto Rico  officials should disclose
more about the government’s private borrowing and be more
transparent about assets and liabilities to regain investor
confidence, said Hector Negroni, co-founder of asset manager
Fundamental Credit Opportunities.  “If you have confidence in your liquidity, open your
books,” Negroni said at the Bloomberg Link State & Municipal
Conference in New York.  After yields on some Puerto Rico bonds rose to records last
month, Puerto Rico officials said they had enough cash to put
off borrowing until June 30. Shockwaves from  Detroit ’s record
bankruptcy filing in July and weeks of outflows from municipal-debt mutual funds drove up  interest rates  on the commonwealth’s
debt and led it to turn to private lenders.  Puerto Rico’s Government  Development Bank  has a more than
$2 billion investment portfolio of high-grade securities and
could withdraw $2.9 billion of government deposits from local
financial institutions, David Chafey, chairman of the
development bank, said at the conference.  “We have a manageable situation,” he said.  The GDB manages debt for the commonwealth, as treasury
officials in U.S. states typically do. It serves as bank, fiscal
agent and financial adviser to the territory’s authorities and
cities.  Puerto Rico should disclose how much it’s borrowed from
private banks and when the money is due, Negroni said.
Withdrawing deposits from local banks, some of which haven’t
repaid the U.S. government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program,
created in response to the financial crisis, could weaken the
commonwealth’s banking system, he said.  “The issue surrounding Puerto Rico right now in the near
term is the opacity around liquidity at the government
development bank,” Negroni said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  