-- Qualcomm Forecasts Quarterly Sales That May Miss Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-06T22:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/qualcomm-forecasts-first-quarter-sales-that-may-miss-estimates.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of
chips for smartphones, forecast fiscal first-quarter sales that
may fall short of analysts’ estimates amid a shift to less-expensive handsets, curbing chip prices.  Sales in the period that ends in December will be $6.3
billion to $6.9 billion, the San Diego-based company said today
in a statement. That compared with an average analyst estimate
of $7.01 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Profit excluding certain costs will be $1.10 to $1.20 a share.  Customers have been placing more orders for parts that run
in cheaper devices, Chief Operating Officer Steve Mollenkopf
said in an interview. A greater portion of business from less-expensive components may hurt Qualcomm’s revenue growth, which
has been surging since 2010 amid brisk smartphone demand, said
Stacy Rasgon, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “They’re seeing a bit of a slowdown in chipsets,” said
Rasgon, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on Qualcomm
shares. “This wasn’t a bad report, but it’s definitely not
good.”  Sales in fiscal 2014 will be $26 billion to $27.5 billion,
the company said, compared with an average analyst estimate of
$27.5 billion. At the midpoint of that range, revenue growth
would be about 8 percent -- a deceleration from annual gains of
more than 25 percent for the past three  fiscal years .  Qualcomm  shares  fell as much as 6 percent in extended
trading following the announcement. The stock, which has climbed
13 percent this year compared with a 31 percent gain in the
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, had earlier risen 1.1 percent
to $69.74 at the close in New York.  ‘Downshift’ Seen  While demand for more expensive smartphones is still
increasing, it’s not keeping pace with that for lower-cost
models, Mollenkopf said.  “In the near term, we’re seeing a little bit of a
downshift in terms of tier,” he said. “In the second half we
continue to see strong units and a little bit stronger mix.”  Net income in the fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 29,
rose 18 percent to $1.5 billion, or 86 cents a share, from $1.27
billion, or 73 cents, a year earlier. Revenue climbed 33 percent
to $6.48 billion. Analysts on average had estimated earnings of
94 cents a share on revenue of $6.35 billion.  Qualcomm’s yearly sales have more than doubled since 2010.
The company gets the majority of its revenue from processors and
modem chips used in phones. The bulk of its profit comes from
licensing patents that cover many of the fundamentals of modern
phone networks.  Tablet Ambitions  The company is trying to expand outside of phones into
tablets and portable computers. It hasn’t yet translated its
success in the mobile market into desktop and laptop computing,
which is dominated by Intel Corp.’s products.  Qualcomm, Intel and other companies trying to win share in
phones and tablets also face the challenge of persuading the two
leading mobile-device providers, Apple Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , to pass up their in-house components in favor
of external suppliers.  Qualcomm provides modems to Apple and supplies both
processors and modems to Samsung. Together, the two companies
account for more than 40 percent of smartphone shipments and
more than half the tablet market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  