-- Treasury 10-Year Note Gains on Speculation Fed to Keep Rates Low
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-06T22:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/treasuries-little-changed-as-demand-for-high-yield-bonds-climbs.html
Treasury 10-year note  yields  fell
from almost the highest level in three weeks on speculation the
Federal Reserve may keep its target interest rate at almost zero
for an extended period when it starts stimulus cuts.  The  difference  between the yields on the five-year and 10-year notes widened to the most in more than two years. Benchmark
10-year debt rose as central-bank research backed holding
interest rates lower for longer. Fed Bank of Cleveland President
Sandra Pianalto said a tapering of bond-buying, known as
quantitative easing, shouldn’t be seen as tightening policy.  “The two things driving the market are data and Fed
thinking and discussion about tapering,” said  David Coard , head
of fixed-income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group
LP, a brokerage for institutional investors.  “There’s probably
still concern in the Fed about the actual health of the economy.
Any thought about further delaying tapering is going to give a
bid to Treasuries.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.64 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent
note due in August 2023 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 25/32. The yield climbed to 2.68 percent
yesterday, the highest level since Oct. 16.  Trading Pace  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, dropped to $301.5
billion. It fell to a 2013 low of $147.8 billion on Aug. 9. The
high was $662.3 billion on May 22.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
MOVE Index was at 67, lower than the 2013 average of 71.88.  The yield curve measuring the difference between five-year
and 10-year notes widened to 1.31 percentage points, the most
since August 2011.  “If the Fed reduces the threshold for the unemployment
target, they will lock in zero rates for longer,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “The amount required by an investor to
hold that five-year Treasury security will also be lower. Lower
rates for longer may eventually spur inflation, which would lead
the 10- and 30-year sectors to underperform.”  Fed Views  The argument for a lower unemployment goal is supported in
papers this week from Fed officials. The level of slack in the
economy justifies an accommodative stance and the policy of
seeking to drive down the U.S. jobless rate is effective,
according to two separate papers by central-bank officials.  The strategy of not raising rates if unemployment is above
6.5 percent has provided effective stimulus, and an even lower
threshold could be helpful, wrote William English, head of the
Division of Monetary Affairs. A paper by David Wilcox, the
research and statistics chief, said slack in the economy argues
for loose policy at a time of contained inflation expectations.  The papers were posted on the International Monetary Fund’s
website before a conference starting tomorrow in  Washington .
Senior staff members at the Fed write the briefing materials for
Federal Open Market Committee meetings and draft the central
bank’s policy options.  The Treasury announced it will sell $30 billion in three-year notes, $24 billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in 30-year bonds on three consecutive days starting Nov. 12. The $70
billion total is down from $72 billion the previous quarter.  Borrowing Plan  The department said Nov. 4 it will borrow about 13 percent
more this quarter than it projected three months ago to boost
the nation’s cash balance on Dec. 31.  Issuance of net marketable debt will be $266 billion in the
October-to-December period, compared with $235 billion initially
forecast on July 29, the department said in Washington. At the
end of December, the Treasury will have $140 billion in cash,
versus $80 billion projected before.  Treasury said it will sell $10 billion to $15 billion of
floating-rate notes Jan. 29. The floating-rate note sales would
be the first added U.S. government debt security since Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities were introduced in 1997.  Matthew Rutherford, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, told reporters that the floaters would be
auctioned monthly, with four new offerings a year and two so-called reopenings of each.  Floating Notes  “Floating-rate notes add another arrow to the Treasury’s
quiver,” said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford  Connecticut. “The securities will be
attractive to people who buy bills. There won’t be much overlap
with the coupon market. Success will be determined by their
ability to attract new investors.”  Treasuries gained 1.1 percent from Sept. 17 through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. That was
the day before the Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing
stimulus and said it needed more evidence of lasting improvement
in the economy. U.S. government securities have still declined
2.4 percent this year, the indexes show.  The Fed buys $85 billion of bonds each month to put
downward pressure on borrowing costs. It purchased $3.17 billion
in Treasuries maturing from November 2020 to August 2023 today.  Gross domestic product grew at a 2 percent annual rate in
the third quarter after a 2.5 percent pace from the previous
period, according to a Bloomberg survey before the Commerce
Department report tomorrow. Employers added 120,000 jobs in
October, economists predicted before the Labor Department data
on Nov. 8. Employment increased 148,000 in September.  The Cleveland Fed’s Pianalto said she sees “meaningful
progress” in U.S. labor markets and the central bank should
“be cautious” in asset purchases. Housing continues to hold
back economic growth, she said Columbus,  Ohio .  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Susanne Walker} in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  