-- Ringgit Drops a Sixth Day on Concern Fed Will Taper This Year
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-11-06T02:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/ringgit-drops-a-sixth-day-on-concern-fed-will-taper-this-year.html
Malaysia’s ringgit dropped for a
sixth day, the longest losing streak since February, as a U.S.
services gauge that topped estimates stoked speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will cut stimulus before year-end. Bonds fell.  The ringgit declined along with other Asian currencies
after a report yesterday showed the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s U.S.  non-manufacturing index  climbed to 55.4 in
October from 54.4 the preceding month, more than the 54 forecast
by economists in a Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 signal
expansion. Malaysia’s central bank will keep  borrowing  costs
unchanged at 3 percent at a meeting tomorrow, according to all
18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The ringgit depreciated 0.4 percent to 3.1875 per dollar as
of 10:09 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 1 percent so far this
month, the second-biggest loss among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies after the Indonesian rupiah. The local market was
shut for a public holiday yesterday.  “Asian currencies are pricing in higher risk of Fed
tapering in December,” said  Nizam Idris , head of strategy for
fixed income and currencies at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“The ringgit is dropping more because it’s more sensitive to
the dollar movement.”  One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
31 basis points to 8.45 percent.  The Fed maintained its $85 billion monthly bond-buying
program last month, while noting signs of “underlying strength
in the broader economy.” Policy makers will hold off from
trimming the debt purchases until March, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg Oct. 17-18. A reduction was earlier
forecast for December in a similar survey a month before.  The yield on the government’s 3.172 percent notes due July
2016 was little changed at 3.18 percent, while the 10-year rate
climbed one basis point to 3.68 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  