-- Rostowski Says Won’t Seek Polish Finance Minister Post in 2015
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-11-06T13:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/rostowski-says-won-t-seek-polish-finance-minister-post-in-2015.html
Jacek Rostowski said he won’t seek a
third stint as  Poland ’s finance minister should the ruling Civic
Platform win general elections in 2015.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk is planning to announce a
“fresh start” for Civic Platform, which trails the opposition
in opinion polls, at a Nov. 23 party convention and said he may
overhaul his cabinet this month. He has denied local press
reports that Rostowski may be replaced. Any government shuffle
should be “deep” and help Civic Platform regain popularity,
Rostowski told reporters in Parliament and an interview
published in Gazeta Wyborcza today.  “We need a far-reaching government reshuffle to bring in
new blood and encourage voters to take a fresh view,” Rostowski
told reporters. “We need rejuvenation, not in terms of age, but
when it comes to new energy and ideas. We need people who’ll
lead us not just to the end of this term, but also after we win
the next elections.”  Rostowski, 62, has been on the job for six years, twice as
long as any of his predecessors since 1989. His policies helped
Poland become the only European Union economy to avoid a
recession in the past five years. He led efforts to overhaul the
country’s privately-run pension funds, a move that has angered
urban voters who backed Tusk’s party in 2005, 2007 and 2011.  Unpopular Minister  The London-born finance minister is the second most
unpopular member of Tusk’s cabinet after Sports Minister Joanna Mucha, according to an Oct. 3-9 poll of 1,066 Poles carried out
by researcher CBOS. The poll showed 26 percent of voters favored
“serious” changes in the cabinet and 37 percent wanted the
whole government replaced.  Rostowski said he “doesn’t feel tired” in remarks to
reporters today. He declined to comment on whether he will be
part of any government overhaul in a Nov. 4 interview in  London ,
saying “every good reshuffle needs to be a surprise.”  Civic Platform, which commands a two-seat majority in
Parliament together with the coalition Polish Peasants Party,
suspended two lawmakers on Oct. 30 after allegations of vote-buying at a regional convention. The case also exposed internal
squabbles within the party, which may destabilize the government
and force early elections, according to government spokesman
Pawel Gras.  “Conflicts obviously do occur in democratic parties,”
Rostowski told Gazeta Wyborcza. “The Civic Platform needs to
deal with its internal disputes and come up with a fresh and
convincing offer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  