-- RTL ‘X Factor’ Producer FremantleMedia Buys Denmark’s Miso Film
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-11-06T09:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/rtl-x-factor-producer-fremantlemedia-buys-denmark-s-miso-film.html
FremantleMedia , producer of TV shows
including “The X Factor” and “Farmer Wants a Wife,” agreed
to buy 51 percent of Danish producer Miso Film to expand in
Scandinavian scripted film and drama.  FremantleMedia, owned by the  Europe ’s largest broadcaster,
 RTL Group SA (RTL) , didn’t disclose the financial terms of the deal
and has an option to buy the rest of the company in future, the
London-based business said in a statement today.  The purchase gives FremantleMedia a bigger share in
Scandinavian local-language TV shows, many of which have had
success recently outside the region. “Borgen,” a series about
Denmark’s first female prime minister, has aired in the U.K.,
France and Germany, and the Danish crime drama “The Killing”
was remade in the U.S.  “This is an important milestone in building our prime-time
scripted business and strengthening our position in the
Scandinavian market,” FremantleMedia Chief Executive Officer
Cecile Frot-Coutaz said in the statement. The acquisition
complements the company’s high-end scripted businesses in the
U.S.,  Germany  and  Australia , she said.  Miso Film, founded by Jonas Allen and Peter Bose in 2004,
developed Norwegian crime series “Varg Veum” based on Gunnar
Staalesen’s bestselling novels and has produced Danish crime
series “Those Who Kill” and “Dicte.”  RTL, controlled by Germany’s Bertelsmann SE, is seeking new
revenue sources as the continent’s economy continues to
stagnate. The Luxembourg-based company has been investing in
digital operations and pay-TV. It bought majority stakes in
Broadband TV, YouTube Inc.’s fifth-largest multichannel network,
and Dutch video-on-demand provider The Entertainment Group in
recent months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  