-- Russian October Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens to 6.3%
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-11-06T14:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/russian-october-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-to-6-3-.html
Russian  consumer-price growth 
unexpectedly accelerated in October, strengthening the case for
the central bank to refrain from cutting borrowing costs for the
first time in more than a year.  The cost of living rose 6.3 percent from a year earlier,
leaving it above the central bank’s target range for a 14th
month, after a 6.1 percent increase in September, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. Economists forecast the rate will remain unchanged,
according to the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Prices advanced 0.6 percent on the month.  Policy makers led by  Elvira Nabiullina , who took over as
central bank chairman in June, are struggling to contain
inflation within this year’s target range of 5 percent to 6
percent after missing their goal last year. The regulator has
kept  interest rates  unchanged since September 2012 even as the
economy sputters amid its worst slowdown in four years.  “Headline inflation will now likely miss the 5-6 percent
target this year,” Tatiana Orlova, senior economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by e-mail. “We still
see headline inflation on a downward trend in the coming weeks,
therefore hikes are not on the cards. However, easing now seems
to be postponed at least until mid-2014.”  The ruble has depreciated 5.6 percent against the dollar
since the start of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It extended gains after the inflation report and
traded 0.6 percent higher at 32.3575 per dollar as of 4:50 p.m.
in Moscow.  Inflation Expectations  The central bank forecasts inflation will slow to 5.8
percent or 5.9 percent by December, First Deputy Chairman Ksenia Yudaeva told lawmakers in Moscow on Oct. 23, according to
Interfax. Still-elevated inflation expectations must come down,
even as the pace of economic growth remains low, Nabiullina said
Oct. 8.  The benchmark one-week auction rate, which the central bank
may use to provide or absorb liquidity, will stay at 5.5 percent
at a Nov. 8 meeting, according to all 24 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Inflation is one of the biggest concerns for Russians,
along with housing and utilities, according to a poll published
Sept. 18 by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of
 Public Opinion .  ‘On Hold’  Last month’s inflation surprise “justifies keeping policy
rate on hold in November,”  Alexander Morozov , Moscow-based
chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc for  Russia , the
 Commonwealth of Independent States  and Baltic countries, said by
e-mail. HSBC predicts Bank Rossii will cut rates by a quarter
point in December and another 25 basis points in the first
quarter, he added.  The forecast given by Yudaeva looks “fairly optimistic”
under current conditions, according to Maria Pomelnikova, an
analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow. Rising prices for milk,
eggs and fuel may still spur inflation, she said.  “That may be partially offset by the deceleration trend
we’re seeing for inflation in non-food goods and services as
economic growth slows,” Pomelnikova said by e-mail today before
the release. “As a result, we expect inflation to slow further
to 6 percent by the end of 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  