-- TSA Tragedy Turns Talk From Excess Security to Not Enough
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-11-06T15:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/tsa-tragedy-turns-talk-from-excess-security-to-not-enough.html
Lawmakers have chided the U.S.
Transportation Security Administration for screening excesses
such as pat-downs that reduced children to tears.  After an agency officer at  Los Angeles International
Airport  was killed at a checkpoint Nov. 1, conversation turned
from whether there’s too much security to whether more is needed
outside the checkpoint.  “There are folks out there that want to do bad things,”
TSA Deputy Administrator John Halinski said at an American
Association of Airport Executives conference in Arlington,
 Virginia , yesterday. “The problem is that front side of the
airport is not as strong as it could be. So we have to look at
ways to prevent that.”  Ideas for change include arming some TSA officers to
enabling roaming teams of specially trained agents to monitor
public areas outside checkpoints. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and TSA Administrator John Pistole have said agency and
law enforcement coordination needs to be better.  The TSA is mindful this wasn’t the first airport terminal
shooting, Halinski said yesterday, citing an incident in Houston
earlier this year. It also wasn’t the first such incident at
LAX; in 2002, a gunman fired at an airline ticket counter.  Arming TSA  “This is such a point of major vulnerability, and that’s
what this incident did for me,” Senator Dianne Feinstein, a
California Democrat, said in an interview yesterday. “We don’t
want to increase risk for America. We want to decrease risk for
America.”  TSA officers, while they wear badges and police-like
uniforms, aren’t trained like police and don’t have arrest
powers. The screeners’ union, the American Federation of
Government Employees, has called for creating a new class of
agency officers with law-enforcement status.  The LAX incident showed there’s a need for more people with
weapons in the airport, possibly including some TSA officers,
said Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat.  “You need to be on top of it where if something breaks
out, you have to be able to be there in seconds,” Boxer said in
an interview. “It’s something I’m going to take a look at.”  Alternative Measures  Others, including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, say
there are better ways to secure airports than a weaponized TSA.  “It would be much better if we had continuity in all
airports -- as to where people leave, which kind of security we
have there, where they come into the airport itself -- without
arming everybody,” Reid said in an interview.  House Transportation Security Subcommittee Chairman Richard Hudson, a North Carolina Republican, said there are “practical,
risk-based steps that can be taken to combat potential attacks
without arming 45,000 TSA screeners.”  Hudson said today he would hold a hearing Nov. 14 on
reexamining TSA’s policies and ways to strengthen the agency’s
coordination with local police. Pistole is scheduled to testify.  Pistole has floated the idea of broadening use of Visible
Intermodal Protection and Response, or VIPR, teams that search
other modes of transportation beyond airports. Halinski said
that would be among the options discussed next week in a meeting
with aviation stakeholders.  Started in 2004 after a train bombing in  Madrid , the teams
put TSA officers, including behavior detection specialists and
explosives experts, with local law enforcement and U.S. air
marshals, according to TSA’s website.  Expanding Reach  VIPR teams have conducted random searches at subway
stations, bus terminals and sporting events.  Some Republicans in Congress have cited VIPR as an example
of mission creep. Representative Scott Garrett, a New Jersey
Republican, has introduced legislation to ban those searches
outside airports, calling them “security theater.”  One of TSA’s most frequent critics, former House
transportation chairman John Mica of  Florida , said the agency’s
behavior-detection officers, who roam airports and scan
checkpoint lines for suspicious people, failed to spot the
alleged shooter.  “He was obviously deranged,” said Mica, a Republican who
now has oversight of the TSA as a House oversight subcommittee
chairman. “Once again, we couldn’t connect the dots. It could
have been prevented by some intervention.”  Protecting the 450 U.S. airports where TSA is stationed or
retraining 45,000 TSA employees would take a significant funding
increase, said Representative Bennie Thompson, senior Democrat
on the House Homeland Security Committee.  The past few Congresses haven’t been willing to increase
TSA’s budget, he said in a phone interview.  “You have to decide whether there’s a will in Congress to
make additional funds available,” said Thompson, of
 Mississippi . “It’s a matter of economics.”  Muddled Mission  Responses to the shooting will involve reassessing what the
U.S. wants TSA to do, said Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, a senior
associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Arming the workforce would be costly and may muddle the agency’s
mission, he said.  “We have to decide what problem we’re trying to solve,”
Nelson said. “If we want them to focus on screening, then it’s
a different mission than trying to focus on an active shooter.”  The shooting “personalizes the workforce and shows these
people may be potentially in harm’s way,” Nelson said. “Maybe
they’ll be treated differently, not only by the American public
but by Congress as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  