-- Samsung to Use $39 Billion Cash for More Deals in Growth Chase
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-11-06T10:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/samsung-to-increase-acquisitions-as-it-mulls-boosting-dividend.html
Samsung Electronics Co., holding $39
billion in net cash, will pursue more deals as  Asia ’s biggest
technology company seeks to grow beyond its core consumer
electronics amid fears those businesses are nearing saturation.  The maker of Galaxy smartphones will be more aggressive in
making deals after spending about $1 billion investing in 14
companies since 2010, Chief Financial Officer Lee Sang Hoon told
a briefing in Seoul today. The company also is considering
setting its dividend at 1 percent of its average stock price, a
move that could double its cash payout to investors.  The biggest maker of smartphones, televisions and memory
chips held its first analyst briefing with top management since
2005 amid concern those segments are peaking as low-cost Chinese
producers undercut prices. Samsung  shares (005930)   face  their first
annual decline in five years as the company becomes more
dependent on smartphones, where analysts warn of slower growth
even as Samsung sells one of every four handsets globally.  “We will expand our mergers-and-acquisitions strategy
beyond a few target areas to pursue opportunities across a wide
range of fields,” Lee said. The company wants to “enhance the
competitive edge of our current businesses and capture new
chances for future growth,” he said.  Prior  investments include   Sharp Corp. (6753) , Novaled AG and
Medison Co. as the Suwon, South Korea-based company tries to
better integrate its hardware and software offerings.  Shares Slide  Samsung had 52.68 trillion won ($50 billion) of cash as of
Sept. 30, the company said last month. After including debt, its
net cash was 40.93 trillion won, compared with 33.16 trillion
won at the end of June, it said.  Shares of Samsung fell 2.3 percent to 1,451,000 won in
 Seoul . The stock has dropped 4.7 percent this year, and the
company lost $26 billion of market value in June after analysts
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley lowered sales and
profit estimates, citing slower shipments of its flagship Galaxy
S4 smartphone.  Samsung currently trades with a dividend yield of 0.55
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company will spend $14 billion on research and
development by the end of this year, compared with $8 billion in
2010, Lee said today.  About 400 analysts and technology experts attended the
briefing today, featuring presentations by the leaders of
Samsung’s display, mobiles, chip and consumer-electronics units.  Capital Spending  “Samsung has grown into a global technology behemoth and
needs to open itself up more to outsiders,” said Marcello Ahn,
a Seoul-based analyst at Quad Investment Management. “At least
it’s good to know that Samsung’s thinking about shareholder
returns.”  The company has earmarked a record 24 trillion won in
capital expenditure this year and had spent about 63 percent of
the total as of Sept. 30. The spending this year is larger than
the market value of  Sony Corp. (6758)   The company is targeting annual sales of $400 billion in
2020, co-Chief Executive Officer Kwon Oh Hyun said.  Samsung last month posted record third-quarter earnings
after extending its lead in the smartphone market and benefiting
from a rally in chip prices.  Full-year net income is expected to rise to 31.4 trillion
won, according to the average of 29  analyst estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales may rise to 232.1 trillion won, according to
41 analyst estimates.  The mobile unit, responsible for about  two-thirds  of
earnings, posted record operating profit of 6.7 trillion won in
the third quarter as the company tapped demand in China and
 India  for mid-priced handsets.  Samsung this year added the S4, released the Galaxy Gear
smartwatch, introduced the first phone with a curved screen and
registered designs for spectacles to challenge  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Glass in the wearable devices market. It sold about 120 million
handsets in the third quarter for a 28.7 percent market share,
researcher  Strategy Analytics  said Oct. 29.  The company will sell more than 100 million units of its
Galaxy S and Note series handsets combined this year, Shin Jong Kyun, head of Samsung’s mobile business, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  