-- Senate Panel Passes Post-Snowden Intelligence Budget
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-11-06T12:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/senate-panel-passes-post-snowden-intelligence-budget.html
(Corrects fiscal year for authorization request in first
and last paragraphs of story published Nov. 5.)  A Senate committee approved an
authorization measure for U.S. intelligence activities that
seeks to thwart leaks of classified information and strengthen
oversight of surveillance programs in the current fiscal year.  The Senate Intelligence Committee voted 13-2 today to
advance the bill, according to a  statement  from the panel’s
Democratic chairman, Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of  California . The
measure also authorizes spending by intelligence agencies to
counteract terrorist threats, prevent the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction and enhance counterintelligence.  The vote came amid a backlash over revelations that U.S.
agencies spied on foreign leaders, including German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , and
collected phone records on millions of Americans as well as e-mail data. Most of the activities were exposed in media reports
based on secret documents leaked by former National Security
Agency contractor Edward Snowden, who received asylum in  Russia .  The spying allegations have prompted calls from some
members of Congress for tighter oversight of intelligence
agencies, particularly the NSA. Under the bill approved today,
the agency’s director and its inspector general would be subject
to presidential nomination and Senate confirmation. The agency’s
leader currently is appointed by the Secretary of Defense,
subject to presidential approval.  Protecting Whistle-Blowers  The legislation also calls for boosting technology capable
of detecting leaks of classified information and strengthening
legal protections for whistle-blowers, according to Feinstein.
It also would empower the director of national intelligence to
investigate people who hold security clearances.  Feinstein has defended U.S. surveillance efforts, including
those exposed by Snowden, as necessary to fight terrorist
threats. Even so, after allegations emerged of U.S. spying on
Merkel’s telephone conversations, the senator called for a
“total review” of American intelligence programs.  The amount of funding authorized for U.S. intelligence
programs is classified, and Feinstein didn’t cite a spending
figure. The measure, which is for the 2014 fiscal year that
started Oct. 1, still needs approval by the full Senate and must
be reconciled with whatever intelligence-spending bill is passed
by the  House of Representatives .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  