-- Shuanghui Said to Hire Six Banks for $6 Billion H.K. IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-11-06T09:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/shuanghui-said-to-hire-six-banks-for-6-billion-hong-kong-ipo.html
Shuanghui International Holdings
Ltd. , the Chinese company that bought the world’s biggest pork
supplier this year, plans to seek as much as $6 billion in an
initial public offering in Hong Kong, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic Securities Co.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered Plc
and UBS AG are working on the share sale, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
The offering may start next year, they said.  The sale may help revive the IPO market in Hong Kong, where
proceeds are rebounding from a nine-year low in 2012. Shuanghui
joins other companies, including Power Assets Holdings Ltd.’s
Hong Kong unit and  China  Cinda Asset Management Co., seeking to
raise money in the city through IPOs worth more than $1 billion
as the Chinese economy shows signs of recovery.  “This window for new issuances is open but investors are
selective and price sensitive,” said David Suen, head of equity
capital markets for Asia outside  Japan  at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“The macroeconomic signals from China and the policy direction
from the Communist Party Congress meeting in China later this
week would have an impact on how the market is going to unfold
for the rest of the year.”  The Communist Party’s four-day conclave starting Nov. 9
will consider reforms aimed at maintaining China’s economic
growth. Indexes of manufacturing and services in October show
the world’s second-largest economy is picking up, and Premier Li Keqiang said last month that China needs 7.2 percent expansion
to keep unemployment stable.  IPOs Triple  U.S. regulators and Smithfield Foods Inc. shareholders
approved Shuanghui’s $4.7 billion takeover in September, sealing
the biggest Chinese purchase of an American company. The
acquisition underscores increased demand for meat in China,
where rising incomes are spurring sales of pricier foods.  Shuanghui’s investors include CDH Investments Fund
Management Co., Goldman Sachs and New Horizon Capital, the
Chinese private equity firm co-founded by the son of China’s
last premier, according to its website. Hong Kong-based Kerry
Group Ltd., controlled by billionaire Robert Kuok, and
 Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte. are also shareholders, the
website shows.  Companies have raised $11.3 billion through Hong Kong IPOs
this year, more than triple the value for the same period last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alibaba’s Plans  Power Assets, controlled by Asia’s richest man  Li Ka-shing ,
plans to raise as much as $5 billion selling units in its Hong
Kong electricity arm, people with knowledge of the matter said
Sept. 27. Cinda, one of four funds created in 1999 to buy bad
debts from China’s banks, will seek as much as $3 billion this
year, people with knowledge of the matter said earlier.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company, is considering a U.S. listing after talks with the Hong
Kong stock exchange about a proposed governance structure broke
down. An Alibaba IPO could raise about HK$100 billion ($12.9
billion), Ernst & Young LLP said June 28. The Hong Kong exchange
said Oct. 30 it may start a public consultation on different
shareholding structures, which may pave the way for Alibaba to
go public there.  Shuanghui’s media relations department declined to comment
when contacted by phone. Reuters reported on the IPO plan
earlier today, citing unidentified people.  Huishang Bank Corp. (3698)  and some of its shareholders raised
$1.2 billion in Hong Kong’s biggest banking IPO in almost three
years, people familiar with the matter said today. Bank of
Chongqing Co. fell 0.2 percent on its trading debut today after
a $547 million IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  