-- Siemens Sells Water Technologies Units to AEA for $865 Million
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-11-06T13:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/siemens-sells-water-technologies-units-to-aea-for-865-million.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, agreed to sell part of its water-technologies division to AEA Investors for 640 million euros
($865 million) as it focuses on higher-margin businesses.  Siemens is retaining operations providing automation and
drive solutions for the operation of water and sewage treatment
plants, the Munich-based company said today in a statement.  “We’re pleased to have found a buyer with experience in
industrial investments who wants to continue to drive Water
Technologies’ business,” Siemens’s industry division head
Siegfried Russwurm said in the statement. “We will in the
future be focusing our water business on solutions in line with
our electro technical core competencies.”  Siemens, which replaced Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  with finance chief Joe Kaeser in August, is also
selling other units as it focuses on businesses it deems to have
better growth prospects. The water technologies unit, including
wastewater, municipal services and industrial water purification
services as well as membrane filtration systems, was put up for
sale in 2012.  AEA Investors, a private-equity firm founded in 1968,
focuses on investments in industrials, specialty chemicals,
consumer products and services, according to its website. AEA’s
middle-market private-equity team manages about $3.6 billion of
invested and committed capital.  Water Treatment  The units acquired by AEA comprise solutions for treating
and processing water as well as the associated servicing
capabilities, Siemens said today. The German company is also
retaining water technology used in the oil and gas industry.  Bloomberg reported Siemens’s planned sale of the division
to New York-based AEA on Oct. 15.  Siemens will report earnings tomorrow for the 12 months
ended Sept. 30. The company has forecast income from continuing
operations of 4 billion euros, including contributions from the
solar business and networks joint venture stakes it has already
sold.  Siemens had a profit margin of 9.5 percent in fiscal 2012,
while  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and General Electric had margins of 10.3 percent
and 15 percent, respectively. In August, Siemens’s debt was
downgraded by  Fitch Ratings , which cited an accelerating decline
in the manufacturer’s margins in the most recent quarter and
“insufficient progress” on restructuring measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  