-- Singer Builds Celesio Stake as Stock Rises Above Bid
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-11-06T09:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/singer-builds-celesio-stake-as-stock-rises-above-bid.html
Billionaire Paul Singer built a stake
in German drug distributor  Celesio AG (CLS1) , in a sign that he may be
trying to extract a higher price for his shares as part of
 McKesson Corp.’s (MCK)  planned acquisition of the company.  The hedge-fund manager’s New York-based Elliott Management
Corp. holds 10.06 percent of the  voting rights  in Stuttgart,
Germany-based Celesio, the company said in a statement today.
Celesio’s shares are trading above the 23-euro price offered by
McKesson.  Elliott has a history of pushing for change at companies
involved in mergers and acquisitions. The firm became the
largest shareholder in Kabel Deutschland Holding AG this year
when the cable operator was the subject of a 7.7 billion-euro
($10.4 billion) takeover offer from Vodafone Group Plc. Elliott
also tried unsuccessfully to oust board members of Swiss
drugmaker Actelion Ltd. in 2011, partly to push the company into
considering a sale.  In  Germany , investors can refuse to sell during a takeover
attempt and ask for a higher price, leaving a court to decide on
the stock’s value. Celesio spokesman Rainer Berghausen declined
to comment.  McKesson, based in San Francisco, agreed on Oct. 24 to buy
Celesio for about 3.9 billion euros to boost its share of the
growing global generic-drug market. McKesson will acquire the
50.01 percent stake held by Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH, a family-owned  investment company , for 23 euros a share, and begin a
tender offer to buy the remaining publicly traded shares at the
same price.  Celesio climbed 0.6 percent to 23.17 euros at 10:45 a.m. in
 Frankfurt , trading above the offer price for the third day in
the past four, based on closing prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  