-- Skadden, Torys on Endo Deal for Paladin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-06T17:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/skadden-torys-on-endo-deal-for-paladin-business-of-law.html
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP
and Torys LLP advised  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  on its
agreement to buy Canadian drugmaker  Paladin Labs Inc. (PLB)  for about
$1.6 billion to expand in that country and  emerging markets .  Paladin was advised by Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP.  The Skadden team includes mergers and acquisitions partners
Eileen Nugent and Brandon Van Dyke; tax partner Paul Oosterhuis;
banking partner Steven Messina; corporate finance partner Stacy Kanter; and executive compensation and benefits partners Regina Olshan and Erica Schohn.  Torys acted as Canadian counsel for Endo with a team that
included partners Sharon Geraghty and Krista Hill, mergers and
acquisitions;  Glen Johnson , securities; Corrado Cardarelli, tax;
Linda Plumpton and  Andrew Gray , arrangement; Dany Assaf,
investment Canada Act review and competition; Tom Zverina, debt
financing; Mitch Frazer, employment; Eileen McMahon and Cheryl
Reicin, IP; and Bill Estey, research.  The Davies team for Paladin Labs includes Hillel W. Rosen,
M&A; Neil Kravitz, Elliot Greenstone and Gerald D. Shepherd,
M&A/ capital markets ; Mark C. Katz and Charles Tingley,
competition; Peter Glicklich, Brian Bloom and Marie-Emmanuelle
Vaillancourt, tax.  In addition, Davies partners Richard Cherney and Olivier Desilets, M&A/capital markets; and Rhonda Rudick, tax, are
acting for Joddes Ltd. and members of the Goodman family.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP represented  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  as financial adviser to Palidan with a deal team that
included New York corporate partners Barbara Becker and Dennis Friedman.  Endo shares soared the most in 13 years. The purchase,
mostly through stock, values each Paladin Labs share at C$77, a
20 percent premium to the Nov. 4 closing price, Malvern,
Pennsylvania-based Endo said in a statement yesterday. The deal
“immediately” will add to Endo’s 2014 adjusted earnings per
share, it said.  The deal gives Endo access to the Canadian market, where
Paladin has recorded average sales growth of 28 percent over the
past five years, selling treatments for pain and allergy
developed by itself or by other companies. Endo is facing
declining revenue because of generic competition for drugs
including the Lidoderm and Voltaren Gel painkillers.  For more, click here.  Moves  NAACP LDF Associate Director Robinson Returns to Lewis Baach  Founding Lewis Baach PLLC partner Jeffrey Robinson returned
to the firm as senior counsel in the Washington office after
spending four years as Associate-Director Counsel at the NAACP
Legal Defense and Educational Fund.  Robinson will lead complex litigation matters for Lewis
Baach and expand the firm’s government relations and public
policy work, the firm said.  While working at LDF, Robinson led the ballot initiative to
reform California’s Three Strikes law, the firm said.  He also
worked to include civil rights protections in the Affordable
Care Act. Robinson represented  Al Gore  as trial counsel and
media spokesman during the 2000 presidential election’s vote-count challenge in Florida.  “Jeff’s proven ability to use litigation to advance public
policy makes the firm an even stronger advocate for our
clients,” Lewis Baach partner  Eric Lewis  said in a statement.  Lewis Baach has offices in Washington, New York, London and
Buenos Aires.  Ropes & Gray Adds Intellectual Property Lawyer in Silicon Valley  Ropes & Gray LLP said Andrew N. Thomases joined the firm as
a partner in the intellectual property litigation group in
Silicon Valley. Thomases was previously a partner at Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  Thomases has 20 years of experience as a trial attorney.
Among his current clients, he is representing one of the largest
U.S. manufacturers of flash memory chips before the
International Trade Commission.  “To provide clients first-class IP litigation
representation, we continue to build on and expand our robust IP
litigation practice on the West Coast and globally,” James Batchelder, managing partner of the firm’s Silicon Valley office
and a co-chairman of the firm’s technology, media &
communications group, said in a statement. “Andrew’s first-rate
track record and experience will benefit clients in our Silicon
Valley office and beyond.”  Ropes & Gray has more than 1,100 professionals at 11
offices in the U.S., London and Asia.  Goodwin Procter Hires Patent Prosecution and Counseling Partner  Goodwin Procter LLP said Daniel J. Burns joined the firm’s
Silicon Valley office as a partner in its patent prosecution and
counseling practice. He was previously at Fish & Richardson PC,
where he was a partner in the Silicon Valley office.  At Goodwin, Burns will focus on domestic and international
patent prosecution. He also will work with client engineering
teams and in-house counsel to identify and develop new
inventions, advise on intellectual-property agreements, prepare
clients for licensing negotiations and conduct open source
investigations, the firm said.  “Intellectual property issues present challenges and
opportunities to our clients every day, and Dan will provide
expanded support to these companies in Silicon Valley and
beyond,” Anthony McCusker, head of Goodwin’s Silicon Valley
office and leader of the firm’s technology companies group, said
in a statement.  Goodwin’s Silicon Valley office opened in 2007 and is now
home to more than 50 attorneys. Goodwin has lawyers at offices
in Boston, Hong Kong, London,  Los Angeles , New York,  San
Francisco , Silicon Valley and Washington.  Sidley Austin Adds Los Angeles Investment Funds Partner  Timothy A. Spangler joined Sidley Austin LLP in Los Angeles
as a partner and member of the firm’s global investment funds,
advisers and derivatives practice.  Spangler was chairman of the investment funds group at Kaye
Scholer LLP. While based in primarily Sidley’s Los Angeles
office, he will continue to work with clients in the New York
and London markets as well.  Spangler has experience in advising clients on investment
vehicles and related securities and regulatory issues. He
advises sponsors on the formation, negotiation and structuring
of investment vehicles, and on securities and regulatory issues
associated with these transactions, the firm said. He also
advises on compliance obligations of investment management firms
under the U.S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the Financial
Services and Markets Act of 2000.  “Timothy is a talented lawyer whose deep knowledge and
broad experience in multiple markets will be a tremendous asset
to our clients,” Mike Kelley, managing partner of Sidley’s Los
Angeles office, said in a statement.  Sidley has about 1,700 lawyers in 19 offices worldwide.  Sklar Kirsh Hires Loeb & Loeb Corporate Partner Borow  Corporate law attorney Jennifer L. Borow, previously a
partner in the Los Angeles office of Loeb & Loeb LLP, joined
Sklar Kirsh LLP as a partner in the corporate law practice.  Borow, who has 25 years of experience, focuses on
counseling wealthy individuals and family offices on their
closely held businesses, real estate holdings and other assets,
the firm said.  She has experience in the acquisition and disposition of
business assets; the formation, capitalization and governance of
joint ventures, partnerships, limited liability companies and
other business entities; and the structuring and negotiation of
business contracts.  “After spending my entire career with large, institutional
law firms, it is exciting to join a boutique law firm like Sklar
Kirsh and be part of its success,” Borow said in a statement.
“I know and have worked with many of the attorneys here, and
have always been impressed with their commitment, energy and
creative problem solving.”  Sklar Kirsh is a Los Angeles-based corporate and real
estate transactional law firm founded in February by Jeffrey A. Sklar and Andrew T. Kirsh. The firm has 14 attorneys.  Litigation  Detroit Union Lawyer Didn’t Answer Key Questions, Judge Says  The judge in  Detroit ’s bankruptcy told the top lawyer for
the  United Auto Workers  that he failed to answer the two most-important questions he was asked in a trial on whether the city
can remain under court protection.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes yesterday repeatedly
tried to force the general counsel for the UAW, Michael
Nicholson, to say whether the union had negotiated with the city
over proposed cuts to pension benefits and health-care benefits
for retirees.  “I want to tell you, sir, this question and the last
question were probably the two most-important questions you were
asked here today,” Rhodes told Nicholson, a union witness.  When Nicholson began answering by accusing Detroit’s
emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, of ignoring UAW proposals, Rhodes
interrupted him.  “You are not answering the question,” the judge said.  Nicholson later asked Rhodes if he could take a break from
his testimony. After the break, Nicholson told Rhodes that he
made a proposal about negotiating to the city and was told there
wasn’t enough time.  The city and its public-employee unions have accused each
other of failing to negotiate before Detroit filed its $18
billion bankruptcy case in July.  Rhodes is overseeing a trial to decide whether the city is
eligible to remain in bankruptcy, where it is protected from
lawsuits and other actions that may interfere with its
restructuring efforts. Union and retiree groups want the
bankruptcy case thrown out.  The city must show that it’s insolvent, that it’s entitled
under state law to file for bankruptcy, that it tried to
negotiate with creditors or was unable to do so, and that it
intends to file a plan to adjust its debts.  Also yesterday, Andy Dillon, the former Michigan treasurer,
began testifying. In 2012, Dillon was part of a team of state
officials who had been negotiating a financial stability
agreement with Detroit.  Lawyers for the unions and retirees claim state officials,
including Dillon and Governor  Rick Snyder  pushed for a
bankruptcy instead of negotiating as way to cut pensions that
are otherwise protected by the Michigan Constitution.  Under questioning by William A. Wertheimer, a lawyer for
retirees who are suing the city, Dillon acknowledged that
bankruptcy was a topic that was discussed by state officials
with the law firm  Jones Day  LP. Jones Day was working for free
at the time, possibly to improve its chances of becoming the
lead bankruptcy law firm later, Wertheimer said.  Orr was a senior Jones Day bankruptcy attorney before he
was hired in March as emergency manager on the recommendation of
Snyder. Jones Day was later hired by the city as the lead
bankruptcy law firm.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  Video  Levitt Says ‘Curtain Hasn’t Fallen’ on SAC’s Cohen  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, talks about the agreement by billionaire
 Steven A. Cohen ’s hedge-fund SAC Capital Advisors LP to plead
guilty to securities and wire fraud, pay a record $1.8 billion
fine and close its investment advisory business.  Levitt, speaking with Sara Eisen and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance,” also talks about the outlook for
 Wall Street .  For the link, click here.  Firm News  Fowler White Names Adele Stone Head of Fort Lauderdale Office  Real estate lawyer Adele I. Stone was named managing
shareholder of Fowler White Boggs PA’s Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
office. She succeeds Terrence Russell, who will remain a
shareholder with the firm, splitting his time between the Fort
Lauderdale and Jacksonville offices.  Stone, who has more than 30 years of legal experience, also
has a business law practice. She has handled the structuring of
new entities, preparation of business agreements and asset-based
transactions.  Fowler White Boggs has 100 attorneys in five Florida
offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  