-- SoftBank Plans to Keep Alibaba Stake as Public Listing Looms
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u ,   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-11-06T09:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/softbank-plans-to-keep-alibaba-stake-as-public-listing-looms.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984)  said it plans to keep
its stake in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. if China’s largest e-commerce company proceeds with what may be the biggest initial
public offering since Facebook Inc.  The Tokyo-based wireless carrier holds about 37 percent of
Alibaba, Yoshimitsu Goto, SoftBank’s general manager for
finance, said in an interview. SoftBank hasn’t told Alibaba when
to hold an IPO or where to hold it, Goto said.  “Alibaba is among the most important companies in our
group, so our plan is to hold the stake for a long period of
time,” Goto said. “What’s important for us as a shareholder in
Alibaba is that the company continues increasing its enterprise
value. An IPO is just a passing point to do that.”  Alibaba is considering an IPO that could value the
Hangzhou-based company at $190 billion, analysts at  Sanford
Bernstein  said last month as the e-commerce company more than
doubled second-quarter net income to $707 million.  That potentially values SoftBank’s stake at $70 billion.
SoftBank would have to discuss any decision about its Alibaba
stake with the Chinese company’s management, Goto said.  He declined to comment on whether Alibaba earnings are
reflected in SoftBank’s consolidated statements.  Alibaba IPO  Earnings at Alibaba aren’t yet consolidated to SoftBank’s
financial results and profit contribution by the Chinese company
will probably start next fiscal year to compensate for losses
stemming from Sprint, Daisaku Masuno, an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said last month.  Alibaba is moving toward an IPO in the U.S. after talks
with  Hong Kong ’s exchange broke down following management’s
proposal to keep control in a share sale, two people familiar
with the matter said in September. Alibaba will go public in
2014, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  SoftBank invested $20 million in Alibaba.com in 2000. The
Japanese company, led by billionaire Masayoshi Son, now has
Alibaba Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma on its board.  SoftBank which has been involved in at least 12 deals
during the past year, paid $21.6 billion for Sprint Corp. in
July before adding agreements for majority stakes in gamemaker
Supercell Oy and U.S. mobile phone distributor Brightstar Corp.
in October.  Son is  Japan ’s second-richest man with a net worth
estimated at $14.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. His company owns stakes in more than 1,000
Internet businesses.  Ma, who helped found Alibaba in 1999, has a net worth of
$3.6 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  