-- Sturm Ruger Falls as CEO Sees Chance of Gun-Sales Plateau
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-11-06T22:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/sturm-ruger-falls-as-ceo-sees-chance-of-gun-sales-plateau.html
Sturm, Ruger & Co. (RGR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. gun maker, climbed to its highest price
since at least 1985 on a “solid” outlook for 2014 after new
models drove a 45 percent jump in third-quarter sales.  More new products will be introduced next year under the
company’s “core business strategy,” with “potential for good
solid growth in 2014,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Fifer
told analysts today on a conference call.  Quarterly revenue surged to $170.9 million, the Southport,
Connecticut-based company said in its earnings report yesterday.
That beat the $136 million estimate of Andrea James, an analyst
at Dougherty & Co. in  Minneapolis , who rates the shares neutral.  Sturm Ruger has benefited from the national gun-control
debate, as enthusiasts stocked up ahead of potentially tighter
laws. Even though the federal gun-control push has faded and the
stockpiling frenzy has calmed down, lobbying in the coming
midterm election year will keep interest “on the front
burners,” said Brian Rafn, director of research at Milwaukee-based Morgan Dempsey Capital Management LLC, a 25-year
shareholder of Sturm Ruger.  The  stock  rose 3.4 percent to $73.45 in New York, after
reversing a decline earlier in the day. That was the highest
closing price since Sept. 18, 1985, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The shares have gained 56 percent this year, as
the Standard & Poor’s 600 Smallcap Index advanced 33 percent.  New Products  Sturm Ruger is focused on producing a mix of models to
reduce the risk of less demand in a single type of firearm,
Fifer said.  The company cited increased demand for its new products,
including the LC380 pistol, the SR45 pistol and the Ruger
American Rimfire rifle. New products represented 32 percent of
firearm sales in the first nine months, and its models outpaced
the industry in demand growth, Sturm Ruger said yesterday.  New additions to the ranks of gun owners helped drive up
demand, Fifer said on the call. Ruger staff members “working
the counters” in retail stores have observed a high number of
customers buying their first firearm in the past year, he said.  “If they can keep new-product sales above 30 percent,”
Sturm Ruger will be able “to counter the overall market
shrinking,” Rafn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  