-- SurveyMonkey’s Goldberg Drives Global Ambition Adding Turkey
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-11-06T12:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/surveymonkey-s-goldberg-drives-global-ambition-adding-turkey.html
Dave Goldberg, chief executive
officer of SurveyMonkey.com LLC, is pushing ahead with his
global ambitions for the online survey company by adding a
Turkish language service.  Goldberg, founder of LAUNCH Media Inc. which he sold to
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  in 2001, has led an almost threefold increase in
monthly unique visitors since he joined in 2009. SurveyMonkey
won investment from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Tiger Global Management LLC
in January in a fundraising that valued the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company at about $1.35 billion.  “I saw one of the opportunities was to take the company
and really globalize it,” Goldberg said in an interview.  Turkey 
will be “one of our biggest markets in  Europe .”  International revenue should account for about 80 percent
of total sales, compared with approximately 50 percent today, he
said. Turkish is the 16th language added by the company which is
growing overseas at twice the rate seen in its home market.  “Half of our traffic is international. Long term we would
want that to be 80 percent,” said Goldberg, who is married to
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , in an
interview two days ago after announcing the start of the Turkish
service.  SurveyMonkey had $113 million in revenue last year and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $62 million. The company, acquired by an investor group led
by Spectrum Equity Investors in 2009, has 280 employees, almost
all of them based at its headquarters in Palo Alto.  SurveyMonkey’s profitability means it doesn’t need to raise
cash and isn’t considering further investments or a share
offering, Goldberg said. It’s also not considering opening
offices in other locations where it’s started domestic-language
services, he said.  “Not to say we’ll never go public, but we might never go
public,” he said. “It’s a very good business and we don’t need
marketing people: the product sells itself, but the virality
wasn’t working because there was a language barrier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  