-- U.K. to Limit Branded Medicine Price Increases From 2014
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-11-06T11:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-k-to-limit-branded-medicine-price-increases-from-2014.html
The U.K. government won’t increase
the amount it pays for brand-name medicines in 2014 and 2015 and
will raise the total by less than 2 percent a year in the
following three years under an agreement with drugmakers.  Once the annual limit is reached, all additional
expenditure will be paid by the industry, the  Department of
Health  said today in an e-mailed statement. Companies that don’t
participate in the five-year deal, which takes effect from Jan.
1, will see the price that the  National Health Service  pays for
their products cut by 15 percent.  “This agreement ensures NHS patients will receive the best
and most advanced medicines in the world while managing the
cost,” Health Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said in the statement.  The NHS spent more than 12 billion pounds ($19.3 billion)
on branded medicines in 2011-12, the health department said. The
agreement followed months of negotiations with the Association
of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, a trade group that
represents drugmakers. Spending on branded medicines rose by an
average of 5 percent in previous years, the department said.  The discussions were “the most complex negotiation ever,”
the ABPI said in a statement.  “We now need the government and the NHS to respond
positively to this unique opportunity to demonstrate their
active commitment to improving patients’ access to the latest
medicines,” ABPI Chief Executive Stephen Whitehead said in the
statement.  Generic medicines aren’t covered by the new program, the
health department said. Competition in the generic market
“normally drives prices down,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  