-- U.K. House Prices Rise for Ninth Month in October, Halifax Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-11-06T08:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-k-house-prices-rise-for-ninth-month-in-october-halifax-says.html
U.K. house prices  rose for the ninth
month in October as low interest rates and an improving economy
boosted demand, Halifax said.  Home values  gained 0.7 percent, the biggest gain in three
months, to an average 171,991 pounds ($276,407), the mortgage
unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London
today. From a year earlier, values were 8.1 percent higher.  Rising house prices have fueled concern that the
government’s Help to Buy program risks stoking a bubble.  Bank of
England  policy makers will keep their  benchmark interest rate  at
a record low 0.5 percent tomorrow after services growth
accelerated to the fastest pace in 16 years last month,
according to a  Bloomberg survey .  “Low interest rates and higher  consumer confidence 
supported by the increasing evidence that a sustainable economic
recovery may now be under way are helping to increase housing
demand,”  Martin Ellis , a housing economist at Halifax, said in
the statement. “Sentiment towards selling has also improved in
recent months in response to the pickup in the market, which
should help to increase the availability of properties on the
market over the coming months.”  In the three months through October,  home prices  rose 1.6
percent from the previous three months. From a  year earlier ,
they were 6.9 percent higher in the quarter. Values and
transactions are still below their 2007 peak, Halifax
said.  Help to Buy allows people to buy homes costing as much as
600,000 pounds with a 5 percent down payment. The program began
in April with interest-free loans for buyers of newly built
properties and the second phase -- mortgage guarantees covering
all homes -- was brought forward to last month from January.  The plan has drawn warnings from the  International Monetary
Fund  and former Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner , who said last month that Britain risks a repeat of the
debt-fueled binge that led to the credit crisis.  The Confederation of British Industry, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research and the European
Commission all raised their economic growth forecasts this week
after gross domestic product expanded 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, the most in more than three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  