-- U.K. to Fight Monopolistic Derivatives Exchanges at EU
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-11-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-k-to-fight-monopolistic-derivatives-exchanges-in-eu-talks.html
Britain will fight “monopolistic”
exchanges in the European Union in a bid to boost competition in
the market for clearing derivatives trades, according to U.K.
Financial Secretary to the Treasury Sajid Javid.  “This is absolutely key to us,” Javid said in an
interview with  Bloomberg News  on Nov. 5. The U.K. is pushing for
“more competition and greater transparency on exchanges. A key
part of that is not tolerating monopolistic practices by certain
exchanges or clearinghouses.”  European Union nations have repeatedly clashed over how far
the EU should go in forcing exchanges such as  Germany ’s  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  to open up their derivatives-clearing services to
competition as part of an overhaul of the bloc’s financial
market rules.  While governments including the U.K., the Netherlands and
 Finland  have argued that greater competition will reduce costs
for investors, others including Germany and  Spain  have said that
the plans would fragment markets and harm financial stability.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., majority-owned by  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , and  Deutsche Boerse ’s
Eurex Clearing operate as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the threat from a trader’s default. Eurex is Deutsche
Boerse’s derivatives exchange.  Trading Venues  Many trading venues, including two in Britain, and one
elsewhere in  Europe  “are tied to certain clearing venues,”
Javid, who used to work for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  before entering
Parliament three years ago, said. “We want to see more
competition and greater ease of access, in a non-discriminatory
way, for all market participants.”  The Group of 20 nations is pushing for central clearing of
derivatives as part of its response to the financial crisis
unleashed by the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
the competition boosting measures in 2011 as part of a broader
overhaul of EU market legislation known as Mifid. Under
Barnier’s plans, exchanges would face obligations to share trade
feed data with rival clearinghouses, so enabling them to offer
competing services.  Clearing is the second stage of completing a trade on the
financial markets, coming in between the initial agreement to a
transaction, and final settlement.  In-House Clearing  Barnier’s plan seeks to challenge the model used by some
exchanges where trades, once agreed, are automatically channeled
through an exchange’s in-house clearing service.  Talks on the draft law by national officials earlier this
year brokered a compromise, which scaled back some of Barnier’s
open-access provisions.  The final version of the law must still be negotiated with
the European Parliament, which has argued for an even more
restrictive approach toward access to trade-feed data. Javid has
said he hopes this can be done by year-end.  “It’s still possible to reach a successful conclusion on
this,” Javid said.  EU antitrust officials vetoed merger plans by Deutsche
Boerse and NYSE Euronext last year after concluding that the
combination could threaten competition for trading in some
derivatives. Barnier urged  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief, to take the competition-boosting effect of the draft law
into account when deciding whether the merger should be
permitted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  