-- U.K. to End Speculation Over Property Tax on Dec. 4, Javid Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-11-06T18:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-k-to-end-speculation-over-property-tax-on-dec-4-javid-says.html
A U.K. Treasury minister signalled
that foreigners who own British homes will find out next month
whether the government will slap an unprecedented tax on
property sales.  “You’ll have to wait for the Autumn Statement on Dec. 4,”
when Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne presents new
economic forecasts, Financial Secretary to the Treasury Sajid Javid said in an interview, when asked whether the government is
planning a capital-gains tax on foreign investors selling
property in the U.K.  Osborne is considering such a levy to curb  rising house
prices  in  London  and the southeast of  England , Sky News
television reported last week, without saying where it got the
information. Overseas demand is adding to pressure on a market
experiencing a shortage of supply. Rightmove Plc said on Oct. 21
that values in the capital rose more than 10 percent last month.  Prices for luxury homes have soared in recent years as the
debt crisis in the euro region and uprisings across North Africa
made London property a haven for international investors.  Values of prime London residences have risen more than 60
percent from their low in 2009, with non-U.K. residents
accounting for 25 percent of all purchases in central London in
the 12 months through September, according to broker Knight
Frank LLP.  Osborne is under pressure to address the risk of a
housing bubble in the U.K. after the International Monetary Fund
and ministers including Business Secretary Vince Cable
criticized his program to support home ownership. Help to Buy
allows people to purchase a property costing as much as 600,000
pounds ($965,000) with a down payment of as little as 5 percent.  ‘Political Move’  A tax on foreign-owned property “is definitely a political
move, as polls in the past suggest this would garner huge
support,” said Matthew Pointon, a property economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. and a former Treasury official. The price
increases seen in some parts on London mean “some buyers may be
viewing this as a market that’s overheating.”  The British Property Federation said imposing such a tax
may damage  economic growth  because penalizing people who want to
invest in Britain may slow the number of homes being built.  Osborne raised a homebuying tax to 7 percent from 5 percent
for properties priced above 2 million pounds in March 2012. He
refused to comment when asked in a BBC interview last week
whether he was considering a new sales tax on foreign
homeowners.  “I’m not going to comment on specific tax affairs -- it’s
not a leak that comes from anyone near me,” he said. “The only
reason I don’t want to deny it is because I don’t want to then
get into a whole list of other things you are going to ask me
about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  