-- U.K. Government Officials Backed Co-Op Deals, Ex-Chairman Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-11-06T17:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-k-government-officials-backed-co-op-deals-ex-chairman-says.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc’s merger with
Britannia Building Society and its proposed purchase of branches
of Lloyds Banking Group Plc were encouraged by government
ministers, former Chairman Paul Flowers said.  Ed Balls, the U.K. opposition Labour Party’s spokesman on
finance, supported the lender’s merger with Britannia when he
was in government in 2009, Flowers told a hearing of the
Treasury Committee in  London  today. Mark Hoban, a former U.K.
treasury minister, backed the Lloyds plan, he said.  Co-Operative Group Ltd., a Manchester, England-based
company with businesses ranging from supermarkets to funeral
parlors, last month gave up control of its banking unit to help
plug a 1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital hole at the
division. Regulators pushed Co-Operative Group to close the
shortfall following the failure of the bank’s bid for more than
600 Lloyds branches this year, a deal that would have more than
doubled its number of outlets.  Hoban had “many telephone conversations” with the bank,
said Flowers, 63. “The Treasury was indicating its pleasure and
support because of the way a challenger bank could be created.”  Sour loans from the 2009 Britannia deal were the “main
issue” that brought down Co-Operative Bank, Bank of England
Deputy Governor Andrew Bailey told lawmakers in July.  Although there were conversations, politicians didn’t exert
undue pressure, said Flowers, who was named chairman of the bank
in March 2010 and was replaced by Richard Pym last June.  Banker Skills  Flowers said he didn’t have the skills of a banker, when
asked by the Treasury committee about his financial experience.
He’d worked for four years at Westminster Bank, a forerunner to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s NatWest bank, before becoming
a Methodist minister and his expertise was probably “out of
date,” he said.  Flowers said he still considers himself a “fit and
proper” person to run a lender, even though had taken
responsibility at Co-Operative Bank with his resignation, he
said.  “I take very seriously the issue of responsibility for
something that appears to go wrong on your watch, that’s why I
resigned,” when asked by Treasury Committee Chairman Andrew Tyrie whether he was to blame for the near collapse of the bank.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  