-- U.S. to Sell $10 Billion to $15 Billion in Floating Notes
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-11-06T17:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-s-to-sell-10-billion-to-15-billion-in-floating-rate-notes.html
The U.S. Treasury Department will
sell $10 billion to $15 billion of its first floating-rate notes
Jan. 29 and said a period of political wrangling over the budget
requires a delay in plans to reduce coupon auctions.  The floating-rate notes will have a two-year maturity and
be the Treasury’s first new security in 17 years, the department
said today in its quarterly refunding announcement. Note and
bond sales next week will total $70 billion, the lowest since
February 2009 and less than the $72 billion auctioned last
quarter, the Treasury said.  Disagreements between Republicans and Democrats over the
nation’s fiscal direction are complicating the Treasury’s debt
management this quarter and next. The inaugural sale of so-called floaters should go ahead even with a debt-limit debate
looming early next year, according to minutes of the Treasury’s
borrowing advisory committee.  “Treasury is going back on hold and waiting to see what
will happen at the upcoming budget negotiations,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, a strategist at TD Securities USA LLC in New York.
“The road is not really clear for them to cut the auction sizes
further, but it hasn’t prevented them from adding this new
product, floating rate notes.”  Notes, Bonds  The Treasury also said it will sell $30 billion in three-year notes Nov. 12, $24 billion in 10-year debt on Nov. 13, and
$16 billion in 30-year bonds on Nov. 14, according to today’s
statement.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell to 2.63 percent at
11:41 a.m. today in New York from 2.67 percent late yesterday.  The U.S. sells bills, notes and bonds to finance operations
after 12 straight years of budget deficits, according to
Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. The shortfall in the year
ended Sept. 30 was $680.3 billion, the smallest in five years,
compared with a $1.09 trillion gap in fiscal 2012.  Floaters are securities with rates set periodically, and
the Treasury’s notes will be referenced to the 13-week bill
rate. They are the first new U.S. government debt securities
since Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities were introduced in
1997.  For investors, floaters offer short-term security that’s a
hedge against a potential rise in interest rates. For the
Treasury, the goal is to provide additional debt that appeals to
investors while keeping financing costs low.  Managing Exposure  “Floaters are another strong diversifier for investors,
providing opportunity to investors to manage their exposure to
Treasury debt,” said Christopher Sullivan, who oversees $2.2
billion as chief investment officer at United Nations Federal
Credit Union in New York. “And the Treasury will reap the
benefit if interest rates stay lower, longer than anticipated.
It’s a good thing for investors and the government.”  Matthew Rutherford, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, told reporters that the floaters would be
auctioned monthly, with four new offerings a year and two
reopenings each. Asked about possible debt-limit disruptions, he
said officials in his office are used to dealing with
uncertainty in the outlook.  A House-Senate conference committee, created in an Oct. 16
measure that ended a partial government shutdown last month and
suspended the nation’s debt limit through Feb. 7, faces a Dec.
13 deadline to reach a  budget  agreement to avoid a second round
of automatic spending cuts in January.  ‘Provide Certainty’  In the statement, the Treasury urged Congress to raise the
debt ceiling “well before” Feb. 7 “to provide certainty and
stability to the economy and financial markets.”  In the borrowing advisory committee’s letter to Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew after its meeting yesterday, the panel
recommended that issuance remain at current levels and not
“continue with the gradual decline of two- and three-year
maturity issuance sizes as was recommended at” a meeting in
July.  The Treasury agreed, saying in the statement today it
“intends to maintain coupon issuance sizes at current levels
over the coming quarter” and “will continue to monitor
projected financing needs and will make adjustments to auction
sizes as necessary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  