-- U.S. Economy Slack Justifies Stimulus, Top Fed Staff Papers Show
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-06T06:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-s-economy-slack-justifies-stimulus-top-fed-staff-papers-show.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of
seeking to drive down the U.S. unemployment rate is effective,
and the level of slack in the economy justifies an accommodative
stance, according to two separate papers by top Fed officials.  William English , head of the Division of Monetary Affairs,
wrote that the strategy of not raising  interest rates  if
 unemployment  is above 6.5 percent has provided effective
stimulus, and that an even lower threshold could be helpful. A
paper by David Wilcox, the research and statistics chief, says
that slack in the economy argues for loose policy at a time of
contained expectations for inflation.  With the central bank debating the timing of winding down
its $85 billion a month in  bond purchases , the research provides
a window into the views of the senior Fed staff members who
write the briefing materials for Federal Open Market Committee
meetings and draft the Fed’s policy options. The papers were
posted on the International Monetary Fund’s website ahead of a
two-day conference starting tomorrow in Washington.  “Our initial assessment is that they considerably increase
the probability that the FOMC will reduce its 6.5 percent
unemployment threshold for the first hike in the federal funds
rate,”  Jan Hatzius , chief economist of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., wrote in a note to clients yesterday, referring to the two
studies. Such a move would happen before or “coincident” with
the first tapering of quantitative easing, Hatzius said.  Unemployment Threshold  English and his co-authors present a simulation showing
that lowering the unemployment threshold to 5.5 percent
“improves measured economic performance” in their model. The
jobless rate has remained above 7 percent for almost five years.  At the same time, lowering the level even further, to 5
percent “reduces welfare, as the control of inflation becomes
notably less precise,” according to the paper.  “Our examination of the possible benefits of employing
threshold-based forward guidance suggests that thresholds, if
understood and seen as credible, can significantly improve
economic outcomes,” according to the paper by English and Fed
co-authors J. David López-Salido and Robert Tetlow.  Wilcox’s paper, to be presented tomorrow followed by
English’s on Nov. 8, says that the “level of economic slack has
been and remains quite high.”  “As has been noted by a number of observers, this factor
by itself would argue for a highly accommodative monetary
policy, particularly in an environment of what appears to be
quite well-anchored  inflation expectations ,” Wilcox and Fed co-authors Dave Reifschneider and William Wascher wrote.  Crisis Theme  The IMF’s conference, with the theme “Crises: Yesterday
and Today,” concludes with a panel discussion featuring Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , former Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  and  Lawrence Summers , ex-top economic adviser to
President  Barack Obama .  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., said the Fed research could be used to justify
strengthening the central bank’s commitment to low interest
rates even while beginning to slow the pace of asset purchases.  Under such a strategy the central bank could reduce its $85
billion a month of bond buying, and soften the blow to financial
markets by pledging to hold the target interest rate near zero
until unemployment falls to 6 percent. That would be a longer
period of low interest rates than the current pledge to hold
until unemployment reaches 6.5 percent.  Lower Longer  “By lowering the unemployment-rate threshold, the Fed is
essentially adding accommodation through forward guidance by
signaling that rates will stay lower for longer,” LaVorgna said
yesterday in a note to clients. “In doing so, policy makers can
effectively counteract tightening of financial conditions caused
by tapering asset purchases.”  “Therefore, all else being equal, a reduction in the
unemployment rate threshold would enable policy makers to taper
sooner due to the offsetting effects of extended interest-rate
guidance,” LaVorgna said.  Both Fed papers include caveats. Wilcox said the economy
has suffered structural damage that cannot be simply offset by
Fed stimulus. “In the labor market, matching efficiency seems
to have been somewhat impaired, the natural rate of unemployment
appears to have risen somewhat, and trend labor force
participation appears to have moved noticeably lower relative to
what would have been expected based on pre-crisis trends.”  English said the Fed should be cautious in considering
whether to raise its goal for inflation above the current 2
percent, or in pursuing a target for growth in nominal gross
domestic product. Though the ideas may work well in economic
models, they rely on assumptions that may not be realistic if
actually implemented, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  