-- U.S. Voters Pass $7 Billion in Muni Debt, Nix Astrodome
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-11-06T20:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-s-voters-pass-5-billion-in-muni-debt-nix-astrodome.html
U.S. voters passed at least $7
billion of municipal debt while rejecting a new issue to save
the  Houston Astrodome , the world’s first domed sports stadium,
from possible demolition.  New bonds authorized in yesterday’s referendums paved the
way for construction of schools, roads and other infrastructure,
including $842 million in Columbus,  Ohio , for public-safety
facilities, utilities and parks, and $830 million in Miami-Dade
County,  Florida , for hospital improvements.  About $19 billion of proposed debt was on the ballot, the
most since 2007, when $28.6 billion was put to a vote, before
 tax revenue  eroded in the longest recession since the 1930s,
according to New York-based Ipreo, a financial-market data
provider.  “There’s still an aura of conservatism when it comes to
new bonds,”  Natalie Cohen , head of municipal research at  Wells
Fargo (WFC)  Securities LLC. in New York, said before polls closed.
“Issuers are reluctant to bring more debt.”  Voters in Harris County,  Texas , where Houston, the fourth
most-populous U.S. city, is located, rejected borrowing $217
million to renovate the Astrodome. The stadium, which opened in
1965, drew its name from the city’s central role in the U.S.
space program.  ‘Eighth Wonder’  The Astrodome, once called the “eighth wonder of the
world,” was the first fully air-conditioned, enclosed,
multipurpose stadium, according to the  Texas State Historical
Association . It has been used for major-league baseball, college
and professional football, rodeos, concerts and religious
meetings.  In recent years it has been used as a convention facility
but county officials have said they may consider tearing it down
without funds to renovate it.  Voters in West Jordan,  Utah , rejected $495 million in
borrowing for the Jordan School District to keep up with growth.
Voters in the New Braunfels, Texas-based Comal Independent
School District, which covers parts of five central Texas
counties, turned down a $451 million  bond issue .  Following are the largest bond issues voters faced,
according to Ipreo and reports from local press or unofficial
tallies from districts:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in  New York  at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  