-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 1 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-11-06T15:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-1-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 15.1 million
barrels per day during the week ending November 1, 2013, 16
thousand barrels per day above the previous week’s average.
Refineries operated at 86.8 percent of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging
about 8.4 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production
increased slightly last week, averaging over 4.9 million barrels
per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 7.2 million barrels per day
last week, down by 235 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged 7.6 million barrels per day, 690 thousand barrels per
day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 472 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 226 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 1.6 million barrels
from the previous week. At 385.4 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
3.8 million barrels last week and are in the upper half of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 4.9 million barrels last week and
are at the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories fell 2.7 million barrels
last week and are in the lower half of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 8.4 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
19.4 million barrels per day, up by 3.0 percent from the same
period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged about 9.1 million barrels per day, up
by 5.4 percent from the same period last year. Distillate fuel
product supplied averaged over 3.9 million barrels per day over
the last four weeks, up by 8.2 percent from the same period last
year. Jet fuel product supplied is 5.7 percent lower over the
last four weeks compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  