-- Senate Ready to Pass Anti-Gay Discrimination Bill
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-11-07T15:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/u-s-senate-poised-to-pass-bill-protecting-gay-workplace-rights.html
Most employers would be banned from
firing, demoting or refusing to hire workers because of their
sexual orientation or gender identity under legislation in line
for action today in the  U.S. Senate .  The measure, known as the Employment Non-Discrimination
Act, or ENDA, would extend protections to lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender workers. A vote on passage will follow
consideration of an amendment that would expand exemptions in
the legislation for religious groups.  “This issue of freedom from discrimination is a core issue
of freedom,”  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat and the bill’s
author, said on the Senate floor. The legislation “will make a
difference in millions of lives, and it will make a difference
in the strength and character of our nation,” he said.  In the Republican-controlled House, Speaker  John Boehner 
has expressed opposition to the measure. A House bill that was
introduced in April has only five Republican cosponsors,
compared with 188 Democratic cosponsors.  While the Senate bill carves out exemptions for religious
organizations, entities that aren’t primarily religious in
purpose would have to comply.  Religious Exemptions  Some Republicans have said the religious exemptions aren’t
broad enough, prompting Senate leaders to agree to a vote on an
amendment that would change the definition of religious groups
to provide for more exemptions, including for religiously
chartered hospitals. As a compromise, the amendment’s backers
agreed that it will need 60 votes for adoption.  “We must strive to reach the appropriate balance between
protecting workers and protecting religious freedom,” said the
amendment’s author, Republican Senator  Pat Toomey  of
 Pennsylvania .  His amendment is opposed by some of the bill’s backers,
including the gay-rights advocacy group, the Human Rights
Campaign.  Another amendment, which would bar the government from
taking action against religious organizations exempt from the
bill by denying them federal benefits such as grants or a tax-exempt status, was adopted by the Senate. It was sponsored by
Republican Senator  Rob Portman  of  Ohio .  ‘Level’ Field  “ENDA will help create a level playing field and ensure
that employment opportunities are available to all, but that
doesn’t mean it’s a perfect bill,” Portman said in a  statement .
“We must make certain that in pursuit of enforcing non-discrimination, those religious employers are not subject to a
different form of discrimination -- government retaliation.”  A Nov. 4 procedural vote on the bill drew the support of 61
senators, including Toomey, Portman and five other Republicans,
suggesting sufficient support for passage, which requires a
simple majority.  During the debate this week, the bill’s opponents refrained
from public criticism of the bill, instead devoting their floor
speeches to attacking the flawed rollout of the 2010 health-care
law.  Gay-rights advocates have made the legislation their top
priority on  Capitol Hill  after the  Supreme Court ’s June 26
ruling that struck down the Defense of Marriage Act, which
prohibited the federal government from recognizing  same-sex
marriages . President  Barack Obama , most congressional Democrats
and almost 70 Fortune 500 companies, such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , support the measure.  Coalition’s Opposition  The legislation is opposed by groups including the
Washington-based Traditional Values Coalition.  “Picture your child in a classroom full of students, when
a formerly male teacher walks in as a transgendered female at
the beginning of the school year,” Andrea Lafferty, president
of the coalition, said in a  statement . “Our children’s
education and well-being should be more important than catering
to the unhealthy psychological condition of a very small group
of individuals.”  Lawmakers have considered extending civil rights
protections to gay and lesbian workers since 1994. In 1996, a
version of the bill that didn’t include a gender-identity
provision fell one vote short of Senate passage.  In 2007, the House passed a version with only the sexual-orientation component after some members balked at extending
protections to transgender workers -- those who express a gender
identity different from the one on their birth certificates. It
died in the Senate.  This year’s Senate bill is S. 815.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  