-- Hutchison Faces EU Probe Into Bid for Telefonica’s Irish Unit
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-11-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/hutchison-faces-eu-probe-into-bid-for-telefonica-s-irish-unit.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  faces an in-depth probe by European Union regulators examining its bid for
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Irish unit, a deal that would combine two of
Ireland’s four mobile-phone operators.  The European Commission will rule on the deal by March 24,
it said in an e-mailed statement. The sale may reduce options
for companies seeking to market services under their own brands
using networks provided by mobile operators and hamper smaller
rival Eircom Group, the antitrust watchdog said.  “The transaction would combine two of the four mobile
networks in Ireland and create a player of similar size to the
currently largest operator, Vodafone,” the EU said in the
statement.  Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison agreed in June to buy
O2, Ireland’s No. 2 mobile operator, for as much as 850 million
euros ($1.15 billion.) The deal would combine O2 with
Hutchison’s Three Ireland, the third-largest wireless carrier.
Three Ireland Chief Executive Officer Robert Finnegan said in
June that he expected the EU to open a longer probe into the
deal.  The transaction “will be good for competition and
consumers in Ireland” and Three is “confident that the merger
will be approved by the commission,” it said in an e-mailed
statement. O2 Ireland referred requests for comment to Three.  Asian Investor  Hutchison, the biggest Asian investor in European wireless
assets, had to make concessions to EU regulators last year
before it won approval to take over Orange in  Austria , a
transaction that also reduced the number of phone operators. It
had to offer radio spectrum and network access to rivals to
alleviate antitrust concerns.  The EU’s initial investigation into the Irish deal
indicated that shrinking the number of operators to three from
four may increase the likelihood that the companies would
coordinate their behavior and increase prices, the Brussels-based authority said in the statement.  Hutchison will pay 780 million euros in cash and an
additional 70 million euros upon meeting certain performance
targets, the companies said earlier this year. The deal will
increase Hutchison’s customers in Ireland to about 2 million and
its wireless market share to 37.5 percent, the Hong Kong-based
company said.  The transaction has the potential to bring Telefonica
closer to its goal of cutting net debt to less than 47 billion
euros this year. Telefonica is separately seeking EU permission
to buy Royal KPN NV’s German E-Plus business, reducing the
number of German mobile operators to three.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net  