-- Utilities in Pain Selling Renewable Assets at Record Rate
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-11-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/utilities-in-pain-selling-renewable-assets-at-record-rate.html
Wind farms and solar parks are
changing hands at record rates, signaling both an increased
taste for the assets among pension funds and hard times for
utilities that are the biggest sellers.  About 43 percent of the 275 deals completed in the power
industry in the first nine months were for renewable generators,
up from 37 percent in the year-earlier period, according to data
compiled by Ernst & Young LLP. The value of all the deals
increased to $104 billion from $93 billion.  Buyers from insurer  Aviva Plc (AV/)  to Danish fund PFA Pension
A/S are seeking yields averaging about 6 percent on wind and
solar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Utilities such
as  France ’s  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  of  Spain  and Dong Energy
AS have unloaded plants to build cash cushions as power prices
slumped and competition increased from independent generators.  Utilities “simply don’t have the capital to allocate to
endless volumes of renewable energy investment,” said Ben Warren, who works in environmental finance at Ernst & Young,
which is rebranding itself as EY. Assets are trading hands at
“record rates” and sales will continue, he said.  That also helps explain why investment in renewables is
declining. After touching a record $317.2 billion in 2011,
inflows of money into wind, solar, biofuel and energy-efficiency
projects fell 11 percent last year and are on track to drop
again in 2013, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  Utilities Suffer  Many power companies were under pressure to sell, and some
of the assets may be riskier propositions in the future:
Subsidies for renewables are being scaled back across Europe and
the U.S., led by retroactive reductions for existing projects in
Spain,  Greece ,  Romania  and the Czech Republic. Utilities with
nuclear capacity such as  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON also are having an even
harder time trying to boost profits as Germany and France wind
down atomic energy programs.  Utilities in Europe accounted for about 10 percent of
global investment in wind and solar farms in the past five
years. Most of them “are trying to rebuild their balance sheets
and improve their credit ratings,” Warren said.  They may eventually recycle cash asset sales into new
renewable-power projects, especially offshore wind plants still
on the drawing boards that will require hundreds of millions of
dollars.  For pension funds, the returns on renewable energy plants
beat those for many  government bonds  and are backed by contracts
to sell power at above-market prices. Ten-year  government
securities  in the U.S. and U.K. are yielding about 2.6 percent.  Seeking Yield  Highlighting their search for yield are at least five
initial public offerings of renewables funds done this year,
each promising returns that beat government bonds. The
 Renewables Infrastructure Group Ltd. (TRIG)  began trading in July after
raising 300 million pounds ($460 million) to pay a 6 percent
yield from operating wind farms across Europe. Other examples
are Bluefield Solar Income Fund Ltd.,  NRG Yield Inc. (NYLD) , TransAlta
Renewables and Threshold Power Trust.  Pension funds and insurance companies including Aviva,  AMP
Ltd. (AMP) , and Hermes GPE are seizing the opportunity to tap assets
that earn steady returns for decades that formerly would have
been monopolized by the utilities.  AMP Capital Investors Ltd., a New South Wales-based
institution that specializes in real estate and infrastructure
investments, has bought 104 megawatts of wind farms in the U.K.
and Ireland and is looking to buy more assets, said Bob Pehari,
who is head of infrastructure in  Europe  for the unit of
 Australia ’s largest fund.  ‘Good Cash’  “Renewable energy can provide you at an operational stage
with a reasonably good cash yield,” Pehari said. “We’re
talking about long-term concessions that will go out to 2030
plus, and that is also helpful for pension fund clients.”  AMP said it’s seeing “a lot” of deal flow from large
utilities and it’s looking at several large renewable energy
assets across Europe. Hermes too is seeing several “good
opportunities,” according to Hamish de Run, an infrastructure
partner at the private equity firm. It will continue to invest
in the industry, which is an area it is “keenly focused on.”  Aviva recognized the utilities want to sell and decided it
could find good value in the assets, said Ian Berry, an
infrastructure fund manager at the London-based insurer. A
spokesman at  Denmark ’s PFA Pension didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  Pensions Booster  The situation isn’t necessarily bad for renewables since
pension fund cash is taking the place of utility balance sheets,
Warren of EY said.  “We have a lower cost of capital and a longer term
expectation on those cash flows than a utility may have,” said
de Run at Hermes. It has invested in onshore wind and rooftop
solar in the U.K. and it may invest in biomass over the next 12
months.  GDF Suez , Iberdrola, EDP Renovaveis SA,  Electricite de
France SA  and Dong Energy AS all have relinquished stakes in
wind energy projects since December.  Dong is selling stakes of as much as 50 per cent in
offshore wind projects. Partnerships release capital for new
projects, wind-power unit Senior Vice President Lars Thaaning
Pedersen said. They give investors “assets with attractive
revenue characteristics, with long-term income streams and long-term exposure to underlying fundamentals such as oil and gas
prices as well as inflation,” he said by e-mail.  Power Prices  GDF Suez, hurt by lower demand for gas-fired power in
Europe, is cutting capacity in the region to contain costs and
expanding into fast-growing economies in  Asia ,  Latin America  and
the  Middle East . The French utility has also sold stakes in
energy assets in countries including Portugal and Australia to
lower debt. GDF Suez spokesman Paul-Alexis Bouquet declined to
comment for this article.  RWE AG said in March it will cut renewable-energy
investment by half from next year to reduce debt. Iberdrola
plans to sell 2 billion euros of assets by the end of 2014. Dong
 in June  sold its onshore wind business to PFA Pension and energy
company SE.  Iberdrola has sold 1.1 billion euros of “non-core” assets
since the start of 2012, including operating wind farms in
France, Germany and  Poland .  For Iberdrola, the sales are in line with plans to divest
assets in “non-strategic markets” and to strengthen its
balance sheet, a spokesman for the company said. He blamed
falling demand, new regulatory measures and higher taxes on
weakening the company’s finances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  