-- Vale Snaps Two-Year Profit Slump as Iron-Ore Sales Rise
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-07T20:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/vale-posts-first-profit-gain-in-two-years-as-sales-rise.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the largest iron-ore
producer, saw profit rise for the first time in more than two
years in the third-quarter, beating analysts’ estimates, as
Chinese demand for the  steelmaking  material pushed up prices.  Net income more than doubled to $3.5 billion, or 68 cents a
share, from $1.64 billion, or 32 cents, a year earlier, Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale said yesterday. That was the first year-on-year profit increase since the second-quarter of 2011. Vale was
expected to earn 60 cents a share, the average of eight
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Per-share earnings
excluding items beat the average estimate by 18 percent, the
data show.  The world’s third-largest mining company is delivering
higher profit as rising purchases from  steel mills  in  China , the
biggest buyer of metals, follow the company’s cost cuts and
asset sales in past quarters. Its  shares  are trading at the
highest level in eight months as investors expect Vale to profit
the most among global peers from rising iron-ore demand.  “We knew their volumes were going to be strong but the
shipments even came in above our estimates,” Garrett Nelson, an
equity analyst at BB&T Capital Markets, said by telephone from
Richmond, Virginia. “It was a very strong release.”  Estimates for a 96 percent year-on-year jump in earnings
per share at Vale were the most bullish among 14 global peers,
according to Bloomberg Industries. The increase reported
yesterday was 112 percent.  Vale  shares  fell 3.3 to close at 33.32 reais in  Sao Paulo 
today, the most since Oct. 18. They’re up 28 percent from a
four-year low on July 3, compared with a 17 percent  increase  for
the benchmark Ibovespa in the same span.  Price Increase  Net sales rose 11 percent to $12.7 billion after Vale sold
its  iron ore  at an average $105.58 a metric ton, an increase
from $93.90 last year. That beat an $102-a-ton estimate by Banco
Santander SA. Nickel’s average sales price declined 16 percent
and copper slid 3.2 percent, the company said.  The company sold about 50 percent of its iron ore and
pellet shipments to Chinese  customers  in the third quarter, up
from 49 percent a year earlier.  Europe ’s share of the sales fell
to about 17 percent from 18 percent. China accounted for more
than 40 percent of Vale’s operating revenue in the quarter, up
from a third a year earlier.  Iron ore entered a  bull market  in July as users in China
replenished stockpiles that shrank in March to the lowest level
since 2009. Prices at Tianjin measured by The Steel Index Ltd.
have rallied 24 percent from this year’s low on May 31 to
$137.10 a ton yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 5.  ‘Upside’ Surprise  The prices have “surprised on the upside” because of low
inventories and stronger demand for steel in China, Vale said,
adding that the Asian country’s mills are likely to build up
stockpiles in coming months.  “We expect iron-ore prices to remain resilient over the
next few months, hovering around $130 per metric ton,” Vale
said. “Current iron-ore inventories at the Chinese mills are
low and they need to stock up in order to minimize the risks of
supply disruptions.”  Vale’s rising output and a $2 billion reduction in costs in
the first three quarters helped the company boost cash
generation, Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani said in a
 video  presentation posted on the company’s website.  “The company is extremely well positioned even in a
challenging and uncertain environment to continue generating
good results,” he said.  BHP Forecast  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
raised its full-year iron-ore production forecast on Oct. 22
after first-quarter output from its biggest earning unit jumped
23 percent. Rio Tinto Group, the biggest iron-ore shipper after
Vale, on Oct. 15 reported record ore production at its mines in
 Australia ’s Pilbara region.  Vale’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose to $5.88 billion in the
quarter from $4.28 billion a year earlier. Iron-ore output
climbed 2.3 percent to 85.9 million metric tons, the second-highest on record. Net debt as of Sept. 30 dropped to $22.6
billion from $23.6 in the previous quarter.  For the full year, Vale’s net income will total $11.2
billion, according to the average of 14 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. That would be more than double last
year’s profit.  Rio Tinto  is forecast to post $7.5 billion net
income in the year while BHP’s fiscal-year profit is estimated
at $14.4 billion, according to the data.  Vale paid $4.5 billion in  dividends  this year, 13 percent
more than initially planned, as prices for iron ore remain above
analysts’ consensus on expanding Chinese consumption. The
company paid $6 billion in dividends last year, half the record
$12 billion returned to shareholders in 2011, which included
share buybacks.  Tax Dispute  Foreign investors will likely wait for further improvements
in earnings before increasing  holdings  of Vale’s shares, Elad Revi, an analyst at brokerage Spinelli SA, said. A 30.5 billion-real ($13.3 billion) tax dispute with the Brazilian government
over profits from its foreign subsidiaries is also a key
overhang on the stock, he said.  “There is more than a 50 percent chance that they will end
up paying something, even if it’s with discounts and in
installments,” he said by telephone from Sao Paulo today.
“That would have an important impact on their cash position.”  The company is still analyzing whether to accept a
settlement offer by the Brazilian government and has enough time
to decide before a Nov. 29 deadline, Chief Executive Officer
Murilo Ferreira said today during a conference call.  “It’s not an easy decision,” he told reporters.  Chinese Steel  As for iron-ore demand, Chinese steel production rates have
remained firm and aren’t showing signs of the weakening usually
expected for this time of year, which may be a boon for Vale,
Andreas Bokkenheuser, a UBS AG equity analyst with a neutral
recommendation on the stock, said in e-mailed comments from  New
York  before yesterday’s release.  “As restocking is likely to materialize in the fourth and
first quarter, iron-ore prices are at risk of remaining elevated
in the event Chinese steel production rates remain strong,” he
said. That “would be a positive impact on Vale’s profits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  