-- Vestas Shares Rise After Boosting Margin Outlook for 2013
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-06T09:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/vestas-boosts-outlook-after-posting-unexpected-loss.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  rose to a 2
1/2 year high in Copenhagen trading after the world’s biggest
wind turbine maker boosted its outlook for 2013, saying its two-year program to revive profit is on track.  The manufacturer raised its forecasts for  operating margins 
and free cash flow and posted a loss for the third quarter
following a writedown reflecting the sale of six machining and
casting factories. The shares rose as much as 14 percent to the
highest interday price since May 2011.  “We are well on track on our turnaround plan, and it’s
vital we continue to execute on that for the last quarter,”
Chief Executive Officer Anders Runevad said today in a phone
interview. “It’s been a busy first two months, but we are
staying on course.”  Runevad is trying to guide Vestas back to profit after more
than two years of losses. In the job now for just over two
months, he’s already sealed an offshore wind partnership with
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  along with the sale of six
factories and the closure of another.  The manufacturer based in Aarhus,  Denmark , lost 87 million
euros ($117 million) in the three months through Sept. 30, after
deducting 64 million euros of special items. That compares with
a 175 million-euro loss in the same period a year ago and the
mean  estimate  of six analysts for a loss of 2.7 million euros.  Asset Sales  The writedown completed a program of asset disposals.
Vestas today raised its forecast for the margin on earnings
before interest, tax and special items to a minimum of 2 percent
from 1 percent previously. It also expects free cash flow for
the year of 500 million euros to 700 million euros, more than
double the previous estimate.  It’s the ninth quarterly loss in a row for Vestas, which
has lost more money than analysts forecast in each of the three
quarters this year.  Even so,  the shares  have risen on evidence the company’s
turnaround program is on track. They’ve more than quadrupled
since the beginning of the year. By comparison, the 96-member
WilderHill New Energy Index of renewable-energy stocks has risen
by about 56 percent in the same period.  The target for the turnaround is to slash fixed costs by
400 million euros and to reduce the workforce by more than 30
percent to 16,000 by the end of this year. Today, the company
said it will have reduced fixed costs by more than 400 million
euros by year end.  Job Cuts  Vestas employed 17,237 workers at the end of the third
quarter, a figure that will be reduced to about 16,200 when the
factories it has already sold are reflected in the data, Vestas
said.  Vestas today refined its full-year guidance for 2013
shipments to 4,500 megawatts from a range of 4,000 megawatts to
5,000 megawatts. That’s lower than the 6,200 megawatts shipped
in 2012. It also kept a forecast that revenue may fall to 5.5
billion euros from 7.2 billion euros.  The operating profit before special items for the quarter
rose by 54 million euros to 67 million euros, Vestas said. Free
 cash flow  increased to 56 million euros, which was 198 million
euros more than a year ago when there was a cash deficit.  The company took new orders in the quarter totaling 1,547
megawatts, and its order backlog is now valued at 7.3 billion
euros. The company also said it has service contracts with a
future revenue totaling 6.1 billion euros.  U.S. Market  Vestas took 540 megawatts of U.S. orders in the third
quarter, after no orders there in the first half. The U.S.,
where tax credit policies have created a boom-bust market, was
its biggest destination for shipments in 2012.  “A healthy U.S. market is important for the wind industry
and important for Vestas,” Runevad said. “We feel we have
taken our fair share.”  Runevad also said that turbine prices appear to have
stabilized, echoing remarks made by  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  Chairman
 Tulsi Tanti  on an earnings call last week. The Vestas chief said
he sees “long term growth” in the wind industry, though at a
slower rate than in the past, and remaining volatile because of
political decisions.  Vestas in the past 20 months has replaced its chairman,
chief financial officer and chief executive. Bert Nordberg took
over as chairman in March 2012. Marika Fredriksson assumed her
role as finance chief in April, replacing Dag Gunnar Andresen
after he had spent just eight months in the role. Runevad was
named CEO on Aug. 21, replacing  Ditlev Engel . Runevad started
work on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  