-- LVMH Joins Sanofi Selling Bonds in Europe as Issuance Surges
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-06T13:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/lvmh-joins-sanofi-marketing-euro-notes-as-credit-risk-declines.html
Sanofi SA (SAN)  and  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  are selling bonds in euros, lifting weekly
issuance of corporate debt to the busiest in two months.  France ’s biggest drugmaker sold 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) of 10-year securities while the world’s largest luxury
goods maker is marketing 600 million euros of seven-year notes,
according to people familiar with the deals.  Bond issuance from non-financial companies is poised to
reach at least 8.3 billion euros this week, the most since the
period ended Sept. 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Borrowers are anticipating the European Central Bank will leave
its main refinancing rate at 0.5 percent when it meets tomorrow
while U.S. data this week is forecast to show a lack of strength
in the economy, supporting the case for maintaining stimulus put
forward by two top Federal Reserve officials.  “Perceptions of risk have declined,” said Joseph Faith, a
credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “Draghi is
unlikely to surprise us tomorrow and most people aren’t
expecting the Fed to begin tapering until next year.”  Paris-based Sanofi’s notes yield 53 basis points more than
the swap rate, according to the person familiar with the
transaction. LVMH, also based in Paris, is offering securities
at a spread of 30 basis points.  The average spread on investment-grade debt is 83 basis
points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate, up from a six-week
low of 80 basis points reached Oct. 30, Bloomberg bond index
 data  show. The cost of insuring the debt held near a 3 1/2-year
low, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings little changed at
84 basis points at 13:31 p.m. in London.  Also in the market today, BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeraete
GmbH, the joint venture of  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Robert Bosch GmbH,
sold 500 million euros of bonds maturing November 2020 yielding
42 basis points more than the mid-swap rate, according to a
person familiar with the deal.  -- Editors: Jennifer Joan Lee, Michael Shanahan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  