-- Tweeting Rouhani Hasn't Delivered Offline, Ebadi Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-06T21:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/tweeting-rouhani-hasn-t-delivered-offline-ebadi-says.html
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s
government hasn’t delivered on the image of tolerance it’s
created online by allowing postings on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter
Inc.’s social-media sites, according to Shirin Ebadi, an exiled
activist and Nobel Peace Prize laureate.  Rouhani, who was elected in June after promising more
freedom of expression and social liberties, regularly posts on a
Twitter account that has more than 122,000 followers.  “But the more important thing is after connecting with the
people and listening to them, are they going to accept what the
people ask or no?” Ebadi, president of the Defenders of Human
Rights Center, said in an interview yesterday in  New York .  More than 200 people were reportedly executed between June
14 and Oct. 1, twice as many as in the same period a year ago
under former President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , according to an
October report that Ebadi’s organization presented to the  United
Nations General Assembly . The reformist Bahar newspaper was
closed last week and its editor detained under “hefty” bail
for publishing an article that ran counter to the state
interpretation of Islam, Ebadi said.  Ebadi, 66, is a former law professor at the University of
Tehran. Awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003 for her efforts to
promote human rights in  Iran , she has been in exile in  London 
since protests in 2009 in which dozens of people were killed and
thousands detained after a disputed presidential vote.  While the West focuses on reining in  Iran’s nuclear
program , hundreds of political prisoners are being denied basic
rights, Ebadi said in the interview.  ‘Easy to Talk’  “It’s easy to talk, but it’s not that easy to prove what
you claim you can do,” she said. “I hope that they deliver on
the promises, but up to today they have not.”  Ebadi said the world shouldn’t be fooled by Rouhani’s
pledges of moderation, as “things have not changed” and have
actually worsened.  Ahmed Shaheed , the UN special rapporteur on human rights in
Iran, said Oct. 23 in an interim report to the General Assembly
that the government has ignored his repeated requests to visit
the country as part of his probe.  Shaheed expressed alarm at the “spate of executions”
carried out in the weeks after Rouhani’s election. The Iranian
mission to the UN criticized the interim report as a politically
motivated, “non-objective and counter-productive exercise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  