-- Wells Fargo Said to Face U.S. Mortgage-Bond Probe
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-11-06T18:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/wells-fargo-said-to-face-u-s-mortgage-bond-probe.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is among firms
facing federal scrutiny of mortgage-backed securities sales
under a 1989 law that the government is using to extend probes
of banks’ roles in the credit crisis, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  U.S. attorneys in San Francisco have been examining Wells
Fargo, the nation’s largest mortgage lender, for more than a
year, said one of the people, who asked not to be named because
the inquiry isn’t public. Authorities are investigating whether
the firm violated the Financial Institution Reform and Recovery
Act. The law, known as FIRREA, carries a 10-year statute of
limitations and allows the government to sue for fraud affecting
a federally insured financial institution.  President  Barack Obama  set up a task force last year that’s
making use of the law, which stems from the savings-and-loan
crisis of the 1980s, while examining mortgage-bond underwriting
that fueled investor losses and prompted unprecedented
government bailouts of banks in 2008. The task force, comprising
state and federal agencies, is focusing on about eight banks, a
person familiar with the matter said in October.  Bank of America Corp. , Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  also
are among firms facing FIRREA investigations, people familiar
with those inquiries said in August and October.  Oscar Suris, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, and Josh Eaton, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag, declined to comment.  BofA Lawsuit  U.S. attorneys in Charlotte, North Carolina, sued Bank of
America in August, citing FIRREA. The complaint, seeking
unspecified penalties, accused the firm of misleading investors,
including federally insured financial institutions. The U.S.
also said that alleged misconduct posed financial risks to Bank
of America itself by making it vulnerable to civil litigation
and regulatory cases. The company has been disputing the claims.  Wells Fargo agreed to pay about $335 million this year to
settle legal disputes over mortgage-backed securities held by
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the company said today in its
quarterly regulatory filing. The accords were reached in the
first and third quarters and included those two firms’
regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The sum was
covered by reserves, Wells Fargo said.  The lender, led by Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 60,
agreed in September to an $869 million settlement with Freddie
Mac to resolve disputes over faulty loans sold to the
government-backed firm before Jan. 1, 2009.  The six biggest U.S. banks have piled up more than $100
billion in legal costs, including settlements and lawyers’ fees,
since the financial crisis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Wells Fargo’s stock climbed 25 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keri Geiger in  New York  at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  