-- Yanukovych Defends Ukraine EU Trade Pact as Competitiveness Lags
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-06T11:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/yanukovych-defends-ukraine-eu-trade-pact-as-competitiveness-lags.html
Ukraine needs a free trade agreement
with the European Union to help the eastern European nation
kickstart the economy and regain competitiveness on global
markets, President  Viktor Yanukovych  said.  “By choosing to get closer to the European Union, we are
making a pragmatic choice for optimal and rational
modernization,” Yanukovych said at the  World Economic Forum  in
Kiev today. Ukraine has 10 years before it exhausts its
competitive advantages in producing steel and chemicals, its
chief exports, Yanukovych said.  Ukraine is due to sign an association agreement that
includes a free trade pact with the 28-member EU this month.
 Russia  is threatening to impose sanctions on its neighbor if
Ukraine snubs Moscow’s customs union with Belarus and  Kazakhstan 
and proceeds with the deal.  Ukraine’s economy entered its third recession since 2008 in
the third quarter after weaker global demand for its exports of
steel and chemicals battered industry. Faced with a widening
current account gap and trade restrictions from Russia, gross
domestic product fell 0.4 percent in third quarter from the
previous three months.  An agreement with the EU is the right match for Ukraine
given its current stage of development, Yanukovych said, adding
that the former Soviet republic needs to revive economic growth
and boost its appeal to investors.  ‘Urgent’ Task  An “urgent” strategic task for Ukraine is to “preserve
and strengthen its competitiveness” in global trade, he said.
One of the ways to achieve that will have to include “systemic
changes” in diversifying the geography of exports and goods
shipped, according to Yanukovych.  Closer ties with the EU won’t exclude partnership with the
 Commonwealth of Independent States , a loose grouping of former
Soviet republics, he said. Ukraine must establish mutually
beneficial relations with CIS countries and look to provide a
link between the EU and Asian markets, he said.  Ukraine needs to impose discipline in public procurement,
fight corruption and keep the business climate favorable, the
president said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  