-- Yellen Met With Blankfein, Dimon as Prospects as Fed Chief Rose
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-06T18:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/yellen-met-with-blankfein-dimon-as-prospects-as-fed-chief-rose.html
As speculation grew that Federal
Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  would be nominated to lead
the central bank, her appointment book beginning in April became
peppered with meetings with the titans of finance.  Yellen’s calendars from February through July, obtained by
Bloomberg News through a Freedom of Information Act request,
show 30-minute meetings or phone calls with chief executive
officers from some of the biggest banks. These included John Stumpf of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  on April 3, Jamie Dimon of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  on April 10, James Gorman of Morgan Stanley on April
15 and  Lloyd Blankfein  of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on June 7.  Contacts with top finance industry executives aren’t
unusual for Fed officials who, while setting monetary policy,
are also responsible for supervising the largest financial
institutions and managing the payments system. Yet in the six
months prior to February, Yellen met in private with leaders of
just two financial firms: Peter Fisher of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
Michael Corbat of Citigroup Inc., according to her calendars.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term expires Jan. 31,
met with American Express Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Chenault on April 15 and Blankfein on June 7, according to his
calendars from February to July, released through a Freedom of
Information Act request. President  Barack Obama  nominated Yellen
to lead the Fed on Oct. 9.  Yellen, 67, also met with top economists and academics,
including hour-long meetings with Jan Hatzius, chief economist
at Goldman Sachs, on March 5, and Larry Meyer, a former Fed
governor who is senior managing director of Macroeconomic
Advisers in Washington, on March 8.  Labor Leader  Yellen met for an hour on May 20 with Richard Trumka,
president of the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, and
held an hour-long meeting with the American Bankers
Association’s advisory economic committee on June 7.  A Bloomberg poll of investors in May said Yellen was the
most probable candidate to succeed Bernanke. The second-most
likely choice was Bernanke himself, according to the quarterly
poll of investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers -- even though the Fed chairman had said he felt no
personal responsibility to remain for another term.  Lawrence Summers , a former adviser to Obama, withdrew his
candidacy to lead the Fed in September, saying his nomination
would lead to an “acrimonious” confirmation process that
wouldn’t be in the interests of the economy or the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  