-- Mylan, Allergy Advocates Unite Congress for School Drive
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-11-06T15:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-06/mylan-drugmakers-unite-congress-for-school-allergy-drive.html
A lobbying effort by drugmaker  Mylan
Inc. (MYL)  and others for schools to stock products that treat severe
allergic reactions, like the company’s popular EpiPen, has
accomplished something rare in  Washington : uniting Congress.  White House officials said President  Barack Obama  will sign
the bill, cleared by the Senate last week, which encourages
states to have schools buy and store the life-saving allergy
drugs.  At least three companies including Mylan of Canonsburg,
 Pennsylvania , make devices to deliver the drug epinephrine.
Mylan estimates gaining access to schools could help expand its
customer base to as many as 28 million from 2.6 million now.  The Republican-led House and the Democratic-led Senate both
have passed few of the same bills, with just 47 measures signed
into law this year -- the first of Obama’s second term. At this
point in 2005, the first year of President  George W. Bush ’s
second term, 284 bills had become law, records show.  “We don’t agree most days on whether the sun comes up in
the east,” said Republican Representative Phil Roe, an
obstetrician from  Tennessee  sponsoring the bill. “On this, we
put all those things away and worked on what we agreed on.”  An estimated 3.9 percent of U.S. children, or about 3
million younger than 18, had food allergies in 2007, according
to a 2009  report  by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. That’s up from 3.3 percent a decade earlier.  No History  About one-fourth of anaphylactic reactions, which causes
swelling that can obstruct airways and lead to death, occurred
in children with no history of life-threatening allergies,
according to a 2005 study published in Pediatrics journal.  Four states already require public schools to stock
epinephrine: Maryland, Nebraska, Nevada and  Virginia , according
to statistics from Food Allergy Research & Education, a
Washington-based group that advocates for Americans with food
allergies and the key lobbyist on the allergy bill. Virginia’s
 law  passed last year following the death of 7-year-old Ammaria
Johnson, a first grader, who had a severe reaction after eating
a peanut at recess.  The clinic in Ammarias’s elementary school had EpiPens
prescribed for other children. None, by law, were allowed to be
used for her, even in an emergency.  The measure is designed to encourage other states to follow
suit. The School Access to Emergency Epinephrine Act gives
states priority for asthma-related federal grants if schools
maintain a supply of epinephrine, and train employees to
administer the drug in an emergency. The bill also provides
civil-liability protection for those who administer epinephrine
in an emergency.  ‘Emotional Components’  “The insidious thing about food allergies is it’s not just
only the physical components of it, it’s the emotional
components,” FARE Chief Executive Officer John Lehr said in an
interview. “You can imagine a family with children with
multiple allergies and just the fear they live with that
something so ubiquitous -- food -- can potentially kill you.”  Lehr’s organization has pushed for the bill for three
years, as has Mylan, which is the group’s top corporate sponsor
and has an 88 percent share of anaphylaxis drug sales in the
U.S., according to a Bloomberg Industries report. Two other
companies that make epinephrine auto-injectors --  Sanofi (SAN)  of
Paris and Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Amedra Pharmaceuticals LLC
-- also contribute to the group, Lehr said.  $600 Million  Auto-injectors for epinephrine is a $600 million market,
Hanspeter Spek, president of global operations for Sanofi,
 France ’s biggest drugmaker, said during an investor call on Oct.
25, 2012. Before Sanofi in January introduced its Auvi-Q device,
which gives audio and visual cues to help patients and care-givers make the injection, Mylan had 95 percent of the market
with its EpiPen, Spek said.  An EpiPen is about the size of a Sharpie marker and
contains a single dose of epinephrine, which is injected into
the thigh.  Mylan, the second-biggest generic drug-maker by sales, has
sold 51 million EpiPens in 25 years, including 3 million last
year, Roger Graham, president of Mylan Specialty LP, the unit
that makes EpiPen, said during an Aug. 1 teleconference.  “Mylan is fully supportive of the state and federal
legislative activities that will expand access to epinephrine in
schools, because even one incident without access to epinephrine
is one too many,”  Nina Devlin , Mylan vice president of
corporate communications, said in a statement.  20,000 Schools  To raise awareness, the company last year started giving
away EpiPens to schools that request the devices. Graham said
20,000 schools sought the product this year. He added that
EpiPen had 2.6 million customers and the potential for 28
million.  Mylan’s awareness campaign includes  Adrian Peterson , a
running back for the  National Football League ’s Minnesota
Vikings whose used an EpiPen when his throat swelled shut after
eating shrimp gumbo in 2011.  Earlier this year, the company was tracking legislation in
26 states to encourage or require schools to stock epinephrine,
Heather Bresch, Mylan’s chief executive officer, said during a
May 2 earnings call.  “We remain confident that it’s only a matter of time until
the rest of the states follow suit,” she said.  Academies’ Backing  The company has employed at least four lobbyists on the
issue since 2011, while Sanofi has hired 10, according to
lobbyist registration data. FARE lined up support from the
 American Academy  of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Allergy,
Asthma, and Immunology, and the American College of Emergency
Physicians.  “We did our homework and got everybody lined up behind
it,” Lehr said.  Lehr’s group, which worked on the issue for three years,
also enlisted Brianna Adkins, the daughter of country music
singer Trace Adkins, who performed at the 2012  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa,  Florida . Roe said Brianna Adkins,
a fellow Tennessean, visited his Washington office to ask him to
sponsor the bill.  “Probably the best lobbyist I’ve talked to since I’ve been
in Washington, this 12-year-old,” Roe said. “She made a great
point about how children can die.”  The bill had bipartisan support, with House Minority Whip
Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, helping Roe to push the bill.
Hoyer said his granddaughter has severe food allergies and has
been hospitalized because of allergic reactions.  Hoyer said liability issues stalled the bill last year.
This year, lawmakers worked through that issue because the
measure “will save lives.”  “The only way we’ve accomplished things is to act in a
bipartisan way,” Hoyer said in an interview. “In this case, we
had overwhelming support from both sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  