-- 
Evercore’s Altman Says M&A Market May Increase 3 More Years: Tom Keene

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-03-24T18:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/m-a-volume-may-continue-for-three-years-as-outlook-improves-altman-says.html
Roger Altman, founder of  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , said the merger-and-acquisition market is in its
second year of growth and may continue expanding for three more
years as the outlook for takeovers improves.  “You have rising equity prices, you have extraordinarily
favorable credit-market conditions and financing availability,
you have improving business conditions, and those together spell
higher CEO confidence,” Altman, 64, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene today.
“That’s the combination that historically has meant growing
merger volume.”  Evercore, based in New York, rose to the No. 9 slot for
merger and acquisition advisers this year after it helped lead
 AT&T Inc. (T)  through its $39 billion announced takeover of T-Mobile
USA, the year’s biggest. The firm also advised  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  on
its $9.2 billion sale to Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)   “The things that you see now are the product of years and
years of effort by the client and by us,” said Altman, a former
deputy Treasury secretary. “Sixteen years ago when we started
there were three people in a phone booth, but that’s not the
case today.”  The AT&T acquisition may take a year to receive government
approval as regulators determine whether the transaction will
reduce customer choice. Altman declined to comment on the
regulatory approval process.  “This business is going to remain fiercely competitive,
and this step isn’t going to change that,” Altman said. “I
don’t see this changing the fundamental, fiercely competitive
nature of this business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 