-- 
M&S May Be Stopped Over Trademark-Keyword Use, Court Aide Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-03-24T11:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/m-s-may-be-stopped-over-trademark-keyword-use-court-aide-says.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  may be
stopped from using trademarked terms as keywords on Web search
engines to trigger advertisements that could confuse online
users, an adviser to the European Union’s highest court said.  Trademark owners are “entitled to prohibit” use of
protected terms as Internet keywords if the ads don’t allow
people to ascertain where the services or products come from,
Advocate General Niilo Jaeaeskinen of the  EU Court of Justice 
said in a non-binding opinion today. The Luxembourg-based EU
court follows such advice in a majority of cases.  Interflora, a network of more than 1,800 florists which has
operated a flower-delivery network in the U.K. since the 1950s,
is suing Marks & Spencer in the U.K. for violating its trademark
rights by using keywords, such as Interflora, Intaflora and
Interflora Delivery, to trigger ads on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search
engine.  “An error concerning the origin of goods or services
arises when the competitor’s sponsored link is liable to lead
some members of the public to believe that the competitor is a
member of the trademark proprietor’s commercial network, when it
is not,” said the court adviser. In such a case, the trademark
owner “has the right to prohibit use of the keyword in
advertising by the competitor in question.”  A spokeswoman for London-based Marks & Spencer said the
company couldn’t comment until it consulted its lawyers.  The  High Court  in  London  in 2009  referred  the case to the
EU’s top tribunal for guidance on how to interpret the bloc’s
trademark rules in such cases.  Google Ruling  The EU court last year set a precedent with its ruling in a
dispute between Google, owner of the most-used search engine,
and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)  It was the first time
the EU’s top court ruled on the rights of companies to prevent
search engines in the 27-nation region from distributing
trademarked names as keywords.  The March 2010 ruling said brand owners can sue advertisers
who buy protected keywords and display ads on the search
engine’s website that make it difficult for users to see whether
they sell original or fake products.  Interflora said in a statement that today’s opinion, if
followed by the Court of Justice, would “enable brand holders
across  Europe  to deliver quality service and ensure that
trademarks guarantee the origin of the goods bought by consumers
online.”  FTD Group Inc., the florist whose symbol is the winged god
Mercury delivering flowers,  bought  Interflora in 2006 to enter
the European market. FTD Group was acquired by Internet retailer
 United Online Inc. (UNTD)  in 2008.  The court adviser said policies by search engines such as
Google that don’t allow companies in some countries to block the
selection by others of keywords that are identical to their
trademark “is as such immaterial in so far as the liability of
the advertiser using the keywords is concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  