-- 
‘Two Down, Two to Go’ on Europe Bailouts, Standard’s Lyons Says

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-24T17:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/-two-down-two-to-go-on-europe-bailouts-standard-s-lyons-says.html
Spain  is likely to follow Portugal
in needing a European Union rescue as both countries struggle to
reduce their budget deficits, said  Gerard Lyons , chief economist
at Standard Chartered Bank.  “Two down, two to go is how I see it,” Lyons told  Tom
Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” today.
“Greece and Ireland are down” and Portugal and Spain “need to
get help. In Spain youth unemployment is sky-high, the economy
is going to be weak; there is no easy way out.”  Portugal moved closer to needing a bailout after Prime
Minister Jose Socrates’s offer to resign left his government in
limbo on the eve of today’s EU summit to address the region’s
debt crisis. Two-year Portuguese bond yields reached the highest
since 1999.  Lyons said there is “a need to differentiate in  Europe ”
as the “core economies in Europe are improving” while the
“periphery stays weak.”  At the same time the bloc faces a political crisis as
“Germans want the periphery to start behaving like Germany,
which is not going to happen,” Lyons said. Also, the “Germans
want the  European Central Bank  to start setting interest rates
to suit the Germans and not to suit the Greeks.”  While the ECB has “done a fundamentally great job,” the
“root problem is that one size doesn’t fit all,” Lyons said.  ECB policy makers have signaled that they may raise the
benchmark interest rate, which has stayed at a record low of 1
percent for almost two years, at their next policy meeting in
April to quell faster inflation.  “If interest rates stay low, inflationary pressures build
in  Germany  and they have angst,” Lyons said. “If interest
rates go up it hits the periphery really hard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  