-- 
36 South to Revive Black Swan Bet After Fund Gains 234% on Global Events

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-03-24T00:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/36-south-to-revive-black-swan-bet-after-fund-gains-234-on-global-events.html
36 South Capital Advisors LLP,
which closed its  Black Swan  Fund after it gained 234 percent in
2008, plans a new fund to replicate a strategy that seeks to
profit from unforeseen high-impact events.  The London-based hedge fund plans to start the Black Eyrar
Fund within the next three months, said Jerry Haworth, co-
founder of 36 South. The fund will buy long-dated options it
considers cheap in global currency, fixed-income, equities and
commodity markets, betting that rare and unforeseen events will
generate unusually large profits, Haworth said in an interview.  Option prices soared on concerns that Japan’s nuclear
crisis after the nation’s strongest earthquake, and uprisings in
the Middle East and northern  Africa  will restrain global growth,
pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down the most in four
months. The crisis in  Japan  had a “neutral” impact on 36 South’s
funds, Haworth said.  “It wasn’t big enough for all the correlations across
asset classes, the volatility of all asset classes, to rise in
concert but it was a risk aversion event,” said Haworth, who is
based in London. “It certainly wasn’t a global black swan
event. It didn’t contaminate all the financial markets, but
certainly it remains a black swan event for Japan.”  A gauge that measures the cost of using options to protect
against losses in the  S&P 500  surged 22 percent last week, after
the biggest three-day jump since May on March 16. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, fell 5.2
percent to 19.17 yesterday, compared with a record 80.86 in
November 2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. sent stocks plunging worldwide. The decline in volatility
has made it cheaper to buy protection.  Black Eyrar  “Option prices have come back down to the point where we
believe it is worthwhile starting a fund,” said Haworth.  Similar to the firm’s Black Swan Fund, which bet on risk-
aversion events, the Black Eyrar Fund will wager on a decline in
equity and commodity prices,  interest rates  and increased
currency volatility, Haworth said. Eyrar is the collective noun
for swans.  The firm seeks to raise money for the new fund from mainly
family offices, fund of funds and ultra-high-net-worth
individuals, he said.  36 South closed the Black Swan Fund in 2009 and returned
money to investors after profiting from the global markets rout
in 2008.  The funds, whose names refer to a theory developed by
 Nassim Nicholas Taleb , a professor of risk engineering at  New
York University , will seek to protect client investments against
“black swans,” those highly improbable events that can cause
havoc. Taleb wrote a book called “Black Swan: The Impact of the
Highly Improbable,” published in May 2007.  More Instability  “There is probably more financial instability in the world
than we’ve ever seen simply because it’s so interconnected,”
Haworth said.  Assets under management at  36 South  have grown by more than
six times to about $250 million after the firm moved to  London 
from Auckland in 2009, including $100 million from Reinet Fund
SCA, Haworth said.  36 South formed a venture in December with Reinet Fund,
wholly owned by Reinet Investments SCA, the investment firm that
was spun off in 2008 from Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, owner of
the Cartier and Montblanc brands. Reinet has a 49 percent stake
in the venture, he said.  36 South’s flagship Kohinoor Fund gained about 0.1 percent
this month through March 21, he said. Its Cullinan Fund, which
bets on “significant inflation” after government efforts to
pump money into economies, rose about 4 percent during the same
period, Haworth said.  “The stage has been set and inflation is creeping in,” he
said. “There are already signs of it in soft commodities.”  Finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations signaled
their concern in February that surging commodity costs are
driving global inflationary pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  