-- 
Labor Faces New South Wales Vote ‘Bloodbath’ in Blow to Gillard

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-25T02:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/labor-faces-new-south-wales-vote-bloodbath-in-blow-to-gillard.html
The Liberal-National coalition in
New South  Wales ,  Australia ’s most populous state, is set to end
16 years of  Labor Party  rule in tomorrow’s election, making it
harder for Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to implement her plans.  Kristina Keneally’s Labor state government will suffer its
worst defeat in 110 years, according to a Galaxy poll of 1,000
people published in the Daily Telegraph newspaper today without
a margin of error. Bookmaker Sportsbet.com.au started paying
A$335,000 ($338,000) wagered on Labor losing after party
officials acknowledged during campaigning that Barry O’Farrell’s
coalition will win.  A loss will mean three of Australia’s eight states and
territories will be controlled by Liberal-National coalitions as
Labor’s Gillard, 49, tries to win support to reduce  carbon
emissions  and tax mining company profits. New South Wales voters
have spurned Labor over poor public transport in the state
capital, Sydney, education policies and a ditched power asset
sale, said Rodney Smith, a political analyst from Sydney
University.  “The government is seen as incompetent because of its
handling of major issues,” Smith said.  “With a three-states
coalition it will make it more difficult” for Gillard.  Investors also favor a Liberal-National coalition victory.
The yield on New South Wales bonds maturing May 2020 versus
similar-maturity Federal debt fell to 45 basis points yesterday,
near the narrowest since at least April 2010.  ‘Bloodbath Result’  “There is absolutely no doubt it will be a bloodbath
result for Labor,” Sportsbet spokesman Haydn Lane said in a
phone interview. “The result is such a sure thing that we
thought people should have the money in their pockets before the
weekend.”  The party will be reduced to 14 of the 93 seats in the
state’s lower house of parliament, today’s Galaxy poll showed.
Labor currently holds 49, according to the parliament’s  website .
Sixty-nine percent of the people asked said the coalition will
win because Labor deserves to lose, according to the poll.  New South Wales would join  Western Australia  and Victoria
with coalition governments. The three states contribute 67
percent of the country’s A$1.3 trillion economy.  The Liberal-Nationals ended Labor’s 11-year rule in
Victoria state in elections in November and formed a government
in Western Australia after a ballot in September 2008. Coalition
parties largely draw their support from small businesses and
farmers.  General Election  Gillard’s Labor Party lost its parliamentary majority in
the August 2010 election and relies on the support of four non-
party lawmakers to pass laws. Another national election is due
by 2014.  New South Wales has a population of about 7.2 million
people, with more than 4.3 million living in Sydney. Australia
has a population of 22.5 million people.  Keneally, a U.S.-born mother of two, faces defeat after
becoming the state’s first female premier in December 2009. The
42-year-old Keneally, who has an Australian mother and an
American father, was born in  Las Vegas  and grew up in the U.S.
before moving to Sydney in 1994, the New South Wales Labor Party
said on its website.  She became premier after the ouster of Nathan Rees, who
served less than 16 months. Rees replaced Morris Iemma, the
premier from 2005 to 2008.  O’Farrell, a 51-year-old father of two, won his
parliamentary division in 1995 after being state director of the
Liberal party, according to the state parliament’s website.  Asset Sale  New South Wales in February failed to attract any bids in a
second round of an electricity asset sale aimed at raising A$2
billion, prompting the state to abandon the plan. Efforts to
sell the assets caused division in the state and contributed to
the departure of two premiers since 2008.  New South Wales accounts for 30.5 percent of Australia’s
economy. Companies based in the state include  AMP Ltd. (AMP) ,
Australia’s second-largest asset manager, and  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN) , the nation’s biggest airline.  The state government on March 21 forecast a A$95 million
 budget surplus  in the year ending June 30, A$78 million the
following year and A$329 million in 2013. Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services in November affirmed its ‘AAA’ long-term and
‘A-1+’ short-term foreign and local currency credit ratings on
New South Wales.  “The coalition is waiting until after the election to
announce its policies,” Smith said. “It’s a luxury being able
to count on winning before they tell people what they will do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  