-- 
Some HFC Offsets Won’t Reach European Market, Trading Emissions Plc Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-24T16:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/about-18-of-hfc-23-credits-won-t-reach-eu-trading-emissions-plc-says.html
Trading Emissions Plc said about 18
percent of the emission credits it expects from cutting
hydrofluorocarbon-23 won’t be ready to meet an April 30, 2013,
deadline to be imposed by the European Union carbon program.  About 2 million tons of the 11.4 million tons of United
Nations credits anticipated probably won’t be ready for sale
before that deadline, Simon Shaw, the company’s investment
adviser and founder of EEA Fund Management Ltd., said today by
phone. The reductions need to be verified by audit firms and
pass through the World Bank Umbrella Carbon Facility, a process
that probably takes more than three months, he said.  “We don’t believe there is a way of accelerating” that
process, Shaw said. The 2 million spares probably will instead
be sold in  China ,  Japan  and  New Zealand  for more than their 6
euro ($8.50) a ton cost, he said. Certified Emission Reduction
credits for December fell as much as 3.1 percent today to 12.55
euros a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London and
were at 12.67 euros as of 4:15 p.m.  Some UN credits can be used by emitters in the EU, which
runs the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program. The bloc
proposed banning credits tied to HFCs and some nitrous oxide
projects, saying they have generated “exorbitant” returns and
created a “perverse incentive” for investors, undermining the
market’s integrity.  ‘Snail’s Pace’  More than 11,000 power plants and factories in the EU
system may use UN credits as a cheaper way to comply. Regulators
around the world are clamping down on credits tied to HFC-23,
whose warming potential per molecule is 11,700 times more
powerful than carbon dioxide. Officials at the UN carbon market
in November called for a revision of its HFC-23-project-approval
procedures.  The Clean Development Mechanism, the world’s biggest
greenhouse-gas offset market, has improved the pace of new
supply in the past six months, Shaw said. “I would describe
this as moving from a glacial pace to a snail’s pace.”  Trading Emissions narrowed its net loss to 1.4 million
pounds ($2.3 million) in the six months through Dec. 31,
compared with 18.3 million pounds in the same period in 2009, as
EEA returned performance fees to the company, according to a
statement distributed by the Regulatory News Service. EEA and
Trading Emissions in August amended their investment advisory
agreement, prompting the return, the company said.  Trading Emissions shares rose as much as 3.9 percent today
to 112 pence in  London , the highest since Oct. 26, 2009. They
were at 108 pence as of 4:15 p.m. A process to sell the
company’s renewable energy and carbon portfolios was making
progress, Shaw said.  An increase in the carbon price this year has boosted the
net asset value of the company by 9.6 percent to 148.94 pence a
share, “which gives us a good degree of confidence in our 137-
pence valuation,” Adam Forsyth, an analyst for London-based
Matrix Group Ltd., said today in a research note. Matrix, the
investment manager, has a “buy” rating on the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  