-- 
Allen Stanford Drops Lawsuit Against Government Lawyers

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-24T18:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/accused-financier-stanford-drops-suit-against-u-s-prosecutors-regulators.html
R. Allen Stanford, the indicted
financier, dropped a lawsuit that accused attorneys with the
U.S. Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission
of “abusive”  law enforcement .  U.S. District Judge Ewing Werlein in Houston on March 21
granted a request by Steven Cochell, a Stanford attorney, to
dismiss the case filed last month. Stanford had sought
$7.2 billion in damages.  The case was filed two years after the SEC accused the
deposed Stanford Group Co. principal of leading a $7 billion
investment-fraud scheme. Stanford, who was indicted on parallel
criminal charges in June 2009, has denied all allegations of
wrongdoing.  “Plaintiff concludes that the claims in this action will
be preserved without the pursuit of this case at this time,”
Cochell said in his March 18 filing.  Stanford had alleged the federal government used more than
$51 million of his assets to pursue the cases against him. “The
agents have engaged in unfair, abusive law-enforcement methods
and tactics,” violating Stanford’s rights under the U.S.
Constitution, according to the complaint.  Among the 12 individual defendants named in the lawsuit
were lead prosecutors Paul Pelletier and Gregg Costa and lead
SEC lawyer Stephen Korotash. Stanford didn’t directly sue any
agency of the federal government.  Gag Order  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment, citing a gag order imposed in the criminal case by
U.S. District Judge David Hittner.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, also declined to comment.  The financier, who turns 61 today, is being held without
bail pending the outcome of his criminal trial and is undergoing
treatment for a prescription drug addiction in the Federal
Medical Center at the Butner Federal Correctional Complex in
 North Carolina .  The case is R. Allen Stanford v. Stephen Korotosh, 11cv582,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC case is Securities
and Exchange Commission v. Stanford International Bank Ltd.,
09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 