-- 
Lady Gaga Is Shaming Those Spending $309 Billion: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-24T01:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/lady-gaga-shaming-those-spending-309-billion-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
You know things are bad when pop
stars a world away get more fired up about a humanitarian crisis
than a nation’s own leaders.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  would no doubt take
umbrage at this assertion. Many of Japan’s 126 million residents
wouldn’t, as television cameras that had been fixed on the
nuclear fiasco in Fukushima turn further north. We are getting
an eyeful of millions in earthquake-devastated areas living
without power, heat, water, adequate food or medicine.  This is shocking in wealthy, obsessively efficient Japan.
It’s also shocking that Lady Gaga, Rihanna, U2, Sonic Youth,
Norah Jones and  Lou Reed  seem more concerned about it than Kan’s
team. Lady Gaga, for example, has been selling special bracelets
on her Web site to fund relief efforts.  Granted, Kan has been busy overseeing a radiation crisis
that’s now tainted  Tokyo ’s tap water. Yet the odds favor Kan
soon making way for the fifth premier in less than five years.
Were elections held today, many Japanese would turn the keys
over to Yukio Edano, Kan’s deputy.  We’ll get to Edano later. For now, let’s consider the scale
of the damage from this crisis trifecta: a magnitude 9.0
earthquake, a 7-meter (23-foot) tsunami and those radiation
leaks. Yesterday, Japan estimated the costs at as much as 25
trillion yen ($309 billion), almost four times the hit  Hurricane
Katrina  imposed on the U.S.  Economic Losses  The bill will be much higher and the economic losses will
be much greater than currently believed.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.
said yesterday its capacity will fall 34 percent short of last
summer’s peak demand.  Just take a walk through Tokyo’s normally buzzing Shibuya
or Ginza districts at 4 p.m. Department stores are already
closing for the day to save electricity. Nissan Motor Co.,
Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. are struggling to repair
damage and resume production because of power shortages as
nuclear plants are idled. The long-term cost is only beginning
to get counted.  All this is having an intangible, yet steadily growing
effect on business and consumer confidence. Here, it’s worth
exploring how the humanitarian crisis in the northeast might
affect the nation’s psyche.  Japan Works  Japanese life is surrounded by a bewildering abundance of
food, creature comforts and everyday commodities. It has one of
the highest per-capita incomes on the planet and its public
sector is obsessed with effectiveness. While bureaucratic for
sure,  Japan  really works on most levels. That’s prompted the
entire nation to wonder why, oh why, it’s taking so long to get
supplies to areas devastated by the March 11 quake?  Things are improving, if not nearly fast enough from the
victim’s perspective. This crisis is on a far greater scale than
the 1995 Kobe earthquake. It’s harder to reach today’s quake
victims and Kobe didn’t suffer tsunami damage. Still, by now
remoteness is less of an excuse. About 90 percent of highways
damaged by the temblor are open to the public.  One problem is that Kan’s team, in office for just nine
months, has been too focused on the drama at the Fukushima
nuclear reactors. While that’s a clear priority, a bit more
multitasking was called for. Another problem is  red tape .  Dustbin Bound  Things probably aren’t improving fast enough to save Kan
from the dustbin of prime ministers past. Before the quake, he
faced questions about a fund-raising scandal that forced his
foreign minister to resign. Kan also hasn’t passed badly needed
economic reforms.  That brings us to Edano, a reasonably fresh face in
Japanese politics. In January, Kan tapped the 46-year-old as his
chief cabinet secretary, a post combining the roles of deputy
and chief of staff. During this crisis, Edano has won plaudits
from Japan’s public for his direct, matter-of-fact assessments.
His daily press briefings have been a nice antidote to the
arrogance and obfuscation stemming from Tepco, as Tokyo Electric
is known.  I’m not alone in trusting Tepco about as much as I do Kim Jong Il’s North Korean news agency. At a time when many Japanese
didn’t know who to trust, Edano was a steady voice of reason
that embodied Kan’s strategy of transparency. Scores of Twitter
accounts have sprung up to celebrate his work ethic. Hence the
buzz about Edano being a possible successor.  Japan hasn’t had a prime minister who excited people since
the 2001-2006 stint of  Junichiro Koizumi , who was as much
celebrity as politician. The bookish, earnest Edano lacks
Koizumi’s pizzazz, never mind that of Lady Gaga or Bono. Yet he
has morphed into a national celebrity. Edano may just be the
right one at the right time.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  