-- 
Credit Suisse Said to Seek Investors for New York Fed's AIG Mortgage Bonds

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-24T19:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/aig-may-said-have-competitors-in-credit-suisse-barclays-in-fed-bond-bid.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and Morgan Stanley are each seeking groups of investors to
counter  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s $15.7 billion bid
for a pool of mortgage bonds held by the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The dealers are among bond brokers gauging whether they
can assemble bids from customers that would beat AIG’s offer if
the Fed decides to sell the assets, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. Banks
have told clients that the New York Fed, which hired  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  to manage the portfolio, probably isn’t ready for bids or
to decide on the sales process, the people said.  AIG, which is 92 percent-owned by the U.S. government, made
public on March 10 its offer for the assets, which the insurer
turned over to a Fed fund in 2008. AIG said its proposal would
benefit taxpayers by boosting investment returns at the company
as it seeks to attract private capital to replace government
funds. The  New York  Fed said March 11 it’s seeking a solution
that “maximizes the proceeds to the taxpayer.”  The Fed “sort of has their hands tied, it has to come down
to the best bid,” said Jonathan Hatcher, a strategist who
covers financial institutions at Jefferies Group Inc. in New
York. “It would seem that if AIG buys those assets, they may
have to buy them at a slightly higher price.”  Jack Gutt , a New
York Fed spokesman, declined to comment today.  Subprime Mortgages  The securities, backed by so-called subprime, Alt-A and
other home loans, had a face value of about $39 billion when
turned over to the Fed. The figure is now about $31 billion,
after homeowners defaulted, moved or refinanced, according to
AIG’s disclosures.  Banks seeking to aggregate bids from investors for the
portfolio may also buy some of the bonds, which they could keep
or sell later, the people said. Bobbie Collins, a spokeswoman
for New York-based BlackRock, declined to comment, as did  Duncan King  of Zurich-based Credit Suisse, Kristin Friel of  Barclays
Capital , and Mary Claire Delaney of New York-based Morgan
Stanley.  AIG expects a yield of as much as 8.5 percent to 9 percent
at the price it’s offering, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  told CNBC yesterday. The New York-based insurer hadn’t
heard if its bid would be accepted, he said.  Banks and investors expect the Fed may evaluate the merits
of selling portions of the portfolio over time rather than
holding one auction. Potential bidders said it’s unclear if or
when the Fed will sell.  “We’re not sharpening our pencils and trying to put levels
on the bonds at this point,” said Tom Sontag, a portfolio
manager in  Chicago  at Neuberger Berman Group LLC, which oversees
about $190 billion in assets. “It’s too early in the process.”  ‘The Last Look’  Benmosche said in a March 10 letter to the Fed that a
single transaction may be best for the Fed.  “I would suspect that AIG may have the benefit of getting
the last look,” said Hatcher. “If I was one of the other
bidders for the securities, that would be my concern, that I’m
going to bid on these and you’re going to go and ask for another
dollar from AIG.”  Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment beyond
Benmosche’s remarks. The Financial Times reported March 21 that
Barclays was considering a counteroffer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  