-- 
Air Berlin Predicts Return to Profit on Rebounding Economy

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-24T12:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/air-berlin-predicts-return-to-profit-on-rebounding-economy.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest airline, predicted a return to profit this year as
economic growth, a decline in unemployment and increasing demand
from business executives boost passenger numbers.  “The good economic development is strengthening demand for
business travel but it helps tourism as well,” Chief Executive
Officer Joachim Hunold said today in Berlin.  Hunold forecast earnings before interest and taxes will be
positive this year, after a 9.3 million-euro ($13 million) loss
in 2010, as the carrier passes higher jet-fuel costs to
customers via surcharges. Earnings were curbed last year by
reduced ticket prices, heavy snowfalls, strikes and a volcanic
ash cloud from Iceland that closed airports.  Passenger numbers will grow as much as 5 percent in 2011
with increased frequencies to  New York ,  San Francisco  and
Vancouver, the carrier said. Air Berlin aims to counter 180
million euros in higher fuel costs this year with higher
surcharges and a 100 million-euro savings plan.  Air Berlin rose as much as 13 cents, or 4.1 percent, to
3.20 euros and was up 3.4 percent as of 1:29 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The shares have dropped 14 percent this year, valuing
the Berlin-based carrier at 271 million euros.  Air Berlin had a “weak start” in the first quarter after
tourists canceled flights to Tunisia and  Egypt  because of the
political unrest. Capacity to those countries will be reduced by
33 percent in the summer flight plan, Hunold said.  Oneworld Talks  Air Berlin, which didn’t give a net income forecast for
this year, aims to post a profit on that basis next year “at
the latest,” the CEO said. It had a 97.2 million-euro net loss
in 2010, the carrier said last week.  The carrier is making progress on negotiating code-share
deals with the British Airways and Iberia units of International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA as the company gears up to join
the Oneworld alliance in April of next year, Air Berlin said
today. Agreements are already in place with  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines and  Finnair Oyj. (FIA1S)   Hunold said he isn’t aware of any interest from IAG to
combine with the German airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  