-- 
Taiwan's Cabinet Removes Ban on Government Indirect Stake in Broadcasters

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-03-24T09:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/taiwan-s-cabinet-removes-ban-on-government-indirect-stake-in-broadcasters.html
Taiwan plans to ease a ban on
government ownership of media operators and broadcasters, paving
the way for companies such as Taiwan Mobile Co. to acquire
shares in cable television providers.  Taiwan’s Cabinet approved rule changes allowing the
government to own up to 10 percent of media companies
indirectly, Hsieh Huan-chien, deputy director of the  National
Communications Commission ’s legal division, said by phone today.  Taiwan’s communications regulator in November approved the
Tsai family’s NT$36.1 billion ($1.2 billion) purchase of cable
TV operator Kbro from the Carlyle Group after an earlier
acquisition bid through their phone company Taiwan Mobile failed
because of ownership restrictions. The carrier “doesn’t rule
out” pursuing the purchase of Kbro from its current owners,
Rosie Yu, a spokeswoman for Taiwan Mobile, said today.  “We will have to wait for approval from the legislature
before making any next move,” Yu said by telephone.  The Tsai family’s attempt to acquire the Kbro stake through
their carrier had to be scrapped because Taipei City government
is an indirect shareholder of Taiwan Mobile and regulations
prevent government ownership of media operators. The cable
operator’s current owners include a holding company set up by
Taiwan Mobile chairman Richard Tsai and vice chairman Daniel Tsai, and the  Carlyle Group .  “Indirect ownership will be allowed as long as government
branches don’t have real control of targeted companies,” Hsieh
said. Government direct holdings are still prohibited, he said.  The Tsai brothers as well as Victor Kung, a Taiwan Mobile
director and representative of Kbro’s majority owner, would be
excluded from board decisions on the purchase, Yu said.  Fubon Financial Holding Co., whose chairman is Daniel Tsai,
is a major shareholder in Taipei-based Taiwan Mobile. Fubon
Financial is 14.2 percent owned by the Taipei City government
after it bought the municipality’s Taipei Bank in 2002.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Adela Lin at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 