-- 
Allied Messages To Qaddafi Forces Not Halting Attacks, U.S. Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-03-24T23:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/allied-messages-to-qaddafi-forces-not-halting-attacks-u-s-says.html
U.S. and coalition efforts to
communicate with Libyan army troops have failed to persuade them
to halt attacks against civilians or turn against  Muammar Qaddafi , a top Pentagon official said today.  The military is “using every tool that we have available
in our toolkit,” said Vice Admiral Bill Gortney of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, although he declined to detail what the
military calls “information operations” in Libya.  “Our message to the regime troops is simple: ‘Stop
fighting, stop killing your own people, stop obeying the orders
of Colonel Qaddafi,’” Gortney told reporters at the Pentagon.
The U.S. is also telling Qaddafi’s troops that “to the degree
you continue to defy these demands, we will continue to hit
you,” he said.  Asked if any forces loyal to Qaddafi have quit fighting, he
said, “I’m not aware of any at this particular time.”  Even as the coalition controls the skies over  Libya ,
Qaddafi’s forces continue to attack civilians in at least four
cities -- Misrata, Zawiyah, Ajdabiya and newly in Zintan.
Gortney said the coalition wasn’t striking inside cities because
of the risk of civilian casualties. Instead, it is striking
“their logistics, command, communication and weapons
capabilities,” he said.  More than 350 aircraft are enforcing the no-fly zone across
the northern part of the country, from Tripoli in the east to
Benghazi in the east, Gortney said.  Broadcast Operations  One of the tools in the coalition’s “toolkit” for sending
messages to Qaddafi’s troops is the specially equipped  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  EC-130J “Commando Solo”  aircraft  flown by the
193rd Air National Guard Special Operations Wing of Middletown,
 Pennsylvania , according to a defense official, who was not
authorized to speak publicly about the mission.  The aircraft has been flying, on average, six-hour missions
over Libya, broadcasting messages on Libyan military
frequencies, the official said.  The broadcast unit has been involved in military operations
since 1991, including in 1999 to broadcast radio and television
messages into  Kosovo  to prevent ethnic cleansing by Serbs,
according to an Air Force fact sheet.  Cruise Missile Strikes  Overall, coalition ships and subs fired 14  Tomahawk cruise
missiles  today, targeting surface-to-air missile sites in Sabha
in the south and a Scud missile site near Tripoli, Gortney said.
The 14 additional missile strikes brings to 182 the number of
Tomahawks fired by U.S. forces since the beginning of the Libya
mission. An additional seven Tomahawks were fired by U.K.
forces.  Airstrikes also targeted fuel depots and supply lines near
Misrata, Zintan and Ajdabiyah, he said.  The coalition flew 130 sorties, including 49 strike-related
missions, Gortney said. The U.S. and coalition allies are taking
every precaution to avoid civilian casualties, he said.  The coalition naval armada in the  Mediterranean Sea  stands
at 12 U.S. ships and 26 partner ships, including the  Charles de
Gaulle  from  France  and the Italian carrier Giuseppe Garibaldi,
Gortney said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  