-- 
AMC Cinema’s Lopez Seeks Compromise With Studios on Home Video

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C o r y   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T00:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/amc-cinema-s-lopez-seeks-compromise-with-studios-on-home-video.html
AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Gerry Lopez said he is willing to
shorten the time films are in theaters to 90 days to accommodate
studio demands for earlier video-on-demand release.  The change would cut the length of the typical theatrical
run from 120 days, Lopez, head of the second-largest U.S.
theater group, said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. AMC had 5,203 screens as of Dec. 30.  With 2011 sales down, cinemas are resisting a push to make
films available on VOD four to six weeks after they are released
in theaters.  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest satellite pay-TV service, said
last month it’s talking with studios about VOD offerings within
that time frame.  News Corp. (NWSA) , parent of the Fox studio, is
considering a 60-day theater run followed by video-on-demand,
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said on Feb. 2.  “What we’ve proposed to the studios is, think of the
premium video-on-demand window as being viable 30 days before
the DVD release,” Lopez said. “Something in the 90-day
neighborhood.”  Studios want the shorter theatrical run and earlier home-
video sales to offset declining DVD revenue. The move would cut
ticket sales by shrinking the amount of time cinema operators
have exclusive access to new releases.  Closely held AMC, based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , and
Knoxville, Tennessee-based  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the
largest U.S. theater company with 6,683 screens, have said they
won’t show films that are slated to be offered via video-on-
demand 45 days to 60 days after they open in theaters.  “We’ll see what happens,” Lopez said today. “We haven’t
really seen any of this premium VOD come to pass as of yet.”  U.S. box office sales are down 20 percent this year,
according to researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office.  Regal fell 13 cents to $13.49 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock has fallen 15 percent this year.
News Corp. Class A rose 6 cents to $16.78 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market and has gained 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Cory Johnson in  San Francisco  at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  