-- 
Amgen Dividend May Come Next Month as Investors Seek Value From Cash Hoard

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-03-24T20:16:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/amgen-dividend-may-come-next-month-as-investors-seek-value-from-cash-hoard.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  may introduce its first
dividend next month, rewarding investors whose stock in the
world’s largest biotechnology company has fallen 33 percent
since 2006, even as its cash hoard grew to $17.4 billion.  The move may be announced at an April 21 investor meeting,
said Robyn Karnauskas, a Deutsche Bank analyst in New York. The
dividend may yield 2.3 percent, with a quarterly payment of 30
cents a share, according to a Bloomberg projection. It would
make Amgen, based in  Thousand Oaks ,  California , the first
company in the six-member Standard & Poor’s 500 Biotechnology
Index to offer such a payout.  Amgen has more cash and short-term investments on hand than
any U.S. drugmaker except for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
each with about $28 billion and quarterly dividend payments.
Some shareholders have sought a dividend since reports surfaced
in November that Amgen may buy Swiss drugmaker  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  for
$9.8 billion, a deal that “troubled investors,” Karnauskas
said in an interview.  “Why wait?” said Evan McCulloch, the  San Mateo ,
California-based portfolio manager of Franklin Templeton
Investments, Amgen’s ninth-largest shareholder with a 1.6
percent stake as of Dec. 30. “Do it now.”  Bloomberg bases its dividend estimates on seven criteria,
including a company’s dividend history and public forecasts.  Annual 4 Percent Yield  McCulloch said he’d like to see a yearly dividend yield of
as much as 4 percent, or about $2 a share. Some investors
support a dividend as a check on the company’s ability to make
large acquisitions that may trim earnings and share prices, he
said in a telephone interview.  Amgen rose 58 cents to $53.27 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have fallen
from $78.86 on Dec. 30, 2005.  The arrival of Jonathan Peacock, appointed in July as
Amgen’s chief financial officer, has fueled Amgen dividend
speculation, Karnauskas said. Peacock worked previously at
 Novartis AG (NOVN) , a Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker that ended
last year with $8.1 billion in cash and short-term investments,
and pays an annual dividend of 2.20 Swiss francs ($2.43).  Peacock declined to be interviewed. Amgen spokesman David Polk had no comment.  Amgen can afford to return money to shareholders because
the company generates a lot of cash compared with its  capital
expenditures ,  Geoffrey Meacham , a JPMorgan Securities analyst
based in New York, said in a March 3 note. Each 1 percent payout
to investors would cost Amgen about $500 million.  Value Stock  A dividend, though, would signal Amgen’s transition from a
growth company to a value stock that offers slow growth and
predictable earnings, a concession the company may not wish to
make, said Mark Oelschlager, a portfolio manager at Oak
Associates Ltd., an Akron, Ohio, investment adviser that holds
about 640,000 Amgen shares.  “A company is often reluctant to initiate a dividend
because it feels to management like they are giving up on growth
or they are afraid that investors will no longer view them as
capable of growing,” Oelschlager said in an e-mail. “In most
cases this is silly, as these companies, Amgen included, have
already been recognized by the market as having lower growth
prospects than before.”  A dividend announced in April may pay out in June, said
 Geoffrey Porges , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in  New
York , in a March 14 report. Amgen may start with a quarterly
payout of as much as 32 cents a share, or an annual yield of
about 2.4 percent, Porges projected. The annual yield may go up
by as much as 9 percent a year, he said.  Lack of Trust  The possibility of a $9.8 billion Actelion deal that would
have consumed half of the company’s reserves “stifled interest
in the company and blunted the stock rise” that should have
emerged when Amgen’s new bone drug denosumab won approval from
U.S. regulators the same week, Deutsche Bank’s Karnauskas said.  “There’s not a lot of trust in the management of big
pharma and large biotechs,” McCulloch, of  Franklin Templeton ,
said in a telephone interview. “People want to prevent
management teams from doing large deals that might destroy value
for shareholders.”  Amgen pioneered biological therapies 30 years ago for
cancer and kidney-disease patients. Revenue tripled to $12.4
billion over the five years ended in 2005, after the company
introduced Aranesp for anemia. Over the next five years, though,
annual sales growth slowed to 1.4 percent as the drug was linked
to strokes and heart attacks.  Few Deals  Over the past five years, Amgen has announced seven
acquisitions worth a combined $1.6 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. The largest was its $425 million purchase of
BioVex Group Inc. in January.  “They’ve got excess cash and they don’t appear to be in an
acquisition mode,” said  Michael Cuggino , president of  Pacific
Heights Asset Management  in  San Francisco , an investment fund
that holds 609,000 Amgen shares. “Distributing a little back to
shareholders is not a bad idea.”  Pfizer, based in New York, pays a 20-cent quarterly
dividend and  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J pays 54 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 