-- 
Angel’s Sekhar Says Infosys Earnings Will Define Stocks Outlook

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-03-24T09:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/angel-s-sekhar-says-infosys-earnings-will-define-stocks-outlook.html
P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund manager  at
Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai, comments on the outlook for
India’s stock market. He spoke in a telephone interview today.  On the outlook for the market:  “The triggers for any upside are limited. If any, they are
only sentimental. In the near term, what will be watched
globally is oil. Locally, what will be watched is incremental
industrial production and inflation numbers. The government’s
move to introduce some key bills in parliament will signal its
commitment to reforms.”  On March quarterly results:  “People will start building positions in April before the
 Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO)  result comes in. Sentimentally it’s
important. If the Infosys result is good, then the Nifty may go
up to 5,650. If it’s below expectations, then it may fall to
around 5,250. I don’t expect it to breach 5,250 or 5,650. Right
now, the market is in a fair-price zone.”  On crude oil:  “The Middle East crisis is not leading to a further spike
in oil prices. Unless crude crosses $125, I don’t think there’s
a reason for the market to fall further.”  On investment strategy:  “In a fairly priced market, we only enter on the bad days
into sectors that we believe are good from a valuation as well
as earnings point of view, for the next one year.”  Sekhar favors shares of lenders, automakers, and large
companies in infrastructure and software businesses, he said. He
declined to name companies.  On the Sensex’s decline this quarter:  “I don’t think due to one quarter of declines in stocks or
foreign outflows, the mood has been vitiated. I can only say the
mood is no longer upbeat. But it’s not somber as well. People
are measured and cautious, but at the same time they are
optimistic. It’s not as upbeat as it was a year back when
everyone was building on the incremental next good news and
people had taken for granted a lot of things. That kind of
complacency is not there.”  On outlook for next quarter:  “The next quarter has to be better than this one. Most of
the bad news is there in the price. It’s difficult for me to see
that things are going to get worse than what has been. The
market may not only hold, but move ahead with an upward positive
bias.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  