-- 
Angie’s List Raises $53.6 Million From Investors in Private Share Offering

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/angie-s-list-raises-53-6-million-in-private-share-offering.html
Angie’s List Inc. , a service that
provides recommendations for plumbers, doctors and other local
businesses, raised $53.6 million from investors in a private
share offering.  Investors include mutual-fund company T. Rowe Price Group
Inc., according to a person with knowledge of the funding, who
asked not to be named because the backers haven’t been publicly
identified. Angie’s List plans to sell stock worth a total of
$60 million, leaving as much as $6.4 million to be raised,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday.  Founded in 1995 by Angie Hicks, Angie’s List provides
ratings and reviews to 1.5 million paying members for more than
500 types of businesses. The Indianapolis-based company raised
 $25 million  last year from investors including venture-capital
firms Battery Ventures and Saints Capital, as well as T. Rowe
Price and Wasatch Funds.  Angie’s List spokeswoman Cheryl Reed declined to comment on
specific investors in the latest fundraising. Robert Benjamin, a
spokesman for Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price, declined to comment
on the firm’s investments.  Internet Investments  T. Rowe Price has been buying stakes in private Internet
companies amid a slowdown in initial public offerings. The
company owns a stake in Twitter Inc. and previously invested in
Slide Inc., which was bought by Google Inc. in 2010. T. Rowe
Price also is among firms in talks to invest in Zynga Inc. at a
valuation of close to $10 billion, two people familiar with the
matter said last month.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Fidelity
Investments  are also buying stock in private technology
companies.  Angie’s List introduced a service last year called The Big
Deal, which lets users sign up for discounts on local services,
similar to the deals offered by Groupon Inc. and
LivingSocial.com.  The  price  of subscribing to Angie’s List varies by
location. In  New York  and  San Francisco , a yearly plan letting
users see reviews in more than 360 home and personal-service
categories costs $39, for example, while in Indianapolis members
pay $49 annually. Prices drop for multiyear subscriptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  