-- 
Apple Alumnus Rejects Online Anonymity With New Social Network

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/apple-alumnus-rejects-online-anonymity-with-a-social-network-called-color.html
Bill Nguyen, who sold an online-
music company to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in 2009, has a new startup with a
different mission: making the Internet less of a haven for
anonymous bullying and websites secretly tracking users.  The Internet wouldn’t be as “creepy” if more people were
upfront about their true identities, Nguyen said. So he
developed a  social network  called Color that’s completely
transparent. Every time users turn on the application, which
runs on smartphones, they will be able to see a live feed of all
the pictures and videos of fellow users within 150 feet.  With Color, which debuted yesterday after raising $41
million in  venture capital , there are no friend requests or
privacy settings. By starting the app and entering their names,
users are agreeing to share. Nguyen -- whose last company, Lala,
was bought by Apple -- says that proximity and transparency will
lead to more accountability and civility.  “I want you to say hello to your neighbors,” Nguyen said.
“A lot of the things that have been recreated online have been
virtual reality.”  Color, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , opens up a new front
in the debate over openness on the Internet. Facebook Inc. asks
members to use their real names, making it harder to lash out
incognito and bully people. On the other hand, advocates for
anonymity -- such as Christopher Poole, the creator of message
forum 4Chan.org -- say secrecy lets  Internet users  express true
feelings and take creative risks.  Not Really Private?  Nguyen is trying to blaze his own trail. He wants people to
reveal their real identities, though without using the kind of
advertising on Facebook. On that site, marketers target their
ads based on personal information from users, he said.  “They say it’s private, but it’s really not,” Nguyen
said. “That disturbs me.”  Color says it’s developing an advertising system based
mainly on location, rather than personal attributes. The ads
would be like Groupon Inc.’s deals, offered by nearby
businesses.  Nguyen has a track record of successful startups. Before
creating online music service Lala, he started e-mail service
Onebox, which was acquired in 2000 by Phone.com. After that, he
began another e-mail company called  Seven Network Inc. , where
he’s still on the board of directors.  His new service, which will be available on iPhones and
Android devices, will need to build a critical mass of users to
succeed, Nguyen said. The application will work best if groups
of people are participating in the same area at once, and that
may be hard to achieve, he said.  Venture Funding  Color’s venture financing includes $25 million from 
 Sequoia Capital , a backer of Google Inc. in 1999. Sequoia 
partner Douglas Leone is joining the board.  Bain Capital 
Ventures  contributed $9 million, and Silicon Valley Bank 
provided $7 million, the company said.  Color has about 30 employees now, including engineers from
Google, Twitter Inc. and Apple. Nguyen expects to double or
triple that by the end of the year. DJ Patil, the chief
scientist at LinkedIn Corp., has joined the company to build out
its networking features.  The software works by taking advantage of technologies that
are built into most smartphones. Color can determine when people
are near each another by using the global positioning system,
audio waves and cameras. If two phones are picking up the same
ambient light and sounds, they may be in the same place.  ‘Bit of Voyeurism’  When people are in the same vicinity, the application will
unlock pictures, videos and text entered through the
application.  “It’s a little bit of voyeurism -- it’s a little bit of
real life,” said Michael Krupka, managing  director  of Bain
Capital Ventures, who also invested in Lala.  Pictures taken outside the application aren’t visible to
others. It also has a block feature if a person doesn’t want to
see or be seen by somebody else.  Nguyen recently showed off the technology at the company’s
office, a remodeled toy store that has a skateboard half-pipe in
the basement. He was standing in an open area, wearing a
bodysuit made out of a sleeping bag. Employees laughed and
snapped pictures on their iPhones.  After taking the shots, they instantly scanned their phones
to see the various pictures. Each person is able to keep the
photos taken by others. Color developed an imaging algorithm to
crop all photos around the face of the person who’s the subject
in a photo.  Sharing Cameras  “Every camera around you that’s using the same app is
yours,” Nguyen said. “The communication is real time. It’s not
like posting up your holiday photos.”  For those who don’t behave, Color’s terms and conditions
allow it to block the app from working on a specific smartphone.
A new device would be needed to start a fresh account.
Unacceptable behavior includes violence, bullying and
pornography.  After the Lala deal, Nguyen stayed at Cupertino,
California-based Apple for about a year. He said he learned a
lot from that experience, including the kind of secrecy embraced
by Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs .  Even as he campaigns for openness online, Nguyen has kept a
tight lid on the company until now. He required employees to
sign offer letters before telling them what they would be doing.
Brown paper covers the windows of the office, making it seem
like vacant space.  Corporate secrecy aside, users in the social-networking
realm need to consider whether they’re better off with a more
open system, Nguyen said.  “I want people to talk about whether it’s more fun, more
safe and does it feel better to be part of community when I’m
open,” he said. “It’s the open-versus-private conversation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 