-- 
Marilyn Monroe, UN Get Tangled in U.S.-China Artichoke Battle

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-03-24T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/marilyn-monroe-un-tangled-in-u-s-china-artichoke-spat-a-craig-copetas.html
The plucky folks at the  California
Artichoke Advisory Board  have a bellyache with the United
Nations that Pino Cansoneri says has escalated into a diplomatic
crisis in the kitchen at  La Campana .  The CAAB is in Castroville, the  UN  is mostly in New York
and Cansoneri is the artichoke manager at what’s billed as the
oldest restaurant in Rome. The issues on the menu at the 492-
year-old trattoria include a stack of artichoke production
figures calculated by the UN Food & Agriculture Organization,
how to close the widening artichoke gap between the U.S. and
China, and whether  Marilyn Monroe  favored her perennial thistles
American and boiled or fried and Italian.  “Monroe preferred Italian artichokes,” insists Cansoneri,
who has spent 27 of his 45 years selecting and serving La
Campana’s ancient dish of “carciofo alla giudia,” or fried
Jewish artichokes, at 6 euros ($8.47) a pair.  “Eat the whole thing, even the prickly part,” says Rome’s
foremost artichokologist. “No waste.”  Cansoneri’s position steams CAAB manager Patricia Hopper.
Her job is to figure out how California farmers -- who last
season picked 5,664 acres clean of 53,890 tons of American
artichokes worth $63 million -- can lift the U.S. out of the No.
8 spot on the UN’s FAOSTAT cynara cardunculus production table,
overtake No. 6 China and, eventually, knock Italy out of first
place by getting Americans to grow and eat more artichokes.  Geopolitics  “The UN says the Chinese each year produce 66,000 tons of
artichokes,” says Hopper, who’s also responsible for welcoming
the expected 35,000 visitors to Castroville’s annual  artichoke
festival  on May 21. “Now tell me, when has anyone ever trusted
any statistical data coming out of China? And you know the UNFAO
is based in Rome. A coincidence?”  FAO  spokesman Erwin Northoff
says his organization doesn’t cook its statistics. “Member
nations provide us with the raw numbers,” Northoff says.
“We’ve never found Italian or Chinese artichoke data to be
nonsensical.”  Hopper concedes that La Campana’s fried artichokes are
yummy and says the UN is full of hooey. Besides, she adds,
“Marilyn Monroe is our secret weapon, no matter what the UN and
La Campana tell you.”  Northoff is dubious of the correlation. “There’s
absolutely no statistical similarity between the shape of an
artichoke and Marilyn Monroe,” he says.  Artichoke Queen  History proves otherwise. Years before Playboy founder  Hugh Hefner  made Monroe the magazine’s first cover girl in 1953, the
California Artichoke & Vegetable Growers Corporation on Feb. 28,
1948, crowned her Artichoke Queen. As Hopper tells it, artichoke
ranchers Edward Modena, Enrico Bellone and Randy Barsotti
spotted the starlet promoting diamonds in a local jewelry store.  “The boys invited Marilyn on a tour of the fields, threw a
sash over her shoulders and crowned her Queen of the Artichokes
over a lunch of fresh artichoke hearts,” Hopper says. “It was
a brilliant marketing strategy and I’m relaunching the
campaign.”  Hopper says the CAAB’s founding fathers sent Monroe off to
put some shine on an industry for decades controlled by New York
mobster Ciro “the Artichoke” Terranova, but the Three Stooges
(Curly, Larry and Moe) messed things up when Curly’s habit of
using artichokes as hand grenades captured the imagination of
pre-Playboy American youth. Then the U.S.  Central Intelligence
Agency  got into the act, codenaming their mind-control
experiments Project Artichoke.  “It also doesn’t help that our only nickname is choke; you
know, hit-man Arty Chokes three for a dollar at the
supermarket,” Hopper groans. “People forget that artichokes
stimulate the taste buds and help prevent gall stones.”  Counting Petals  Hopper says the challenge is finding solid evidence to
prove that Monroe patriotically refused to eat Italian
artichokes and that the U.S. produces more of them than China.  “All the growers who knew Marilyn are dead,” Hopper says.
“We once counted artichoke petals to help establish American
dominance, but that was ridiculous, so we stopped.”  Some historians maintain Monroe was a Greek artichoke.  “The claim does have marketing clout,” Hopper says. “The
story goes that Zeus grew bored with the women on Mount Olympus
and decided to go slumming on Earth. He met a sexy Greek girl
named Cynara, but she grew tired of him and left. So Zeus hurled
a lightning bolt at Cynara and turned her into an artichoke.”  Hopper says Greek stalwarts are pushing the theory in hopes
of surpassing Switzerland’s No. 29 spot on the UN’s artichoke
hit parade. “Can’t blame them,” she says. “There’s a
financial crisis in Greece, too.”  Chef’s Secret  Back at La Campana, “Ancient Rome’s local restaurant,”
chief artichoke fry-man Enrico Rabottini has only praise for the
Italian choke and says that  Sophia Loren  eats there. “I prepare
1,200 artichokes a week for our customers,” the 26-year-old
chef says, plopping a crisp one on a plate. “The cooking
temperature must be precise to remove all grease. Exactly 25
minutes in hot oil, and then two minutes more in very hot oil.”  Hopper agrees with Rabottini’s rough recipe and says she’s
embarrassed that Americans have yet to master the intricacies of
carciofo alla giudia. “We first batter our fried chokes, so
they come out of the fryer too greasy,” she says. “Everyone
around here calls them French-fried chokes.”  Yet while Cansoneri remains firm on Monroe’s partiality for
Italian artichokes and Northoff continues to decline pleas for a
UN artichoke audit and Chinese Agriculture Minister  Han Changfu 
fails to return phone calls, an eyewitness has come forward to
set the record straight.  Hugo’s Shed  That would be “too damn old” Hugo Tottino, who says he
was 21 on the day of Monroe’s coronation. “Randy Barsotti
brought Marilyn into my artichoke shed,” recalls Tottino, a
partner in  Ocean Mist Farms , the largest artichoke installation
in the U.S. “She was a real good-looking woman and she’d never
before eaten an artichoke. No way Marilyn would have eaten a
Chinese or Italian choke. I was there, I knew the lady and
taught her about artichokes.”  Tottino says Monroe’s endorsement briefly boosted sales.
“She was really committed to helping artichokes,” Tottino
says. “If Marilyn was still alive, there would be no squabbling
about America being No. 1 in artichokes.”  Information: La Campana, 18 Vicolo della Campana, 00186
Rome,  http://www.ristorantelacampana.com  or +39-0668-75-273.  To contact the writer on the story:
A.  Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 