-- 
Mario Andretti, Hilary Swank, Stipe, Marsalis: Scene Last Night

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-24T15:44:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/mario-andretti-hilary-swank-stewart-stipe-marsalis-scene-last-night.html
Mario Andretti wore silver sneakers
and recalled a near crash as jumpsuited models passed vegetable
timbales.  It happened in a 2003 test run and sent his car into the
air for a few flips.  “Fortunately I landed on four beautiful Firestone tires,”
said Andretti, 71, who won the 1969 Indianapolis 500 and will
drive the pace car for this year’s race on May 29.  “I may not pull over -- we’ll see how long the fuel lasts,”
he said at a party last night at the  Classic Car Club . This year
marks the 100th anniversary of the Indy 500.  Driver Ryan Briscoe, wearing  Calvin Klein , a brand owned by
Indy 500 sponsor Izod, said he’ll be doing long workouts to
prepare for the race.  “It’s about endurance,” he said before departing with his
wife for a reservation at the Brazilian steakhouse  Churrascaria
Plataforma . His meal on race day will be pasta and chicken three
hours before the race.  Helio Castroneves, who has won the Indianapolis 500 three
times as well as Season 5 of television’s “Dancing With the
Stars,” said that his “Brazilian talents” on the dance floor
do not help him race. “When you’re in the car, the hips don’t
move,” he said.  ESPN broadcaster Vince Welch noted that 725 men and 7 women
have raced in the Indianapolis 500.  “We can do the same job as the men,” said the Swiss-born
Simona de Silvestro, the race’s 2010 Rookie of the Year.  ‘Love for  Japan ’  A few blocks away, at EN Japanese Brasserie, Wynton Marsalis blew his horn, Hilary Swank praised the sushi rolls and
waiters offered oysters, homemade tofu and beef tongue.  Martha Stewart  wore knee-high leather riding boots.  The gathering, dubbed “Love for Japan,” was a fundraiser
for the Japan Society’s Japan Earthquake Relief Fund, put
together by the restaurant’s owner, Reika Yo.  “Japan is one of my favorite places on earth,” said
R.E.M.’s Michael Stipe. “It’s unbearably catastrophic what
happened.”  Stewart said she felt compelled to do her part because on
her visits to Japan, the Japanese people have treated her “with
such hospitality and with such good will and good nature.”  Artist Terence Koh, who wore a furry white coat, donated a
black-ink drawing to a silent auction. Also on the block were a
photograph by Laurie Simmons, a vinyl sculpture in the shape of
a shrimp by designer Anne Koch and a pair of silver shoes
donated by Madonna.  “I am so sad about my country,” Yo said in her airy
restaurant decorated with cherry blossoms. “Tonight I have
happy tears because I feel the love and the support and it’s a
very, very beautiful thing.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or
amandagordon on  http://twitter.com/amandagordon .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 