-- 
Harmony Gold Rises the Most in Two Years on Takeover Speculation

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-03-24T17:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/harmony-gold-rises-to-highest-price-since-june-2009-as-rbc-upgrades-rating.html
Harmony Gold Mining Ltd.,  Africa ’s
third-largest producer of the metal, rose the most in more than
two years in Johannesburg trading after  RBC Capital Markets  said
the mining company may become a takeover candidate.  The stock jumped 12 percent to 98.40 rand at the 5 p.m.
close, the biggest one-day gain since November 2008, valuing the
Johannesburg-based company at 42.3 billion rand ($6.2 billion).
RBC’s Leon Esterhuizen yesterday raised Harmony to “outperform”
from “sector perform,” citing it as a possible takeover target.  “Another gold major could be looking at a strategy of
making a bid for Harmony” to strip out its Papua New Guinea
assets and re-list the rest separately, Esterhuizen wrote. It
may “make sense” for larger competitor  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  to
make a bid, he said, adding that a tie-up with  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s largest gold producer, is “a bit less obvious.”  Harmony’s Chief Executive Officer Graham Briggs dismissed
the suggestion it may be a target for Gold Fields, speaking in
an interview with Johannesburg-based SAFM radio today. Any move
to separate Harmony’s assets would see its non-South African
operations “gobbled up” by “majors,” he said. He wasn’t asked
about AngloGold or any other potential suitor.  Briggs, who became Harmony’s CEO in 2008, has been closing
unprofitable operations to focus on longer-life, lower-cost
mines. The company is also expanding abroad to reduce exposure
to  South Africa , where gold mines are aging and labor and
electricity costs increasing.  AngloGold, Gold Fields  Alan Fine , a spokesman for AngloGold, and Sven Lunsche, a
spokesman for Gold Fields, said the companies don’t comment on
speculation.  Harmony and partner  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)  started output at
their Hidden Valley mine in Papua New Guinea last year and said
earlier this month their Wafi-Golpu deposit in the country is
showing “spectacular results.” They’re targeting 30 million
ounces of gold and 8 million metric tons of copper at the site.  “Even on the most conservative basis, Wafi could add in
the order of $1.5 billion to $2 billion to the value of
Harmony,” Esterhuizen said, adding that’s about 40 percent of
the company’s market value.  Harmony shares have risen 23 percent in the past six
months, beating AngloGold’s 0.8 percent gain and Gold Fields’ 12
percent increase. AngloGold rose 2.2 percent to 326 rand today,
while Gold Fields climbed 3.4 percent to 119.70 rand.  Briggs plans to raise output to 2 million ounces of gold a
year by 2013 from about 1.5 million ounces as gold prices climb.  The metal reached a record $1,447.82 an ounce in  London 
today as fighting in  Libya  and concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
is worsening spurred demand for alternative investments.  “Harmony is poised to start delivering on a significant
promise,” Esterhuizen said. “We believe this is its most
vulnerable moment and potential bidders know this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 