-- 
Martin Sheen Tells Roche Accutane Jury That Actor Marshall Was Future Star

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/martin-sheen-testifies-for-actor-who-says-roche-drug-destroyed-his-career.html
Martin Sheen  described the
“extraordinary” talent of fellow actor  James Marshall  in a
trial claiming  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Accutane acne drug caused
Marshall’s inflammatory bowel disease.  Sheen testified by video from California to jurors weighing
claims by Marshall, 44, who played Louden Downey, a U.S. Marine
in the 1992 movie “ A Few Good Men .” Sheen, a star of the movie
“Apocalypse Now” and the NBC drama “The West Wing,” said
Marshall showed great promise before emergency surgery in 1995
to have his colon removed.  “He was projected as a pretty serious movie star,” Sheen,
70, told jurors yesterday in state court in Atlantic City, New
Jersey. “He had a very unique talent that permitted him to go
to that place where all artists try to go, that extremely
personal place.”  Marshall seeks at least $11 million in damages from Roche,
the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs. The Basel,
Switzerland-based company pulled its brand-name version of
Accutane off the market in 2009 after juries awarded millions of
dollars in damages to former users over bowel-disease claims.  Sheen, speaking from  Woodland Hills ,  California , testified
two weeks after actor  Brian Dennehy  appeared in court to offer
similar testimony about Marshall’s talents. Marshall appeared in
the television series “Twin Peaks,” and his movie credits
include “Cadence,” “Gladiators” and “Hits!”  ‘Prisoner’ at Home’  Marshall previously testified that he’s a “prisoner in my
home” who must go to the bathroom 20 times some days and can no
longer work as an actor.  Sheen said he was a close friend of Marshall’s father, a
former Radio City Music Hall publicist who married one of the
Rockette dancers. Sheen knew Marshall since his birth, and later
directed him in “Cadence” and a TV special called “Babies
Having Babies.”  “The two times I directed him he looked like an actor,”
Sheen said. “He had great energy and vitality and a great sense
of humor. People don’t say they heard a good movie. It’s a
visual medium. It doesn’t hurt to look well.”  Stephen Bolton, Marshall’s attorney, asked Sheen to recount
his acting career, which began in 1959 in the theater in  New
York City . Sheen, the father of actor  Charlie Sheen , recounted
his appearances in “Apocalypse Now,” “ Wall Street ,”
“Gandhi” and other movies.  He tripped when Bolton asked him to name the stars he
appeared with in “The Departed.”  Actors in ‘Departed’  Sheen named Jack Nicholson and  Mark Wahlberg  before saying:
“Some of them were enormous stars. I’m having trouble, as
usual, remembering names.” Other players included  Matt Damon 
and  Leonardo DiCaprio .  Sheen said that Marshall changed when his ulcerative
colitis followed his movie successes.  “There was a very dramatic change in his physicality,”
Sheen said. “He was extremely thin. There was a marked
difference in his personality. He was not as gregarious or fun-
loving or as social as I remembered him. He was withdrawn in a
lot of ways.”  After the colon surgery, Sheen said, Marshall “looked very
wan, very thin, and kind of wasted.”  Bolton asked if it hurt his career.  “Absolutely,” the actor replied. “There’s no question
about that.”  Accutane is made by Roche unit Hoffmann-LaRoche Inc. of
Nutley,  New Jersey .  Cross-Examination  On cross-examination, Sheen testified that he didn’t know
how Marshall was treated for his acne, didn’t know at the time
that he took Accutane, and wasn’t aware of his health complaints
in the 1980s and early 1990s.  The trial is over lawsuits by Marshall and two other
plaintiffs, Gillian Gaghan and Kelley Andrews. All three are
California residents. Andrews, 29, is an account manager and
Gaghan, 34, is a nursing assistant.  More than 15 million people have taken  Accutane , once
Roche’s second-biggest-selling drug, since it went on the market
in 1982.  Roche contends Accutane’s link to  inflammatory bowel
disease  hasn’t been conclusively proved. The company also argues
it provided adequate warnings about risks that some users might
suffer bowel problems.  The case combining the three ex-Accutane users’ claims is
the eighth to go to trial since juries began weighing
allegations against the drug. Juries in New Jersey and  Florida 
have ordered Roche to pay at least $45 million in damages.  Cases Appealed  Appeals courts have thrown out some of the verdicts,
including a 2007 award of $7 million to a Florida man who blamed
the drug for his bowel disease.  An  Atlantic City  jury last year said Roche should pay
$25.1 million to a man who attributed his bowel disease to
Accutane. That case was a retrial of an earlier verdict
overturned on appeal.  In August, a New Jersey appellate court also overturned a
$10.5 million Accutane verdict against the company on an
evidentiary issue.  Roche has won dismissals of Accutane cases filed in federal
court that have been upheld on appeal and has challenged the
state court verdicts by asking judges to throw them out or
filing appeals, company officials said yesterday in a statement.  The case is Greenblatt v. Hoffmann-LaRoche Inc., ATL-l-
1246-06, New Jersey Superior Court, Atlantic County (Atlantic
City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  