-- 
Global Stocks Gain for Sixth Day; Portuguese Bonds Fall, Euro Strengthens

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-24T20:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/asian-stocks-new-zealand-dollar-gain-on-signs-of-global-growth-oil-drops.html
Global stocks gained for a sixth
day, the longest rally for the MSCI World Index since September,
amid improving earnings and speculation the need for European
bailouts may end with  Portugal . Portugal’s bonds fell, while the
euro strengthened against the dollar.  The MSCI gauge of 24 developed nations climbed 0.8 percent
at 4 p.m. in New York and is up 5 percent since March 16. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent. Portugal’s two-
year note yields pared gains after jumping 29 basis points to a
record 6.89 percent. Irish 10-year bond yield fell after earlier
topping 10 percent for a second day, while Spanish and Italian
yields were little changed and the euro rose 0.6 percent to
$1.4171. Gold erased gains after touching a record $1,448.60.  Oil fluctuated near $105 a barrel throughout the day as
allied warplanes continued strikes against Muammar Qaddafi’s
ground forces in  Libya . European leaders met in Brussels today
after Portugal’s parliament rejected budget-cutting measures,
pushing the country closer to requiring a bailout. Technology
shares led gains in U.S. equities after earnings topped
estimates at Micron Technology Inc. and Red Hat Inc.  “There is an old saying: ‘Don’t fight the market, don’t
fight the trend,’” said Todd M. Morgan, senior managing
director of Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC in  Los Angeles ,
which manages $6.5 billion. “It appears that the trend is
stable and as earnings move higher, the stock market wants to
move higher.”  Technology Shares Lead  The S&P 500 extended the rebound from its 2011 low last
week to 4.2 percent. Micron, the largest U.S. maker of computer-
memory chips, rose 8.4 percent and Red Hat, the biggest seller
of Linux operating system software, rallied 18 percent. All 10
of the main industry groups in the  S&P 500  advanced, with
technology stocks rising 1.6 percent to lead gains.  Stocks also climbed after initial U.S. jobless claims
decreased by 5,000 to 382,000 in the week ended March 19, Labor
Department figures showed, in line with the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The total number getting
benefits dropped to the lowest level in almost three years.
Commerce Department data showed bookings for durable goods
unexpectedly dropped 0.9 percent, reflecting declines in demand
for capital goods and military aircraft.  The benchmark measure of U.S. stock options capped its
biggest six-day drop since November 2008 as concern eased that
this month’s Japanese earthquake will curb the global economy.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX,
fell 6.1 percent to 18, extending its retreat since March 16 to
39 percent for the biggest decline over the same number of days
in 28 months.  U.S. Treasuries fell, with the 10-year yield rising five
basis points to 3.41 percent.  European Stocks  Nine stocks gained for every one that fell in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, which advanced 1 percent. Kingfisher Plc
jumped 7.2 percent and Next Plc rose 4 percent, leading gains in
U.K. retailers, after earnings beat estimates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1 percent, its fifth
advance. Benchmark stock indexes in  Russia  and  South Africa 
jumped at least 1.4 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed
1.5 percent as investors in Middle Eastern assets turned to the
 United Arab Emirates , which has been spared protests hitting
neighboring countries.  Egyptian shares erased earlier losses, with the EGX 100
Index gaining 0.9 percent after tumbling as much as 5.7 percent
earlier in the day and 9 percent yesterday. The market in  Egypt 
was open for a second day after an almost two months closuring
during an uprising that toppled President Hosni Mubarak.  Portugal Bonds  The yield on Portugal’s two-year bonds, which jumped as
much as 55 basis points this week, was up 10 basis points at
6.71 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year
Portuguese notes instead of benchmark German bunds rose two
basis points to 442 basis points today, the most in four months.  Bonds pared declines after two European officials with
direct knowledge of the matter said a bailout for Portugal may
total as much as 70 billion euros ($99 billion). Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc estimates the cost of a rescue at about 80
billion euros.  Portugal continued to rule out a rescue, a day after the
parliament’s rejection of budget cuts led Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  to offer to quit. As the EU summit got under way,  Fitch
Ratings  announced a cut in Portugal’s long-term foreign and
local currency issuer default ratings to ‘A-’ from ‘A+’ and in
its short-term issuer default ratings to ‘F2’ from ‘F1’. The
ratings were placed on rating watch negative.  Spain ’s 10-year yield was little changed at 5.17 percent
and  Italy ’s fell one basis point to 4.76 percent.  ‘A Yawn’  “As has been the ongoing case, if the sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe  ends with  Greece , Ireland and Portugal, the
economic impact will be very limited,” Peter Boockvar , equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a note to
clients. “The market response to Spain and Italy post a
Portuguese bailout is key and this morning there is a yawn with
bond yields in both little changed.”  The pound dropped against all 16 of its most traded peers
after a report showed U.K. retail sales fell more than
economists forecast in February.  New Zealand ’s dollar jumped
more than 1.2 percent against the U.S. currency and the yen
after a government report showed the nation’s economy expanded
more than economists predicted in the fourth quarter.  Cotton, corn, sugar and wheat rose more than 3 percent to
lead gains in commodities, while natural gas, cocoa and coffee
fell more than 1 percent for the biggest losses among materials
in the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in  New York  at    lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  