-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Set for Weekly Gains on Global Stock Rally

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-25T05:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/australian-new-zealand-dollars-set-for-weekly-gains-on-global-stock-rally.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars headed for weekly gains against all of their other major
counterparts as stocks rose worldwide and a measure of price
volatility declined, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s currency approached its highest in three
weeks after central bank governor Alan Bollard said the nation’s
economy will get a boost next year from “a very big”
construction boom after earthquakes struck Christchurch.
 Australia ’s currency approached the strongest since it was
freely floated in 1983 as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, completed its biggest six-day drop
since November 2008.  “There’s low volatility, a stable VIX index and equities
are doing well, so you have to be long the highest-yielding
currency you can find,” said  Tony Allen , global head of
 currency trading  in Sydney at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. “The kiwi can get a little higher over the next 24
hours.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise.  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0208 as of 4:24 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0212 in  New York  yesterday, having gained 2.5
percent this week. The currency was at 82.67 yen from 82.69 yen.
New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to 75.01 U.S. cents and
bought 60.75 yen from 60.71. The so-called kiwi has risen 2.6
percent against the greenback this week.  Asian stocks rose for a second day before a report forecast
to show the  U.S. economy  grew at a faster pace in the fourth
quarter than previously estimated. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
advanced 0.5 percent.  “Pretty Major”  U.S. gross domestic product grew 3 percent, compared with a
2.8 percent estimate issued last month, economists forecast
before the Commerce Department report today.  The VIX fell 6.1 percent to 18 yesterday, extending its
retreat since March 16 to 39 percent. That’s the biggest drop
over the same number of days in 28 months. The VIX needed to
fall below 17.53 to beat the six-day record set two months after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s September 2008 bankruptcy sent
stocks plunging.  Demand for the kiwi dollar was bolstered after  Reserve Bank 
of New Zealand Governor Bollard said reconstruction may add
“something like 2.5 percent extra impact on growth” next year.  “That’s pretty major, and we’re going to have some
challenges managing that and managing the bottlenecks around
it,” he said in response to questions after a speech in Sydney.  The nation’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates which is sensitive to expectations for
benchmark borrowing costs, rose to 3.29 percent from 3.23
percent on March 18.  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  