-- 
Australian Bourse Reiterates Business Logic of Singapore Exchange Merger

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-24T01:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/australian-bourse-reiterates-business-logic-of-singapore-exchange-merger.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) ,  Australia ’s main bourse
operator, reaffirmed its commitment to a proposed merger with
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  amid speculation the government may be
leaning toward opposing the tie-up.  “The ASX board maintains a strong belief in the need to
participate in global exchange consolidation and in the business
logic of the announced combination,” the company said in a
letter to shareholders containing dividend advice.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan this week dismissed
speculation his government may reject the takeover following
reports suggesting the political tide was turning against the
merger.  Singapore  Exchange and ASX submitted their merger
proposal to Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board on March
11.  The government was just going through the motions and would
not approve the takeover even if the Foreign Investment Review
Board says it can go ahead, according to the newspaper reports
and a person with knowledge of the issue, who spoke to Bloomberg
on the condition of anonymity because  Singapore Exchange ’s bid
for ASX is still being reviewed by regulators.  The bid, which won approval from Australia’s competition
regulator on Dec. 15, still also requires the support of Swan,
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission and parliamentarians, several of whom
have opposed the sale.  Political Opposition  The Sydney Morning Herald reported at the weekend that
Australia’s government is unlikely to support the merger, citing
a person it didn’t identify. The government’s disposition is to
reject the merger, regardless of any FIRB recommendation, the
person said, according to the newspaper.  The Australian Financial Review early this week reported
that political opposition to the deal was growing, citing
unnamed government sources predicting that it will fail to win
parliamentary approval.  Singapore Exchange, which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion ($8.5 billion), a 42
percent premium to ASX’s share price. It was valued at A$7.6
billion at yesterday’s close of trading in Singapore.  The Singapore bourse offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians as a way of easing political opposition to
the takeover on national-interest grounds.  Global Mergers  The proposed combination received a boost last month when
 Europe ’s Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to merge,
and after London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy
Canada’s TMX Group Inc., increasing pressure on rival exchanges
to expand.  The recent merger announcements “underscore the dynamic
forces driving developments among global exchanges,” according
to the ASX statement.  Even if the takeover wins all regulatory approvals in
Australia, laws amending the Corporations Act will need to be
passed in both houses of Australia’s parliament. The minority
Labor government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs the
support of four independent or Greens lawmakers to pass a bill
to raise ASX’s foreign ownership cap to make way for the
takeover.  ASX’s shares gained 1.1 percent to A$34.92 as of 11:46 a.m.
in Sydney trading today, paring their decline this year to 7.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 