-- 
Restrictions on Food From Japan Widen Amid Radiation Contamination Concern

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-03-24T06:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/australia-food-authority-moves-to-restrict-some-foods-sourced-from-japan.html
Australia and  Singapore  joined the
U.S. and Hong Kong in restricting food imports from Japan as
elevated radiation levels were found outside an evacuation
radius around the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Singapore suspended imports of milk and milk products,
fruit and vegetables, seafood and meat from areas affected by
the nuclear power accident, the nation’s Agri-Food & Veterinary
Authority said on its  website . Australia said it would place a
“holding order” on some products from four prefectures.  Stores and restaurants across  Asia  have dropped Japanese
food from shelves and menus as the nation’s government halted
spinach shipments and told residents around the stricken nuclear
plant not to drink tap water. Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said yesterday that higher radiation levels had been
detected outside a 30-kilometer (19 mile) radius of the plant
damaged in the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Australia  was taking action “as a precautionary measure
and consistent with approaches internationally,” Food Standards
Australia New Zealand said on its  website . The move covered milk
and milk products, fresh fruit and vegetables, seaweed and
seafood, it said.  The agency “remains of the view that the risk of
Australian consumers being exposed to radionuclides in food
imported from Japan is negligible,” the authority said. “Milk
and milk products and fresh produce are not imported into
Australia, while imports of seaweed and seafood represent a very
small proportion (5.5% and 0.46% respectively) of Australia’s
total imports of these products.”  Milk, Seafood  The produce from the affected region would be held at the
border indefinitely until food and nuclear regulators decided it
was safe to be distributed into the Australian market.  Less than 2 percent of Singapore’s imported seafood comes
from  Japan , and less than 0.5 percent of imports of other food
products come from Japan, the Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority
of Singapore said in a March 14 statement.  Thailand  will check all fruit and vegetable imports from
Japan’s main island, Honshu, before allowing their sale and will
randomly screen other products such as fish, Pipat Yingseri,
secretary-general of the Thai Food and Drug Administration, told
a media conference today. The country hadn’t found any abnormal
contamination since checks started in mid-March, he said.  Water Tests  Japan’s Health Ministry yesterday advised against eating
leafy vegetables produced near the crippled power plant, located
220 kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo. The degree of
contamination detected isn’t harmful, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Edano said at a Tokyo briefing. Authorities in the city will
distribute bottled water to families with infants after tests
this week showed that tap water may be unsafe for babies.  Levels of radioactive iodine taken from a sample today had
fallen to within safe limits, the Bureau of Waterworks said.  Hong Kong  said yesterday said it would bar imports of
agricultural products from the prefectures most affected by the
quake after finding levels of radioactive iodine in turnip and
spinach samples as much as 10 times the level the city allows in
food. The U.S. banned milk and fresh produce from the Fukushima,
Ibaraki, Tochigi and Gunma prefectures on March 22.  Japanese authorities barred the export of milk and
vegetables from the four areas on March 21, the U.S. Food & Drug
Administration, or FDA, noted in an  alert . Food believed to be
from the areas will be detained at the U.S. border unless the
importer can verify the products came from other regions of
Japan, the FDA said in an e-mailed statement.  European Union  The European Union said yesterday that it has no immediate
plans to ban food imports from Japan. New Zealand Ministry of
Agriculture spokesman  David Crowe  said today that the country
wasn’t taking action, while continuing to monitor the situation.  Some Shanghai luxury supermarkets halted imports of
Japanese fresh food including fish, the China Business News
reported, citing managers from the supermarkets.  Indonesia  will
temporarily stop importing fish and other aquaculture products
from Japan over radiation concerns, Investor Daily Indonesia
reported, citing Maritime and Fisheries Minister Fadel Muhammad.  South Korea ’s Food & Drug Administration said it may halt
imports of Japanese food in case the risk of “serious”
contamination increases. The state-agency said it hasn’t found
any radiation damage in the Japanese products so far.  Radiation Dilution  Fish are at lower risk of radioactive contamination than
leafy vegetables as radiation is diluted in seawater, said Yasuo
Sasaki, senior press counselor at the  Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries .  “Fishing in the northeastern prefectures of Fukushima,
Miyagi and Iwate has been suspended since the quake, lowering
the risk that tainted fish will be in the market,” Sasaki said.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. detected cobalt, iodine and cesium
in the sea near water outlets from reactors at its stricken
nuclear plant in Fukushima north of Tokyo this week.  The magnitude 9.0 earthquake was Japan’s strongest on
record and was followed by a tsunami that devastated the
northern coastline, killing 9,700 people as of noon in Tokyo,
and forcing hundreds of thousands to evacuate. The flood wave
crippled the Fukushima nuclear plant, knocking out cooling
systems and causing radiation leaks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  