-- 
Barry Minkow Is Charged With Conspiracy in Lennar Insider-Trading Case

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-03-24T18:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/barry-minkow-is-charged-by-u-s-prosecutors-with-conspiracy-in-miami.html
Barry Minkow, an ex-convict who
founded a fraud-detection firm and became a minister, was
charged today by federal officials with conspiracy in a case
involving homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   Minkow, 45, was accused in Miami of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  in a charging document known as an information,
which typically precedes a guilty plea. The charge carries a
maximum prison sentence of 60 months, his attorney, Alvin Entin,
said today in an e-mail.  “The criminal activity described in the government’s
filing has been a continuing assault on our company for several
years,” Lennar Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said in an
e-mailed statement. “We are pleased that the government is
pursuing the responsible parties.”  Minkow is expected to plead guilty in the case, Entin said
in a March 16 interview. The fraud charge stems from a dispute
in which Minkow’s  Fraud Discovery Institute  alleged that Miami-
based Lennar operated ventures “like a  Ponzi scheme ,” a report
that sent the company’s stock tumbling
20 percent in one day.  “Minkow’s manipulation of the market and his relationship
with the FBI for his personal gain caused a severe drop in the
stock prices of a large local corporation,” U.S. Attorney
Wifredo Ferrer said in an e-mailed statement. “This type of
deceit and abuse of trust will not be tolerated.”  Lennar Suit  Minkow had a formal relationship with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  as a “confidential human source,” with a duty to
protect confidential information disclosed by law enforcement
officials, according to the charging document. Minkow is accused
of abusing that relationship by reporting false criminal
allegations against Lennar.  Minkow allegedly worked with someone identified in the
information as Conspirator A to manipulate Lennar shares through
statements issued over the Internet and through press releases.
Lennar denied the allegations and sued Minkow in state court,
contending he conspired to extort money and caused reputational
harm.  “The information will indicate that co-conspirator A was
responsible for the misinformation concerning Lennar and Mr.
Minkow has agreed that he recklessly published these false
statements,” Entin said, declining to confirm the identity of
Conspirator A. “Mr. Minkow will make no other statement.”  Entin separately confirmed that Conspirator A is Nicholas
Marsch III, Lennar attorney  Daniel Petrocelli  said in a
statement.  Extortion Plot  Lennar’s  Florida  lawsuit against Minkow was originally
filed against Marsch, a San Diego-based developer who was
involved in a failed joint venture with the homebuilder. Marsch
hired Minkow to publicize damaging information about Lennar in a
scheme to extort money from it, according to the company’s
lawsuit.  “When false statements are disseminated to deceive the
investing public, whether they’re designed to prop up a company
or tear it down, the FBI will dedicate all available resources
to bring disseminators of such falsehoods to justice,” William
J. Maddalena, acting special agent in charge of the FBI’s Miami
office, said in a statement.  Minkow founded his business after serving a prison sentence
for fraud from 1988 to 1995. The San Diego-based company, whose
mission is the exposure of corporate fraud, supports itself by
trading against companies where it found executives
misrepresented their credentials or allegedly committed other
types of fraud. Minkow’s revelations led to resignations of
executives at companies such as  Microsemi Corp. (MSCC)  and  Intrepid
Potash Inc. (IPI)   The case is U.S. v. Barry Minkow, 11-cr-20209, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida, at
   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 