-- 
Basel Said to Consider 3-Point Surcharge on Biggest Banks

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-24T13:45:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/basel-said-to-consider-3-percentage-point-surcharge-on-big-banks.html
Global regulators are considering a
capital surcharge for the world’s largest banks that may force
them to hold as much as three percentage points more reserves
than other lenders, according to two people familiar with the
discussions.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is discussing
forcing banks whose collapse would disrupt the global economy to
surpass minimum standards agreed by world leaders in 2010. The
levels under consideration range from more than one percentage
point to as high as 3 percentage points of their common equity,
said the people, who couldn’t be identified because the talks
are private.  Governments and regulators are trying to avoid a repeat of
the turmoil in financial markets that followed the 2008 collapse
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and led to taxpayer-funded
bailouts of lenders across the world.  Switzerland  has already
proposed a surcharge for its two largest banks,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Sheila Bair , chairwoman of the U.S. Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., said she supports a 3 percentage point
surcharge, which may bring the Basel group in line with the
Swiss plans. “My personal view” is that “those are good
numbers,” Bair said in a separate interview on March 22. The
FDIC is a member of the Basel committee.  ‘Spurious Criteria’  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann
yesterday criticized efforts to force the world’s biggest
lenders to hold extra reserves.  Listing banks eligible for the surcharge would be based on
“spurious criteria, which, in turn, will create incentives to
manipulate such lists for political reasons,” he said in a
speech in  Frankfurt .  The Basel committee discussed the possible extra reserves
at a meeting earlier this month, said the people familiar with
the talks.  The Swiss government has proposed raising the minimum
common equity requirement for UBS and Credit Suisse to 10
percent from the 7 percent level set by the Basel committee.  “That sounded good to me,” said Bair, who steps down from
her post at FDIC in June.  Leap ‘Into Unknown’  A 3 percentage point surcharge wouldn’t be “a leap into
the unknown,” Nicolas Veron, senior fellow at Bruegel, a
Brussels-based economics research group, said in a phone
interview. The calculation of a surcharge is “ultimately a
matter of judgment and a political decision,” he said.  The  Group of 20 nations  asked the Basel committee in
November to draft the extra requirements for banks deemed too
big to fail. The Basel committee brings together regulators from
27 countries including Brazil, China, India, Germany the U.K.
and the U.S.  “Several of my colleagues on the Basel committee have
referred to the Swiss proposals as a source of inspiration,”
Mark Branson, head of banking supervision at the Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority, told journalists on March 22.  Increasing the Basel requirement by 1 percentage point is
“just not worth it,” he said. “Certainly what’s being talked
about at the moment is more than that.”  The  Financial Stability Board , which brings together
regulators and G-20 finance ministries, plans to take decisions
based on the Basel group’s proposals by the end of this year,
following a public consultation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 