-- 
Belarus Ruble May Devalue 20% on Deficit, UniCredit, RBS Say

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-03-24T16:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/belarus-ruble-may-devalue-20-percent-on-deficit-unicredit-says.html
Belarus may devalue its ruble by at
least 20 percent in the coming weeks as the former Soviet
republic depleted reserves to plug its current-account deficit,
according to UniCredit SpA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The country’s reserves including foreign currencies and
precious metals dropped 20 percent this year to $4.02 billion at
the end of February, according to data on the central bank’s
website. This year’s retreat follows a 11 percent drop last
year, the data show.  “We assume that the draw down in reserves continued in
March,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at RBS in
 London , wrote in a report today. “What seems clear is that
absent external financing assistance, the  exchange rate  needs to
adjust significantly weaker.”  Belarus’s ruble headed for its biggest two-day decline in
five months today, while bonds rebounded after yields on the
government’s 2015 and 2018 dollar debt surged to record highs.
The country has at least $2 billion of ruble and dollar debt
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This current reduction in reserves may force the central
bank to devalue the ruble by 20-30 percent, Ash said. The
currency may depreciate 20 percent, according to UniCredit.
Belarus devalued its currency by about a fifth in January 2009
after banks’ access to financing froze in the wake of the
worldwide credit crunch and as demand for exports shrank.  The country’s current-account deficit was 16 percent of
gross domestic product last year, more than double the level
relative to economic output for  Greece  at about 11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Immediate Solutions’  “Immediate solutions are needed,”  Dmitry Gourov , an
emerging-market strategist at UniCredit in Vienna, wrote in an
e-mailed note today. “Devaluation is still likely in the coming
weeks.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on Belarusian debt one
step to B, five steps below investment grade, on March 15,
citing “‘uncertainties” in “its external funding gap in 2011
and the corresponding pressures on the exchange rate.”  Belarus requested a $1 billion loan from Russia and a
$2 billion loan from an anti-crisis fund set up by the Eurasian
Economic Community, a grouping of post-Soviet nations, Russian
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said on March 15 in Minsk,
following a meeting with Belarus Prime Minister Mikhail.  “Only privatization to  Russia  and loans from Moscow can
support the country,” Gourov wrote. “This takes time.”  Belarus’s ruble fell 0.2 percent, extending the two-day
slump to 0.4 percent, at 3:25 p.m. in London. The 2015 bond
rebounded, driving the yield 19 basis points higher to 12.19
percent. The yield on the four-year note soared 249 basis points
in the previous two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  