-- 
Benin Opposition Supporters, Unions, Protest Boni Yayi Election Victory

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-03-24T15:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/benin-opposition-supporters-unions-protest-boni-yayi-election-victory.html
Supporters of  Benin  opposition
candidate Adrien Houngbedji protested the March 13 election
victory of President Thomas Boni Yayi, as a coalition of unions
expressed concern about growing anger in the West African
nation.  “Your real and elected president is Adrien Houngbedji,”
said Atao Hinnouho, a local opposition official, told a crowd of
about 400 supporters in the Akpakpa neighborhood of Cotonou, the
commercial capital, today.  Police dispersed the protests and arrested some
demonstrators, including opposition lawmaker Raphael Akotegnon,
citing a security ministry directive banning public
demonstrations, Commander Philippe Houndegnon said at the site.  Provisional results from Benin’s Constitutional Court gave
Boni Yayi a first-round win and a second term in office with
more than 53 percent. Houngbedji, who contested a runoff against
Boni Yayi in 2006, won 36 percent, according to the court.  Leaders of five unions in  Benin  said the court should be
cautious when it declares its final result, likely next week.  Election Delayed  “We don’t need war in Benin as it happens now in  Ivory
Coast  and  Libya ,” Gaston Azoua, head of the Confederation
Syndicale des Travailleurs du Benin, told reporters.  The election was delayed twice over concerns about the
voters’ list, with last-minute registrations being held up to a
day before the ballot took place. Anger over the electoral
commission’s organization of the vote may pose problems for
parliamentary elections slated for April 17, said Pascal
Todjinou, leader of the Confederation General des Travailleurs
du Benin.  The election was “peaceful, fair and transparent,”
according to the Economic Community of West African States,
which urged candidates to take their complaints “through
constitutional channels” in a statement dated March 20.
Houngbedji filed a complaint to the court, said Alain Adihou,
his spokesman.  Abdoulaye Bio Tchane, another opposition candidate, formed
a coalition with seven other contestants to call on the
commission to re-run the March 13 poll, state-owned broadcaster
Office de Radiodiffusion et Television du Benin reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 