-- 
Bernanke's Plan for Press Conferences Puts Fed in Line With Central Banks

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T19:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/bernanke-to-hold-press-briefings-after-fomc-meetings.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold press conferences after policy meetings four
times per year in one of his biggest efforts to improve the
central bank’s connections with a skeptical public.  The briefings will be broadcast on the Fed’s website and
coincide with the Federal Open Market Committee meetings when
officials update economic projections. The first will be April
27 at 2:15 p.m. Washington time, the Fed said today in a
statement. The FOMC’s statement will be released at 12:30 p.m.
on the days when Bernanke is speaking, instead of the usual time
of 2:15 p.m., the central bank said.  The announcement brings the Fed in line with other central
banks and marks the most significant change to its communication
policy since 2007. Bernanke has spent almost five months
countering criticism from Republican lawmakers over record
monetary stimulus. A majority of Americans said in a December
poll that the Fed should either be brought under tighter
political control or abolished outright.  It’s important to the Fed that “they be seen as
transparent, that they’re not hiding secrets and that they head
off any criticism from Congress,”  Diane Swonk , chief economist
at Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago , said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  led a group of officials
tasked in November with reviewing practices to determine where
to draw the line between confidential policy discussions and
public comments.  Clarity, Timeliness  “The introduction of regular press briefings is intended
to further enhance the clarity and timeliness of the  Federal
Reserve ’s monetary policy communication,” the central bank said
in its statement. “The Federal Reserve will continue to review
its communications practices in the interest of ensuring
accountability and increasing public understanding.”  The other press briefings this year will be June 22 and
Nov. 2, both following FOMC meetings when governors and regional
Fed presidents present updated economic forecasts. Bernanke will
hold the briefings to discuss the projections and “to provide
additional context for the FOMC’s policy decisions,” the Fed
said.  The timing of the first briefings will give Bernanke a
chance to clarify or elaborate on any decisions on completing
the $600 billion of Treasury purchases begun in November in an
effort to boost growth and reduce unemployment. The Fed is
scheduled to finish the purchases in June; Bernanke hasn’t said
what the central bank will do after that.  Group of Seven  Bernanke, 57, had been the only head of a Group of Seven
nations central bank not to give press conferences to explain
actions and projections. He had previously relied mainly on
speeches, congressional testimony and occasional interviews to
convey his messages.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa each hold one after
every policy meeting, while  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
speaks once a quarter. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney also
holds regular briefings.  The Fed, which began announcing its interest-rate decisions
in 1994, undertook its broadest review of communications in
three years as officials approved the $600 billion monetary
stimulus that sparked backlash from some politicians and foreign
governments, who said the move risked inflation and asset-price
bubbles.  Central Bankers  In October, central bankers, in a special videoconference
meeting, considered whether Bernanke should hold regular press
conferences and whether the Fed should adopt a numerical
inflation or price-level objective, the Fed said in November.  Bernanke indicated Feb. 3 that the central bank was leaning
toward starting press conferences, saying officials were “very
seriously” considering the move. Policy makers had to weigh
“valuable” transparency against the risk of “unnecessary
volatility” in financial markets from remarks being
“misinterpreted,” he said in a question-and-answer session at
the  National Press Club .  The last broad review of communications in 2006-07 focused
on how to give the public more information on policy objectives.
Before that, Bernanke and some other officials advocated
adopting a numerical inflation target, and others, including
former Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn , said they were more skeptical.
Ultimately the Fed decided to double the frequency of published
economic forecasts to four times a year and add a third year to
its projections.  The Fed updated its economic-projection policy in 2009,
adding longer-run forecasts for inflation, economic growth and
joblessness to give the public a better idea of the levels
officials view as consistent with legislative mandates for
stable prices and maximum employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  