-- 
Best Buy's Full-Year Earnings Forecast Trails Some Analysts' Projections

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-03-24T20:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/best-buy-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-as-demand-for-smartphones-rises.html
Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer electronics retailer, forecast full-year profit that
trailed some analysts’ projections, citing economic challenges.  Excluding the effect of restructuring costs and stock
buybacks, profit will be $3.30 to $3.55 a share, the Richfield,
Minnesota-based company said today. Analysts on average
projected $3.55, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Consumers are facing increasing pressures from unemployment
and higher gas prices, which may lead them to curb spending,
Chief Financial Officer Jim Muehlbauer said today on a
conference call. Best Buy has posted back-to-back quarters of
revenue declines as the competition for television bargain
hunters escalates among retailers.  “The TV category is going to be very tough in the first
half of the year,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott in  New York , said today in an interview. He
rates Best Buy as “buy” and estimated that TVs account for
about 15 percent of sales. “There’s been little excitement to
generate interest.”  Best Buy declined $1.72, or 5.4 percent, to $30.13 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the most in
three months. The shares have slipped 12 percent this year.  Net income fell 16 percent to $651 million, or $1.62 a
share, in the quarter ended Feb. 26. Excluding items such as
costs to close stores in China, earnings were $1.98 a share.
Analysts predicted $1.84, the average of estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Discounting  Discounts helped boost comparable-store sales of
smartphones as competition from Amazon.com Inc. and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  led to falling TV sales in Best Buy locations open
at least 14 months. Best Buy Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn
is reorganizing stores and retraining employees to push sales of
gadgets that work together.  “Consumers are clearly telling us that they are interested
in capturing all the benefits of a connected lifestyle, but they
are also selective about how and where they spend,” Muehlbauer
said. Sales in the second half probably will improve compared
with the first as the company invests in its mobile business, he
said.  Fourth-quarter revenue fell 1.8 percent to $16.3 billion.
In the year-earlier quarter, net income was $779 million, or
$1.82.  Best Buy said last month it would close all of its nine
Best Buy branded stores in  China  to focus on expanding the more
profitable domestic chain it acquired five years ago, while
reducing costs in its U.S. supply-chain operations.  Tapping demand for mobile devices, Best Buy plans to open
about 150 Best Buy Mobile stores in the U.S. in fiscal 2012,
according to a Feb. 21 statement. It plans to slow the opening
of its large-format namesake stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in New York at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  