-- 
BHP, Xstrata Win Battle With Australia Over Mine Tax Credits

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-24T07:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/bhp-xstrata-win-battle-with-australia-over-mine-tax-credits.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto 
Group won their second mining-tax battle in  Australia  after the
government agreed to allow them to credit future state royalties
imposts against a planned 30 percent levy on their profits.  The government aims to release draft laws in coming months
and introduce the legislation in the second half of the year,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said
today in an-emailed statement, accepting all 98 recommendations
of a review into the tax on coal and  iron ore  producers.  A campaign by mining companies last year forced Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  to water down the original tax proposed
by ousted national leader  Kevin Rudd . Today’s decision ends a
second dispute over the tax, forecast to raise A$7.4 billion
($7.5 billion) in its first two years from 2012.  “The government supports the recommendation that all
current and future royalties be credited,” the ministers said
in the statement released in Canberra. “All levels of
government should ensure the taxation of Australia’s resources
preserves our international competitiveness.”  BHP rose 1.2 percent to A$44.71 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney
time close on the Australian stock exchange. Rio gained 1.1
percent, while Macarthur Coal Ltd. increased 3.5 percent.  Miners including BHP, Rio and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  argued that the
July 2 agreement with the government included an accord to
credit all future state royalties and that investment decisions
had been based on that understanding. The government previously
said it wouldn’t credit future royalty increases by the states.  Rio Tinto  “We note the government’s announcement and look forward to
seeing the Policy Transition Group recommendations, including
credit for royalties, reflected in the legislation,” Rio
managing director of Australia David Peever said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will follow the legislative process closely.”  BHP spokeswoman Kelly Quirke said the company remains
committed to working with the government in accordance with the
heads of agreement.  The review, headed by former BHP Chairman Don Argus said in
December that mineral and gas royalties should be creditable
against the planned Minerals Resource Rent Tax liabilities.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia today highlighted gains in
resource company profits in its financial stability review
released in Sydney.  “On a matched sample basis, underlying profits for listed
ASX 200 resources companies were around 68 percent higher in the
second half of 2010 compared with the corresponding period in
2009, while profits for other non-financial companies were
little changed,” the central bank said.  Earnings, Tax Proceeds  Share market analysts are forecasting resources companies’
earnings to increase by 64 per cent in the 2011 fiscal year, the
bank said.  Gillard in July cut the proposed tax to a 30 percent levy
on iron ore and coal profits from predecessorRudd’s 40 percent
tax on all resource profits.  The proceeds from the tax will reduce the corporate  tax
rate  for all Australian businesses to 29 percent from 30 percent,
provide A$6 billion in spending for roads, rail and ports, and
increase the amount paid to people’s retirement savings to 12
percent of their salary by 2020 from the current 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 