-- 
Stanley Ho Gives Family Macau Casino Stake to End Dispute

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-25T09:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/billionaire-ho-gives-family-macau-casino-stake-to-end-dispute.html
Billionaire  Stanley Ho  gave up
almost all his stake in the parent of  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) ,  Asia ’s
biggest casino company, to resolve a family dispute that pitted
some of his children against him and led to lawsuits.  Managing Director Angela Leong On Kei, mother of Ho’s five
youngest children, will get 6 percent of SJM’s parent Sociedade
de Turismo e Diversoes de  Macau  SA and other family members will
get 25.538 percent, SJM said yesterday. SJM rose to the highest
in two months in Hong Kong trading today.  “Angela Leong seems to be the winner as her part of the
stake becomes bigger than before,” said Lam Ka Kei, an analyst
at Redford Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It will affect
SJM’s share price positively because the company is moving
toward a steady situation.”  The 89-year old tycoon earlier said daughters  Pansy Ho  and
Daisy Ho and other family members seized his 31.7 percent stake
in STDM, as the parent is known, forcing him to sue to reclaim
his assets. SJM, which posted an almost fourfold jump in 2010
profit, runs most of the casinos in Macau, where gambling
revenue is more than four times that of the  Las Vegas Strip .  SJM rose 5.9 percent to HK$13.98, the highest since Jan. 21.
STDM owns 55.69 percent of SJM, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ho transferred his 7.7 percent stake in SJM to Leong in
December. The dispute then started when Chan Un-chan, whom Ho
refers to as his third wife, and children Pansy, Daisy, Maisy,
Josie and Lawrence took control of Lanceford Co., which holds
the biggest stake in STDM, according to statements in January.  Children and Women  Ho, who has 16 surviving children from four women, will
retain 0.117 percent in the parent. The statement didn’t
identify the other family members.  “The arrangement partially removed the overhang on the
stock and will allow the market to turn its focus on SJM’s
fundamentals,” said Donald Cheng, an analyst with Haitong
International Securities in  Hong Kong . Cheng, ranked No. 1 by
Bloomberg in terms of one-year return among analysts covering
SJM, has a “buy” rating on the stock.  The January transfer was against the wishes of Ho, who had
wanted to divide his assets equally among the family, his lawyer
Gordon Oldham said. Closely held STDM also has investments in
construction, hotels and Macau’s airline.  The settlement “has no effect on the company and there
will be no change in management or strategic direction of the
company,” SJM said in the statement.  Gambling Monopoly  Ho, ranked Hong Kong’s 13th richest man with a net worth of
$3.1 billion by Forbes magazine, said on March 10 the dispute
was settled, without giving details.  He built his fortune over five decades after Macau’s
colonial government granted him and his partners a gambling
monopoly in 1962.  The monopoly wasn’t renewed after 2001 and Macau granted
licenses to casino rivals, including Sheldon Adelson’s Las Vegas
Sands Corp. and Steve Wynn’s Wynn Resorts Ltd.  During the dispute, family members and Ho issued
conflicting statements, with his lawyer showing recorded video
clips of the tycoon issuing instructions.  SJM said March 17 net income increased to HK$3.56 billion
last year from HK$906.7 million in 2009. Gamblers betting as
much as 2 million patacas ($250,000) a hand are driving record
growth in the only place in  China  where casinos are legal.  Casinos operated by Ho and his family have a more than 50
percent market share in gaming revenue in the Chinese enclave.
The tycoon was released from a hospital in March 2010 after a
seven-month stay.  -- Michael Wei . Editors: Hwee Ann Tan, Terje Langeland  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  