-- 
Gates Says Self-Made Wealthy Are More Generous Than Heirs

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r ,   A p r i l   L e e   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-24T19:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/bill-gates-says-self-made-wealthy-are-more-generous-than-heirs.html
Bill Gates , the college dropout who
started the world’s richest charitable fund, said needy people
depend on self-made millionaires and billionaires to donate
money before passing their wealth on to less-generous heirs.  “Our experience worldwide is that first-generation wealth
is actually more generous than dynastic wealth,” Gates, the
richest American, said today at a press conference in New Delhi.
“Both here in India and U.S. and other countries, the biggest
givers are those who are receivers of first-generation wealth.”  Gates, 55, is pressing the rich to give away more of their
money. He started the  Giving Pledge  in June with  Warren Buffett 
and offered membership to billionaires who agree to commit half
their fortunes to charity. Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg , filmmaker  George Lucas  and New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  have signed up. India’s entrepreneurs will
have an opportunity to give back as well, Gates said.  “The fact that India over the last 20 years has developed
these incredible success stories means that a very high
percentage of them in their own way will be giving back to
society,” Gates said.  Buffett, who appeared on the dais today with Gates, has
said more than 99 percent of his wealth will go to charity
before or after his death. The 80-year-old investor amassed the
second-biggest fortune in the U.S. by building  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  from a failing textile mill to a $210 billion
holding company. Gates is the co-founder of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   ‘Wealth Is Theirs’  “Those who made their wealth entrepreneurially, there’s a
sense in which they feel their wealth is theirs,” said Kat
Rosqueta, executive director at the Center for High Impact
Philanthropy at the  University of Pennsylvania . “As opposed to
those whose wealth has been inherited, where they feel much more
of a responsibility as stewards of somebody else’s wealth.”  Buffett and Gates and his wife, Melinda Gates, said in a
statement that they met with India’s leaders of business and
philanthropy to discuss giving. The leaders “talked quite
enthusiastically about their own approach to philanthropy,”
Gates said in the statement.  “Both Buffett and Gates have developed iconic statuses as
philanthropists globally, not just in the United States,” said
Marian Stern, an adjunct assistant professor at  New York 
University’s Heyman Center for Philanthropy and Fundraising.
Buffett “is going to have access before anyone else to these
people and to have a robust discussion with them.”  China  Visit  Gates and Buffett, whose Giving Pledge has registered more
than 50 commitments, met resistance when they traveled to China
in September to discuss philanthropy. Some wealthy Chinese
declined an invitation to attend a private gathering with Gates
and Buffett in Beijing because they’d be asked to donate to
charity, Chinese-language newspaper  Economic Observer  reported.  “Many cultures do things more quietly than we do in the
United States,” said Susan Raymond, executive vice president
for research at philanthropy consulting firm Changing Our World.
Philanthropy is “not something that you stand up and seek
public recognition for. It’s something that’s actually just part
of the pattern of what is expected of you.”  Buffett has pledged the bulk of his wealth to the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation. He also makes gifts to charities
seeking to ease hunger, boost education in the U.S. and promote
access to abortions. Buffett has enlisted his three children to
help give away his money. Gates, ranked by Forbes as the world’s
second-richest man behind investor  Carlos Slim , is a Berkshire
director.  Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  New Delhi  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  