-- 
Carlos Slim Triples Money on Oklahoma-Based Bronco Drilling as Oil Rises

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T20:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/billionaire-slim-triples-money-on-oklahoma-s-bronco-drilling-as-oil-rises.html
Carlos Slim ’s investment in an
Edmond, Oklahoma oil driller has more than tripled in value in
the past nine months, giving the Mexican billionaire a boost as
he adds to his energy investments.  Bronco Drilling Co. fell 4 cents to $10.86 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. That’s more than triple
its price on June 29, giving it the best performance since then
among 14 industry peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Slim, who has a joint venture with Bronco in  Mexico , is
entering Colombia’s oil market through a separate $23.3 million
acquisition. He has a 15 percent stake in Bronco, making him the
second-largest shareholder after Third Avenue Management LLC,
plus warrants that could boost his stake to 20 percent.  Bronco has benefited from rising oil prices and from its
own strategy of selling off rigs that use older technology,
reducing debt and readying new rigs with more modern design,
said  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in
Houston who recommends buying the shares.  “People started paying attention to it,” Uhlmer said in a
phone interview. “They figured out that management had
transformed the company from a bunch of non-performing assets.”  Slim’s stake in Bronco is worth about $45.6 million, part
of his public holdings of $73.8 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. His Colombian investment, a stake in
Geoprocesados SA’s Tabasco Oil Co., is held through publicly
traded Grupo Carso SAB, whose construction unit also provides
drilling services to  Petroleos Mexicanos .  Betting on Commodities  Slim said in a February interview he’s betting on
commodities because of the surge in demand he expects from
 developing countries  such as India and  China . Crude oil for May
delivery fell 15 cents to $105.60 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , slipping from the highest level since
September 2008. Prices have climbed 31 percent in the past year.  Slim’s Inmobiliaria Carso fund disclosed a stake of 2.2
million shares in Bronco in October 2008, when the stock was
trading above $6. He bought an additional 2 million shares
through March 2009 as the stock fell further. He has warrants to
buy 5.44 million Bronco shares for at least $7 apiece.  Investor concern that oil supplies will be disrupted has
heightened since the U.S. and its allies initiated preparations
to attack Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops and political
unrest spread from Tunisia to  Egypt , Yemen, Bahrain and Syria.  Bronco insiders have also benefited from the company’s
share gains. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frank Harrison
has sold more than 77,000 shares since Feb. 25 after an award of
almost 106,000 restricted shares in January. Executive Vice
President Zachary Graves sold 127,000 shares since Jan. 12 after
an award of 103,000 restricted shares in January.  Bob Jarvis, a spokesman for Bronco, and  Arturo Elias , a
spokesman for Slim, didn’t return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  