-- 
Assassinated Depression-Era Japan Finance Chief Invoked in Rebuild Debate

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-25T07:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/boj-s-shirakawa-wrangles-with-lawmakers-seeking-bond-purchases-after-quake.html
Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is under fire for refusing to consider 1930s-style
purchases of government bonds to fund reconstruction from the
nation’s record earthquake.  Shirakawa repeatedly attempted to quash direct buying of
government debt, a step allowed in extraordinary circumstances
with the permission of the Diet, in appearances before lawmakers
this week. The policy would undermine confidence in the yen and
provoke a surge in consumer prices, he said at parliamentary
fiscal and finance committee hearings.  “If this isn’t a special situation, what is?” Kozo Yamamoto, a Diet member with the opposition  Liberal Democratic
Party , said in an interview this week. Yamamoto advocated a 20
trillion yen ($247 billion) reconstruction program funded by BOJ
debt purchases. A group of ruling-party lawmakers submitted a
similar proposal to Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  on March 18,
according to a web log posting by DPJ member Yoichi Kaneko.  The debate parallels discussions last year in the U.S. and
 Europe , where the  Federal Reserve  and  European Central Bank 
adopted bond-buying programs. In Japan, the world’s most-
indebted country, some lawmakers have also proposed tax
increases for the first time since 1997, when such a step helped
tip the economy into a recession.  Yields Retreat  Kaneko’s group cited Japan’s experience of the 1930s as
evidence that BOJ purchases of public debt are an effective
means of ending deflation.  “Bank of Japan bond underwriting is a policy that is
evaluated highly worldwide because it helped Japan recover from
the Great Depression before others,” when the policy was
implemented by then-finance minister Korekiyo Takahashi, the
Kaneko group’s proposal said.  Takahashi boosted spending by 34 percent in the 1932 fiscal
year, financing it by doubling bond issuance, according to a
report by the  Japan Center for Economic Research . While the
effort helped end deflation, much of the outlays were used for
the military, and Takahashi made enemies when he later attempted
to rein in inflation. He was assassinated in 1936.  “If a central bank starts to underwrite  government bonds ,
there may be no problems at first, but it would lead to a
limitless expansion of currency issuance, spur sharp inflation
and yield a big blow to people’s lives” and the economy, as has
happened in the past, Shirakawa said three days ago.  History Lesson  Mikishi Daimon, a legislator of Japan’s Communist Party,
asked Shirakawa to explain the BOJ’s policy in the era of
Takahashi at the Diet today. Shirakawa said the central bank
took the step in the 1930s because the  debt market  was “very
immature,” whereas it is now “able to absorb bond issuance
smoothly even after the earthquake.”  Benchmark 10-year government bonds yielded 1.22 percent as
of 3:45 p.m. in  Tokyo , down 7.5 basis points, or 0.075
percentage point, since the March 11 magnitude-9 temblor and
ensuing tsunami devastated the northeast of the nation. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government said two days ago that the
damage amounted to as much as 25 trillion yen.  Noda said yesterday he wants to pass a supplementary budget
to fund rebuilding next month. Using public bond sales to pay
for the package would add to a debt that the  finance ministry 
projected in January would increase to a record 997.7 trillion
yen in the year starting April 1.  Tax Increase  Shinichiro Furumoto, the director general of the DPJ’s tax
committee, has floated a 1 percentage point increase in the
 consumption tax .  “Japan’s fiscal situation means the government can’t
increase spending for reconstruction without being clear about
how to fund them,” said Takero Doi, a professor of economics at
 Keio University  in Tokyo and a member of an advisory panel to
the Ministry of Finance.  Raising Japan’s income tax may be the best option, Doi said.
An increase in the 5 percent national sales tax should be
reserved for social-security costs dealing with the country’s
aging population, while the corporate tax shouldn’t be lifted
because Japan’s levy is already the second highest among
developed nations, he said.  Australia  is also considering taxes to pay for its
rebuilding efforts after floods and a cyclone hit the state of
Queensland, with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  proposing a A$1.8
billion ($1.8 billion) levy.  Hit to Growth  Politicians including Yamamoto and Kaneko oppose tax
increases to fund the reconstruction because it could sap
private demand that’s already hurt by the quake. Japan’s gross
domestic product contracted at a 1.3 percent annualized pace in
the fourth quarter and Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.
predicts it may shrink as much as 12 percent in April to June.  “There’s no way that taxes can be increased when there’s
deflation,” the LDP’s Yamamoto said. The proposal submitted by
the DPJ’s Kaneko called for no tax increases for several years
and reductions in some levies.  Government figures today showed deflation remained in place
before the temblor. Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell
for the 24th straight month in February, by 0.3 percent from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said.  Some lawmakers last year had already pushed the central
bank to step up its monetary stimulus to bolster the recovery
from Japan’s deepest postwar recession.  Bond Buying  The BOJ has purchased JGBs through the secondary market,
and includes the securities in its 10 trillion yen asset-
purchase plans. The Fed and ECB’s programs are also done through
the secondary market.  Under Takahashi’s initiative, the BOJ’s underwriting
continued for 14 years until the end of World War II, with the
ratio of bonds bought by the central bank peaking in 1933 at
89.6 percent, according to a 2001 paper by the central bank.  Today, the  Bank of Japan  has a self-imposed rule of not
holding more JGBs in its portfolio than banknotes outstanding.
Shirakawa today said the BOJ is “currently buying a large
amount of government bonds” to offer abundant cash to financial
markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  