-- 
Rosneft to Defend BP Deal as Russia Billionaires Win Ruling on Share Swap

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-03-25T16:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/bp-rosneft-deal-blocked-in-dispute-with-russian-billionaires.html
State-controlled OAO Rosneft will
seek to push through a $7.8 billion share swap and Arctic
venture with  BP Plc (BP/)  after the deal was blocked by the U.K.
company’s Russian billionaire partners.  Rosneft “will defend its position in the deal, a deal that
is good for  Russia ,” Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , who is
also the oil producer’s chairman, told reporters today near
Moscow. “BP suits us as a partner.”  BP will apply for a ruling on whether the share swap can
proceed by itself, the U.K. company said in a statement. It is
disappointed by yesterday’s outcome and will look to “resolve
its differences” with its billionaire partners in TNK-BP,
Russia’s third-biggest oil producer.  BP’s partners, represented by the AAR group, claim the
right for TNK-BP to pursue new opportunities in Russia for the
London-based  oil company . Last month, they won a temporary
injunction on the deal, which was extended yesterday by an
arbitration tribunal.  Sechin said Rosneft may seek compensation as it incurs
losses as the deal remains suspended. “The company will assess
who is causing the agreement to fail.”  The ruling is a setback for BP’s efforts to exploit one of
the largest untapped oil troves. The January agreement with
Russia’s state-owned oil company was part of Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Dudley ’s strategy to revive the U.K. producer
after last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Damaged Output  “AAR has now put itself in a very strong position to have
either a more active role for TNK-BP in the deal or to get
compensation,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow.  Tensions between the two sides have flared up again after
two years of peace following a battle over TNK-BP’s strategy in
2008 that damaged output and led to Dudley’s dismissal after
five years in the top post at the venture.  AAR claimed Dudley favored BP’s interests over its own at
TNK-BP, which accounts for about a quarter of BP’s global output
and a fifth of reserves. The U.S. executive and BP denied the
charge.  Dudley  became BP CEO on Oct. 1.  “Willfully ignoring the provisions of the shareholder
agreement was a serious misjudgment by BP that has severely
damaged the relationship between the TNK-BP shareholders; it has
also harmed BP’s reputation in Russia,” AAR CEO Stan Polovets
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We expect Bob Dudley
to make every effort to rectify the situation and rebuild the
trust that has been lost.”  ‘Looking Unprepared’  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  lauded BP and
Rosneft’s alliance at a meeting with Dudley near Moscow on Jan.
14, hours before the deal was announced. BP agreed to swap 5
percent of its shares for a 9.5 percent stake in Rosneft and
form an Arctic offshore exploration venture, in the first deal
of its kind between a state-owned company and an international
oil producer.  “Most people would have assumed that in such a large
strategic deal, the issues would have been straightened out
beforehand,” said  David Hart , an analyst at Westhouse
Securities Ltd. in  London . “This makes Dudley look unprepared,
it seems like a very basic thing to get wrong.”  Putin said on March 4 that Dudley left him “completely
unaware” of a potential spat. None of the parties informed
Rosneft “there could be any difficulties,” he said.  Rosneft’s Arctic development will continue, whoever the
partner is, Sechin said.  First Well  BP will have to reach an agreement with the TNK-BP board if
it still wants to complete a deal with Rosneft, AAR’s Polovets
said.  TNK-BP management, led by billionaire shareholder and
interim CEO  Mikhail Fridman , had proposed buying BP shares and
swapping them for a stake in Rosneft, as well as replacing BP in
the Arctic. The arrangement was  rejected  at a March 12 meeting
in Paris by BP’s four directors on the  TNK-BP board .  BP had asked the board at that meeting to consider allowing
the share swap with Rosneft and clearing TNK-BP to start talks
with Rosneft about the Arctic exploration. AAR rejected the
plan. The swap would reduce TNK-BP’s negotiating leverage with
Rosneft, TNK-BP said at the time.  The current situation “doesn’t make us nervous,” Sechin
said. “We’re assuming that BP weighed all the risks, its
authority and abilities when it signed the agreement with
Rosneft, as did AAR when taking action to prohibit the deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  