-- 
Brown Sees ‘Bears in Forest’ as Legislative Defeat Looms for Tax-Plan Vote

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-24T15:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/brown-sees-bears-in-forest-as-legislative-defeat-looms-for-tax-plan-vote.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown 
faces his first legislative defeat this year as he races against
time to persuade at least four Republican lawmakers to support a
June ballot measure on extending tax increases.  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat elected in November, has been
lobbying Republican legislators to allow a statewide vote on
extending $9.3 billion in temporary tax and fee increases, to no
avail. The governor said yesterday that he remains hopeful.  Still, Brown and his advisers are weighing alternatives
such as an initiative that would reach the ballot in November
through a petition process rather than legislative approval. The
extension is the key part of the governor’s plan to close a
$26.6 billion  budget deficit  projected through June 2013.  “Nobody said it was going to be easy,” Brown told
reporters outside the Capitol in  Sacramento  yesterday.
“Whichever way I look, I see bears in the forest.”  Brown was elected to a third term last year on pledges to
repair financial strains that have left California with the
biggest deficit and the lowest credit rating among U.S. states.
The former attorney general and Oakland mayor served two terms
as governor from 1975 to 1983.  The Legislature has already approved bills that cut the
deficit by $14 billion. Brown will sign some of those measures
today, according to a statement from his office.  Credibility an Issue  If lawmakers snub his plan for a June vote, both Brown and
the Legislature will likely lose credibility, said  Mark Baldassare , president of the Public Policy Institute of
California in  San Francisco . A survey from the organization
yesterday showed approval ratings for both Brown and the
Legislature have fallen since January, when the governor took
office.  “People had really prioritized the budget and budget
solutions as something that this Legislature and this governor
would be able to accomplish,” Baldassare said by telephone
yesterday.  “This is what matters,” he said. “This is something in
control of the governor and the Legislature.”  State officials say it may be too late to set up a special
election for as early as June 14 without running the risk of
disenfranchising voters because of the time it takes to prepare
the ballot. Brown hasn’t set a hard deadline for reaching a deal
or abandoning his goal of a June plebiscite.  No Republicans  Brown had sought agreement in the Legislature by March 10
to give election officials time to get ready for a statewide
vote June 7 or June 14, the last possible day before the
constitutional deadline of June 15 for passage of a budget.  So far, no Republican has publicly come over to Brown’s
side. The survey by Baldassare’s group showed that support for
the governor’s plan has waned, with 51 percent of likely voters
backing it compared with 66 percent in January. The poll also
showed that Brown’s approval rating among likely voters dropped
to 41 percent from 47 percent in January.  Brown’s personal popularity will be crucial to support his
pitch to voters for tax increases or extensions, said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the  University of Southern
California .  The governor will have a harder time selling his proposal
in November, as then the measure would be framed as a tax
increase rather than as an extension of existing taxes in June,
Jeffe said. The higher taxes and fees are set to end that month.  ‘Words Matter’  “He would have to put it on the ballot as a tax increase”
after they expire, Jeffe said. “Words matter.”  California law requires the Legislature to approve ballot
referendums at least 131 days before an election, a deadline
that has passed. Lawmakers can rewrite the statutes if they want
and have before, setting a vote in as little as 88 days -- yet
June 14 is closer than that.  The 88-day period was set in 2009, when former Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  sought to extend the same temporary tax
increases. Voters rejected the measure.  Treasurer Bill Lockyer said he isn’t optimistic Brown will
find a compromise with lawmakers before time runs out.  “I’m skeptical,” Lockyer said in an interview yesterday
on Bloomberg Televison’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  “If there’s not an agreement, there are some very
substantial cuts that need to be made and some of these citizen
groups that care about these issues are talking about
circulating petitions and getting it on the ballot by initiative
and having an election in the fall,” Lockyer said.  Tax Increase  A citizen-sponsored ballot initiative in November would
probably need to seek tax increases, because the temporary
measures end with the fiscal year in June.  A November vote likely would favor Brown’s cause because
Democratic turnout is typically heavier for elections that
month, said Jaime A. Regalado, director of the Edmund G. “Pat”
Brown Institute of Public Affairs at  California State University 
at  Los Angeles . On the other hand, opponents would have an
easier time labeling Brown’s proposal a tax increase, he said.  “We’re in a climate right now where people feel they can’t
afford any more taxes, even though they still want the
services,” Regalado said by telephone from the institute, named
after Brown’s father, a former governor.  “A continuance is not the same thing as asking voters for
an increase,” Regalado said.  In November, about 57 percent of California voters rejected
an $18 increase in vehicle license fees to pay for state parks.
Tom Del Beccaro, the new chairman of the California Republican
Party, said that result spells trouble for the larger tax
package that could appear before voters this year.  “Californians are never going to pass this tax increase,”
Del Beccaro said. “They don’t have the money. Californians
didn’t ask for these tax increases.”  Republicans’ Goals  Republicans have said they want voters to have a choice to
curb public-employee pension benefits, to cap spending and to
rescind business and environmental regulations. A group of five
Republican lawmakers has met with Brown in an attempt to forge a
compromise, without producing a deal.  California’s general-obligation debt shares with Illinois
the lowest  credit rating  of any state from Moody’s Investors
Service. The A1 grade is Moody’s fifth-highest.  Standard &
Poor’s  gives California an A-, its fourth-lowest level for
investment-quality securities and the worst for any state.  The poll by Baldassare’s group surveyed 935 likely voters
by telephone from March 8-15 and had a margin of error of plus
or minus 4.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  