-- 
Budget Disagreements of $50 Billion May be Bridged by Boehner-Reid Rapport

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-24T15:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/budget-disagreements-may-be-bridged-by-boehner-reid-rapport.html
Prospects for settling the U.S.
budget battle hinge in part on the fledgling relationship
between House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid .  With the House and Senate about $50 billion apart on how
much funding to cut this fiscal year, talks to reach an accord
and avert a government shutdown are being conducted by the two
lawmakers who until this year had few dealings with one another.
Other congressional leaders say that along with the White House,
it’s largely up to Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, to resolve the dispute.  “They’re practical people, which helps,” said  Jon Kyl  of
 Arizona , the Senate’s No. 2 Republican. “They’re both good at
understanding what their limitations are, in terms of the people
they represent. Both have their challenges, and they’re both a
little bit different. But they’re both up to it, and will get it
done because it has to get done.”  The Republican-led House last month approved cutting
 government spending  by $61 billion through Sept. 30, which would
kill more than 100 programs and reduce hundreds more. The
Democratic-led Senate has gone along with about $10 billion in
cuts. An April 8 deadline, when current federal funding ends,
looms over current negotiations for splitting the difference.
And the talks’ outcome likely will affect prospects for future
compromises, including an approaching Obama administration
request for increasing the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  Pragmatists  Many lawmakers say Reid and Boehner are pragmatists who
embrace the importance of Congress getting its work done.  “It’s likely they will come to terms and cooperate because
they are both institutionalists,” said Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat.  Before January, when Boehner became speaker, interaction
between the two was “less than occasional,” and came mostly in
group meetings, said Boehner spokesman  Kevin Smith . Now, they
speak frequently by telephone and have met directly three times.  Representative Tom Latham, an Iowa Republican who often
dines with Boehner, said the speaker and Reid are developing “a
very good personal relationship. They talk on a regular basis.”  With Congress on a week-long recess, top aides for the two
are conducting talks over differences that include the House’s
bid to retain policy directives in a budget bill, such as
banning funds for last year’s health-care overhaul.  Reid is relying on his chief of staff, former Comcast Corp.
senior vice president David Krone. Representing Boehner is his
chief of staff, Barry Jackson, who also was an adviser to
President  George W. Bush . Both helped hash out two stopgap
spending measures passed earlier this month that contained the
$10 billion in cuts the Senate accepted.  Trading Barbs  Boehner and Reid, who both declined to be interviewed, have
largely refrained from personal attacks during the budget
battle, often leaving it to lieutenants such as Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, to trade barbs.  Boehner last week turned to Democrats to help pass the
second stopgap measure, which 54 Republicans opposed. He told
reporters “it’s never been lost on me” that he will have to
work for a bipartisan deal.  Reid praised that approach, telling reporters on March 17
he wanted to “hand a bouquet to Speaker Boehner” for reaching
out to Democrats.  Although the two differ over the benefits of government
spending to address problems, there is common ground.  Amending Bills  Both have opened up the legislative process in their
chambers. Boehner allowed hundreds of amendments to the measure
cutting $61 billion in spending, while Reid in January struck a
“gentleman’s agreement” that resulted in Senate Republicans
getting more chances to alter bills.  Both are self-made men. Boehner, 61, speaks often of a
youth spent sweeping out his father’s bar and sharing a home
with 11 siblings. Reid, 71, was raised in a Nevada mining town
by an alcoholic father and a mother who took in laundry from
brothels.  They also have track records of compromising. Reid has
worked with Republicans on issues that include 2008’s $700
billion financial bailout and legislation last December
extending Bush-era tax cuts.  Pension Bill  Boehner in 2006 joined forces with Representative John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, and Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, on a pension-law
overhaul. In 2001, he and Representative  George Miller , a
California Democrat, helped usher into law the No Child Left
Behind education measure.  “He’s fully up to the task” of negotiating a budget deal
with Reid, Miller said.  In the debate, both leaders have been pushed further apart
by their rank and file. Boehner initially backed spending cuts
of $31 billion, then boosted that to $61 billion after an
uprising from Republicans, including dozens backed by Tea Party
activists in last year’s elections.  Reid responded to discontent from other Democrats by saying
a budget agreement should include revenue enhancements, such as
ending tax breaks for oil and gas companies.  “Anything that will come out” of negotiations “will have
substantial opposition from their very different
constituencies,” said  Ross Baker , a political science professor
at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  Lawmakers say Boehner appears to be in the toughest spot,
because a bloc of fiscally conservative House Republicans will
balk at anything less than the $61 billion spending cut. Still,
they say he can probably win over most House Republicans and
turn again to some Democrats to pass a budget bill.  “His aim is pretty clear: He wants to reduce spending as
far as he can,” said Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma
Republican. “When he thinks he’s gotten to that point, he’ll
strike the deal. He can deliver most of the caucus; might not be
able to deliver everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  