-- 
Portuguese Bonds Slide as Prime Minister Quits on Budget, Fitch Downgrades

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-24T17:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/bunds-rise-on-safety-demand-as-portugal-s-prime-minister-quits-over-cuts.html
Portuguese notes tumbled, leading
declines in  Europe , as the resignation of Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  stoked concern the government is moving closer to
seeking a bailout.  Two-year Portuguese yields reached the highest since 1999
amid concern the country may struggle to repay about 9 billion
euros ($12.7 billion) of debt due by June. Portuguese bonds
stayed lower after  Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s long-term
foreign and local currency rating to A- from A+. Greek bonds
declined, while German bunds were little changed.  The resignation is “another nail in the coffin in terms of
a bailout package,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “This may be another
underlying burdening factor. It doesn’t seem to be the case that
you can say that the possibility of default is off the table.”  The yield on Portugal’s two-year note jumped 10 basis
points to 6.71 percent as of 4:50 p.m. in  London , and reached
6.89 percent earlier. The 10-year yield advanced three basis
points to 7.66 percent, leaving the difference in yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds
two basis points higher at 442 basis points. It earlier reached
450, the most since November.  Irish bonds rebounded after falling when LCH Clearnet Ltd.,
Europe’s largest clearing house, said it will raise the extra
deposit charged to trade Irish securities.  Credit-Default Swaps  Portugal’s President Anibal Cavaco Silva said yesterday he
will meet the main parties on March 25 and the government will
retain its powers until he accepts Socrates’s resignation. The
vote came hours before European Union leaders meet in Brussels
to sign off on measures aimed at drawing a line under the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Fitch said it may make further credit downgrades to
 Portugal , which has already raised taxes and implemented the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades to convince
investors it can reduce its budget shortfall.  The cost of insuring Portuguese government debt jumped 17.5
basis points to 552, the highest since it closed at a record 555
on Jan. 10, before retreating to 535, according to CMA.  A bailout for Portugal may total as much as 70 billion
euros, said two European officials with direct knowledge of the
matter. A financial lifeline would be between 50 billion euros
and 70 billion euros, according to the officials, who declined
to be named because the issue is confidential. Portugal has not
yet asked for a bailout. The figures remain preliminary, the
officials said.  Moody’s Downgrade  Portugal’s credit rating was cut two steps by Moody’s
Investors Service on March 15 to A3, four steps from so-called
junk status, with the outlook on the grade “negative.”  The nation completed a sale of a 50 million-euro floating-
rate note due in seven years, according to a person familiar
with the deal that was done by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Portugal’s crisis comes as the nation braces for its first
bond maturities of the year. It has 4.3 billion euros of bonds
expiring on April 15 and 4.9 billion euros to be redeemed in
June, said  Chiara Cremonesi , a strategist at UniCredit SpA in
London. It also has 8.7 billion euros of bills due by November,
she said.  The Irish 10-year yield declined five basis points to 10
percent, after rising to 10.21 percent. The spread over bunds
narrowed six basis points to 6.75 percentage points. It widened
earlier to as much as 6.98 percentage points, or 698 basis
points, the most since at least 1991, when Bloomberg began
compiling the data. LCH said it will increase the extra margin
required for clients to trade Irish securities to  35 percent .  Spanish Downgrades  The yield on the two-year note dropped 36 basis points to
9.89 percent, after earlier increasing to 10.38 percent.  Ireland’s economy shrank in the fourth quarter of 2010 as
 consumer spending , investment and exports declined. Gross
domestic product fell 1.6 percent from the previous three
months, when it increased 0.6 percent, the  Central Statistics
Office  said in Dublin today.  Spanish notes fluctuated as Moody’s cut credit ratings on
30 of the country’s lenders. Citing heightened financial
pressure on the country’s sovereign rating and “many weak
banks,” the New York-based ratings company cut 15 lenders by
two levels and five by three or four, according to a statement
today. The outlook on most banks’ senior and deposit ratings
remains negative, Moody’s said.  First Maturities  German bonds were little changed, with the 10-year bund
yield rising less than one basis point to 3.25 percent. Yields
on two-year notes were at 1.68 percent. The federal government
plans to sell 83 billion euros in bonds and bills in the second
quarter, unchanged from a projection in December, the Federal
Finance Agency said.  Greek 10-year bonds fell for a third straight day, pushing
the yield two basis points higher to 12.57 percent.  Portuguese bonds have lost investors 1.3 percent this
month, extending their decline this year to 4.7 percent, while
Irish bonds have lost 4 percent since Feb. 28, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Greek securities lost 1.1
percent this month, while German bonds lost 0.5 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  