-- 
California’s Lockyer Says Odds of a Year Without Bond Sales May Be Rising

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/california-s-lockyer-says-odds-of-a-year-without-bond-sales-may-be-rising.html
California , the biggest issuer of
debt in the municipal market, may be unable to sell bonds this
year depending on Governor  Jerry Brown ’s efforts to bridge a
$26.6 billion budget gap, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  Lockyer, who oversaw sales of more than $27 billion of debt
in 2010, was responding to news reports that Brown may use the
ballot initiative process to force a referendum on $9.3 billion
of temporary tax increases, the linchpin of his budget plan, in
November.  Brown has been pushing for a June referendum, before the
start of the new fiscal year July 1. So far, he’s been blocked
by Republican lawmakers. Without the  tax revenue , Brown has said
he may need to close the entire imbalance with spending cuts.
Even the Democrat who runs the Senate, President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, has said that would be difficult to pass.  “Absent a balanced budget, in effect an all-cuts budget,
the odds would increase that we wouldn’t be able to sell bonds
until next January because the treasurer has no interest in
trying to access the market without a balanced budget,”  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Lockyer, said in an interview
yesterday.  A delay until January means the state might have to shut
down hundreds of bond-financed public-works projects, Dresslar
said. Such an interruption would be the second time in three
years that funding was halted by a budget impasse. California
has enough money to keep them going until the end of this
calendar year, Lockyer said in an interview on Bloomberg
Televison’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” yesterday.  Sales Postponed  Lockyer and Brown agreed in January to postpone general-
obligation bond sales until sometime after September, to reduce
debt-service costs. At the time, Dresslar estimated California
would sell $5.8 billion of the bonds in the second half of this
year, once it was known whether voters had approved the tax
extensions.  If the vote is pushed back to November, Dresslar said,
there wouldn’t be time to prepare a  bond issue  before a self-
imposed “dark period” in December and early January, when the
state typically halts sales while new economic data and a new
budget are prepared.  The treasurer would only be able to sell bonds if lawmakers
and Brown pass a budget that doesn’t count on the tax revenue
from a November election, Dresslar said.  California had about $71.7 billion in securities
outstanding as of the end of June, according to Lockyer.  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, California has fought
through a combined $100 billion of shortfalls in the past three
years. U.S. governors face deficits totaling as much as $112
billion in the coming fiscal year, according to a March 9  report 
by the Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.  Taxes, Fees  Brown wants voter approval to retain for five more years a
0.25 percentage-point increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25
percent; an increase in the rate for auto-registration fees of
0.5 percentage point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and
a reduction of the state’s child tax credit to $99 from $309.  The taxes were raised in 2009 when former Republican
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers confronted a $42
billion deficit. They are set to expire this year.  The extra yield buyers want for a California bond maturing
in March 2040 compared with an average for top-rated debt rose
33 basis points to 1 percent yesterday, according to a Bloomberg
Valuation index. That’s down from 121 basis points on Jan. 20. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  California shares with Illinois the lowest credit rating of
any state from Moody’s Investors Service. The A1 grade is
Moody’s fifth-highest. Standard & Poor’s rates California A-,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities, the
lowest of any state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  