-- 
Canada Dollar Gains for First Time in Three Days as Oil Near 29-Month High

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-24T21:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/canadian-currency-advances-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-crude-oil-rises.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened
against its U.S. counterpart for the first time in three days as
crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, traded at almost the
highest level in 29 months.  The Canadian currency rose versus most major peers as
speculation Portugal will get a bailout bolstered confidence in
the economic outlook, fueling demand for higher-yielding assets.
Commodities and stocks rose. Elections became more likely in
Canada after  Michael Ignatieff , an opposition leader, said
yesterday his Liberal party will introduce a non-confidence
motion in the government tomorrow.  “Commodities are up,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a
currency brokerage. “The political story in Canada has no
traction in favor of rising crude-oil prices and risk
appetite.”  Canada’s currency, also known as the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.7 percent to 97.52
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.16 cents
yesterday. It reached 97.32 cents, the strongest level since
March 14. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0254.  The loonie trimmed gains as commodities slipped from their
highs of the day. Crude oil for May delivery rose as much as 0.9
percent to $106.69 per barrel in New York before trading at
$105.42. It touched $106.95 a barrel on March 7, the highest
since September 2008, and has gained 8.8 percent this month.  Raw Materials  Gold futures for April delivery reached a record $1,448.60
an ounce in New York before sliding to $1,429.80. The
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials increased 0.4
percent. Raw materials including gold account for about half of
Canada’s export revenue.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9 percent and
the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities gained 1 percent. The MSCI
gauge was up for a sixth day, its longest rally since September.  “The market has the feel that risk is on,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for foreign exchange trading at Bank
of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in Toronto.  The loonie appreciated as much as 0.4 percent versus the
euro to C$1.3777 as Portugal moved closer to needing external
aid after Prime Minister Jose Socrates’s offer to resign left
his government in limbo just before a European Union summit on
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The currency later traded
little changed at C$1.3828 per euro.  Drawing a Line  The meeting is focused on measures aimed at drawing a line
under the debt crisis. European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said he expects governments to agree on the
financing of the future euro rescue fund after  Germany  called
for it to be renegotiated. He spoke to reporters after attending
the first day of the summit, which ends tomorrow.  A rescue of  Portugal  may total as much as 70 billion euros
($99 billion), according to two European officials with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The Canadian dollar dropped 0.4 percent over the past month
in a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro gained
1.8 percent, while the greenback lost 1.2 percent.  Canada’s currency appreciated 1.4 percent today to C$1.5724
versus sterling, the worst performer among major currencies,
after data showed U.K. retail sales in February dropped more
than economists estimated. The loonie fell 0.5 percent against
the  New Zealand  dollar, the top performer, trading at 73.06
Canadian cents. New Zealand is another exporter of commodities.  Opposition Majority  Leaders of Canada’s three opposition parties said C$7.6
billion ($7.7 billion) in new measures announced March 22 by
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  in his budget presentation weren’t
enough to warrant their support. Opposition lawmakers hold a
majority of seats in the House of Commons.  Gilles Duceppe, leader of the  Bloc Quebecois , and Jack Layton of the  New Democratic Party  told reporters in Ottawa
yesterday they’ll support the Liberal non-confidence motion.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper, speaking yesterday to
reporters in Ottawa, said Canada’s economy isn’t a political
game and the rejection of the budget will hurt the nation.  “The market will treat any political development as
noise,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in Toronto. “It’s hard to see
the political situation dislodge the Canadian dollar.”  Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the two-year
note up three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.71
percent. The price of the 1.75 percent security maturing in
March 2013 decreased 6 cents to C$100.08. The 10-year yield rose
one basis points to 3.21 percent.  The number of Canadians receiving jobless benefits fell for
the sixth time in seven months in January,  Statistics Canada 
said. The number of regular beneficiaries declined 2 percent to
640,150. It dropped 9.2 percent from the same time a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in  New York  at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  