-- 
Canada Stock Sales, IPOs May Top $40 Billion, Scotia Capital's Smith Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-24T11:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/canada-stock-sales-ipos-may-top-40-billion-scotia-capital-s-smith-says.html
Stock sales in Canada may eclipse
the $40.6 billion reached in 2010 as demand for capital spreads
beyond the resource sector, said Philip Smith, Scotia Capital’s
deputy head of global  investment banking .  “This year promises to be above average, just based on the
first quarter,” Smith said in an interview. “I think you’ll
see much more activity in technology, media, telecom, consumer
products and industrial products.”  The unit of Bank of Nova Scotia leads Canadian equity,
equity-linked and preferred sales this year, the first time it’s
led the ranking since the third quarter of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Toronto-based lender has advised
on 25 deals worth $1.41 billion, including sales by Brookfield
Asset Management Inc., Bell Aliant Corp. and Manulife Financial
Corp.  “Finally you’re starting to see it’s a broad enough market
that has real depth to it,” said Smith, 44. “Even though oil
and gas and mining will be pretty strong, I don’t think they’re
going to be as dominant going forward as they have been in the
past two years.”  Canadian companies have raised $10.3 billion in 246 initial
public offerings and secondary sales this year.  IPOs may also rebound after “climbing out of the chasm
that was 2008,” Smith said. “Our IPO pipeline is pretty good;
there are potentially a couple of very large IPOs in the back
half of the year.”  There have been 31 IPOs in  Canada  this year worth $110
million, a plunge from 36 deals worth $1.85 billion in the year-
earlier quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  More Research  Smith  credited the 2008 hiring of Patrick Burke as head of
institutional equity sales and the promotion of John Henderson
as head of research for part of the bank’s recent success with
stock sales and mergers. The investment bank has also increased
research on foreign companies, adding 100 firms in  Mexico ,  Peru ,
 Colombia , the U.S. and elsewhere, in industries such as
insurance and energy, over the past two years.  “It’s time for us to look outside of Canada,” said Smith,
whose team travels to Latin America every two weeks. “I expect
that’s going to continue, but it’s going to be very sector-
specific, where we see something that ties into our overall
platform and also complements what our investing clients want.”  Smith, who also serves as chairman of the  Investment
Industry Association of Canada , was among the presenters before
a Parliamentary committee on March 9 concerned about the
proposed sale of  TMX Group Inc. (X)  to  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc. (LSE)  While Scotiabank is one of the only Canadian banks that
hasn’t voiced an opinion on the proposed transaction, Smith said
IIAC members are “divided” on the deal.  TMX, LSE  The Canadian government, which will review the TMX
transaction to see whether it will be of “net benefit” to
Canada, may ask the companies to make changes to the transaction
to guarantee that TMX-listed companies don’t become
disadvantaged, Smith said.  “It suggests to me there’s enough political interest in it
that they’ll come back looking for some changes,” Smith said.
“They’ll throw it back to the (Toronto Stock Exchange) and LSE
saying ‘come back with another deal.’”  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  is Canada’s third-largest bank by
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 