-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls as Inventories Offset Weather Demand

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-24T16:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/canadian-natural-gas-falls-as-inventories-offset-weather-demand.html
Canadian natural gas for April
delivery fell after a report today that U.S. inventories were
above five-year average levels, tempering speculation that
Canadian shipments would increase.  Stocks of the fuel fell 6 billion cubic feet to 1.612
trillion last week, the U.S. Energy Department said in its
weekly report. Inventories were 34 billion cubic feet above the
five-year average. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey forecast a
withdrawal of 8 billion cubic feet. Last week’s report showed a
bigger-than-forecast decline of 56 billion cubic feet.  “Most people were at single-digit withdrawals so nobody
really missed it,” said  Martin King , senior commodity analyst
at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary. “A lot of people
really got gunned up on the short covering in the last few days
thinking this latest report would end up being another
surprise.”  Alberta gas for April delivery fell 9.5 cents to C$3.6425
per gigajoule ($3.54 per million British thermal units) as of
12:32 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S. Northeast, Midwest and West Coast and is priced on
TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 9.4 cents to $4.241 per million Btu.  TransCanada System  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s   Alberta  system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.9
billion cubic feet as of noon in New York, about 400 million
below target. Volume on the system, or linepack, dropped 383
million in the last 24 hours as cold weather in the northern
U.S. prompted buyers to take gas off the system faster than it
could be replaced.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.09 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.74 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.22 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.68 billion cubic feet today, about 58
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to  Vancouver  and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.07
billion cubic feet at 11:20 a.m. High linepack prompted Spectra
to warn shippers not to add more gas to the system than their
contracts allow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 