-- 
Capital One Loans May Have Aroused Fed Stress-Test Concerns, Nomura Says

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-03-24T15:22:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/capital-one-loans-may-have-aroused-fed-stress-test-concerns-nomura-says.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
Virginia bank focused on credit-card lending, may have faced
Federal Reserve resistance to raising its dividend because of
concerns it will incur more costs linked to souring loans,
according to Nomura Securities International Inc.  Fed examiners’ “potential concerns” may have focused on
subprime card loans or demands that the McLean, Virginia-based
bank repurchase faulty mortgages sold to investors, Brian Foran,
a Nomura analyst in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.  Still, Capital One’s average dollars per delinquency on
card loans is half the industry rate, he said. Banks’ commentary
on repurchase demands “implies that the put-back problem has
moderated so far in 2011,” wrote the analyst, who has a “buy”
recommendation on Capital One’s shares. The bank had $816
million in reserves to cover representations and warranties on
mortgages as of Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . were among banks
that announced $5.94 billion in annualized dividend increases
after receiving results last week from Federal Reserve stress
tests. Capital One said March 18 that it would leave its first-
quarter dividend unchanged at 5 cents, and didn’t say whether
the Fed objected to its proposed capital plan.  “As a matter of policy, we do not disclose supervisory
conversations or the nature of these supervisory interactions,”
Tatiana Stead, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.  “We continue to expect that strong capital levels, a
business model with proven resilience, and strong capital
generation will support growth, provide appropriate resilience
to stress, and be available for increased deployment in the
interest of shareholders,” she said.  Capital One’s shares gained 9 cents, or 0.2 percent, to
$51.50 as of 11:18 a.m. in  New York . The stock is up 21 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  