-- 
U.S. to Have ‘Support and Assist Role’ in Libya, Carney Says

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-24T20:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/carney-says-u-s-to-have-support-and-assist-role-in-libya-1-.html
The U.S. will be moving to a
“support and assist” role in the air campaign against forces
loyal to Muammar Qaddafi in Libya as command of the operation is
handed off, likely to NATO, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  President  Barack Obama  still expects the transition to
“happen relatively soon,” Carney said. “We’re not even
halfway to two weeks yet” for the military mission.  Carney also defended the action by the U.S.,  France  and the
U.K. to impose a no-fly zone over Libya and attack Qaddafi
loyalists. “There is no question that lives have been saved
because of U.S. and allied intervention,” he said.  Responding to criticism from lawmakers that Obama acted
without consulting them, Carney said the president had to make
decisions before Congress returned to Washington from a break to
avoid a potential massacre of Qaddafi’s opponents in the eastern
Libyan city of Benghazi, a rebel stronghold.  The administration is coming under increasing pressure from
Congress to explain the goals of the U.S. mission in  Libya  and
the costs.  Questions From Congress  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, sent the
president a letter yesterday seeking an explanation of what he
termed a “contradiction” between Obama’s stated goal of regime
change in Libya and the limitation of the United Nations-
sanctioned attack to curbing the ability of Qaddafi’s forces to
attack civilians.  At Boehner’s request, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , Director of National
Intelligence James Clapper and Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are scheduled to give House
members a classified briefing on the Libya operation and U.S.
policy on March 30, according to a statement from Boehner’s
office.  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee will hold hearings
on the Libyan military action “in the near future,” committee
spokesman Frederick Jones said in a statement. The House Foreign
Affairs Committee also plans to seek testimony from
administration officials.  Some Democrats have also complained that lawmakers weren’t
consulted before the decision to take action was made.  Carney said that while some of the criticism has been
“perhaps driven by politics,” the questions from lawmakers are
legitimate “and need to be answered.”  Covering Costs  The cost for the U.S. military will be covered by
“contingency funds” within the Pentagon’s budget, Carney said.  He repeated that the president and his aides have briefed
members of Congress. He said the military action, backed by a UN
Security Council resolution, is to protect civilian lives and
not to overthrow Qaddafi’s regime.  Still, he said, U.S. policy is that Qaddafi should “remove
himself from power.”  Obama returned yesterday from a trip to Latin America that
was supposed to be focused on the economy and trade. The
military campaign in Libya overshadowed the administration’s
agenda and dominated the questioning at news conferences.  While the president hasn’t scheduled any public statements
since his return, Carney said Obama “looks forward to
communicating with the American public” on Libya.  The U.S. won’t be engaged in enforcement of the no-fly zone
and won’t lead the next phase of the campaign in Libya, Carney
said.  NATO’s Role  The U.S.,  Turkey , France and the U.K. have reached an
agreement on commanding the allied armed forces, according to a
European official, speaking on condition of anonymity before an
announcement is made.  Separately, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe told RTL
Radio that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will organize
the military operation, while foreign ministers from the
participating countries will meet in  London  next week to set the
“political direction.”  The Libyan rebellion began last month in the eastern city
of Benghazi and has evolved from a popular uprising of the kind
that ousted leaders in Egypt and Tunisia this year into a civil
war with factions of the army on both sides.  Oil prices  have jumped about 25 percent since the Libyan
revolt began. Crude oil fluctuated near a 30-month high in  New
York , gaining as much as 0.9 percent. Oil for May delivery fell
2 cents to $105.73 a barrel at 9:31 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 