-- 
Caterpillar, Komatsu See U.S. Construction Market Rebounding

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-03-24T22:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/caterpillar-komatsu-say-u-s-construction-equipment-demand-is-rebounding.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and
Volvo Group AB said North American construction equipment demand
is rebounding from the slump that followed the financial crisis.  The market may expand as much as 30 percent in 2011, said
Olof Persson, president of Volvo’s construction equipment unit.
Industry sales of equipment including excavators and wheel
loaders in the U.S. and  Canada  may rise to about 40,000 units in
Tokyo-based Komatsu’s 2011 fiscal year, which runs through March
2012, from about 30,000 units in fiscal 2010, said David Grzelak, chief executive officer of its Komatsu America Corp.
unit. Sales peaked at 72,000 units in fiscal 2006, he said.  “The U.S. market is growing from a low level,” Persson
said yesterday in an interview at the CONEXPO-CON/AGG
construction conference in  Las Vegas . “The North American
market is turning and the market is coming back.”  The recovery in U.S. industrial production, up 5.5 percent
in the year through February, hasn’t been matched in
construction. U.S. private non-residential construction spending
dropped to $244.4 billion in January, the lowest level in six
years, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. U.S. housing starts
in February were 479,000, 21 percent lower than a year earlier,
bureau data also show.  “We feel the market has bottomed,” Grzelak said in an
interview in Las Vegas. “We see continued improvement.”  Komatsu is seeing increases in equipment utilization, parts
sales, and distributors replacing aging rental fleets, Grzelak
said. Orders and prices for used equipment are rising too,
Persson said.  Volvo Expansion  Volvo will invest $100 million in the next two years at its
Shippensburg, Pennsylvania, plant and start manufacturing wheel
loaders, excavators and haulers, it said last week. The
Gothenburg, Sweden-based company plans to expand into the U.S.
market for  skid-steer  equipment, vehicles that can haul earth
and dig trenches.  That market is “one of the products we haven’t been a
player in,” said Persson, who will become CEO of Volvo Group in
September.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, is seeing a “slow, steady increase” in demand in
 North America , its CEO Doug Oberhelman said yesterday in a
presentation at the conference.  ‘Favorable Vibe’  There is a “favorable vibe” at the event in Las Vegas,
with a higher attendance from the investment community compared
with three years ago, when CONEXPO-CON/AGG was last held, Robert McCarthy, an analyst for Robert W. Baird & Co. in Chicago, said
in a report.  “The North American market is in a recovery,” Ron DeFeo,
chief executive officer of Westport, Connecticut-based heavy-
equipment maker  Terex Corp. (TEX) , said in an interview at the
conference. “I want to temper that assessment with the fact
that we dropped pretty low. Most of the demand is replacement
demand.”  While heavy-machinery rental companies are replacing old
equipment in their fleets, “they are not growing their
fleets,” DeFeo said. “It’s the beginning of a recovery, not
the middle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 