-- 
CGNPC Uranium Resources to Buy Drugmaker Vital for More Than $126 Million

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 
2011-03-24T04:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/cgnpc-uranium-invests-hk-984-million-in-hong-kong-pharmaceutical-company.html
CGNPC Uranium Resources Co., a
nuclear power company owned by the Chinese government, paid more
than HK$984 million ($126 million) for control of  Vital Group
Holdings Ltd. (1164) , a Hong Kong-listed pharmaceutical supplier.  CGNPC Uranium bought 4.28 billion Vital Group shares at 23
 Hong Kong  cents each, according to a March 22 filing to the Hong
Kong stock exchange. That’s equivalent to 276 percent of Vital
Group’s share capital, the filing showed. CGNPC Uranium is part
of China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group, owner of the Guangdong
Daya Bay Power Station and Ling Ao Nuclear Power Station,
according to its website.  Two calls made to the office of Vital Group executive
director James Liu weren’t answered. China Guangdong Nuclear
spokesman Liu Kaixin declined to comment.  Vital Group suspended trading in Hong Kong on March 3
pending an  announcement  about the possible restructuring of the
company. It said on Jan. 25 that a supplier had lost the Chinese
import  license  for one of its main drug products. Shareholders
and investors were advised to exercise caution when dealing in
the shares, the statement said.  Three years ago CNNC Nuclear International Uranium Corp., a
unit of the nation’s biggest atomic power plant operator, China
National Nuclear Corp., bought a stake in Hong Kong-listed
aluminum and zinc die-casting company United Metals Holdings
Ltd. and changed its name.  The renamed  CNNC International Ltd. (2302)  in 2009 bought Canada-
listed Western Prospector Group, which explores for uranium in
Mongolia. It acquired uranium assets in Niger from its parent
last year, the  China Daily  reported.  Vital reported nine-month profit to the end of September of
HK$55.5 million, according to  unaudited figures  on Dec. 13. The
company employed about 1,000 people as of the end of June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  