-- 
China’s Swaps Decline as Investors Pare Bets for Interest-Rate Increase

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-24T02:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/china-s-swaps-decline-as-investors-pare-bets-for-interest-rate-increase.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps
declined for a second day as investors pared bets for an
increase in borrowing costs after central bank Deputy Governor
 Yi Gang  indicated inflation isn’t so much of a concern.  Yi said yesterday interest rates are at “comfortable”
level and he’s “not too worried” by inflation because the pace
of price increases will slow in the second half of this year. A
total of 241 billion yuan ($36.7 billion) of bills and
 repurchase agreements  will mature this week and next, according
to an estimate by Huang Yanhong, a bond analyst at Bank of
Nanjing Co.  “Swaps may have more declines because there is so much
liquidity in the financial system and the market has less
expectations about an interest-rate hike,” said Pin Ru Tan, a
strategist in  Singapore  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined four
basis points to 3.27 percent as of 10:05 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swaps fell even after the central bank withdrew 135 billion
yuan from the banking system on March 22 through one-year bill
sales and 28-day repo agreements. The monetary authority sold 47
billion yuan of three-month securities today at a yield of
2.7944 percent, unchanged from the previous auction, according
to traders at primary dealers who are required to bid at the
auctions.  The seven-day repo rate, which measures interbank funding
availability, gained two basis points to 2.74 percent today,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the Interbank
Funding Center. The rate has dropped 26 basis points since
reaching a two-week high of 3 percent on March 21.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 