-- 
China Manufacturing Growth Is Accelerating on Export Orders, Survey Shows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-24T04:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/china-manufacturing-growth-is-accelerating-on-export-orders-survey-shows.html
China ’s manufacturing growth is
accelerating, according to preliminary data from a survey of
purchasing managers, signaling the economy may withstand
increased interest rates.  The index may rise to 52.5 from 51.7 in February, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an e-mailed statement
today. This is the second time advance data has been released.  Producer prices in China jumped at the fastest pace in 29
months in February and consumer-price gains exceeded government
targets for the eighth straight month. Interest rates in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy may be raised as early as
next month as inflationary pressure builds from higher oil, food
and labor costs, according to Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
economists.  The data “should reduce concerns about a sharp slowdown in
growth,”  Qu Hongbin , chief economist for China at HSBC, said in
the statement. “Beijing’s policy tightening is working to
contain inflationary pressures without choking off growth.”  A preliminary gauge of output climbed to 55.1 from a final
reading of 51.9 in February, according to the statement. Today’s
data showed renewed growth in export orders and slower increases
in input and output prices.  Inflation should slow “meaningfully” by the middle of the
year as the government continues to tighten policy, Qu said.
Consumer prices rose an annual 4.9 percent last month.  Export Orders  The Shanghai Composite Index was little changed at 2,950.30
at 11:26 a.m. local time. The yuan declined 0.04 percent to
6.5618 per dollar.  A sub-index for new export orders registered an expansion
in March after dropping below 50 for the first time in six
months in February. Overall new orders expanded at a slower pace,
according to today’s statement, which did not give a numerical
breakdown of the sub-indexes. A reading below 50 points to a
contraction in activity and a reading above 50 an expansion.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its first-quarter growth
forecast for China today to 10 percent from 10.2 percent, citing
increasing evidence that expansion is cooling as the government
counters inflation.  Officials may “lower the intensity and frequency of some
policy tightening measures,” economists Helen Qiao and Yu Song
wrote in a note.  Interest Rates   The People’s Bank of China has raised interest rates three
times since mid-October and ordered banks to set aside more
deposits as reserves six times since late November to control
credit growth and inflation.  Interest rates will play an increasingly important role in
the country’s macroeconomic controls as the central bank makes
greater use of price tools to set monetary policy, Zhang Xiaohui,
director of the PBOC’s monetary policy department, said in
comments posted on its website today.  Still, Deputy Governor Yi Gang said yesterday that interest
rates are at a “comfortable” level and that he’s “not too
worried” by inflation which will ease in the second half of the
year.  HSBC’s manufacturing index is based on monthly replies to
questionnaires sent to purchasing executives at over 400 state
and private companies. The preliminary figure is based on 85
percent to 90 percent of responses, with the final data due
April 1, HSBC said.  The actual purchasing managers’ index grew at the slowest
pace in seven months in February, declining to 51.7 from 54.5
the previous month, HSBC said on March 1, mirroring the decline
in that month’s preliminary flash index to 51.5.  A separate survey by the National Bureau of Statistics and
the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing released the
same day showed manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in
six months.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  