-- 
China's Affordable Housing Plan to Face Financing Challenge, Cushman Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-24T01:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/china-s-affordable-housing-plan-to-face-financing-challenge-cushman-says.html
China ’s biggest challenge in its
plan to build 36 million affordable homes over five years is the
ability to tap funding and draw developers to work on the
projects, Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said.  The nation needs 1.3 trillion yuan ($198 billion) for its
affordable homes this year, excluding land costs, Housing and
Urban-Rural Development Vice Minister Qi Ji said on March 9. The
central and local governments will only provide 500 billion yuan,
Qi said.  “Money is going to be a challenge,” Andy Zhang, China
managing director for the New York-based real estate firm, said
in an interview in Beijing yesterday. “The local governments
still rely heavily on land sales for their revenue, while the
central government requires them to resolve the financing of
those homes.”  The plan for affordable homes aims to cover 20 percent of
the China’s housing market over the five years. The government
is accelerating these developments after property prices climbed
for 19 months through December, and increased in 68 of the 70
cities it monitors in the first two months of 2011, based on the
statistics bureau’s new format of reporting housing data.  The government imposed new curbs this year including higher
minimum down payments for second homes and residential property
taxes in  Shanghai  and Chongqing. The measures will help in
“buying some time” until the supply of affordable homes, which
will take at least two years to have an impact, said Zhang. The
government said earlier this month its target includes the
development of 10 million homes this year and next.  Beijing, Shanghai  New home prices in China’s biggest cities, where most
developers have built residential projects, continued to rise.
In the capital Beijing, prices climbed 6.8 percent, while those
in Shanghai increased 2.3 percent, according to government data.  For developers, “business is business,” Zhang said.
“Developers are certainly not proactive in participating in the
development of these homes unless they don’t have a choice. The
government may offer subsidies and tax breaks to ensure the
projects are profitable.”  China State Construction International Holdings Ltd. (3311) , a
state-owned  Hong Kong  listed builder, plans to build more of
these projects, including two developments in Chongqing,
Chairman Kong Qingping said in an interview on March 7.  “The return rates of building social housing is low, but
it also has low risks,” Kong said.  Other developers may be reluctant because the low margins
also leave little room for unexpected expenses, according to ING
Real Estate Investment  Asia , which manages 3.8 billion euros
($5.4 billion) of assets in the region.  “The government needs to be heavily involved in social
housing,” Richard van den Berg, managing director for ING Real
Estate Investment Asia, said in an interview in Beijing. “The
government is requesting developers to keep costs down for such
homes, but what happens if steel prices rise by 30 percent?”  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest publicly traded
developer, will “proactively” build affordable homes and
future projects will include such properties, Executive Vice
President Liu Aiming said on Feb. 24.  --Bonnie Cao in Beijing. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  