-- 
Clinton Says NATO to Take Command of Libya No-Fly Zone

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-25T00:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/clinton-says-nato-to-take-command-of-libya-no-fly-zone-as-threat-remains.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces remain a “serious
threat” to civilians in  Libya  five days after the start of
U.S.-led air attacks.  Clinton, speaking to reporters in Washington, said the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization will take responsibility for
the no-fly mission over Libya. Allies are holding additional
talks over who will assume command of the broader mission,
including strikes against Qaddafi’s ground forces, now run by
the U.S.  “This operation has already saved many lives, but the
danger is far from over,” Clinton said, noting that Qaddafi’s
forces remain a “serious threat” to Benghazi, the eastern city
controlled by the rebels.  “As long as the Qaddafi regime threatens its people and
defies the  United Nations , we must remain vigilant and
focused,” she said.  Clinton said she will meet with other foreign ministers in
 London  on March 29 “to continue coordinating with our partners
and chart the way forward” on Libya. She made a six-minute
statement to reporters at the State Department and declined
afterward to answer questions.  Clinton said that President Barack Obama’s goal of reducing
U.S. involvement in the mission was already under way.  “Our mission has been to use America’s unique capabilities
to create the conditions for the no-fly zone and to assist in
meeting urgent humanitarian needs,” she said. “And as
expected, we’re already seeing a significant reduction in the
number of U.S. planes involved in operations.”  Clinton added that the U.S. military “will continue to
provide support to make sure the UN Resolutions will be
enforced.” She offered no details on what role the U.S.
military would play in the coming days and weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  