-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Drops to Seven-Month Low on Gas Prices

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-24T14:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-drops-to-seven-month-low-on-gas-prices.html

Press Release  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index Was Minus 48.9 in the
Period to March 20  New York --  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. fell last week to
the lowest level since August as more Americans became
despondent over the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 48.9 in the
period to March 20 from minus 48.5 the prior week. The measure
of the current state of the economy slumped to a 15-month low.  The highest gasoline prices in more than two years weighed on
families already dealing with rising grocery bills. The report
showed confidence among households with annual incomes exceeding
$50,000 fell to the lowest level since March 2010, representing
a risk to  consumer spending , the biggest part of the  U.S.
economy .  For full CCI results, see:  http://www.bloomberg.com/cci   “Given the rise in fuel and food costs, households are clearly
indicating frustration over the need to reduce discretionary
spending to meet demand for basic necessities,” said  Joseph
Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “Even
better-off households are feeling the pinch of rising prices,
primarily at the pump.”  A report from the Labor Department today showed the number of
Americans applying for  unemployment insurance  fell last week.
Orders for U.S. durable goods, meant to last at least three
years, decreased in February, according to figures released by
the Commerce Department.  Stocks rose on optimism European leaders will be able to find a
solution to the region’s debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increased 0.3 percent to 1,301.5 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  The Bloomberg Comfort Index, with records dating back to
December 1985, fell to a record low of minus 54 in November
2008, while the peak of 38 was reached in January 2000. Readings
averaged minus 45.7 last year.  The latest results for the comfort index reflected worsening
results for one of the three components.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy fell to minus 86 last
week, the lowest level since December 2009, from minus 80.3 the
prior week. The share of households with a positive view of the
economy dropped to 7 percent from 10 percent.  The measure of personal finances improved to minus 5.5 last week
from minus 7.7, the report showed. Forty-seven percent of those
polled held positive views on their financial situation, up from
46 percent the previous week.  The buying-climate index rose to minus 55.1 from minus 57.4.
Those saying it was a good time to buy needed items climbed to
23 percent from 21 percent.  Today’s report showed the strengthening labor market is doing
little to lift consumers’ moods. The confidence index for
Americans with full-time jobs fell to minus 38.4 last week, the
lowest level since August, while it improved for those who were
unemployed.  Jobless claims declined by 5,000 to 382,000 in the week ended
March 19, Labor Department figures showed today, in line with
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The total number of people receiving benefits dropped to the
lowest level in almost three years.  Sentiment among women dropped last week to the lowest level
since October 2009, the comfort report also showed.  Although elevated, little change in fuel costs last week may
have prevented the comfort index from dropping even more.  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump was $3.55 a
gallon on March 20, compared with $3.56 a week earlier, the
highest since October 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest motoring organization. The price jumped 39 cents in the
three weeks ended March 13.  “Consumer confidence paused this week after a two-week rout,
continuing to march in time with the price of a gallon of
gasoline,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement. At the same time, the index is “uncomfortably near
its historic low” of minus 54, he said.  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have shown a strong
inverse correlation since 2004, according to calculations by
Bloomberg economist Brusuelas. Additionally, changes in the
four-week average of claims for jobless benefits have been in
sync with the comfort gauge about 72 percent of the time.  Americans are paying more for staple food items like cereal, and
costs may climb further in the next few months.  “In recent months we have announced a variety of pricing actions
across our businesses,” Ken Powell, chief executive officer of
General Mills Inc., the maker of Cheerios, said yesterday on a
conference call. “Food manufacturers are managing through a
period of rising and volatile costs for food ingredients and
energy.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses to
telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age, income
level, race, region of residence, political affiliation, marital
and employment status.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  Contact for Bloomberg:  Meghan Womack, +1 212-617-8514,  mwomack4@bloomberg.net 
