-- 
Cooler Temperatures Expected in U.S. East, More Rain for South

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-24T20:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/cooler-temperatures-expected-in-u-s-east-more-rain-for-south.html
The U.S.  Climate Prediction Center 
is forecasting cooler weather than usual for the eastern U.S.
from March 30 to April 7.  The center’s 6- to 10-day outlook released today predicts
the area east of Montana, Wyoming and  Colorado  will have an
above-average chance to be cooler than normal. The area with the
highest probability is the Northeast from Maine to  Virginia ,
including  New York .  The 8- to 14-day forecast essentially mirrors that
prediction, shifting slightly east in the central Plains and
including most of North Dakota, according to the climate center
in Camp Springs, Maryland.  The forecast also says the northern Plains and Midwest have
a lower-than-normal chance of rain from March 30 to April 7, as
does the Southwest from southern California to west Texas.  The South from east Texas to Florida, below Tennessee, has
a higher probability of rain, according to both the 6- to 10-day
and 8- to 14-day outlooks. The Pacific Northwest also has a
higher chance for rain.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy gas futures or cover short positions.  Commodity traders watch precipitation forecasts for
potential impact on planting and yields.  The northern Plains states of  North Dakota , South Dakota
and Minnesota are among the areas that have an increased threat
of flooding in coming weeks, according to the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration . Excess rain there may trigger
floods along the Red River of the North and the Mississippi and
Minnesota rivers.  Drought conditions exist across much of the area from
 Arizona  to  North Carolina , according to the  U.S. Drought
Monitor . Eastern Texas, western Louisiana, southern Arkansas and
southern Florida are among the hardest-hit regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  