-- 
Covered Bonds Seen Cutting 30% from Bank Funding Costs: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-25T06:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/covered-bonds-seen-cutting-30-from-bank-funding-costs-australia-credit.html
Australian banks may be able to use
8 percent of assets as collateral for so-called covered bonds, a
240-year-old market that can cut funding costs by 30 percent.  The nation’s parliament will consider draft legislation to
allow the securities, which are backed by pools of assets such
as mortgages, as part of a move to increase banking competition.
The cap is higher than the 5 percent originally proposed by the
government and means the nation’s four biggest lenders will be
able to sell as much as A$150 billion ($152 billion) of the
notes, according to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   Global offerings of the bonds, dating back to 18th-century
Prussia in the same year Captain James Cook sighted Australia,
are off to a record start this year as investors snapped up
134.4 billion euros ($190 billion) of the notes. Australia’s
government is introducing the securities to give banks access to
cheaper funding and lower borrowing costs in a nation with the
highest  interest rates  in the developed world.  “The benefits for the banks are diversity of funding and
lower costs,” said David Goodman, Sydney-based head of asset-
backed research at Westpac. “The securities will be
particularly attractive to offshore investors, as they offer
good  credit quality  and exposure to the strong Australian
economy.”  Westpac,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  had
combined domestic assets of A$1.81 trillion as of January,
according to data from the banking regulator. An 8 percent
threshold means about A$145 billion of assets could be used to
back covered securities.  European Spreads Narrow  The extra yield European investors demand to hold the bonds
instead of similar-maturity government debt has fallen 28 basis
points to 155 basis points, or 1.55 percentage points, this
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Covered
Bonds index. That’s 46 basis points less than the spread on
financial debt sold in the region without collateral, another
index shows.  Australian lenders have been barred from selling the
securities, which are backed by assets that stay on their
balance sheet and can be sold in a default, because they
conflict with local laws favoring depositors over creditors.  Spreads on covered bonds may be about 30 percent less than
on senior unsecured notes, according to Ken Hanton, a Sydney-
based senior credit analyst at National Australia Bank.  In June, Bank of  New Zealand  priced NZ$425 million ($317
million) of covered bonds in that nation’s first such sale at a
38 percent discount to what lenders would pay on senior debt,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report at the time.  Banking Competition  Moody’s estimated savings of 20 percent for Australia’s
banks when Treasurer  Wayne Swan  announced in December that he
planned to allow the sales.  Swan is introducing the securities to spur banking
competition and in response to public anger that the nation’s
biggest banks, which control more than 80 percent of the home-
loan market, have raised  mortgage rates  faster than needed.  Standard variable home loan rates in Australia are 7.8
percent, according to data from the nation’s central bank. The
one-year adjustable rate in the U.S. is 3.17 percent, data
compiled by Virginia-based Freddie Mac shows.  The yield on  Australia ’s 10-year government bond rose 3
basis points to 5.44 percent today, or 206 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia raised borrowing costs seven
times from October 2009 to November to 4.75 percent and is
forecasting growth of 4.25 percent this year, the fastest since
1999.  Consumer Price Expectations  The Australian dollar has climbed 6.6 percent in the past 6
months against the greenback to $1.0221 as of 5:31 p.m. in
Sydney today, the fourth-best performance among major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.92 percent for the next five years.  Known as Pfandbriefe in  Germany , covered bonds were created
by Frederick the Great of Prussia when aristocrats needed credit
after parts of the country were devastated by the Seven Years
War.  Under Australia’s  draft legislation , smaller lenders will
be able to jointly issue covered bonds. Banks can back the bonds
with assets including first-ranking residential mortgages
representing less than 80 percent of an underlying property’s
value. The limit is 60 percent for commercial mortgages.  Coalition Support  The proportion of people in Australia behind on payments
for prime residential mortgages by 90 days or more stood at 0.54
percent last quarter, data from Fitch Ratings show. In the U.S.,
16.54 percent of mortgage holders were behind in December,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on more than 12
million loans without government backing.  The opposition supports the legislation, said  Joe Hockey ,
the Liberal-National coalition treasury spokesman. Coalition
backing means the bill will pass parliament.  “This is a positive initiative for the industry,” said
Steve Batten, a spokesman for Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank.
The plan has “the potential to assist with funding pressures,”
Melbourne-based National Australia Bank said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  