-- 
Cycling Body Challenges Ruling That Cleared Champion Contador of Doping

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-03-24T17:14:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/cycling-ruling-body-to-challenge-decision-that-cleared-contador-of-doping.html
Cycling’s ruling body is
challenging a decision to clear  Tour de France  champion Alberto Contador of doping at last year’s race.  The  Union Cycliste Internationale  said in a statement today
it will appeal to the  Court of Arbitration for Sport  in
Lausanne,  Switzerland  after “an in-depth study” of the
judgment by the Spanish cycling federation.  Contador blames eating contaminated beef for testing
positive for the stimulant clenbuterol.  Tests last year found he had 50 picograms per milliliter of
clenbuterol in his body on the last rest day of the 2010 Tour. A
picogram is one trillionth of a gram.  Clenbuterol is used to treat respiratory disorders such as
asthma and can increase aerobic capacity by improving the flow
of oxygen in the bloodstream. Farmers sometimes use it illegally
to bulk up cattle more quickly.  “Maybe we have to go got the court to make my innocence
even clearer,” Contador said after a stage of the Volta a
Catalunya race today, according to Spanish news wire Efe. “I’d
rather it hadn’t come to this but I’ve got full confidence in
the arguments my lawyers have presented.”  Contador recently hired Belgian lawyer Jean-Louis Dupont to
strengthen his legal team in preparation for an appeal. Dupont
represented Jean-Marc Bosman in a landmark ruling on European
Union soccer transfers in 1995.  Bjarne Riis, owner of the Saxo Bank-Sungard team Contador
rides for, said it still backs Contador.  “As long as this is a case of accidental intake of a
forbidden substance, we will continue to support  Alberto
Contador ,” Riis said in a  statement . “In our opinion it would
be unfair to do anything else.”  Contador, who returned to racing a day after he was cleared
on Feb. 15, today kept the lead after stage four of the week-
long Volta a Catalunya that ends March 27.  He first won the Tour de  France  in 2007 and took the next-
biggest three-week stages races, the Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a
Espana, in 2008 when his team at the time, Astana, was banned
from the French race.  He overcame competition from his then-Astana teammate and
record seven-time champion  Lance Armstrong  for his second Tour
de France victory in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  