-- 
Daley, Obama Chief of Staff, Won’t Play Role in Consumer Search

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-24T13:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/daley-obama-chief-of-staff-won-t-play-role-in-consumer-search.html
William Daley , President Barack Obama’s chief of staff and former banking executive at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , won’t participate in the selection of a nominee for
the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the White House
said.  Daley, 62, who took over as White House chief of staff in
January, “may be involved in matters involving the CFPB and is
not recused from those matters,” spokeswoman Amy Brundage said
in a statement. However, she said, “Mr. Daley has chosen not to
participate in the process of selecting a nominee for CFPB
director,” the statement said.  The Obama administration is searching for a person to
become the first director of an agency created by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul law. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has
designated July 21 as the starting date for the bureau, which
would perform a watchdog role overseeing credit cards, mortgages
and other financial products.  Daley is the former Midwest chairman and head of corporate
responsibility at JPMorgan. The Washington Post, which first
reported the story, said Daley oversaw Chase’s lobbying unit,
which ultimately supported consumer protections but opposed a
regulator to enforce them.  Pete Rouse , a senior adviser to Obama, is leading the
selection process for the first director of the agency, Brundage
said.  Confirmation Questions  Elizabeth Warren , the Treasury Department and White House
adviser charged with setting up the agency, hasn’t been publicly
ruled out as a potential nominee. Still, the consumer advocate
and Harvard law professor took over as an adviser to help set up
the agency after Democratic lawmakers expressed doubts about
whether she could win Senate confirmation.  Warren said in an interview with CNBC on March 22 that
“there is a process in place that the president is using” to
find the agency’s first director and declined to say whether she
wants the nomination. “The job I want is the job I have now,”
she said.  Jennifer Granholm, former Michigan governor, turned down an
overture from the Obama administration to head the agency,
Bloomberg News reported March 22. Granholm left office on Jan. 1
after two terms as governor.  Daley took over as chief of staff after leaving JPMorgan on
Jan. 7. He resigned from the boards of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  the same day.  His background in business and finance -- he joined New
York-based JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, in
2004 -- was among the reasons Obama picked him for the job, as
the president seeks to reach out to the business community in
the second half of his term.  Daley was President Bill Clinton’s commerce secretary from
January 1997 to June 2000. He served as president of SBC
Communications Inc., now  AT&T Inc. (T) , for more than two years
before moving to JPMorgan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 