-- 
Dale Says U.K. Growth, Inflation Justify Rate Increase

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-24T09:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/dale-says-faster-u-k-growth-inflation-justify-cut-in-key-rate.html
(Corrects headline to say increase instead of cut.)  Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale , who voted this month to raise the key interest
rate, said prospects for stronger U.K. economic growth justify
some withdrawal of emergency stimulus.  “With growth expected to be around its average historical
rate, inflation likely to remain above 4 percent for the rest of
this year and bank rate at record low levels, some withdrawal of
policy seems sensible,” he said in a speech today in  London .  Dale was one of three officials on the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee to continue a push to raise the key rate this
month from 0.5 percent. Inflation quickened to 4.4 percent in
February, more than double the bank’s 2 percent target, as
commodity prices surged,  sales tax  rose and a weaker pound
boosted the cost of imported goods.  “My vote to raise rates was driven by a concern that,
despite a relatively weak outlook for growth, the risks to the
inflation target in the medium-term were on the upside,” he
said. “The risks from continuing global price pressures and the
effects of the prolonged period of above target inflation meant
that the level of demand consistent with achieving the inflation
target had probably fallen.”  Dale said the earthquake in  Japan , the world’s third-
largest economy, and turmoil in the Middle East pose risks for
growth and for inflation.  Uncertainty about the implications of both events “are
likely to dampen global demand, at least in the short run,” he
said. “But the accompanying increases in energy prices are
likely to add to domestic inflation.”  The prospect that the economic recovery in Britain “may
disappoint” could also undermine his outlook, he said. The
 Office for Budget Responsibility  said the economy will be almost
1 percent smaller next year than it expected in November, though
it forecast growth quickening to 2.9 percent in 2013 and 2014.  “If growth turns out to be material weaker than I
anticipate or other medium-term pressures on inflation ease
unexpectedly, I will reverse my decision,” Dale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  