-- 
Detroit Outgrows Silicon Valley in Technology Jobs as Ford Binges on Hires

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-03-24T20:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/detroit-outgrows-silicon-valley-in-tech-as-ford-binges-on-hires.html
As a group of  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
managers in blue jeans sat down to interview a suit-wearing
candidate from a  California  technology company this month, they
jokingly offered to cut off his tie to put him at ease.  Auto industry executives are trying to make Silicon Valley
engineers feel at home in Detroit. With a burgeoning number of
technology job openings to fill, they’re scouring Internet
companies for workers, wining and dining applicants, and seeking
promising students at schools such as  Stanford University .  “We have a whole slew of job postings out there currently,”
said Doug VanDagens, director of Ford’s connected service
solutions, who has been trying to lure engineers to the
automaker to design software. “We’re just on a growth binge.”  Expertise in cloud computing, mobile software applications
and energy management are in demand in the Motor City as
automakers replace car stereos with Internet radio and gasoline
engines with motors powered by  lithium-ion batteries . Technology
job postings in the Detroit area doubled last year, making it
the fastest-expanding region in the country, according to  Dice
Holdings Inc. (DHX) , a job-listing website.  “There’s a war for talent out there, and it’s only going
to get worse,” said Jim Bazner, vice president of human capital
solutions at  MSX International  in Southfield,  Michigan , which
helps automakers find specialized employees. “There are
hundreds of jobs, and all the automakers are hiring.”  Dearth of Graduates  Ford and  General Motors Co. (GM)  are rapidly hiring graduates
from local universities as fast as they can -- there just aren’t
enough of them.  “If we filled every opening that’s been posted or
recruited just in the Lansing area, we’d be able to hire out all
of our graduates three times over,” said Garth Motschenbacher,
who helps place computer-science graduates at  Michigan State
University . About 70 percent of the school’s 54 students
scheduled to graduate in May have jobs lined up, he said. “The
number of students has not kept up with the opportunities.”  Still, attracting engineers to  Detroit  rather than Silicon
Valley can be a challenge. The  San Francisco  area is home to
more technology companies offering more job openings than
Detroit. California’s mild climate and history of innovation are
also a draw. Yet Detroit is bouncing back.  Companies that work with automakers on in-car entertainment
systems, such as online streaming music providers Pandora Media
Inc. and  Mog Inc. , have opened offices in the Detroit area.
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in  Mountain View , California, has an office
in Birmingham, Michigan, where it’s looking for sales associates
to work with the auto industry.  New Wave  Marty Zacharias is part of the wave of new hires. The
former Nissan Motor Co. and Ford employee joined Berkeley,
California-based Mog last month -- in its new Detroit office.
He’ll work directly with companies such as  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s Mini and others to get Mog’s Web-based subscription
music service into  vehicles .  “Many more Detroit-based automotive industry employees
will follow a similar path to mine,” Zacharias said in an e-
mail, “or join advanced technology divisions within the
established automotive companies.”  The expansion has caught the eye of the  U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office , which  announced  in December that it will open
its first satellite office in Detroit. The region’s high
percentage of scientists and engineers, as well as its patent
output, spurred the decision, said Paul Fucito, a patent office
spokesman. The 4,000 patents granted to Michigan in fiscal 2010
ranked seventh among U.S. states, he said. The facility is
likely to create about 100 new jobs to review patent filings.  Recession’s Toll  One reason why the job growth in Detroit appears so high is
because the recession’s toll went so deep, said Tom Silver,
senior vice president of Dice Holdings and author of the jobs
report showing a surge in the area.  “The recovery there is actually looking pretty substantial,
but it’s also a reflection, to some extent, that Detroit was
probably hit a little harder than the other markets,” he said.  The hiring demand comes as Detroit’s population fell to the
lowest official tally since 1910. According to 2010 U.S. Census
data released this week, Detroit’s population declined 25
percent, to 713,777, down from a peak of 1.85 million in 1950.  Michigan lost about 413,000 jobs from December 2007 through
December 2009, including 83,200 jobs in the Detroit area,
according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Things picked up last year, as jobs in the Detroit-area
professional and business-services sector, which include many of
the tech jobs, rose almost twice as fast in December as the
overall Michigan job market, according to the bureau.  Light-Rail Project  Not all tech jobs in Detroit are related to the  auto
industry .  Dan Gilbert , chairman and founder of Quicken Loans
Inc., helped fund a planned light-rail project for downtown,
formed a venture capital firm to invest in startups, and
purchased a historic theater with plans to renovate it as an
incubator space for budding technology companies.  “I want to see this city come back in a big way,” Gilbert
said in an interview. “Part of it also was for business -- we
want to create that urban feel, that urban core environment
downtown where people in their 20s and 30s really want to be.”  Last year Gilbert, owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers
basketball team, moved 1,700 of Quicken Loans’ employees into
 Compuware Corp. (CPWR)  headquarters in Detroit’s Campus Martius Park
area, the center of the city’s tech industry, where he plans to
add 2,000 more workers.  In the building, graffiti from local artists decorate many
of the walls and floors, and mini kitchens on every floor offer
free slushies and snacks. When the space is fully finished,
Quicken also will have a basketball court for employees.  Venture Funding  Gilbert’s venture capital firm’s goal is to fund social
media, cloud computing and other software companies in Detroit.
So far,  Detroit Venture Partners  has received more than 200
proposals for investments and has term sheets under
consideration for six that may be signed in the next 30 days,
said Josh Linkner, one of the three founders, in an interview.  Venture capital firms invested $79.9 million in 13 Detroit
companies last year, according to National Venture Capital
Association data. That’s the most companies since at least 1990
and the third-highest total investment, the data show.  Even with efforts to mimic Silicon Valley office culture,
recruiting people to move from the West Coast to Detroit is
difficult, said Micky Bly, GM’s executive director of electric
vehicles, battery and infotainment systems.  “I don’t want to categorize it as an issue, but it is
tough,” he said. “You don’t have people begging to come to the
Michigan area.”  Salary Gap  Compensation is one reason why. While average salaries for
Detroit technology jobs rose 2.3 percent last year to $71,445,
that’s still less than the national average of $79,384, and
about 28 percent lower than the $99,028 paid in Silicon Valley,
according to Dice Holdings. More than 940 technology jobs are
currently available in the Detroit metro region, compared with
more than 5,060 in Silicon Valley.  Still, Bly says the quality of life can be attractive for
some. “They can get a whole lot of house in Michigan for what
they can get in San Francisco,” he said.  The workplace culture among automakers is also relaxing, as
they attempt to adopt some of the perks more common at startups,
like wearing jeans to work or telecommuting. That’s a big change
from when Bly started at GM 20 years ago, when everyone wore a
collared shirt and a tie.  “The variation was in your pant color -- you could have
gray, black or blue,” Bly said. While things have changed, the
perks still aren’t the same as in Silicon Valley, he said.  “Do we have a free cafeteria like Google? No, but our stock
isn’t up to $400 a share yet” Bly said. Google currently trades
at about $587 a share, while GM’s stock sits at $31. “When we
get $400 a share, I’ll make sure we have free meals for everyone
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 