-- 
Duke's Zafirovski Takes His Father's Perseverance to NCAA Basketball Court

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/duke-s-zafirovski-takes-his-father-s-perseverance-to-ncaa-basketball-court.html
Mike Zafirovski was destined for an
athletic career until he entered business and moved on to
management at  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Motorola Inc. (MOT)  and Nortel
Networks Corp.  Now he’s cheering on his son, Todd, a reserve forward on
the Duke University team that is four victories from winning its
second straight title in the men’s national college basketball
tournament.  The elder Zafirovski, 57, who will be in the stands tonight
when the Blue Devils face the University of Arizona in the Round
of 16 at the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament, said he sees parallels between his mentor at GE,
 Jack Welch , and Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski.  “There are such similarities between Coach K and Welch in
terms of motivating a team and getting the most out of his
people, so that has been a real treat for me,” Zafirovski said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Coaching in general and
business, especially as we get older, is probably the closest
thing to sports.”  The Duke-Arizona game is one of four today, with four more
games scheduled tomorrow as the field is narrowed to eight teams
heading into the weekend. The NCAA champion will be crowned
April 4 at Reliant Stadium in Houston.  The  University of Connecticut  plays San Diego State
University in the other game in Anaheim, California, tonight in
the West Region. In the Southeast Region in  New Orleans , Butler
University plays the  University of Wisconsin  and the University
of  Florida  faces Brigham Young University and national scoring
leader Jimmer Fredette.  Non-Scholarship Player  Todd Zafirovski, 20, is a non-scholarship player who
practiced with the Duke squad as a freshman before being added
to the team as a walk-on. He has appeared in five games this
season as a sophomore, and has not scored a point.  “It’s not the most glamorous job in the world being a
walk-on, but I’m teammates with the 12 best guys in college
basketball,” he said yesterday in a locker room interview at
the Honda Center in Anaheim. “For sure it would be nice to get
out there.”  Mike Zafirovski was 15 when he emigrated from Macedonia in
1969. He spoke no English, learning the language from members of
the swim team at his Cleveland high school.  He received a swimming and soccer scholarship from Edinboro
University in  Pennsylvania . He declined an invitation to swim
for the Yugoslavian national team at the 1972 Munich Olympics,
and then turned down tryouts from two professional soccer teams
in the U.S.  GE, Motorola, Nortel  Instead, he went to work at GE, where in 24 years he moved
up to president of GE Lighting. Then he moved to Motorola, where
as chief operating officer he helped revive the wireless unit
with the introduction of the Razr phone.  He joined Toronto-based Nortel in November 2005. The
company filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in January
2009 and Zafirovski stepped down as CEO in August 2009.  “I always idolized him,” Todd Zafirovski said. “What he
did to be successful is an unbelievable story, how he had to go
to school without speaking English. I go to French class and I’m
nervous.”  Mike Zafirovski is on the board at  Boeing Co. (BA)  and is doing
consulting work while looking for another CEO position. In the
meantime, he spends plenty of time flying from his Chicago home
to Todd’s games -- Mike has attended 18 of Duke’s 36 games so
far this season.  “This is second to none, it’s a dream come true for all of
us,” the elder Zafirovski said. “For him to make it as a walk-
on at Duke, we get goosebumps every time we see him play.”  Olympic Opportunity  Todd Zafirovski now is the one being recruited to play on a
team that could go to the Olympics. The Macedonian national
basketball squad has asked him to try out for the squad that
will go to the European championships in  Lithuania  in August and
September. A good showing there could earn Macedonia an Olympic
spot -- offering Todd something his father never achieved.  “It would be a dream come true,” Todd said, adding he is
not sure he will try out for the squad because it might conflict
with Duke trips to  China  and Dubai.  Mike Zafirovski, who finished the Chicago Marathon last
year and did an Ironman triathlon in 2002, said he and his wife,
Robin, passed on a work ethic to all three of their sons.  Matt, 25, who gave a commencement speech for the Duke
graduation class of 2008, now works in  Seoul  as vice president,
international, for  Groupon Inc.  Kirk, 24, works for the
 Wasserman Media Group  in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  Todd, Matt and Kirk joined their father on a trip to the
soccer  World Cup  last year in  South Africa , and the family has
always bonded over sports.  “No whining allowed in our family,” Mike Zafirovski said
with a laugh. “We tried to teach them perseverance and
hopefully the commitment to excellence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the NCAA basketball tournament in Anaheim,
 California , at  at  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  