-- 
EADS in Discussions With Vector Aerospace About Acquisition

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T16:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/eads-in-discussions-with-vector-aerospace-about-acquisition-2-.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co.,  Europe ’s biggest aerospace company, said it’s
weighing the purchase of  Vector Aerospace Corp. (RNO)  as the company
seeks to use cash reserves to expand in  North America .  EADS, based in Paris and Munich, said there’s no assurance
of a binding offer as it reviews Vector’s books, according to a
statement by the company today. Vector, which confirmed the
talks, rose as much as 19 percent in Toronto trading and was
up 10 percent as of 12:01 p.m., giving it a market value of
C$510 million ($523 million).  With record cash of 11.9 billion euros ($16.8 billion),
EADS is prowling the market for acquisitions to help expand the
portion of its business outside the Airbus SAS civil aviation
division. Vector Aerospace, based in Toronto, provides aviation
repair and overhaul services, and serves commercial and military
customers that use gas turbine engines, components and
helicopter airframes. Sales last year were C$544.64 million.  “The helicopter link makes lots of sense,” said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at Agency Partners in  London . “Vector is
not going to move any dials more than a couple of decibels, but
it’s an interesting development.”  Sikorsky, Bell  Vector provides maintenance for Sikorsky and Bell
helicopters as well as aircraft engines made by  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney.  On Dec. 3, Vector announced a review of strategic
alternatives, including a sale of its outstanding shares, and
retained Scotia Capital Inc. as its adviser. Vector received
expressions of interest from a “variety of parties,” before
choosing to enter the agreement with EADS, according to a
statement today.  EADS has said it could spend up to 1.5 billion euros, and
management expressed confidence this month of striking a deal in
2010 after years of refraining from takeovers. While the company
has contracts with the U.S. Coast Guard and with the U.S. Army,
it has failed to significantly crack the U.S. defense market,
having lost a bid for a refueling tanker to  Boeing Co. (BA)   EADS Chief Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  has sought to
build EADS’s profile in the non-commercial aircraft area to cut
dependence on Airbus, which now contributes two-thirds of total
revenue. Less than 2 percent of EADS’s military revenue stems
from the U.S. Owning Vector, which has facilities in Canada, the
U.S., the U.K. and Africa, may help penetrate military markets
through maintenance, Cunningham said.  Helicopter Maintenance  Helicopters are typically more maintenance-intensive, given
how much they vibrate. Whereas aftermarket sales in commercial
aircraft may amount to 5 percent of revenue, similar spending on
helicopters, including spares and overhauls, can almost equal
the size of the original equipment sales, Cunningham said.  Eurocopter is EADS’s second-biggest division. The unit has
been one of the more successful units at EADS in getting into
the U.S. Eurocopter’s North America unit beat  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s
Bell Helicopter division and two other competitors in 2007 for a
$1.7 billion program to build a light helicopter for the U.S.
Army’s use in homeland security and military missions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France on 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  