-- 
Earthquake Rebuilding Effort Will Outweigh Japan Slump, BOJ Official Says

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 
2011-03-24T08:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/earthquake-rebuilding-effort-will-outweigh-japan-slump-boj-official-says.html
Efforts to rebuild  Japan  after its
record earthquake will offset the initial toll the disaster
will take on gross domestic product, the head of the Bank of
Japan’s Osaka branch said.  “In terms of GDP, it is fully possible that subsequent
demand from reconstruction will exceed the drop in GDP caused by
the initial declines in production,” Hideo Hayakawa, 56, who is
also a former top economist at the central bank, said in an
interview today in his office.  Japan’s government yesterday said the damage from this
month’s magnitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami may be as much as
25 trillion yen ($309 billion). A crisis at a nuclear plant
north of  Tokyo  and a death toll topping 9,000 have some analysts
predicting the economy will contract more than 10 percent next
quarter amid production disruptions and power shortages.  “We’ll probably see a big decline in production, and that
means there will be an adjustment in the economy initially with
exports and inventories falling and imports rising,” said
Hayakawa, who is also an executive director at the central bank.
“Demand created by reconstruction projects will emerge after
that.”  Economists at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. forecast a
contraction in GDP may be as deep as an annualized 12 percent in
the second quarter. The hit comes at a time when the world’s
third-largest economy was just showing signs of emerging from a
fourth-quarter contraction in GDP.  As branch manager, Hayakawa overseas Japan’s second-largest
metropolitan area, which is home to companies including
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp.  Record Funds  Japan’s central bank has pumped a record amount of funds
into the financial system since March 11 to calm markets and
soften the economic impact of the earthquake and tsunami. The
bank last week also doubled its asset-purchase program to buy
securities including  government bonds  and exchange-traded funds
to 10 trillion yen.  Analysts who lowered their GDP forecasts after the March 11
temblor said that the economy will probably avoid a contraction
in the fiscal year starting April 1 as the government repairs
infrastructure and companies resume production that was delayed
by the natural disaster.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its growth projection for
fiscal 2011 to 1 percent from 1.7 percent. RBS Securities and
Nomura Securities Co. have also cut their forecasts while noting
that the economy will still expand because the rebuilding will
spur demand and help offset damage on growth in the period.  Effect Over Time  “The total cost of reconstruction demand will be quite
large, but we can’t deny the fact that the speed of
implementation will be done somewhat moderately,” Hayakawa said.
“Restoring infrastructure isn’t something that can be done in
six months or a year. It’s natural to assume that the effect of
the large reconstruction project will come into effect over the
time span of several years.”  Rebuilding efforts in fiscal 2011 could push up GDP by 5
trillion yen to 7.75 trillion yen, the government said yesterday.  The fillip provided by private and public investment in the
aftermath of the 1995 Kobe earthquake helped the economy
accelerate for two years after three years of near zero growth.
The  World Bank  this week said that it may take five years for
Japan to rebuild though it will return to normal “very soon” as
reconstruction work starts.  “Only accounting for the effect of the recovery, that
would create an increase in GDP. But this doesn’t mean the
country’s wealth will expand or Japanese people will become
happy,” Hayakawa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  