-- 
Ecobank Kenya Returns to Profit as Income From Its Loans More Than Doubles

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-24T14:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/ecobank-transnational-s-kenyan-unit-returns-to-profit-as-loan-income-jumps.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) ’s Kenyan
unit returned to profit last year as income from loans more than
doubled and said it expects earnings to grow more than 50
percent across the region in 2011.  Net income was 125.1 million shillings ($1.47 million) in
the 12 months through December, compared with a loss of 796.3
million shillings a year earlier, Ecobank  Kenya  Ltd. said in a
statement published in the Daily Nation newspaper today. Net
interest income, the money banks earn from interest charges on
loans, surged to 917.8 million shillings from 360 million
shillings, it said.  “All of our income lines increased by between 25 to 100
percent,” Chief Executive Officer Tony Okpanachi said in a
phone interview today from Dubai.  Ecobank Transnational operates in 29 African countries,
according to its  website . Its Kenyan unit began operations in
June 2008 following the acquisition of 75 percent of EABS Bank
Ltd. The lender has 19 branches in the country, in addition to
outlets in Tanzania,  Uganda ,  Rwanda  and Burundi.  “This year we plan to add another three or four branches
in Kenya,” Okpanachi said. Elsewhere in the region, the bank
plans to open two outlets each in the countries it already
operates in, with the exception of Burundi, and may start
operations in  Southern Sudan  by the end of 2011, he said.  Expansion  Last year, Ecobank Transnational injected 2.3 billion
shillings into Ecobank Kenya to help fund its expansion. This
year, the company expects to receive 1 billion shillings, which
will be used “to build our capacity to do big transactions and
focus a lot on trying increase our reach” to do business with
small- and medium-sized enterprises and domestic companies,
Okpanachi said.  Bank earnings in Kenya have risen as accelerating economic
expansion spurs loan growth and demand for other financial
services. The industry’s combined pretax profit surged 46
percent to 66 billion shillings in the 11 months through
November on increased credit and higher income from fees and
commissions, the  Central Bank  of Kenya said on Feb. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 