-- 
Medvedev Says Nuclear Plants Shouldn’t Be Built in Seismic Zones

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-24T16:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/medvedev-says-nuclear-plants-shouldn-t-be-built-in-seismic-zones.html
Russia  supports international rules
that would bar the building of nuclear-power plants in areas
prone to earthquakes, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said.  “We all understand that if such a catastrophe happens, it
won’t affect only one country, it will represent a danger for
neighboring states and for our planet as a whole,” Medvedev
said in a  statement  posted on his website today. “There should
be international restrictions, especially in areas where
powerful earthquakes and tsunamis are possible.”  Turkey will proceed with plans to build its first nuclear
plant in cooperation with Russia after radiation leaks from a
stricken Japanese facility, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
said on March 16 after talks with Medvedev in Moscow.  Russia’s ZAO Atomstroyexport is building a $20 billion
plant at Akuyyu, about 25 kilometers (16 miles) from a seismic
fault-line and 135 kilometers from the Mediterranean port city
of Mersin, which has a population of about 1 million people. The
Turkish government wants nuclear power to meet at least 8
percent of energy needs by 2020.  The plant will be able to withstand a magnitude-9
earthquake, such as the one that hit  Japan , Erdogan said.
Medvedev said the project has “a different level” of
protection than the 40-year-old Japanese plant damaged in the
temblor.  Countries including China and Germany put nuclear power
development on hold after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
damaged Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, 135 miles north of
 Tokyo , resulting in fires, explosions and radiation leaks.  Sergei Novikov, a spokesman for Russia’s state nuclear
company Rosatom Corp., couldn’t be reached for comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  