-- 
Egypt Shares Extend Drop as Banks Fall; Orascom Telecom Advances

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-24T14:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/egypt-shares-tumble-for-second-day-triggering-halt-as-drop-limit-reached.html
Egyptian shares fell for the second
day, sending the benchmark index to a 23-month low, as
international investors sold holdings to free money locked up
for almost two months during the bourse’s closure.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  retreated 3.7 percent to 4,950.82 at the
1:30 p.m. close in Cairo, bringing the two-day slump to 12
percent after the bourse opened yesterday for the first time
since Jan. 27. The gauge lost as much as 7.8 percent today.
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the nation’s biggest investment bank,
plunged by the daily limit to the lowest since July 2009.
Commercial International Bank SAE slid 9.4 percent. The broader
EGX 100 gained 0.9 percent after reversing a drop.  Egypt ’s economic growth and corporate earnings are set to
slow after tourists fled and companies closed following
demonstrations that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  last month.
International investors, including Arabs, were net sellers of
164.6 million pounds ($28 million), data on the Egyptian
Exchange’s website show. Institutions were responsible for 89
percent of trading, according to the data.  “For the first few days we will see investors that need to
exit placing some pressure on the market, after this
fundamentals are likely to prevail," said Sven Richter, managing
director and head of frontier markets at Renaissance Asset
Managers in  London , which oversees more than $2 billion. ‘‘Times
like this can often be the best time to invest as long as you
focus on quality companies trading below their long-term
valuations.’’  Lower Growth  Sixteen companies listed on the benchmark index dropped
today, 13 gained and one remained suspended. Yesterday 28 shares
fell and two were halted. Orascom Construction Industries,
Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder, gained 0.2 percent
after tumbling 10 percent yesterday.  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE (ORTE) , North Africa’s biggest mobile-phone operator by
subscribers, surged 9.9 percent to 3.87 pounds.  Egyptians voted March 19 to change the constitution, paving
the way for presidential and parliamentary elections by the end
of the year. The vote was the first since Mubarak bowed to
protests and resigned Feb. 11, handing power to the military
after three decades as president. The turmoil that accompanied
the revolt prompted the government to lower its growth forecast
for the fiscal year ending in June to 4 percent from 6 percent,
Finance Minister Samir Radwan said Feb. 12.  Ezz Steel Tumbles  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE dropped 10 percent to 21.41 pounds
and Commercial International Bank, Egypt’s biggest lender, fell
to 29.77 pounds.  Ezz Steel (ESRS) , whose chairman Ahmed Ezz was a senior official
in Mubarak’s  National Democratic Party  and is on trial for
corruption, plunged 10 percent to 14.34 pounds. The shares were
suspended yesterday. Ezz has denied any wrongdoing. Cairo-based
CI Capital lowered the shares to ‘‘sell” from “strong buy”
today.  Palm Hills Developments SAE, a real-estate developer,
plunged 9.8 percent to 3.96 pounds. Shareholder and former
Housing Minister Ahmed El Maghraby is also standing trial on
charges that he denies.  “Those who are linked with previous regimes will continue
to sell down especially real-estate companies. It’s going to be
volatile for a few more days,” Oliver Bell, London-based senior
investment manager who helps oversee about $10 billion of
emerging market assets at Pictet Asset Management Ltd., said in
an emailed response to questions. “We are at the point where
there is differentiation between stocks - those with high
dividends and stable businesses or exporters are being
supported.”  Cement Makers  South Valley Cement, Egypt’s second-biggest cement producer
by assets, surged 8.8 percent, the most since April 2009 to 3.73
pounds. Sinai Cement and Tourah Portland Cement Co. jumped 10
percent.  “Cement stocks are known for their defensive nature,”
Ghada Refky, senior analyst at CI Capital, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. A “hefty dividend yield drive shares
upward,” she said, noting that Sinai Cement and Tourah have
announced cash dividends that imply a yield of 21 percent and 15
percent respectively.  Orascom Telecom is valued at 6.5 times analysts’ estimates
for 2011 earnings, about half the average of 12.4 times for
global peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shareholders of
 Russia ’s VimpelCom Ltd. approved issuing stock for a merger with
Orascom’s parent company Wind Telecom SpA earlier this month.
That helped create a “positive sentiment" for the shares, said
Amr Elalfy, a research director at CI Capital in Cairo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  