-- 
Heiress Vivien Duffield Gives $13.3 Million to U.K. Arts Bodies

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-03-24T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/heiress-vivien-duffield-gives-13-3-million-to-u-k-arts-bodies.html
Vivien Duffield, the philanthropist
whose father once owned the Selfridge’s department store, said
she is giving 8.2 million pounds ($13.3 million) to 11 U.K. arts
institutions including  Tate Britain  and the  National Theatre .  The money is aimed at setting up educational facilities for
children and young people, a news release said. Other recipients
are the  Royal Shakespeare Company ; London’s  Donmar Warehouse ;
and  Kensington Palace , where  Princess Diana  lived.  “Culture should be at the heart of our children’s
learning,” Duffield said in the release. “I believe
passionately that children and young people deserve the very
best opportunities to benefit from the transforming power of our
world-class cultural organizations.”  The U.K. government is cutting grants to national museums
by 15 percent by 2015. Subsidies to  Arts Council England  -- the
body that funnels government aid to performing-arts groups and
non-national museums -- are being slashed by 29 percent. The
government has asked private donors to step in and give money.  Duffield, whose father Charles Clore was also a
philanthropist, has given millions of pounds over the years to
institutions such as the  Royal Opera House , helping rescue it
from insolvency;  Tate ; and the  Eureka!  children’s museum.  A skilled fundraiser, she helped generate tens of millions
of pounds for the renovation of the  Royal Festival Hall  in
 London , and chaired the  Campaign for the University of Oxford 
from 2007 until last year.  The other recipients of her latest gift are: the Museum of
Liverpool; the Whitworth Art Gallery in Manchester; Kettle’s
Yard in Cambridge; the  Holburne Museum  in Bath; the  Porthcurno
Telegraph Museum  in Cornwall; and Turner Contemporary in
Margate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 