-- 
Emerging Market Equities Advance to Two-Week High on Earnings, Commodities

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-03-24T22:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/emerging-equities-head-for-2-week-high-on-earnings-commodities.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
pushing the benchmark index to a two-week high, on optimism
earnings will increase in Asia and as steeper prices for gold,
silver and other metals boosted raw-materials producers.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose to the highest since
March 9, climbing 1 percent to 1,134.71 as of 4 p.m. in  New
York . South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1.2 percent while
Russia’s Micex added 1.4 percent. Mexico’s IPC index increased
0.9 percent, and has jumped 4.1 percent this week.  Gold touched a record as fighting in Libya and concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred demand for an alternative
investment, while silver increased to a 31-year high. Oil
settled near a 30-month high in New York. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics said that a survey of purchasing managers
showed  China ’s manufacturing growth is accelerating.  “Markets appear to be shifting focus to the ongoing
improvement in the macro-economic backdrop in spite of the
ongoing Middle East turmoil, higher  oil prices  and uncertainties
over Europe,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $98 billion.
“Commodities-related stocks should benefit.”  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest automaker, jumped
4.2 percent in Seoul to the highest level in more than two
months on speculation first-quarter earnings will beat
forecasts.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  gained 3.4 percent.  Hyundai Mobis (012330) 
Co., a parts supplier to the automakers, rose 5.7 percent.  Confidence  “Investor confidence in their earnings is continuing to
boost the shares,” Yoon Pil Joong, an analyst with Samsung
Securities Co., said by phone today. “Their March car sales are
likely to be good.” Hyundai Motor said in an e-mail that it has
no comment.  OAO Severstal, Russia’s biggest steelmaker, climbed 2.6
percent and OAO Novolipetsk Steel also added 2.6 percent. OAO
Polymetal, which mines gold and silver, rose 3.1 percent.  The Hungarian forint strengthened 1 percent against the
euro. Hungary’s BUX Index rallied 1.9 percent.  Hungary sold 65 billion forint ($345 million) of domestic
bonds, the third auction where the government’s target was
exceeded, at lower yields than an auction two weeks ago. The
government has been trying to win investor confidence with its
central bank appointments and budget-deficit plans.  It now plans to sell 30-year bonds and 10-year debt in
dollars, according to a banker involved in the sale.  Egypt Drops  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 1.5 percent as investors
seeking exposure to Middle Eastern assets turned to the United
Arab Emirates, which has been spared protests hitting
neighboring countries.  Egyptian shares tumbled for the second day, with the  EGX 30
Index (EGX30)  falling 3.7 percent as investors trimmed holdings to free
money locked in for almost two months during the bourse’s
closure.  The iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European, Middle
East and Africa credit-default swaps fell 3 basis points to 201.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries fell 7 basis points to
264, according to the JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  