-- 
Ending Saturday Mail Won’t Save Amount Cited, Regulator Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-03-24T19:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/ending-saturday-mail-won-t-save-amount-cited-regulator-says-1-.html
The U.S.  Postal Service  would save
$1.7 billion a year, not the $3.1 billion it projects, by
cutting Saturday mail delivery, its regulator estimated.  The Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the Postal
Service’s operations and its rates, in a  report  today questioned
the agency’s request to eliminate Saturday mail delivery as a
way to cut costs following five consecutive quarters of losses
and plummeting mail volume.  The regulator didn’t make a recommendation on whether the
Postal Service should end Saturday mail delivery. Congress has
the authority to rewrite federal law requiring delivery to every
U.S. address six days a week.  Moving to five-day delivery is an “integral part of our
action plan for the future,” Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe
said in an e-mailed statement. The Postal Service plans to
“continue to press our case” in Congress for the change, he
said.  The Postal Service says it will run out of money by the
Sept. 30 end of its fiscal year without changes in legislation.
It is looking for permission to delay a required payment for
future retiree health benefit costs and has proposed making it
easier to close post offices.  Job Cuts  The service said today in an e-mailed statement that it’s
cutting 7,500 jobs, or 1.3 percent of its workforce, through an
early retirement and financial incentive package. It’s also
closing seven administrative offices to cut costs.  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which
oversees the Postal Service, has a hearing scheduled for next
month to examine the agency’s labor contract with the American
Postal Workers Union. Representative  Darrell Issa , the
California Republican who chairs the panel, said yesterday he
has “serious doubts” that the contract, yet to be signed,
would save the Postal Service money.  Postal Regulatory Commission Chairman Ruth Goldway, citing
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s use of the Postal Service for
Saturday deliveries, said the revenue lost from cutting service
on that day wouldn’t be worth the $1.7 billion in cost savings.  “I look at these numbers and think it’s not worth it,”
Goldway said today in an interview. “The Postal Service isn’t
going to save that much money or make itself financially stable.
There’s more money to be saved elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 