-- 
England Cricketer Michael Yardy Leaves World Cup Because of Depression

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-24T14:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/england-cricketer-michael-yardy-leaves-world-cup-because-of-depression.html
All-rounder Michael Yardy left
 England ’s World Cup squad because he’s suffering from
depression, the England and Wales Cricket Board said.  Yardy, 30, will immediately return home after consulting
with the squad’s medical team. England faces  Sri Lanka  in the
quarterfinals in two days.  “Leaving at this stage of a World Cup campaign was a very
difficult decision to make but I felt that it was the only
sensible option for me and I wanted to be honest about the
reason behind the decision,” Yardy said in a  statement  on the
England board’s website.  The England board said Yardy was going home “to receive
the best possible advice and support as he seeks to overcome an
illness he has been managing for a prolonged period of time.”  “Michael has been an integral part of the England set-up
in recent years and while he will be missed in the knockout
stages of the  World Cup , our priority now is to ensure that he
returns home to his family and is able to spend time recovering
with a strong support network around him,” Hugh Morris, England
cricket’s managing director, said.  Yardy played in three of England’s six matches at the World
Cup, taking two wickets and scoring 19 runs. He was replaced by
leg-spinner Adil Rashid, the England board said.  Mark Robinson , manager of Yardy’s county team Sussex, said
the club was “very supportive” of the player’s decision not
only to return home also for going public with the reason.  “He’s always been a person admired for his utmost honesty
and integrity, and his courage in dealing with this issue
emphasizes that,” Robinson said in a  statement . “As captain
and one of our leading players, we’ll give him all the time and
all the support necessary so that he can continue to lead this
club forward.”  Yardy isn’t the first England cricketer to battle the
illness. Former opener Marcus Trescothick had to retire from
international play because of depression.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 