-- 
Tepco, Japan Utilities Halt Nuclear Expansion Plans After Reactor Accident

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-24T10:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/tepco-japan-utilities-halt-nuclear-expansion-plans-after-reactor-accident.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of
the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, and three
other Japanese utilities delayed building new reactors after the
country’s worst civil atomic disaster.  Tepco, as  Asia ’s biggest utility is known, halted work on
the No. 1 nuclear reactor at the Higashidori plant and suspended
plans to build three other reactors, spokesman Takeo Iwamoto
said today. Chubu Electric Power Co., among Japan’s three
biggest energy utilities, delayed building a new reactor, while
Electric Power Development Co. stopped construction of its Oma
nuclear plant, officials at each company said.  The changes follow the magnitude 9-earthquake and ensuing
tsunami that caused the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant to lose the
power that drives its cooling systems, raising concerns of a
potential meltdown. Japanese utilities were building or planning
14 new reactors before the earthquake by 2020, according to
 plans  compiled by the trade ministry.  “More nuclear plans may be delayed or suspended as
utilities will likely have to improve plant designs to protect
against earthquakes and tsunamis,” said Yuji Nishiyama, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse. “ Japan  needs nuclear
power and will find a compromise solution on atomic energy.”  Still, Japan remains committed to nuclear power because it
needs non-polluting energy sources, the government’s nuclear
safety spokesman said March 23.  Tepco stopped work on the 1,385-megawatt reactor at its
Higashidori plant in Aomori, northern Japan. It suspended plans
to build another 1,385-megawatt reactor at the same plant and
two 1,380-megawatt units at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
Iwamoto said.  Chubu, J-Power Suspend  Chubu Electric delayed the start of construction of the new
reactor at its Hamaoka power station in Shizuoka, southwest of
Tokyo, for one year to fiscal 2016, spokesman Akio Miyazaki said
by phone. “We will analyze the effects of the disaster and take
necessary measures,” Miyazaki said.  Electric Power Development, known as J-Power, temporarily
halted construction of its Oma nuclear plant in Aomori, said
spokesman Junichiro Hoshino. The company doesn’t have a
timetable for resuming construction of the plant that is due to
start operations in November 2014, he said.  Chugoku Electric Power Co. has halted preliminary
construction of the Kaminoseki plant in Yamaguchi, western Japan,
after a request by local governments, spokesman Kimitake Yoshida
said. The No. 3 reactor under construction at its Shimane plant
is on schedule to be operational in March 2012, he said.  Tohoku Electric Power Co. is yet to review plans for two
reactors as it is focusing on recovery efforts for plant and
equipment damaged by the earthquake, said spokesman Sota Notsu.
     Kyushu Electric Power Co. will add one reactor at its
Sendai plant in Kagoshima, southwestern Japan, and use lessons
learned from the Dai-Ichi accident to improve its safety, said
spokesman Ryoji Nakamuta.  Japan Atomic Power Co. is also on schedule to start
building two reactors at its Tsuruga plant by March 2012,
spokesman Mitsuru Marutani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  