-- 
Estonia Coalition Pledges Budget Surplus By 2014, Tax Cuts

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-03-24T08:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/estonia-coalition-pledges-budget-surplus-by-2014-tax-cuts.html
Estonia ’s ruling coalition, which
bolstered its majority in parliamentary elections earlier this
month, pledged to achieve a  budget surplus  by 2014 and cut taxes
from 2013.  The Reform Party of Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  and the
junior coalition party Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit of former
Premier Mart Laar plan to “increase the fiscal reliability of
Estonia as a destination for new investments and jobs” and to
keep the tax system unchanged, according to the draft coalition
agreement e-mailed late yesterday.  “We will bring the government sector budget into a
structural surplus by 2014 and will thereafter keep the surplus
in all growth years,” the parties said. “We will keep the
simple and uniform personal income tax that fosters
entrepreneurship. Companies won’t have to pay tax on reinvested
profits.”  Estonia, which on Jan. 1 became the first former Soviet
republic to adopt the euro, had the lowest  budget deficit  and
government debt among the 17 members of the currency bloc last
year, according to the European Commission. The budget was
balanced last year, compared with a previous forecast for a
deficit of 1 percent of gross domestic product due to better-
than-expected economic growth and the sale of spare carbon-
emissions credits, the  Finance Ministry  said on March 16.  The unemployment insurance tax rate will be reduced from
2013, the parties said. An exemption on social tax, covering
pension and health insurance expenditures, will be set from 2014
on wages exceeding 4,000 euros ($5,632). The personal income tax
rate will be reduced by one percentage point to 20 percent from
2015.  The parties also reiterated a pledge made last year to make
budget deficits illegal unless the economy is contracting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  