-- 
Metalloinvest Said to More Than Double Loan to $3.1 Billion

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-03-24T16:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/metalloinvest-will-borrow-3-1-billion-double-earlier-amount-person-says.html
OAO Metalloinvest,  Russia ’s biggest
iron ore miner, will more than double the size of a new loan to
$3.1 billion as it seeks to add assets and refinance debt,
according to a person with knowledge of the agreement.  Metalloinvest will get a $3 billion, five-year loan and a
$100 million seven-year loan, after initially hiring  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and BNP Paribas SA to arrange a $1.2 billion five-year
pre-export facility in February, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the transaction is confidential.  The company, which had $4.1 billion of debt at the end of
2010, plans to raise iron ore output 9.7 percent this year as
use of the steelmaking material grows. Billionaire owner Alisher Usmanov said this month that Metalloinvest also intends to buy
stock in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest miner, which
almost doubled profit in 2010 as demand for the metal rebounded.  “We need this loan to refinance our debt and to buy new
assets,” Eduard Potapov, chief executive officer of Moscow-
based Metalloinvest, said yesterday by e-mail, without
commenting on the proposed size of the facility or elaborating
on the company’s acquisition plans.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  can’t comment on the size of the loan until the
deal is concluded, Helen Guillemot, a spokeswoman for the Paris-
based bank, said by e-mail. Sebastien Avot, a London-based
spokesman for Deutsche Bank, declined to comment.  Large Loan  “It’s one of the largest loans among Russian companies in
recent years,” Maria Radchenko, an analyst at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said today by phone. Only mobile operator
VimpelCom is looking for a larger loan, of $4 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Metalloinvest produced 35.1 million metric tons of iron ore
concentrate last year, an 18 percent increase from a year
earlier, and targets 38.5 million tons this year, Potapov said
Feb. 2.  The company is negotiating an initial interest margin of
less than 300 basis points over the  London  interbank offered
rate on the revised financing, said two people with knowledge of
the proposed terms. The margin will be adjusted according to
Metalloinvest’s ratio of debt to earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, they said.  Ebitda this year is forecast at $3.5 billion to $4 billion,
according to two people with knowledge of the company’s
operations.  BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank said Feb. 7 they were hired
by Metalloinvest to arrange a $1.2 billion loan, as the company
sought to refinance a $1.6 billion facility from July 2008.  Metalloinvest is also seeking funds through a possible
initial public offering in London. Potapov said Feb. 2 that the
company may decide to hold an IPO in the second half of this
year or in 2012, depending on market conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Eeuwens in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 