-- 
EU Gambling, Mortgage-Broker Extinction, U.K. Bank Levy Rate: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-24T12:26:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/eu-gambling-mortgage-broker-extinction-bank-levy-compliance.html
Online gambling companies including
 Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG (BWIN)  and  Unibet Group Plc (UNIB)  will
demand pan-European Union rules as regulators consider a
possible overhaul of the EU’s patchwork of national gaming laws.  The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm, plans to
start an information-gathering exercise today on possible
measures, according to a statement on its  website .  The EU’s top court in recent years has examined a series of
cases brought by betting companies including Bwin,  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) 
and Betfair Ltd. over whether it is legal for state monopolies
to block them from operating freely across the 27-nation region.
Online gambling firms have also called on the EU to take action
against what they say are unjustified national restrictions on
cross-border online gambling.  Since 2006, the Brussels-based commission has probed
whether national rules in states such as Germany, France and
Italy comply with EU laws. Most of these investigations are
ongoing.  The EU agency said today’s consultation will “determine if
the differing national regulatory models for gambling can
continue to coexist, and whether specific action may be needed
in the EU for that purpose.”  Compliance Policy  Banks, Insurers Resist U.S. ‘Funeral Plan’ Crisis Breakup Rules  Banks and insurers are pushing back against  U.S. rules  that
will require some financial companies to show how they can be
dismantled during a crisis.  Under the so-called living will plans, firms might have to
divide themselves into separate entities that could be sold if
the company were in danger of failing. Such breakup plans are
costly and would hurt financial companies by forcing them into
illogical management structures,  industry groups  say.  Regulators say they need an orderly wind-down mechanism to
avoid a repeat of the panic that gripped markets such as  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  floundered in 2008. Proposed rules on
living wills, due from the  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. as soon as next week, are part of the debate
between Wall Street and Washington over how tightly firms should
be supervised and how the markets will react to such scrutiny.  Lobby groups including the  American Bankers Association  are
voicing concern to regulators in a series of comment letters
seeking to limit the impact of the new rules. FDIC Chairman
 Sheila Bair  is defending the need for a detailed rule.  For more, click here.  Mortgage Brokers Fear Extinction Under New Rules on Commissions  Independent mortgage brokers are mounting a last-ditch
effort to halt new federal rules banning higher commissions for
subprime loans and requiring them to pay salaries to loan
officers.  Brokers , who process mortgage applications and rely on
lenders such as banks to provide the financing, say their
industry depends on paying officers commissions tied to the
interest rate or points of the mortgages they originate.  The brokers say that if the rules go into effect, the only
survivors will be large lenders including Bank of America and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  who have their own loan officers and can
afford to pay them salaries.  The Federal Reserve wrote the new rules, scheduled to go
into effect April 1, to remove financial incentives for loan
officers to steer customers into high-interest mortgages such as
subprime loans.  The National Association of Mortgage Brokers and the NAIHP
are seeking an injunction against the rules in federal court.
They are also lobbying and have convinced lawmakers in the House
and Senate to write letters to the Fed seeking a delay.  The Federal Reserve has declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The battle is the latest effort by mortgage brokers to
protect their industry after the collapse of subprime lending,
which was helped drive loan volume during the housing bubble
that began to burst in 2007.  For more, click here.  Egypt Central Bank to Speed Up Process on Recovery of Bad Loans  Egypt’s central bank will review its laws to speed up the
process of recovering non-performing loans.  The Cairo-based central bank will also tighten banking
regulation in the Arab country, it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The new rules will be drafted within four months, it
said.  EU Seeks Views on Rules for State Support for Public Services  European Union regulators are seeking views on changes to
rules for how governments can fund public services, such as
transport and broadcasting, the  European Commission  said
yesterday.  The EU’s antitrust agency must approve large subsidies from
states to companies and can demand repayment if its rules aren’t
followed. It said it will publish details of planned changes in
July and the new rules would take effect in November.  Italy to Allow Some Companies to Delay Shareholder Meetings  The Italian government passed a decree law yesterday
allowing some companies to delay their annual shareholder
meetings beyond regulated deadlines, according to an e-mailed
statement.  The decree comes one day after France’s Groupe Lactalis
agreed to boost its stake in Italian dairy  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  to 29
percent, just short of the 30 percent threshold that requires a
full takeover bid under Italian law. Finance Minister Giulio
Tremonti has said the government is studying new measures to
prevent foreign takeovers of key Italian companies.  The decree would allow Parmalat to delay its shareholder
meeting scheduled for next month, when a new management list
proposed by Lactalis is set to be voted. A spokeswoman from
Parmalat didn’t have any immediate comment on the decision.  Juncker Says Germany Has an Issue With ESM Paid-In Capital  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said Germany has an objection to
the proposal on paid-in capital for a permanent bailout facility
to be established in 2013.  Chancellor Angela Merkel will press for changes to the pay-
in period for the European Stability Mechanism, which will open
in mid-2013, a German government official said yesterday in
Berlin. Payment installments for the ESM should be prolonged to
ease the impact on the German budget, the official said on
condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.  Germany isn’t questioning the 80 billion euros ($113
billion) of paid-in capital to be made available to the ESM
fund, the official said.  Juncker said he will report to the March 24-25 summit of EU
leaders in Brussels on the March 21 meeting of finance ministers
that hammered out the ESM proposal.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  U.K. Chancellor Osborne Raises Bank Levy Rate for Next Year  Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised
the bank levy rate for next year to offset a planned cut in
corporation tax.  The levy will rise to 0.078 percent from January and will
raise an additional 100 million pounds ($162 million), according
to the  Treasury . Corporation tax will be reduced by 2 percentage
points next month and by 1 percentage point in each of the
following three years, Osborne said while delivering his budget
to the House of Commons in Westminster yesterday.  Last month, Osborne increased a tax on U.K. bank balance
sheets to raise 2.5 billion pounds in the current financial year
ending in April.  The revenue will pay for a program to provide interest-free
loans for first-time homebuyers, Osborne said.  Libor Probe Spurs Witness Call-up at Citigroup, Deutsche Bank  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  have been asked by U.S. regulators to make
employees available to testify as witnesses in a probe of
potential interest-rate manipulation, two people briefed on the
plans said.  The banks, members of the panel that sets the interbank
offered rate known as Libor, were asked to appear voluntarily
for the interviews in London in April with the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, the people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the proceedings are confidential. The people
didn’t say who from the banks would testify.  The U.S. Department of Justice, Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission may be
investigating whether banks colluded to artificially reduce
Libor, another person with knowledge of the probe said. U.K.
regulators often cooperate with their U.S. counterparts in
enforcement probes.  Officials from Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, Germany’s
biggest bank; Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
the largest U.S. lender by assets; New York-based Citigroup, the
U.S. bank that received the biggest taxpayer bailout; and New
York-based JPMorgan, the second biggest U.S. lender by assets,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Courts  Goldman’s Blankfein Says Gupta Violated Firm’s Policies  Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , testified at Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial that former Goldman board
member Rajat Gupta violated the firm’s confidentiality policies.  Blankfein took the stand as a witness for the prosecution
before U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan federal
court yesterday morning. He said Gupta violated Goldman policies
when he revealed details of the firm’s strategic planning
discussions to Rajaratnam in a wiretapped phone call in July
2008.  Prosecutors called Blankfein to help build their case that
Rajaratnam traded on inside information about Goldman Sachs he
obtained from Gupta. On the stand, Blankfein identified a photo
of Gupta and said Gupta was on Goldman’s governance, audit and
compensation committees.  John Dowd, Rajaratnam’s lawyer, said he doesn’t intend to
question Blankfein about any pending investigations related to
Goldman Sachs. He said he may recall Blankfein later in the
trial as a witness for the defense.  Rajaratnam has denied wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  UBS Hid Madoff Role in Fund From French Investors, Lawyer Says  UBS AG (UBSN)  misled French investors by concealing the role
 Bernard Madoff  played in handling LuxAlpha Sicav-American
Selection Fund assets and should reimburse their losses, their
lawyer told a Paris court yesterday.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank by client assets, should
have disclosed in the LuxAlpha prospectus that the fund’s assets
were being invested through Madoff’s firm, Jean-Pierre Martel
said. The investors learned of the connection after Madoff was
arrested in 2008 for fraud, he said.  The investors’ suit is one of many against UBS for its role
as custodian for LuxAlpha, which invested 95 percent of its
assets with Madoff and is being liquidated. Irving H. Picard,
the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, sued for $2.6 billion
last year, claiming UBS aided the Madoff fraud partly by setting
up feeder funds like LuxAlpha.  UBS “never, never distributed the slightest false
information,” said Denis Chemla, a lawyer for the Zurich-based
bank. UBS, as the custodian, didn’t have to disclose in the
prospectus how the assets were ultimately invested as “the sole
purpose of this fund was to invest in the American market with
Madoff.”  The investors are seeking to recover the 30 million euros
($42 million) they lost.  Interviews/Speeches  Almunia Sees ‘Significant’ Progress on Spain Bank Restructuring  European Union Competition  Commissioner Joaquin Almunia
said Spain has made “significant” progress on restructuring
its banking system.  “The mechanism for restructuring and reforming the Spanish
banking industry, including the cajas, is operating, and there
have been very significant steps,” Almunia said at a question-
and-answer session in Madrid today. “We are in the process of
recapitalizing those institutions. We are doing what has to be
done.”  Ackermann Says He Remains ‘Strongly Opposed’ to List of SIFIs  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann
said he remains “strongly opposed” to plans by regulators to
draw up a list of banks deemed systemically relevant, also known
as SIFIs, and to introduce extra capital surcharges for such
lenders.  Ackermann made the remarks at a speech in Frankfurt
yesterday.  The definition of a SIFI constantly changes and there’s an
incentive to manipulate lists of SIFIs for political reasons to
protect a country’s own national champions, he said in the
speech.  Ackermann also said new regulations are already having and
will have a “material impact” on banks’ profitability and
balance sheets. Lower return on equity at banks may mean
investors will choose not to buy banking stocks and invest in
other industries instead, he said.  Internet Firms Face Too Many Privacy Rules, U.S. Official Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other U.S. Internet companies may be
hampered by a multiplicity of data protection rules in Europe
and beyond that are “potential barriers to the free flow of
information,” a U.S. official said.  Daniel Weitzner, an Internet policy official in the U.S.
 Commerce Department , said regulators don’t always recognize
companies’ efforts to set basic data protection standards that
are adequate to stem abuses of privacy.  “It’s awfully difficult to adapt privacy practices for a
hundred or more different” jurisdictions, Weitzner told
reporters in Brussels the day after a meeting with Viviane
Reding, the European Union’s justice commissioner.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, and  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook Inc. are among several Internet
companies under scrutiny in the EU for possible privacy-rule
breaches over their use of personal data.  Matthew Newman, a spokesman for Reding, said “the EU and
the U.S. should work together,” without giving any details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 