-- 
EU Has ‘No Tools’ to Help Spain Fight Contagion, Cailloux Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-03-24T16:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/eu-has-no-tools-to-help-spain-fight-contagion-cailloux-says.html
The European Union’s plan to create
a permanent financial support mechanism for countries sharing
the euro lacks features that would help fight crisis contagion
to  Spain , said  Jacques Cailloux , chief economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc.  Portugal  moved closer to having to seek an aid package
after Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’s offer to resign left his
government in limbo on the eve of today’s European Union summit
to address the region’s debt crisis. Two-year Portuguese bond
yields reached the highest since 1999.  The Portuguese political wrangling comes as European
leaders are gathering in Brussels to hash out a lasting way of
dealing with countries whose finances have become unsustainable.
Finance ministers agreed on March 21 to create a permanent 500
billion-euro ($627 billion) rescue fund as of 2013.  “It happens in a week where  Europe  is due to announce one
of the biggest policy responses yet” to the sovereign-debt
crisis, Cailloux said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.” “The problem we’ve got is that the toolkit is
still not adequate to get rid of this contagion that can come
back at any point in time.”  RBS estimates that Portugal will end up taking aid of about
80 billion euros.  Fitch Ratings today cut Portugal’s long-term foreign
and local currency issuer default ratings to A- from A+
and short-term issuer default ratings to F2 from F1. The ratings
were placed on rating watch negative.  In neighboring Spain, 30 banks had their senior debt and
deposit ratings downgraded today as Moody’s Investors Service
reviews whether governments are willing to support their
lenders.  “Spain has held up very well since beginning of the year
and somewhat decoupled from Portugal so it’s been encouraging to
see that the Spanish  bond market  held up very well,” Cailloux
said. “At the same time, there are still major uncertainties
that Spain is facing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  