-- 
EU May Propose Fixes Next Month to Shield CO2 Market From Fraud

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-24T12:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/eu-may-propose-fixes-next-month-to-shield-co2-market-from-fraud.html
The European Union may propose
regulatory changes as soon as next month to boost security in
its  emissions-trading  system and restore investors’ trust after
a string of thefts and fraud.  The European Commission, supervisor of the carbon cap-and-
trade program that includes more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers, is working to modify the rules for registries
that track emission permits, said Yvon Slingenberg, head of the
emissions-trading unit. The EU is tightening security after
criminals illegally transferred allowances valued at about 60
million euros ($85 million) from registries in at least five
countries over the last year.  “We want to speed things up as much as we can, and we may
try to present the proposals at the end of April,” Slingenberg
said in an interview at a seminar on climate in Budapest. “It’s
possible we will need a little more time.”  The proposals will likely include a delay in delivery of
spot permits, Slingenberg said. The spot carbon market accounts
for 10 percent to 15 percent of emissions trading in the EU, the
commission said. It was halted for 15 days after the regulator
suspended all national registries on Jan. 19 following the
hacking attacks. Trading volumes remain low, even as most
registries resume operations.  “There was a lot of support from stakeholders” for the
delivery delay at a meeting last week, Slingenberg said. “There
are many proposals, and we’re looking at different options. Some
of the things we will propose won’t require a change to the law,
for example, information technology security issues or training
for users.”  Extra Time  The EU will discuss a 48-hour delay to provide extra time
for the transfer of permits between user accounts in registries,
a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.
Slingenberg said the commission is still assessing the final
shape of the mechanism.  The delay and most of other changes will be applicable for a
single registry, which will replace national emissions centers
in the next phase of the EU program starting in 2013. Some
measures may also become mandatory in the current trading
period, she said.  The move to the single registry will ensure a better
control and uniform standards for recording transactions in the
six-year-old EU emissions trading system, known as the EU ETS,
according to the commission. Some member states and firms
neglected security rules in national registries,  Jos Delbeke ,
director general for climate at the commission, said on Jan. 28.  The ETS is the cornerstone of the EU plan to cut  greenhouse
gases  that scientists blame for  climate change . It imposes
pollution limits on companies including  Germany ’s utility RWE AG
and  France ’s EDF, leading to a cap in 2020 that will be 21
percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters who produce less carbon
dioxide than their quota can sell surplus allowances and those
exceeding their limits must either buy additional permits or pay
a fine of 100 euros per metric ton of CO2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Budapest at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  