-- 
Euro Heads for Weekly Loss Versus Dollar After S&P Lowers Portugal Rating

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-25T05:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/euro-heads-for-weekly-loss-versus-dollar-after-s-p-lowers-portugal-rating.html
The euro headed for a weekly loss
against the dollar after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Portugal’s credit
rating by two notches and European leaders prepared to meet for
a second day to debate the region’s debt crisis.  The single currency was poised for a weekly decline versus
12 of its 16 most-active counterparts after S&P said Portugal’s
rating remains on negative credit watch pending an official
announcement about the planned European Stability Mechanism. The
Australian and New Zealand dollars were set for weekly gains
against all their major peers as stocks rose worldwide and a
measure of price volatility declined.  “The market reacted to the Portugal rating cut by S&P,”
said  Koji Fukaya , chief currency strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo. “Investors aren’t willing to buy the euro
while they’re closely watching if there’s any progress at the
European Union summit. There are still many negative factors for
the euro.”  The euro bought $1.4166 as of 2:44 p.m. in Tokyo from
$1.4177 in  New York  yesterday, after falling as low as $1.4151
following S&P’s announcement. The common currency has declined
0.1 percent this week. The euro was at 114.73 yen from 114.79
yen, having strengthened 0.4 percent since March 18. The yen
traded at 80.99 per dollar from 80.97.  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show the
euro has fallen 0.4 percent in the past week and 2.6 percent
over the past 12 months. The indexes track the foreign exchange
of 10 developed nations.  Portugal Bailout  Portugal’s rate cut today came after  Fitch Ratings  lowered
the nation’s long-term foreign- and local-currency issuer
default rankings by two steps yesterday. A bailout for Portugal
may total as much as 70 billion euros ($99 billion), said two
European officials with direct knowledge of the matter.  Portugal 
hasn’t yet asked for a bailout.  European Union leaders yesterday bowed to German calls to
spread contributions to the future permanent rescue fund over
five years. The fund, to be known as the European Stability
Mechanism, will start with less than the 40 billion euros of
paid-in capital than was foreseen earlier this week, the leaders
agreed yesterday in Brussels.  Australia ’s dollar traded about 0.4 percent away from the
strongest since being freely floated in 1983 as the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, completed its
biggest six-day drop since November 2008.  The VIX fell 6.1 percent to 18 yesterday, extending its
retreat since March 16 to 39 percent, the biggest decline over
the same number of days in 28 months. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average rose 0.6 percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
shares increased 0.4 percent.  ‘Low Volatility’  “There’s low volatility, a stable VIX index and equities
are doing well, so you have to be long the highest-yielding
currency you can find,” said Tony Allen, global head of
currency trading in Sydney at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. “The kiwi can get a little higher over the next 24
hours.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise.  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0210 from $1.0212 yesterday,
having gained 2.4 percent this week. New Zealand’s dollar
fetched 75.02 U.S. cents from 74.91, poised for a 2.6 percent
advance since March 18.  The euro still headed for a second weekly advance versus
the yen on speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise
 interest rates  next month and as stock gains boosted demand for
the region’s assets.  Futures show traders added to bets the ECB will increase
its benchmark rate from 1 percent, with the implied yield on the
three-month Euribor contract expiring in September rising one
basis point to 1.805 percent yesterday.  ‘Rate Hikes’  “We’re staring down a barrel of rate hikes and their
economy is doing really well,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest interdealer broker. “The euro is going to
outperform.”  The yen headed for its first weekly loss against the dollar
in three weeks on speculation  Japan  will intervene again to
prevent a stronger yen from undermining the nation’s economy
following its biggest earthquake.  Japanese authorities will step into  currency markets  only
when yen movements are excessive, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told lawmakers today in  Tokyo .  Investors in Japan bought more overseas assets than they
sold after the earthquake, evidence that the yen’s surge to a
post World-War II high after the March 11 disaster wasn’t driven
by repatriation flows.  Purchases of foreign assets including bonds and notes
exceeded sales by 291 billion yen ($3.59 billion) during March
13-19, the  Finance Ministry  said in a report in Tokyo today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 