-- 
Europe Carmakers May Be Forced to Idle Plants on Japan Quake

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-03-25T12:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/european-carmakers-may-be-forced-to-idle-plants-as-japan-supplies-dry-up.html
Volkswagen AG, PSA Peugeot Citroen
and other European automakers may be forced to halt production
in coming weeks as component suppliers in earthquake-ravaged
 Japan  struggle to restart factories.  The recovery to normal production levels may take months
and cost the industry “billions of euros” in lost revenue,
said Lars Holmqvist, head of the region’s Clepa auto suppliers
association in a telephone interview from Brussels yesterday.  “This will cause disruptions in  Europe  without question,”
said Holmqvist, whose group represents more than 3,000
companies. The effect on the carmakers will probably be felt in
the next few weeks as local supplies of Japanese parts such as
semiconductors and infotainment systems dry up, he said.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest automaker, is temporarily
reducing its workforce to reflect production cuts of as much as
60 percent resulting from a shortage of Hitachi Ltd. diesel
engine parts, the company said today.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel
unit this week canceled shifts at German and Spanish plants
before finding a new electronic components source in the U.S.  Some 40 auto-parts makers in Japan remain hampered after
the nation’s record earthquake damaged factories and transport
routes, said  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of  Renault SA (RNO) 
and Japanese partner Nissan Motor Co. More than 10,000 people
have died in the country, which is also facing electricity
shortages after a nuclear-power plant was crippled.  Serious Situation  “The situation looks more serious than it did a week
ago,” London-based Morgan Stanley analyst Stuart Pearson said
in a telephone interview. “What’s surprising is that there
isn’t more dual-sourcing, and many European carmakers have yet
to say what they can do with alternative suppliers.”  VW,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  have already
been struggling with tight parts supplies as they operate plants
at high capacity levels to meet record demand. VW, Europe’s
largest carmaker, dropped some shifts at the main plant in
Wolfsburg in January due to parts shortages.  Volkswagen preferred shares dropped as much as 1.75 euros,
or 1.6 percent, to 111.35 euros and was down 1.5 percent as of
1:21 p.m. in Frankfurt trading today. Peugeot was down 0.6
percent to 27.54 euros in Paris, while Renault was 1.5 percent
lower at 37.83 euros.  Global auto output may drop by about 30 percent if parts
plants affected by the quake don’t return to operation within
six weeks, said  Michael Robinet , vice president of Lexington,
Massachusetts-based IHS. Most major automakers will experience
disruptions by mid-April because supply networks are
intertwined, Robinet said yesterday.  Shortened Hours  German automakers have begun inquiring about government
support for workers if they halt assembly lines because of
missing components from Japan, said Anja Huth, a spokeswoman for
the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency.  “The requests are coming from auto manufacturers because
the situation is increasingly tight,” Huth said yesterday.  The agency, which subsidizes pay if economic conditions
force a slowdown, has determined the effects of the earthquake
are a valid justification for shorter workweeks, she said.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s European unit, which hasn’t inquired yet
about short-time work, can't ruled out production disruptions,
said spokesman Adrian Schmitz.  “It all depends on how the situation develops,” Schmitz
said by phone from the division's European headquarters in
Cologne,  Germany . Ford is in close contacts with suppliers, and
a components shortage from Japan hasn’t disrupted production so
far, he said.  A parts shortage from Japan would have ripple effects on
other suppliers because missing parts would delay sales of other
components they assemble, said Clepa’s Holmqvist.  Unique Supply  “Most of the items from Japanese suppliers are something
unique, so substitution is that much more difficult,” he said,
estimating that suppliers in the country are operating at 60
percent capacity.  Autoliv Inc. (ALIV) , the world’s largest producer of automotive
seatbelts and airbags, has resumed limited production in Japan
as some carmakers in the country have started operating again,
Chief Executive Officer Jan Carlson said.  “Some production lines are operating at 50 percent, and
for some lines it’s less,” Carlson, who returned to  Sweden  this
week from a three-day visit to Japan, said in a telephone
interview. Autoliv suffered only “cosmetic damages” to
Japanese factories, he said.  VW Production  “The factories are back to the way they were before the
earthquake, you don’t notice anything on the production
equipment,” Carlson said from his Stockholm headquarters.  Volkswagen will maintain production through this week, said
Christoph Adomat, a Wolfsburg, Germany-based company spokesman.
He declined to comment beyond that.  Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s biggest parts-maker, can’t
predict whether it will be able to secure component supplies
beyond the end of next week, said Christoph Zemelka, a spokesman
for the Stuttgart, Germany-based company. Electronics components
are the scarcest, he said.  Continental AG (CON)  may face supply shortfalls in certain areas,
Katja Mattl, a spokeswoman for the Hanover, Germany-based
company, said by phone. The manufacturer of engine parts and
braking systems has secured parts for the next three to four
weeks and is working on long-term access, she said.  Volvo Cars, the Swedish carmaker owned by  China ’s Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co., has been able to secure its production
through next week, spokesman Stefan Elfstrom said. Volvo gets
about 10 percent of components from Japan. It has about 30
Japanese suppliers, including seven based in the most damaged
areas, he said.  “That’s how long we can predict today; we’re monitoring
the situation daily,” Elfstrom said. “We’re getting some
positive signals that suppliers slowly are getting back
electricity and water and that infrastructure is improving. But
the situation remains very unstable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 