-- 
Euro Holds Losses on EU Summit Outlook, Spanish Bank Concerns; Kiwi Gains

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-24T06:44:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/euro-holds-losses-on-europe-summit-outlook-spanish-bank-rating-concerns.html
The euro held losses from yesterday,
when it slid the most in two weeks versus the dollar, on
speculation European Union leaders meeting today and tomorrow
will struggle to agree on a solution to the region’s debt crisis.  The single currency weakened versus 11 of its 16 major
counterparts after the Expansion newspaper said Moody’s
Investors Service is poised to slash the credit ratings of
Spanish banks.  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened for a fifth day
after a government report showed gross domestic product grew at
a faster pace than economists forecast. The euro slumped
yesterday after Portugal’s parliament rejected a deficit-cutting
plan and the nation’s debt yields reached record highs.  “The leaders are unlikely to reach an agreement and
worries are reemerging that some European nations may not be
able to procure funds,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency
dealer at Okasan Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “It’s a negative for
the euro.”  The euro traded at $1.4088 as of 6:40 a.m. in  London  from
$1.4088 in New York yesterday when it slid 0.8 percent, the
biggest drop since March 10. The common currency was at 114.07
yen from 114.00 yen. The dollar was little changed at 80.98 yen
from 80.92 yen. The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency
against those of six major U.S. trading partners, gained 0.1
percent to 75.933.  German Objection  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday  Germany  has an
objection to a proposal on paid-in capital for a permanent
bailout facility to be established in 2013. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will press for changes to the pay-in period for
the European Stability Mechanism, which will open in mid-2013, a
German government official said in Berlin.  The euro reversed earlier gains today after Spain’s
Expansion said Moody’s will make “massive” cuts to its ratings
of the country’s banks. A spokeswoman for Moody’s in  Hong Kong 
referred questions to the company’s London office when contacted
by Bloomberg News.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  tendered his
resignation yesterday after plans to cut the budget were
rejected by parliament, pushing the country closer to an
international bailout.  “This crisis occurs in the worst possible moment for
 Portugal ,” Socrates said.  Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva said he will meet
the main parties and the government will retain its powers until
he accepts Socrates’s resignation.  Kiwi Jumps  The so-called kiwi appreciated against all its major
counterparts after the government said the economy avoided a
second consecutive quarter of contraction.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in the three
months to Dec. 31 from the previous quarter when it contracted
0.2 percent, Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 0.1 percent growth.  “The GDP report has been taken well by the market, which
was nervous about a negative number,” said  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“The kiwi will do reasonably well against the  U.S. dollar  as
risk appetite is proving to be quite resilient.”  New Zealand’s currency jumped 0.7 percent to 74.56 U.S.
cents, and rallied 0.8 percent to 60.38 yen.  South Korea’s won approached a two-week high after a
Japanese report showed export growth accelerated, adding to
evidence Asia’s economies are improving.  Japan’s overseas shipments increased 9 percent in February
from a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said, using data taken
before the nation’s strongest earthquake on March 11 shut
factories and caused power shortages.  “Japan’s data showed that before the earthquake, trade was
improving, which is consistent with the sense that growth was
continuing in the region at the start of the year,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist for Action Economics who has
previously worked for the U.S. Federal Reserve.  The won gained 0.3 percent to close at 1,121.15 per dollar
after rising to 1,118.88 yesterday, the strongest since March 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 