-- 
Europe Services, Manufacturing Growth Slows More Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-24T10:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/european-services-manufacturing-growth-slows-more-than-forecast.html
Growth in  Europe ’s services and
manufacturing industries slowed more than economists forecast in
March after surging energy costs and Japan’s earthquake clouded
the global growth outlook.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the 17-nation euro region in both industries fell to 57.5
from 58.2 in February, London-based Markit Economics said today.
Economists forecast a drop to 57.8, the median of 16 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. That’s still the second
highest level since July 2007. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  European companies have relied on faster-growing economies
to fuel earnings after the fiscal crisis forced governments to
step up austerity measures. In  Germany , Europe’s largest
economy, profits surged 129 percent over the past year,
Bloomberg data show. While Japan’s earthquake has hurt investor
confidence, the  European Central Bank  has signaled that it may
raise borrowing costs next month to fight inflation.  “New orders growth and backlogs of work remain at elevated
levels, which bodes well for output in the near term,” said
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London . “The ECB currently seems to be of the view that the
Japanese and Libyan situation will not have a major impact on
euro zone growth prospects and that an interest rate hike is
warranted in April to contain inflation expectations.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.4119 at 10:44 a.m. in Frankfurt, up from $1.4088 yesterday.  ‘Upward Pressure’  An indicator measuring euro-region manufacturing growth
fell to 57.7 in March from 59 in the previous month, Markit
said. A gauge of  service industries  rose to 56.9 from 56.8 in
February. That’s the highest since August 2007.  The euro-region economy may expand about 1.7 percent this
year and 1.8 percent in 2012, the ECB said on March 3. The
Frankfurt-based central bank had previously forecast growth to
weaken to 1.5 percent next year. Inflation may average 1.7
percent this year, according to the ECB.  Crude  oil prices  have jumped 16 percent this year, trading
at $106.35 a barrel today, as coalition strikes in  Libya 
intensified, raising concern that supplies from Africa’s third-
largest producer will remain halted. While the euro’s 5.4
percent ascent against the dollar this year has helped counter
the impact of surging energy costs, it’s also undermining export
growth.  ‘Surge in Export Sales’  German investor confidence declined in March and exports
unexpectedly dropped in January. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
Chief Executive Officer Norbert Reithofer said on March 15 that
the world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles is “closely
watching” the after-effects of  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and
the possible impact on Asian markets including  China .  “Manufacturing continued to lead the recovery in terms of
output and jobs, in part reflecting an ongoing surge in export
sales,” said Markit Chief Economist Chris Williamson said in
the statement. “The downside of the stronger growth is still
further upward pressure on prices.”  The ECB, led by  Jean-Claude Trichet , will hold its next
rate meeting on April 7. The central bank has held borrowing
costs at a record low of 1 percent and provided banks with
emergency liquidity to bolster the region’s recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  