-- 
Texas Trove of Artifacts Blasts Theory on Arrival of First North Americans

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-24T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/texas-trove-of-artifacts-blasts-theory-on-arrival-of-first-north-americans.html
Scientists have found that humans
arrived in North American 2,500 years earlier than previously
thought, exploding an 80-year-old assumption about who settled
the continent.  The  Clovis people , known for their distinctive spear points,
had been thought to be first, said  Michael Waters , a professor
of anthropology at  Texas A&M University  in  College Station . The
discovery of ancient tool remnants, knives and spears, reported
today in the journal  Science , shows that the Clovis weren’t the
earliest to migrate into  North America , said Waters, one of the
study’s authors.  The artifacts found in Texas show that human beings may
have been in North America as early as 15,500 years ago,
researchers said. The group reported finding almost 16,000
artifacts from that period. The site, located near Austin, is
2,500 years older than previous North American discoveries.  “It’s basically time to abandon once and for all the Clovis
first model, and develop a new model for the peopling of the
Americas,” said Waters, who is also the director of the Center
for the Study of the First Americans at  Texas A&M , at a March 23
briefing.  Scientists had been aware that there were problems with the
Clovis model, Waters said. First, there were six other
settlements in  South America  that existed at the same time as
the Clovis people. Second, there was no Clovis technology in
Northeast Asia, suggesting it was developed in the Americas.  Today’s finding suggests that people were in North America
earlier than previously thought, grew in population size,
experimented with the stone available to them and developed the
typical  Clovis points . The new material was first found in 2006.  Tool-Making Remnants  The majority of the findings were flakes and chips from
making tools or sharpening them, the report said. In addition,
56 tools were found, including knives, choppers, and pre-forms
for spears.  The artifacts were dated using optically stimulated
luminescence, a method of showing when minerals were last
exposed to sunlight. The dating was done over a four-year period,
said  Steven Forman , another study author and a professor of
earth and environmental sciences at the  University of Illinois 
in  Chicago .  The people were probably mobile hunter-gatherers, who
deposited artifacts at the site, where they may have repeatedly
made camp, Waters said.  “It’s just a wonderful environment,” Waters said. “So,
you know, it’s not surprising people came back time and time
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 