-- 
Fairchild Returns Headquarters to Silicon Valley in Search of Chip Talent

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-03-24T20:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/fairchild-returns-headquarters-to-silicon-valley-in-search-of-chip-talent.html
Fairchild Semiconductor
International Inc. (FCS) , one of the chip industry’s founding
companies, moved its corporate headquarters back to Silicon
Valley to draw from a deeper well of technology executives.  The company has switched the registration of its
headquarters to  San Jose , California, from South Portland,
Maine. Its new home base -- a site where it already had an
office -- is about 8 miles from where the company got its start
in Mountain View in 1957.  Fairchild chose to shift its headquarters across the
country to take advantage of the concentration of experienced
and talented industry executives, Chief Executive Officer Mark Thompson said. The chipmaker also wants to place its leadership
closer to customers and operations in  Asia .  “The talent pool and the travel logistic won out for us,”
Thompson said. “On a 10-year planning horizon, it’s still a
very compelling place to site senior employees.”  While the company is recruiting management in California,
it will not be relocating plants or starting production in the
state again. The San Francisco Bay area is too expensive for
employees living on manufacturing salaries, Thompson said.  Fairchild rose 38 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $17.98 today in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 15 percent this year.  Manufacturing Plants  Fairchild has plants in the U.S., South Korea,  China ,
Malaysia, the Philippines and Singapore. It was a Silicon Valley
company until the late 1970s, when it was acquired by
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , which later sold it to  National Semiconductor
Corp. (NSM)   The company regained independence in 1997 and established
its headquarters in Maine, where it already had a manufacturing
site. Fairchild now has about 200 of its 9,000 employees working
at the new San Jose headquarters, Thompson said.  Fairchild is known in the semiconductor industry as a
nursery for the creators of more famous companies. Intel Corp.’s
founders Gordon Moore and Robert Noyce were part of the group
that set up Fairchild. Jerry Sanders, who left to found Advanced
Micro Devices Inc., and Wilf Corrigan, who set up  LSI Corp. (LSI) , are
also Fairchild alumni.  Fairchild’s current CEO, Thompson, said the high cost of
living, taxes and a restrictive immigration policy for
engineering students are hurting California’s chances of
remaining a center for the industry. Still, inflation in areas
such as Shanghai has lessened the allure of alternatives, he
said.  “There’s no question that policies and practices that are
at work could poison the place,” Thompson said. “That said, it
still has a lot of strengths.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  