-- 
Merck Shingles Vaccine Wins U.S. Approval for More Patients

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T20:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/fda-approves-merck-s-zostavax-vaccine-for-some-shingles-patients.html
Merck & Co. won U.S. approval to
market its Zostavax shingles vaccine to a greater number of
patients than it now treats.  The drug, approved by the  Food and Drug Administration  in
2006 for patients 60 years old and older, can now be marketed to
people from ages 50 to 59, the FDA said today in a statement.
Shingles strikes about 200,000 people in the younger age group
each year, the agency said.  Zostavax is the only vaccine approved in the U.S. for
shingles, a disease triggered by the same virus that causes
chickenpox. The virus lies dormant in the body after a
chickenpox attack and can reappear later in life as a person
ages or the immune system weakens. Shingles, also known as
herpes zoster, damages nerves and causes blisters and severe
pain that can last for weeks, months or years. Worldwide sales
of Zostavax were $243 million in 2010, the company reported.  “The likelihood of shingles increases with age,” Karen Midthun, director of the FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation
and Research, said in the statement. “The availability of
Zostavax to a younger age group provides an additional
opportunity to prevent this often painful and debilitating
disease.”  Almost one of every three people in the U.S. will develop
 shingles  in their lifetime, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta. The disease strikes an
estimated 1 million people in the country each year.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , gained 9
cents, or less than 1 percent, to $32.72 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
14 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  