-- 
Duke Says Recovery May Be Slower on Households’ Caution

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-25T00:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/fed-s-duke-says-recovery-may-be-slower-on-households-caution.html
Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke said that  baby boomers , the generation nearing retirement,
are less likely to spend any gains in wealth than in 2007,
potentially holding back the recovery in consumer spending.  “Some of the effects of recent economic turmoil may result
in a longer period of economic adjustment than has been the case
in past recessions, as fundamental attitudes appear to have
shifted,” Duke said today in a speech in Richmond,  Virginia ,
citing data from the Fed’s Survey of Consumer Finances released
today.  The survey, which showed the median family’s wealth dropped
to $96,000 in 2009 from $125,000 in 2007, highlights how the
fallout from the longest U.S. recession since the Great
Depression has impeded Fed efforts to return the economy to full
employment and self-sustaining growth.  While Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is counting on record
monetary stimulus to increase asset prices and boost the
economy, Duke said that “boomer families remained cautious, or
grew more cautious, about spending out of their asset gains --
regardless of whether they experienced significant losses during
the crisis.”  Duke didn’t discuss forecasts for the  U.S. economy  or her
outlook for monetary policy in her prepared remarks. She spoke
to the Virginia Association of Economists.  The recession, which lasted from December 2007 to June
2009, was accompanied by a 57 percent drop in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a 32 percent drop in home values, according
to an S&P/Case-Shiller index of prices in 20 cities.  ‘Boom Years’  “In the boom years leading up to the crisis, many
economists believed that increases in wealth, especially
increases in  home equity , helped fuel  consumer spending ,” Duke
said. Following the recession “every wealth-change group
reported being more than twice as likely to decrease spending if
asset values declined than they were to increase spending if
asset values rose.”  “This evidence may help explain the sharp drop in consumer
spending as household wealth declined and the continued
sluggishness of consumer spending even as asset values have
recovered,” Duke said.  She also discussed implications of the data for small
business owners. “Only 82 percent of the consumers who reported
owning a business in 2007 also reported owning a business in
2009,” she said.  Gaining Wealth  Business owners who were gaining wealth and those losing
wealth were equally likely to be denied credit, a result that
suggests “business credit was hard to obtain even for good
borrowers,” she said.  The survey underscores that “the banks that are in a
position to have the ability to ramp up business lending are in
a very good situation right now,” Duke said in response to
audience questions. “Small business lending is a place where
you can really get better customers, where you can get market
share.”  The central bank conducted the survey every three years
beginning in 1983. The Fed shortened the period to two years for
the 2009 survey to determine how individual and family finances
have weathered the downturn.  Duke, 58, who joined the Fed in August 2008, has voted with
the FOMC majority on every interest-rate decision. Before being
appointed to the central bank, she was a banker for more than 30
years, almost all in Virginia, and was the first woman to chair
the  American Bankers Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Richmond, Virginia at 
   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  