-- 
Fernando Torres's Departure Lifts Cloud at Anfield, Comolli Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-03-24T10:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/fernando-torres-s-departure-lifts-cloud-at-anfield-comolli-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Bright New Sky  Liverpool’s new director of football, Damien Comolli, said
the club’s 50 million-pound ($81 million) sale of  Fernando Torres  created “a bright new sky” by getting rid of a player
who didn’t want to be at Anfield and adding Andy Carroll and
Luis Suarez,  the Sun said.   Torres annoyed some Liverpool executives by asking for a
transfer close to the end of the trading window, but Liverpool
was able to sell him and spend 57.8 million pounds on the new
attackers, the newspaper said.  Lampard Dropped  Chelsea midfielder  Frank Lampard  will be replaced by
Arsenal’s Jack Wilshere in the England lineup for this weekend’s
Euro 2012 qualifying match with Wales, ending a streak of
Lampard and Liverpool’s  Steven Gerrard  starting the country’s
competitive games,  the Mirror said.   Either Gerrard or Lampard, or sometimes both, have started
every England match since the team was knocked out of the 2002
 World Cup  by Brazil, the newspaper said. Gerrard won’t play
because of injury, and either Scott Parker or Gareth Barry will
start.  Cahill Chase  Arsenal and  Bayern Munich  will try to buy Bolton defender
Gary Cahill during the coming off-season,  the Daily Mail said.   The teams sent scouts to watch the player during the 1-0
loss at Manchester United after Bolton manager Owen Coyle said
the defender would “outgrow the club,” the newspaper said.  Chelsea Target  Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  wants to buy Palermo
midfielder Javier Pastore for 30 million pounds, half the value
placed upon the Argentine midfielder by the Italian club,  the
Mirror said.   Pastore, 21, is also being followed by Barcelona and Real
Madrid, the newspaper said. Ancelotti wants the player to help
get better service for Torres, the Mirror said.  United Pipeline  Manchester United  is working with Sao Paulo club Desportivo
Brasil to find South American players, and had five teenagers at
last week’s home game,  the Mail said .  The players will visit the Dutch team, Twente, which will
help develop them and get them European Union passports as part
of United’s plans, the newspaper said. United wants to develop
its own young players to avoid signing expensive established
talent, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 