-- 
First Wind Starts Up Oahu Wind Farm With Largest Battery Storage System

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-03-24T21:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/first-wind-starts-up-oahu-wind-farm-with-largest-battery-storage-system.html
First Wind Holdings Inc., a closely
held developer, said a 30-megawatt wind farm in  Hawaii  has gone
into commercial service, the first renewable energy project to
be completed with backing from the U.S. Energy Department’s loan
guarantee program.  The Kahuku Wind project on Oahu has the largest installed
battery storage system connected to a U.S. wind farm, the
Boston-based company said in a statement today.  First Wind received a $117 million loan guarantee in July
for the project, which has 12, 2.5-megawatt  wind turbines  from
London-based Clipper Windpower Ltd. and can power 7,700 homes,
according to the statement.  The wind farm has a 15-megawatt battery storage system from
Xtreme Power of Kyle,  Texas , to smooth the energy output that
the turbines deliver to the grid.  Xtreme Power’s system can absorb or release as much as 1
megawatt of electricity a minute, which “manages output from
the variable island winds and allows us to maximize the use of
power generated by our project,” First Wind Chief Executive
Officer Paul Gaynor said in a statement from Xtreme Power.  A 1.5-megawatt Xtreme Power system has been operating at
First Wind’s 30-megawatt Kaheawa project on Maui since March
2010 and a 10-megawatt system will be installed there this year
as part of a planned 21-megawatt expansion.  The Kahuku project went into partial operation in December,
First Wind spokesman John Lamontagne said today by e-mail. Local
utility Hawaiian Electric Co. is buying the electricity.  First Wind withdrew in November its initial public offering
registration, citing poor market conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  