-- 
Sushi in Japan at Lower Nuclear Contamination Risk Than Leafy Vegetables

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-24T08:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/fish-in-japan-at-lower-risk-of-nuclear-contamination-than-leafy-vegetables.html
Fish sold in  Japan ’s sushi
restaurants and shipped overseas have a lower risk of nuclear
contamination than leafy vegetables because radiation is diluted
in seawater, according to the Agriculture Ministry.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. detected cobalt, iodine and cesium
in the sea near water outlets from reactors at its stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant this week. The government has
restricted shipments of milk, spinach and other vegetables in
Fukushima and neighboring prefectures as radiation from the
damaged reactors contaminated agricultural products.  Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La Asia’s
luxury chain and  London ’s Zuma and Roka restaurants, have
dropped Japanese seafood from their menus because of radiation
fears. Global fishing companies such as Hong Kong’s  Pacific
Andes International Holdings Ltd. (1174)  could benefit from increased
demand to replace Japanese produce.  “We don’t see fish at a high risk of contamination because
of radiation dilution,” Yasuo Sasaki, senior press counselor at
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, said today.
“Fishing in the northeastern prefectures of Fukushima, Miyagi
and Iwate has been suspended since the quake, lowering the risk
that tainted fish will be in the market.”  Japan exported 565,295 metric tons of fish and other marine
products worth 195 billion yen ($2.41 billion) last year. Of the
total, mackerel represented 120,416 tons, while tuna accounted
for 79,767 tons. The nation’s total output of marine products
amounted to 5.43 million tons in 2009, according to the ministry.  Curbs Widened  Curbs on Japanese food have widened as Australia and
 Singapore  joined the U.S. and  Hong Kong  in limiting imports from
Japan after elevated radiation levels were found outside an
evacuation radius around the nuclear plant.  Indonesia  will
temporarily stop importing fish and other marine products from
Japan over radiation concerns, Investor Daily Indonesia reported,
citing Maritime and Fisheries Minister Fadel Muhammad.  “It is up to the government of each country whether they
will restrict imports from Japan,” Sasaki said. “We will
respect their decisions as long as they are considered as
reasonable under international guidelines.”  Testing Fish  Japan’s health ministry asked each prefectural governor
last week to start testing of agricultural and marine food
products for possible contamination, as the nation struggles to
stem pollution from the Fukushima plant.  The ministry has tentatively set tolerable levels of
radioactivity for each product. For fish, the level is set at
500 becquerels per kilogram of radioactive cesium and 100
becquerels per kilogram of uranium. Japan’s Food Safety
Commission is assessing the tentative standards for possible
revision as early as next week.  “We have not received any test results showing fish
contaminated by more-than-acceptable levels of radioactivity,”
Taiju Abe at the ministry’s inspection and safety division said
today by phone. “I believe prefectural governments are putting
priority on testing vegetables as they are at the highest risk
for contamination through the air and rain.”  Quake-hit prefectures such as Miyagi have yet to start food
testing, and the ministry couldn’t immediately confirm if fish
is being tested by local governments, he said.  Fishing Companies  The magnitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami destroyed fishing
boats and ports on the Pacific coast in the northern and eastern
prefectures of Aomori, Iwate, Miyagi, Fukushima, Ibaraki and
Chiba. Fish in the region represent about 20 percent of Japan’s
total output, said Shizuya Eguchi at the fisheries processing
industries and marketing division of the agriculture ministry.  Fishing companies such as Pacific Andes International
Holdings and  Norway ’s  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) ,  Cermaq ASA (CEQ)  and  Salmar
ASA (SALM)  may benefit from increased demand as radiation fears may
weaken consumer appetite for Japanese fish.  Japan consumes about 9 million tons of seafood a year,
second behind  China , according to the website of the Sea Around
Us Project, a collaboration between the University of British
Columbia and the Pew Environment Group.  Engineers at Japan’s damaged nuclear plant resumed work
today on reconnecting power as Tokyo authorities prepared to
hand out bottled water to families after determining that tap
water may be unsafe for babies.  Restoring power is key to ending a nuclear crisis sparked
by the earthquake and tsunami, including radiation leakage into
the sea and air. Revelations of contamination in water and food
have triggered bulk buying at supermarkets even as the
government said the health risks are minimal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  