-- 
Foreign Investors Grab Land in Southern Sudan, Norwegian Aid Group Says

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-03-24T13:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/foreign-investors-grab-land-in-southern-sudan-norwegian-aid-group-says.html
Foreign investors are buying large
tracts of land in  Southern Sudan  that add up to an area larger
than  Rwanda , threatening food supplies and stability in a region
due to become independent in July, a Norwegian aid group said.  International organizations have sought or acquired 26,400
square kilometres (10,000 square miles) of land for
agricultural, biofuel and forestry projects since 2007, Oslo-
based Norwegian People’s Aid said yesterday in a  report . When
domestic investments, previously established mechanized farms
and investments in tourism are included, the total comes to
57,400 square kilometres, about 9 percent of the region’s total
land area, it said.  The group examined 28 land deals under negotiation or
completed, mostly between state governments and foreign
companies, and found that laws governing land ownership and
investment were routinely violated. The report does not include
deals signed or sought by oil or mining companies.  “While in theory this influx of investment could provide
development opportunities for rural communities, without the
proper procedures in place there is a danger that it will serve
to undermine livelihoods,” the report said.  Southern Sudan , which fought a two-decade war against the
north, will emerge as one of the world’s least developed
nations, according to the  United Nations . The semi-autonomous
government based in Juba relies on oil revenues for 98 percent
of its budget and has been seeking foreign investment.  Food production  There are no guarantees that the food produced at large-
scale farms will be sold in local markets, the report said.  “A number of the investments are located in highly
populated areas where tens or even hundreds of thousands of
people rely on land and natural resources for their daily
livelihoods,” according to the report. “If the project
proponents choose to deny local populations access, it could
have devastating impacts on rural communities whose lives have
already been sorely affected by poverty, food insecurity, and
conflict.”  At independence, Southern  Sudan  will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  Foreign investment in land is increasing across sub-Saharan
 Africa , according to the UN  Food and Agriculture Organization .
It said in a  2010 report  that about 200,000 square kilometres of
agricultural land in Africa were acquired by foreign interests
between 2007 and 2010.  Ownership Disputes  The largest investment in Southern Sudan, by United Arab
Emirates-based Al Ain Wildlife, covers almost 22,800 square
kilometres in Jonglei and Eastern Equatoria states. The company
has acquired all of Boma National Park, the report said.  While a 2009 law that governs land ownership says companies
and the government must consult with local communities before an
agreement can be signed, the report found that occurred in only
two of the 28 deals.  The perception of local residents that the sales were done
without their approval may lead to the voiding of leases and
conflict with communities, according to the report.  Southern Sudan’s investment minister, Oyay Deng Ajak, said
in a phone interview in Juba that he couldn’t comment on the
report because he had not seen it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 