-- 
Formula One Rule Changes Boost Competition at Start of Season in Melbourne

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-25T07:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/formula-one-rule-changes-boost-competition-at-start-of-season.html
Formula One teams going into this
weekend’s season-opener in  Australia  are less sure of their
championship potential than usual following rule and technical
changes and the introduction of new tires.  Pirelli & C. SpA’s comeback as the sole tire supplier, new
adjustable rear wings and the return of the so-called KERS
energy-saving system have made it harder to predict form,
according to 2010 world champion Sebastian Vettel. His Red Bull
team also took the constructors’ crown last season.  “How we are relative to others is more difficult to say
because there are some new things on everybody’s car, and some
new regulations plus new tires,” Vettel told reporters in
Melbourne. “It is a bit difficult to find out where exactly you
are.”  Vettel, a 23-year-old German, will begin his title defense
in two days, two weeks later than scheduled after civil unrest
forced the postponement of the Bahrain Grand Prix. The 19-event
calendar, which features an inaugural race in  India , ends Nov.
27 in  Sao Paulo  with the Brazilian Grand Prix.  With  Lewis Hamilton ,  Fernando Alonso , Jenson Button and
 Michael Schumacher  joining Vettel in the drivers’ lineup in
Melbourne, the Formula One season will start with five active
world champions for the first time since 1970.  After becoming the youngest driver to win the series last
year, Vettel is rated as the 2-1 favorite to retain his title by
U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc. (WMH)  Two-time champion Alonso of
Ferrari is the second-favorite at 5-2 ahead of Vettel’s Red Bull
teammate  Mark Webber  and 2008 winner Hamilton, both 8-1.  Back-to-Back  Red Bull, backed by Austrian energy drinks billionaire
Dietrich Mateschitz, is the even-money favorite to win back-to-
back constructors’ championships ahead of 5-2 shot Ferrari,
according to William Hill.  Red Bull’s encouraging performances in the four pre-season
tests in  Spain  will count for nothing when racing resumes,
according to team principal Christian Horner.  “We genuinely don’t know where we are in comparison to the
others,” Horner told the official Formula One website. “We’ve
had our best pre-season to date, and arguably we are in the best
shape ever. But there are no points for winter testing; the
points start in  Melbourne  and right now everyone is on the same
number.”  The rule changes introduced by Paris-based ruling body
Federation Internationale de l’Automobile may lead to less
predictable racing where strategy becomes paramount, according
to Alonso, who finished four points behind Vettel in last
season’s standings.  ‘More Pit Stops’  “There are so many new things this year,” Alonso said in
his blog on Ferrari’s website. “We’ll see more pit stops, and
strategy will be the key to the final result. Qualifying will
now be less important, given that an increase in pit stops will
add uncertainty to the way the races turn out.”  The adjustable rear wing is designed to increase overtaking
opportunities by allowing trailing cars to boost their speeds at
pre-determined track locations, while the return of KERS, a
system that allows cars to use the kinetic energy created by
braking for power-boosts on the straights, will also encourage
overtaking, the FIA said.  Pirelli,  Europe ’s third-largest tire maker, returns to the
most-watched motor sport for the first time in 20 years after
replacing  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  as supplier to all 12 teams.
Bridgestone withdrew at the end of 2010 to cut costs.  Pirelli’s Remit  Pirelli also is trying to help foster greater spectacle.
The Milan-based company was directed to produce a tire that will
force two to three pit stops per race and create wear and
degradation that will result in cars traveling at different
speeds, said Paul Hembery, the company’s motorsport director.  ‘Our remit from the teams and promoter was to provide
entertainment,” Hembery said in a statement. “It will be
fascinating to see exactly how the drivers and teams are going
to use our tires to employ different strategies. We’ve noticed a
few differences between the teams already in testing.”  With pit-lane crews busier and drivers needing to manage
faster-wearing tires as well as new controls for the rear-wing
aerodynamics and KERS, the result of the season-opener may come
down to which teams can best handle the workload, according to
Alonso.  “The first of the championship is sometimes a race to
survive,” Alonso, who won the 2005 and 2006 titles with Renault,
said yesterday at a news conference. “Now it’s impossible to
say what the order is and who will be competitive.”  Jenson Button , who won the past two races in Melbourne,
went quickest during today’s opening two practice sessions,
topping the list 0.132 second ahead of McLaren teammate Hamilton.
Fewer than two-tenths of a second covered the top four, which
was completed by Alonso and Vettel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  