-- 
France Seeks UN Steps to End Ivory Coast Unrest Amid Attacks on Civilians

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-24T19:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/france-seeks-un-steps-to-end-ivory-coast-unrest-amid-attacks-on-civilians.html
France  is seeking increased United
Nations pressure on Ivory Coast’s incumbent leader  Laurent Gbagbo  to give up his fight for the presidency, and stronger
military force to halt his attacks on civilians, diplomats said.  France has called for a Security Council meeting tomorrow
on the conflict and is circulating a draft resolution that would
tell UN peacekeepers to use “all necessary measures, including
by seizing heavy weapons,” to protect civilians, according to
diplomats who spoke on condition of not being identified because
the text hasn’t been made public.  Leaders of the  Economic Community of West African States 
asked the UN today to give peacekeepers more power to protect
civilians from armed attacks, the group said in a statement
handed to reporters in Abuja,  Nigeria . The UN has 9,000 soldiers
and civilian police in  Ivory Coast  who have a mandate to protect
civilians.  The peacekeeping mission reported on March 22 that security
forces loyal to Gbagbo are making repairs to an attack
helicopter and mounting rocket launchers on it.  “The mission strongly warns this camp that it will not
tolerate any attempt to use these weapons,” the UN said in a
statement, without providing further details.  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
divided between a government-controlled south and a rebel-held
north since a 2002 uprising of army soldiers. The insurgents
back  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner
over Gbagbo of the Nov. 28 presidential election. Gbagbo, who
has led the West African nation for the past decade, refuses to
cede power, alleging voter fraud in parts of the north.  African Union   The French draft resolution would endorse the African
Union’s backing for Ouattara and demand that Gbagbo give up his
effort to retain the presidency, according to the diplomats.
They said it also would impose a travel ban and asset freeze on
Gbagbo, his wife and top aides, and send results of a pending UN
inquiry into human rights abuses to the  International Criminal
Court .  The UN said today that 462 people have been killed since
mid-December in post-election violence. The mission also said
large numbers of civilians are leaving Abobo, Williamsville,
Yopougon and other parts of the commercial capital Abidjan
because of fighting and of lack of food and medication.  Presidents and other representatives of Ecowas said the
“time has come to enforce the decisions” to recognize Ouattara
as president and use “legitimate force” to remove Gbagbo from
office. Ecowas urged that UN peacekeepers to be empowered “to
use all necessary means to protect life and property and
facilitate the immediate transfer of power” to Ouattara. More
“stringent” sanctions should be imposed on Gbagbo and his
associates, the group’s statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  