-- 
Gasoline Gains 4th Day as Crude Oil Fluctuates: Oil Products

-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e
-- 
2011-03-24T20:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/gasoline-gains-4th-day-as-crude-oil-fluctuates-oil-products.html
Gasoline advanced for the fourth
day in a row a day after a report that stockpiles are at the
lowest level since January and on reports that  BP Plc (BP)  plans to
shut an ultraformer at its Whiting, Indiana, refinery. Crude oil
was little changed. Heating oil and ethanol gained.  “There’s a cumulative inventory drawdown, a firming on the
Gulf Coast and rumors of Gulf Coast refinery problems,” said
 Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman
Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Crude Oil  Crude oil for May delivery was little changed, dropping 15
cents to $105.60 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The decline was the first in four days. Crude has gained 31
percent in the past year.  Gasoline  Gasoline for April delivery rose 2.35 cents, or 0.8
percent, on the Nymex. Gasoline has gained 37 percent in the
past year. It was the first time since March 14 that crude and
gasoline moved in opposite directions.  Heating Oil  Heating oil for April delivery increased 0.7 cent to $3.062
a gallon on the Nymex. Heating oil has advanced 48 percent in
the past year.  Ethanol  Denatured ethanol for April delivery gained 3.2 cents, or
1.3 percent, to $2.515 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Ethanol has risen 61 percent in the past year.  Refineries and Transport  BP Plc is preparing to shut the No. 4 ultraformer at its
Whiting refinery in Indiana for planned work scheduled to last
60 days, two people with knowledge of the plans said.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  has restarted units including a heavy
oil cracker at its Corpus Christi West refinery in Texas,  Bill
Day , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. The company is also
restarting a crude unit and a coker after a planned turnaround
at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, Day said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  