-- 
Israel May Use ‘Great Force’ in Retaliation for Gaza as Gates Urges Peace

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-03-25T12:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/gates-says-regional-turmoil-should-spur-israeli-peace-action.html
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu,
who met with U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , said  Israel  is
ready to use “great force” in retaliation for recent rocket
fire from the Gaza Strip and a bombing in  Jerusalem .  Gates condemned the attacks upon his arrival in Israel
yesterday, while appealing for “bold action” to resurrect
Middle East peace efforts. The Pentagon chief later traveled to
the West Bank and Jordan for diplomatic talks before heading
back to the U.S.  “Any civilized society will not tolerate such wanton
attacks on civilians,” Netanyahu told reporters today before a
meeting with Gates in the northern Israeli seaside town of
Caesarea. “We stand ready to act with great force and great
determination to put a stop to it.”  Gates advised caution on any Israeli response to the
attacks. He called on Israeli and Palestinian leaders to see the
tumult sweeping across the region as an opportunity for progress
toward a peace agreement rather than a deterrent. Uprisings in
the region have ousted Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak , a key Israeli
ally, and sparked a civil war in  Libya .  “I know there may be a temptation during this time of
great uncertainty in the region to be more cautious about
pursuing the  peace process ,” Gates told reporters in  Tel Aviv 
yesterday. “I carry a different message -- that there is a need
and an opportunity for bold action to move toward a two-state
solution.”  Ramallah  Visit  Gates also met with his Israeli counterpart, Ehud Barak,
and President Shimon Peres before traveling today to the West
Bank city of Ramallah, home of the Palestinian Authority
leadership. He was the first U.S. defense secretary to visit
Ramallah, Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said.  Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salaam Fayyad welcomed
Gates to his offices with an honor guard. In brief remarks
before their meeting, Gates said he was looking forward to
“talking about, obviously, the political developments around
the region, but also the prospects for a two-state solution.”  U.S.-brokered peace talks, frozen since September, have
been based on the principle of establishing a state of  Palestine 
that would exist peacefully beside Israel. The negotiations
broke down in September after Netanyahu declined to extend a 10-
month partial freeze on settlement construction in the Israeli-
occupied  West Bank .  ‘Time for Opportunity’  “This is a time of great challenge throughout the region,
but also a time for opportunity,” Fayyad said. The trends
require “a redoubling of the effort and pursuing the cause of
peace and justice and security.” He said he and Gates would
review the progress the Palestinian Authority has made toward
establishing the institutions needed for statehood.  Israel is getting ready to deploy its new Iron Dome anti-
missile system as early as next week to stop the recent
escalation of rocket attacks from Gaza, the Israeli Ynet website
said without saying how it got the information.  The Palestinian enclave is controlled by the Islamic group
Hamas, rivals of  Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas’s
Fatah party. Hamas is labeled a terrorist group by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union.  “We all just need to be mindful that we don’t want to do
anything that allows extremists or others to divert the
narrative of reform that is going on,” Gates said.  Visit to Jordan  Gates later flew to the Jordanian capital, Amman, to meet
 King Abdullah . Gates went to reassure the king that the
longstanding security ties with the U.S. remain strong even as
Abdullah faces demonstrations against the government, for his
cooperation on counter-terrorism efforts in the region, an
American defense official said on customary condition of
anonymity.  Israeli airstrikes on the  Gaza Strip  have killed 11
Palestinians in the past week, while Palestinians have fired
more than 75 rockets and shells into Israel. The Jerusalem bomb,
planted near a bus stop two days ago, killed one person and
injured at least 30. Israeli officials blamed Palestinians for
the attack.  Barak signaled that Israel would give a measured response
to the assaults from the Gaza Strip.  While saying Israel is compelled to respond, Barak said
that “we do not want to become the kind of victims of our own
resolution.” Israel will “keep the right to pass a judgment
about how, when and in what kind of amount of firepower or
ammunition to respond,” he said.  Cast Lead  Israel in December 2008 launched Operation Cast Lead, a
three-week offensive in Gaza, in what it said was a bid to stop
rocket fire. More than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in that conflict.  Hamas seized full control of Gaza in 2007, ending a
partnership government with Fatah, after winning parliamentary
elections the previous year. Fatah retains control of the West
Bank.  Israel has been the biggest recipient of U.S. financial and
military aid for most of the past three decades. The basis for
Israel’s security in the mostly Arab region includes a peace
treaty between Israel and  Egypt  brokered by the U.S. and signed
in 1979.  Gates, who traveled to Tel Aviv after stops in Moscow and
Cairo, said he was “quite reassured” by his meeting earlier
with Egyptian Army Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi that
Israel’s neighbor is “serious” about its commitment to the
peace agreement and to continuing high-level dialogue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Ramallah at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 