-- 
GE-Hitachi Reactor Design Advances in U.S. Agency Review

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-24T16:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/ge-hitachi-reactor-design-advances-in-u-s-nuclear-agency-review.html
A reactor designed by a venture of
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  is a step closer to
winning approval for use in the U.S., the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  said.  The NRC proposed certifying GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy’s
boiling-water reactor design after finding the unit meets safety
requirements, according to a statement posted today on the
agency’s website. The agency will seek comments for 75 days.  The NRC is reviewing the design as  Japan  seeks to avert a
meltdown of 1970s-era boiling-water reactors at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The reactors’ cooling
systems were knocked out by a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami
on March 11. Helicopters and firetrucks have doused the crippled
reactors with water as utility workers and government officials
restore power to the plant.  The GE-Hitachi design, known as an Economic Simplified
Boiling-Water Reactor, “includes passive safety features that
would cool down the reactor after an accident without the need
for human intervention,” the NRC said. Detroit Edison Co., a
subsidiary of  DTE Energy Co. (DTE) , may build a GE-Hitachi unit at its
Fermi nuclear plant in Newport,  Michigan , if the design is
approved, the NRC said.  The final safety report on the GE-Hitachi design, which was
submitted for review in 2005, was completed on March 9, two days
before the Japanese earthquake, according to the NRC’s website.
The NRC is aiming to make a final decision in September,
according to the website.  GE rose 11 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $19.64 at 12:22 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  