-- 
Google Said to Face Possible Antitrust Probes in Ohio, Wisconsin

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/google-said-to-face-possible-antitrust-probes-by-ohio-wisconsin-officials.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the
world’s biggest search engine, faces possible antitrust probes
by Ohio and Wisconsin over its business practices, according to
a state official and a person familiar with the matters.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine is “evaluating the facts
to determine if it’s something we want to review,” Dan Tierney,
his spokesman, said. In Wisconsin, Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen is weighing a probe of Google’s bid to buy ITA Software
Inc., according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the process isn’t public. The
U.S.  Justice Department  is already reviewing the deal.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , faces growing
scrutiny by antitrust regulators as it bolsters its search
business and expands into areas such as mobile advertising.
Officials in Texas, the first state to open its own probe of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in 1997, are also questioning Google.  “In the Microsoft case, there was a constant drumbeat from
the states,” Harry First, a  professor  at New York University
School of Law in  Manhattan , said of the antitrust suit brought
by states and the U.S. in 1998. “Their intent was to hold the
Justice Department’s feet to the fire,” said First, who ran New
York state’s antitrust bureau during Microsoft’s appeal.  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, said the company is
answering inquiries from the Texas attorney general and the
European Commission, which is investigating whether Google skews
search results to benefit its own services. He declined to
comment on possible action by the states.  ‘A Mess’  “If they got two or three different decrees they had to
comply with, it would be a mess,” said Herbert Hovenkamp, a
professor of antitrust law at the University of Iowa College of
Law in Iowa City. “Google operates in a worldwide market. If
they have to change their policies for  Texas , that’s a mess.”  The year after Texas opened its probe of Microsoft, 20
states joined an antitrust lawsuit against the software maker
alongside the Justice Department. The Redmond, Washington-based
company’s antitrust troubles started in 1990 with an
investigation by the Federal Trade Commission. The Justice
Department took over the probe in 1993.  Neither the Justice Department nor the FTC is pursuing a
broad antitrust inquiry of Google, according to people familiar
with the agencies. Gina Talamona, a Justice Department
spokeswoman, and FTC spokeswoman Cecelia Prewett declined to
comment on possible investigations of Google.  Buying Companies  Investigations by antitrust regulators seek to determine
whether companies are using their dominance in a market to
restrain competition and harm consumers.  Google, which had 65 percent of the U.S. search market in
February, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , an Internet marketing
research company, is buying companies to boost its online
services, spending about $1.8 billion on more than 45
acquisitions last year, according to regulatory filings.  On Feb. 9, Attorney General Chris Koster of Missouri
offered to assist the Justice Department’s investigation of
Google’s planned purchase of ITA. His spokeswoman, Nanci Gonder,
declined to comment on whether the office is conducting its own
review. Ohio officials declined to elaborate on what aspects of
Google’s business they might explore. Bill Cosh, a spokesman for
Wisconsin’s attorney general, declined to comment.  Attorneys general  from several states informally discussed
the possibility of Google investigations at a meeting of the
 National Association of Attorneys General  in Washington this
month, according to a person familiar with the matter. Some 15
attorneys general and their staff attended the meeting, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the meeting was
private.  Stepped Up Enforcement  Washington-based policy group American Antitrust Institute
favors stepped up antitrust enforcement against acquisitions by
the search-engine operator, and has called for the Justice
Department to block its proposed purchase ITA, a maker of
consumer flight information software.  U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, the  Wisconsin  Democrat who heads
the Senate antitrust subcommittee, said he plans to examine
Google’s business practices, and Senator  Mike Lee  of  Utah , the
panel’s senior Republican, has called for hearings.  Google said last year that Texas was looking into whether
its business practices thwarted competition. The information
sought by Attorney General Greg Abbott includes Google’s formula
for setting advertising rates, according to a civil
investigative demand for documents. The demand, similar to a
subpoena, compels a company to turn over written material and
make executives available for interviews.  Investigators are also seeking documents that show “manual
overriding or altering of” search result rankings, according to
the demand.  “In today’s world of antitrust, which was ushered in by
Microsoft, these big companies have to consider lots of
different enforcers,” First said. “It’s states and  Europe  and
other jurisdictions in which they operate. Their practices are
going to be tested in many different places.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 