-- 
Grosvenor Hong Kong Deals Ended After Sellers Pull Out

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-24T12:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/grosvenor-scraps-hong-kong-residential-property-deals-as-cycle-advanced-.html
Grosvenor Group Ltd. , the real
estate company owned by the family trust of Britain’s Duke of
Westminster, didn’t go ahead with two property purchases in 
 Hong Kong  in the past few months after the sellers pulled out.  Talks for the two residential sites ended without
completion, Nicholas Loup, chief executive officer for the Asia-
Pacific region at Grosvenor, said in an interview in Beijing on
March 22. The property cycle in Hong Kong is “quite advanced,”
he said.  “We didn’t proceed with these deals,” Loup said. “We
have bid on quite a few deals in the last several months but not
concluded any of them for a variety of reasons: Most often, the
sellers changed their minds or even raised the price during the
documentation stage. At this point in the cycle, it is important
to have a clear view of what you are prepared to pay.”  The city is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home,
according to London-based Savills Plc. Record-low  mortgage rates 
and an influx of buyers from China drove a 65 percent surge in
 home prices  in the past two years, prompting the government to
impose additional property transaction taxes and boost land
supply for medium and small housing units to curb prices.  Hong Kong’s home prices rose to a 13-year high in the week
ended on March 6, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  “We’ve been looking at Hong Kong, but the cycle is quite
advanced,” said Loup. “We are quite cautious in terms of
pricing at the moment. The prices have already gone up a lot.
You need to be careful.”  Surging Sales  Grosvenor was possibly looking at a site on  Hong Kong
Island  and another near the Clear Water Bay area of the Sai Kung
district, Loup said in September, declining to give the exact
locations.  In Hong Kong, where Grosvenor opened its first Asian office,
in 1994, the company develops luxury residential properties. It
has Grosvenor Place Repulse Bay and The Westminster Terrace, a
project jointly developed with Hong Kong-based  Asia Standard
International Group (129)  Ltd. in Tsuen Wan, a district northwest of
the city center.  The number of home sales in Hong Kong surged 30 percent in
February from the previous month, according to the  Land Registry .
The 10,390 sales and purchase agreements registered fetched a
combined HK$45.6 billion ($5.9 billion), a 37 percent jump from
January and 12 percent more than a year ago, it said.  Nine O’Clock  Hong Kong is “typically a much more cyclical market” and
more volatile than China, where more people are willing to pay
for properties with cash, David Edwards, regional director for
 LaSalle Investment Management , said in an interview in Beijing.  “If we look at it as a property clock, I think we’ve
probably past nine o’clock,” Edwards said, “To follow the same
metaphor, we have a quarter of cycle to go. But in the immediate
term, the economy is good and confidence is high, so there’s no
reason for an immediate crash.”  Grosvenor said in January it’s aiming to raise at least
$270 million for a fund that will invest in properties in  China 
as part of its expansion in Asia. The London-based company has
said it wants investments in the region to account for 20
percent of its portfolio, almost triple the current allocation.  ‘Forceful’ Land Sales  The city’s government may auction as many as 52 plots of
land this year, Hong Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang said in
his Feb. 23 budget speech. The land could yield 16,000 units,
almost 80 percent higher from last year.  “The government should have started increasing supply and
earlier, and they should be more forceful by putting more land
into the market,” said Richard van den Berg, managing director
of ING Real Estate Investment  Asia , which manages 3.8 billion
euro ($5.4 billion) of assets in the region.  The city is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home
because of a supply shortage, according to a study released by
Savills in January.  “Hong Kong is one of the few places where home prices are
not very likely to come down,” said Chris Brooke, Beijing-based
president and chief executive officer for Asia of CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc., the world’s biggest commercial property broker.
“The interest rate is a key issue.”  Hong Kong’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  prevents
officials from raising  interest rates  to cool demand.  Home prices in the city fell more than 50 percent after the
1997 peak as the city slid into a recession following the Asian
financial crisis. Van den Berg said high-end homes in Hong Kong
this year will continue to increase in value, while the mid-
priced segment will be little changed.  --Bonnie Cao, Kelvin Wong. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  