-- 
Li & Fung May Buy Logistics Firms as It Seeks to Double Earnings

-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-24T17:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/li-fung-may-buy-logistics-firms-as-it-seeks-to-double-earnings.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest
supplier of clothes, toys and furniture to retailers including
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Marks & Spencer Plc, may buy logistics
companies as it seeks to double earnings over three years.  “There are opportunities everywhere,” company President
Bruce Rockowitz said in a phone interview late yesterday. “We
have businesses all over  Asia , the U.S. and  Europe . The
connectivity between all these different areas is part of our
logistics business,” which is expanding, he said.  Li & Fung’s biggest acquisition in at least the past decade
was the buyout of  Integrated Distribution Services Group Ltd. (2387) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, giving it a business
that distributes goods in Asian nations, including  China . The
Hong Kong-based company yesterday said it aims to more than
double core operating profit to $1.5 billion by 2013 after
reporting 2010 net income that missed analyst estimates.  “The 2013 plan is achievable,” said Aaron Fischer, a Hong
Kong-based analyst for CLSA Ltd. “We are bullish on the
potential for the business in Asia and expect a continued
recovery in the U.S. and Europe.”  The supplier of Esprit Holdings Inc. and Inditex SA’s Zara
posted core operating profit of HK$5.66 billion ($726 million)
for last year. Net income rose 27 percent to HK$4.28 billion
($549 million), missing all nine analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. The average forecast was for net income of
HK$5.03 billion.  Acquisition Fund  Li & Fung fell 0.2 percent to HK$42.95 in Hong Kong trading
yesterday, before the earnings announcement. The stock has
gained 2.9 percent over the past year, lagging behind the 9
percent climb of the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Rockowitz said Li & Fung still has about $1 billion in its
acquisition fund. He’s also looking at opportunities to expand
the company’s onshore business, which provides services
including designing and importing goods for clients including
U.S. retailers  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)   Li & Fung,  founded  as a porcelain and silk trader in
southern China in 1906 near the end of the Qing dynasty, derived
65 percent of last year sales from the U.S. Europe accounted for
25 percent, it said.  China continued to be its key sourcing market, increased
from 54 percent to 57 percent, Rockowitz said.  Revenue Contribution  Sales from companies bought last year will help the company
achieve its three-year target, Li & Fung Group Managing Director
William Fung said at a press conference in Hong Kong. The
acquired businesses had sales of $3.8 billion last year, of
which Li & Fung booked $1 billion, according to the company.  The company is also benefitting from higher prices in the
supply chain industry, Rockowitz said at the same briefing.  Li & Fung will continue to make acquisitions this year,
Fung said. It completed 16 purchases and a number of outsourcing
and licensing deals last year, some of which weren’t announced,
Rockowitz said. Announced deals last year were worth at least
$1.24 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in 2010 rose 19 percent to HK$124.1 billion, missing
the $20 billion target Li & Fung set before the financial crisis.  “The result was disappointing,” Fischer said. “It seems
very likely that 2011 consensus earnings will be reduced
materially, which will cause the stock to be down.”  ‘A Disappointment’  Revenue grew 34 percent through 2007-10 and core operating
profit rose 77 percent in the three-year plan ended last year,
the statement said.  “This is a disappointment, but the underlying business is
very strong” and “very close to our targets,” Rockowitz said.  The trading and onshore businesses may contribute $700
million each to core operating profit in 2013, while logistics
is expected to contribute $100 million, Li & Fung said in its
earnings statement.  Li & Fung signed a supply agreement with Wal-Mart last year
that Rockowitz had forecast would generate an additional $2
billion sales in its first 12 months of operation.  The Wal-Mart deal has been “slower to ramp up than
expected,” Fischer, Huei Suen Ng and Mariana Kou said in a note
to clients dated March 21.  It also last year signed a licensing agreement with  Sean
John , the brand started by rap artist Sean “Diddy” Combs, and
entered a partnership with fashion stylist  Rachel Zoe  to create
women’s clothes, shoes, bags, jewelry and accessories.  Li & Fung expanded a licensing agreement with sportswear
marketer TapouT and formed a company with Star Branding with
partners that include Tommy and Andy Hilfiger. In November, it
became a sourcing agent for Chinese sportswear maker Li Ning Co.  The final price of the Integrated Distribution Services
purchase was about HK$8 billion, more than the initial estimated
cost of HK$7 billion at the time the deal was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  