-- 
Libor Probe Spurs Witness Call-up at Citigroup, Deutsche Bank

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-24T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/libor-manipulation-probe-spurs-witness-call-up-at-citigroup-deutsche-bank.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  have been asked
by U.S. regulators to make employees available to testify as
witnesses in a probe of potential interest-rate manipulation,
two people briefed on the plans said.  The banks, members of the panel that sets the interbank
offered rate known as Libor, were asked to appear voluntarily
for the interviews in  London  in April with the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, the people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the proceedings are confidential. The people
didn’t say who from the banks would testify.  The U.S. Department of Justice, Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission may be
investigating whether banks colluded to artificially reduce
Libor, another person with knowledge of the probe said. U.K.
regulators often cooperate with their U.S. counterparts in
enforcement probes.  Libor rates, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of
financial products worldwide, are set daily by the British
Bankers’ Association based on data from banks reflecting how
much it would cost them to borrow for various periods of time
and in different currencies. The  Bank for International
Settlements  questioned whether Libor rates were accurate during
the credit crisis, and some analysts accused banks of concealing
the difficulty they were having in borrowing money.  Spokespeople from Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s
biggest bank;  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America,
the largest U.S. lender by assets; New York-based Citigroup, the
U.S. bank that received the biggest taxpayer bailout; and New
York-based JPMorgan, the second biggest U.S. lender by assets,
declined to comment.  Subpoenas  The investigation came to light last week after UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, said it received subpoenas from U.S.
and Japanese regulators. UBS said it is conducting an internal
review and is cooperating with the investigations. Germany’s
WestLB AG and London-based Barclays Plc and Lloyds Banking Group
have also been contacted by regulators, according to two people
with knowledge of the investigation.  “WestLB has voluntarily and fully cooperated with all
requests in this review and has not received any subpoenas in
this regard,” WestLB spokesman Richard Bassett said.  Spokespeople for Barclays and Lloyds declined to comment.  Interbank market rates soared to a record in September 2007
as losses on securities linked to U.S. subprime mortgages kept
lenders from providing money to any but the safest borrowers.
The difference between what the U.S. government and banks had to
pay to borrow money reached a record the following year after
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  filed the U.S.’s biggest
bankruptcy.  Possible Manipulation  In 2008, following a report on the Libor-setting process,
officials from the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements, which acts as a central bank for the
world’s monetary authorities, said that they couldn’t rule out
the possibility that rates were manipulated. The March report
said that the procedure of stripping out the banks’ highest and
lowest estimates probably “minimized” the impact of any
possible manipulation.  The British Bankers’ Association said last week that they
are committed to retaining the integrity of Libor, “which
continues to be the authoritative benchmark of the wholesale
money market.” The BBA in February expanded the panel of banks
that contribute to the Libor rate in dollars from 16 members to
20.  The difference between the three-month dollar Libor and the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s target rate widened to a record 332 basis
points on October 10, 2008, according to BBA data. Over the
previous eight years, that spread had averaged about 22 basis
points.  FSA spokesman Chris Hamilton, Justice Department
spokeswoman  Gina Talamona , SEC spokeswoman Florence Harmon and
CFTC spokesman David Gray declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 