-- 
Libyan Rebel March on Tripoli Hobbled by Military Shortcomings

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-24T12:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/libyan-rebel-march-on-tripoli-is-hobbled-by-lack-of-organization-weapons.html
The Libyan insurgents’ shortcomings
may limit their ability to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  even after
allied bombing over the past six days destroyed his  air force .  Opposition forces are outnumbered and lack adequate
logistics and supply lines, U.S. Ambassador to Libya, Gene Cretz, told Congressional staff members yesterday, said a person
at the briefing who spoke on condition of anonymity. That’s
hobbling their chances of deposing a dictator entrenched since
1969 and raising the prospect of greater involvement by Western
forces, defense analysts said.  “The rebels are too disorganized to march on Tripoli and
overrun it at any time soon,” Mats Berdal, a professor in the
Department of War Studies at King’s College in London, said in
an interview.  Rebel weakness may complicate the exit strategy from the
conflict that started on March 19 with air strikes by French,
British and U.S. jets. The Allies setting up a no-fly zone will
run out of targets within days and unless Qaddafi is killed or
suffers mass defections, the next step would be “support forces
to help rebel fighters” on the ground, Berdal said.  The United Nations  resolution  approving the mission forbids
a “foreign occupation force” in Libya. President  Barack Obama 
has excluded putting U.S. ground troops there, while U.K.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  has held open the possibility of
deploying troops in some capacity in the future.  “There can’t be an occupation force,” Hague told Sky News
in a March 20 interview. “That means you can’t have a ground
invasion of Libya. It doesn’t exclude every possible type of
operation.”  Allied Jets  U.S. and allied jets targeted Qaddafi’s troops today. The
leader’s loyalists increased attacks on cities, killing 16
people yesterday in Misrata and six in the nearby coastal town
of Zentan, opposition spokesman Abdulhafid Ghoga told reporters
in Benghazi. Later, the  Associated Press  reported that tanks
were pulling back from Misrata.  The Libya conflict, which began in February in the eastern
city of Benghazi, is the bloodiest in a series of uprisings that
have spread across the Middle East and ousted the leaders of
Egypt and  Tunisia .  From Benghazi, rebels extended territorial control along
the coast, gaining the oil ports of Brega and Ros Lanuf.
Uprisings in western cities like Misrata and Zawiyah at one
point left Tripoli as almost the only major population center
under Qaddafi control.  Counter-attacks drove the rebel army units to give up some
of their coastal gains, and left supporters in western cities
besieged, threatening the insurgency with annihilation before
foreign intervention.  ‘Blinded’ by Success  “The rebels are a pretty disorganized pack and they were
blinded by their early success,” Karl-Heinz Kamp, research
director at the NATO Defense College in  Rome , said in an
interview. “My gut feeling is this could end in a stalemate.” Cretz said yesterday that the coalition acting in Libya receives
daily reports from the opposition, according to the person at
the briefing.  The rebels are divided, poorly supplied and untrained in
using advanced weapons, said  Anthony Cordesman , a military
analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
 Washington . They also lack discipline, structure and clear
support from major tribal factions outside the urban areas in
the country’s east, he said.  Rebels’ Needs  “They need outside trainers and arms, but may not have the
unity or politics that will allow them to accept such aid and
use it effectively,” Cordesman wrote in a  March 22 analysis .  The main channel for the U.S. to communicate with the
Libyan rebels has been through Chris Stevens, who was the No. 2
official at the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli before it was evacuated
amid the internal clashes that began last month. The State
Department this month made him a liaison to the opposition.  Colonel Thierry Burkhard, a spokesman for  France ’s  Defense
Ministry  in Paris, declined to comment on rebel capabilities.  “We will not describe them for obvious security reasons,”
Burkhard said in an interview yesterday. “We won’t give out
such information because it’d fall into Qaddafi’s hands.”  Barak Seener, a Middle East expert at the  Royal United
Services Institute  in  London , said the Libya conflict “will go
on for some time if we don’t act swiftly,” especially if the
West doesn’t offer rebels logistical support, training in heavy
artillery and equipment and training in communications so they
can better coordinate their attacks.  ‘Rag-Tag Force’  A  report  by the London-based International Institute for
Strategic Studies described the rebels as “rag-tag force” that
“lack any substantial hardware with which to take on the pro-
Qaddafi stronghold.”  The IISS report, published on March 8, said Qaddafi’s
forces have “relatively modern” Russian-made T72 and T62 tanks
as well as BMP1 infantry vehicles, while the rebels have
“obsolete” T55 tanks.  “The rebels didn’t conquer a single place,” NATO Defense
College’s Kamp said. “The people either went over to them or
ran away.”  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  made a similar point to
reporters in Cairo yesterday, saying there were “any number of
possible outcomes.”  “Most of the uprisings against Qaddafi took place by towns
and cities where people in those towns and cities rose up
against him,” Gates said. “In some cases, parts of the
military garrison in those cities rose up. So it wasn’t as if
you had an alternative army moving back and forth across
 Libya .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  