-- 
Highway to Japan Quake Area Opens as Toll of Dead, Missing Exceeds 25,000

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-03-24T09:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/highway-to-japan-quake-area-opens-as-casualties-exceed-25-000.html
Japan ’s main expressway between
Tokyo and the region devastated by the record earthquake and
tsunami 13 days ago opened for the first time since the temblor,
as the number of dead and missing rose above 25,000.  The Tohoku Expressway reopened this morning at 6 a.m., the
Japan Road Traffic Information said on its  website . Bullet train
lines within the area of northeastern Japan resumed partial
service, according to the websites of  Iwate Prefecture  and  East
Japan Railway Co.   Having trains running “allows supplies to be delivered,”
said Kazuo Shimizu, an Iwate government spokesman. “It
certainly helps with the relief efforts.”  The official death toll from the 9.0 magnitude quake and
ensuing tsunami rose to 9,737, while 16,501 were still missing
as of 3 p.m. local time, according to the  National Police Agency 
in  Tokyo . More than a quarter of a million people remain in
1,913 evacuation centers.  ‘Still Grave’  “The situation is still grave,” said ruling party
lawmaker Tomiko Okazaki, who represents Miyagi prefecture, the
worst-hit region, and is from Fukushima prefecture, site of the
damaged Dai-Ichi nuclear plant that has leaked radiation into
the country’s vegetables and water supply. “We’re still getting
calls from people needing food and water, and some calling for
helicopter rescue.”  Freezing weather has hampered relief efforts. Temperatures
were forecast to fall to minus 2 degrees Celsius (28.4 degrees
Fahrenheit) in Miyagi and minus 4 degrees Celsius in Iwate and
Fukushima, two other areas hit by the tsunami.  Engineers at the Fukushima plant resumed work on
reconnecting power as  Tokyo authorities  prepared to hand out
bottled water to families after determining that tap water may
be unsafe for babies. The news that radiation has spread to food
triggered bulk buying at supermarkets even though government
officials said health risks were minimal.  Radiation Levels  Elevated radiation levels were detected on the clothes of
98 out of 79,920 Fukushima residents screened between March 13
to March 22, said Takeshi Ishimoto, a spokesman at the
prefecture’s disaster headquarters. Readings were normal after
the clothes were removed, he said.  While some daily necessities are being delivered, the lack
of gasoline is hampering distribution efforts, Ishimoto said.  “It’s a problem,” he said. “People with cars are having
a hard time because they can’t really use them.”  Lawmakers from Okazaki’s  Democratic Party of Japan  met
today to discuss measures to cope with the disaster, which Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  has called the gravest since World War II.
Kan is considering setting up a reconstruction agency to oversee
relief and rebuilding after the quake caused damage estimated at
as much as 25 trillion yen ($309 billion), an amount almost four
times the hit imposed by  Hurricane Katrina  on the U.S.  “We still can’t let our guard down about the nuclear plant
issue and the difficult conditions that are continuing for the
victims of the disaster,” DPJ Secretary General Katsuya Okada
said at today’s meeting. “We must respond decisively.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Osaka at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  