-- 
Imax Chief Executive Says China Likely to Overtake U.S. as Biggest Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-24T11:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/imax-to-open-100-cinemas-globally-a-year-for-2-3-years-ceo-gelfond-says.html
Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the operator of large-
screen movie theaters, says it is likely  China  will overtake the
U.S. as its biggest market as sales growth in accelerates in the
world’s most populous nation.  Contribution to sales from China, the company’s fastest
growing market, is expected to increase to about 25 percent in
the next five years from 10 percent currently, Richard Gelfond,
the company’s chief executive officer said in an interview
today. Box-office sales for China surged tenfold to 286 million
yuan ($43.6 million) last year from a year earlier.  “More than half of our revenue comes from the U.S., but we
do think it’s likely China will overtake the U.S. as the biggest
market at some point in the future,” Gelfond said.  Imax, based in Mississauga, Ontario, is exploring options
to expand beyond its core market, he said earlier this month.
Developing markets present “enormous opportunities,” with
China and  Russia  being the most exciting while  Europe  is under-
served, he said.  Gelfond said today he also sees potential in  India . The
company plans to open at least 100 theaters annually worldwide
for the next two to three years, he said.  Imax will open 75 more theaters with Wanda Cinemas Corp.,
its biggest partner in China, by the end of 2014, it said today.
The agreement brings the total number of Imax theaters slated to
be open in mainland China,  Hong Kong  and Taiwan to 177 over
“the next few years,” according to a release distributed by
Globe Newswire.  Imax more than tripled its global box-office sales for
films over two years to $587 million in 2010, according to the
company.  Its shares have declined 5.2 percent this year in New York
trading, compared with the 3.2 percent gain in the benchmark
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  