-- 
Time Warner Cable Is Said in Talks to Use Falcone's LightSquared Network

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-24T20:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/time-warner-cable-is-said-in-talks-to-use-falcone-s-lightsquared-network.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is in talks
with billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc. to use the
wireless venture’s network to provide mobile-Web access for its
customers, two people familiar with the situation said.  LightSquared, backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, is discussing selling so-called fourth-
generation network service to New York-based Time Warner Cable,
although no deal is guaranteed, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the negotiations aren’t public.  LightSquared is seeking to compete with AT&T Inc.,  Verizon
Wireless  and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  in providing wireless service with
faster Web browsing and voice calls, using a  combination  of
satellites and a terrestrial network. Time Warner Cable, which
owns a stake in Clearwire and uses its network for its current
mobile offering, may seek a deal with LightSquared to expand the
service, said Shing Yin, an analyst at Citadel Securities LLC.  “The one advantage LightSquared has over Clearwire is the
satellite component,” said New York-based Yin, who rates
Clearwire shares “strong buy” and doesn’t own any. “The
service quality is not going to be as good as a terrestrial
network like Clearwire’s, but from Time Warner Cable’s
perspective, having LightSquared as an option may be an
attractive proposition because it gains national coverage.”  Justin Venech, a Time Warner Cable spokesman, and Audrey Schaefer, a LightSquared spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Susan Johnston , a Clearwire spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  Network Expansion  Clearwire fell 1 cent to $5.34 on the Nasdaq Stock Market
at 4 p.m. New York time. Time Warner Cable rose 91 cents to
$70.28 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Falcone has committed billions to take on Reston, Virginia-
based LightSquared’s larger and more established rivals and
faces government deadlines for building out his network. Falcone
agreed last year to Federal Communications Commission conditions
that his service cover as many as 100 million people in the U.S.
by the end of 2012 and 260 million by 2016.  This week, LightSquared announced deals with retailer Best
Buy Co. and pay-as-you-go carrier Leap Wireless International
Inc. LightSquared Chief Executive Officer Sanjiv Ahuja said the
company plans to spend $14 billion on its network over the next
eight years.  Last month, the company announced $586 million in new
funding from UBS AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. that will help its
network buildout. The company has about $1 billion in cash on
hand, people familiar with the matter said Feb 18.  LightSquared has said it has agreements with five customers
to provide wholesale 4G service, including two carriers, a
national retailer, a device manufacturer and a website.  Clearwire Trailing Expectations  Time Warner Cable and rival cable provider Comcast Corp.
were among investors that pumped $3.2 billion into Kirkland,
Washington-based Clearwire in 2008 as they explored ways to
compete with AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.  Clearwire hasn’t been “as successful as the cable
operators had expected in terms of a wireless data product,”
said  Marci Ryvicker , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., in a note
today. She has an “outperform” rating on Time Warner Cable’s
shares.  Last month, Clearwire predicted improving earnings that
could eliminate the need for additional funding. The
unprofitable company had struggled to meet its funding needs,
telling investors it could run out of cash by midyear before
raising about $1.33 billion in bonds in December.  Time Warner Cable CEO Glenn Britt said at a conference this
month he believes cable companies will begin offering wireless
as part of their TV-Internet-telephone bundle “in some way,
shape or form.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in Orlando, Florida, at
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  