-- 
Imperial Tobacco Forecasts Drop in Cigarette Shipments

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-24T09:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/imperial-tobacco-forecasts-drop-in-cigarette-shipments.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) ,
Europe’s second-biggest tobacco company, expects first-half
cigarette volume to fall because buying patterns in the U.K.
shifted spending to the second half of the year.  Selling quantities for the period ending March 31 will drop
about 1 percent, the Bristol, England-based company said today
in a statement. Revenue will increase about 2 percent at
constant currency-exchange rates and excluding other income
growth in its Moroccan business, Imperial said.  The shift in U.K. spending will have no overall impact on
the full year, the company said today.  Imperial Tobacco 
confirmed that its financial performance remains in line with
the board’s previous expectations.  “It’s not particularly bad but it’s not particularly good
either,” said Rob Mann, an analyst at  Collins Stewart  in
 London , in a phone interview. He recommends buying the shares.
“Profits, I would imagine, will be as usual in line with where
they’re expected to be.”  The cigarette-maker fell as much as 61 pence, or 3.2
percent, to 1,861 pence and traded at 1,869 pence as of 9:54
a.m. in London. The stock has dropped 8.2 percent in the past
year, compared with a 4.8 percent gain in shares of rival
British American Tobacco Plc.  Tobacco companies are relying on growth in emerging markets
to offset declining consumption in western Europe and  North
America . Spain remains a “challenging” market because of a
duty increase in December, the ban on smoking in public places
and a weak economy, Imperial said.  First-half shipments of Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and
West cigarettes increased, boosted by emerging markets, Imperial
said. The JPS brand has maintained its “excellent” performance
and Imperial has continued to deliver strong growth in fine-cut
tobacco volume, it said.  Imperial will release first-half results on May 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  