-- 
India Parliament Approves Annual Budget Seeking to Lower Taxes

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-03-24T13:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/india-parliament-approves-annual-budget-seeking-to-lower-taxes.html
India ’s Parliament approved Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee’s plan to lower income taxes, increase
wages and cut petroleum subsidies on fuel, enabling the lowest
budget deficit in 4 years.  The ratification of the budget, unveiled on Feb. 28,
followed withdrawal of service tax on health care and halving of
taxes on import of kits automakers including Daimler AG, Audi AG
and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG use to assemble vehicles.  Mukherjee is expecting the economy to expand as much as
9.25 percent in the financial year beginning April 1 to boost
tax collections and make up for the lost revenue from wider
exemption on personal incomes. The rise in global oil prices
posed a fresh risk to growth and inflation, central bank Deputy
Governor  Subir Gokarn  told the ET Now television channel today.  “The unrest in the Middle East poses a huge uncertainty
for the economy,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, a Mumbai-based
economist with Bank of Baroda. “Surging oil can upset all
equations.”  India meets about three-quarters of its annual energy needs
from imports, and Mukherjee estimated a 38 percent drop in fuel
subsidy costs next year to help lower government borrowing. That
will help him lower the fiscal gap to 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product in the financial year beginning April 1 from
5.1 percent this year.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government faces five state
elections this year and said last month that its “foremost”
priority was to curb inflation, which reduces purchasing power
in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more than three-
quarters of the people live on less than $2 a day.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation unexpectedly
quickened to 8.31 percent in February.  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao boosted  interest rates  on March 17 for
the eighth time in a year. He raised the benchmark repurchase
rate by a quarter-percentage point to 6.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  