-- 
India’s 11-Year Bonds Gain for Third Day as Banks Lift Holdings

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-03-24T12:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/india-s-11-year-bonds-gain-for-third-day-as-banks-lift-holdings.html
India ’s 11-year bonds gained for a
third day, pushing yields to a one-week low, on speculation
banks are purchasing more debt as the quarter ends to comply
with a  government regulation .  Indian lenders must invest a minimum 24 percent of deposits
in government debt or other low-risk notes approved by policy
makers with their holdings measured at the end of each quarter.
They raised holdings by 370 billion rupees ($8.3 billion) this
year through Feb. 25, the latest central bank figures show.
Bonds also rose on speculation demand will rise in the absence
of scheduled government borrowings for the rest of this month.  “Bonds are getting support as banks lift investments in
line with statutory needs ahead of the March 31 financial year-
end,” said  Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Federal Bank
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The lack of supply is also a short-term
positive for the market.”  The yield on the 8.08 percent note due August 2022 dropped
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.08 percent as
of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. That’s the lowest level since March 17. The rate
has retreated five basis points from a three-week high of 8.13
percent reached on March 21.  Average annual growth in  bank deposits  in India quickened
to 17 percent in February from 16 percent in the previous month,
central bank data show.  Rupee bonds have returned 2 percent this year, the second-
best performance in the region after  Singapore , according to 10
Asian local-currency debt indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
increased. The rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, rose one basis point to 7.48 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 