-- 
Think About Sin When Bonuses Are Revealed: Roger Lowenstein

-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/think-about-sin-when-bonuses-are-revealed-commentary-by-roger-lowenstein.html
Bonuses to senior executives are
shooting up. They’re a good reminder of what Congress forgot
when it was reforming the financial system. Excessive pay isn’t
a problem just at banks; it’s endemic to the culture of
corporate America.  Excessive and ill-conceived pay encourages chief executive
officers to overreach and misallocate resources. And to be
honest, except in rare deserving cases, eight-figure bonuses
make me angry.  Why should one writer’s pique matter? Because one of the
biggest threats to American democracy is inequality. When people
lose faith in the system, institutions suffer. People stretch to
buy homes, or overuse credit to match their neighbors. And when
executives earn more in a half day than teachers do in a year,
talented people don’t pursue careers in education.  Executive pay shouldn’t be set by government (or by op-ed
writers). It should be set by shareholders. But shareholders
don’t have a real voice. And the pay system is way out of line
with any rational system of incentives that would serve their
interest.  In the coming proxy season, you will see executives getting
huge raises and justifying it on the basis that their stocks and
profits are up. But a CEO’s impact is felt over many years --
not just one. A single up year doesn’t warrant a big bonus if
the longer-term performance was mediocre. Nor is simply riding a
stock down and then up again cause for celebration. When a
batter in baseball slumps to .200, he doesn’t deserve a bonus
for getting his  average  back to .250.  Justifiable Pay  True pay-for-performance doesn’t mean doling out an
extravagant sum for matching the market, or awarding a can’t-
miss stock option. And the executive who receives stock options
year after year is almost certain to get an award, some year,
when the stock is at a low, guaranteeing a profit.  Most of all, in a rational pay system, executives who stand
to make large returns would run the risk of personal loss. That
that doesn’t mean cutting pay in some categories while
compensating with raises in others.  In recent months, one of the most abusive pay packages was
that of  Larry Ellison , CEO and founder of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the
world’s second-largest software maker. Ellison is a perennial
league leader in excessive pay, though he draws little notice
because Oracle’s  compensation  is announced off-season, in
September.  Last year, Ellison reduced his salary to $1. How
magnanimous. He also got a whopping $62 million in stock
options, in addition to $6.5 million in “non-equity
incentive.”  Motivating Multibillionaires  Why a multibillionaire needed the motivation of stock
options or an “incentive” plan is a question for Ellison’s
psychiatrist. You would think his 1.1 billion shares -- a 22
percent stake -- was motivation enough. In each of the previous
two years, he was paid $85 million.  I doubt that any performance would truly justify Ellison’s
take; Oracle’s didn’t come close. Over the 10 years through Dec.
31, Oracle stock is up less than 1 percent a year.  The current proxy season is young, but a worthy challenger
to Ellison is Philippe Dauman of  Viacom Inc. (VIA)  Dauman had a great
mentor in company founder  Sumner Redstone . No longer CEO, but
still paid like one, Redstone pocketed $15 million in 2010.  But the real stash went to Dauman. The  proxy  justifies
Dauman’s pay, noting he “did not receive a salary or target
bonus increase in 2009 due to a compensation freeze in light of
economic conditions.” This sounds like he was on hardship pay.
Actually, in each of the preceding three years, Dauman was paid
more than $25 million.  Big-Time  So in 2010, the board figured, he was ready for big-time.
Dauman got a salary of $2.6 million and an annual stock award of
$10 million. In addition, he got a one-time stock award of $31
million. Was there some vital distinction that created a
pressing need for both awards? The proxy says the annual award
is “designed to motivate employees to focus on long-term growth
and stockholder value.” And the rationale for the one-time
award? As the proxy says, “See ‘Annual Equity Awards’ above.”  Dauman also got $6 million in stock options and -- you
guessed it -- $22 million in one-time options. Plus $11 million
in a “non-equity incentive.” Viacom says each pay category was
based on performance metrics; apparently, Dauman didn’t always
qualify for the full award. Shareholders should thank their
stars.  The compensation, of course, was blessed by a consultant,
 Pay Governance . But no metrics can justify such plunder. Since
Viacom’s stock began trading in its current form, in 2005,
through year-end 2010, the shares are up just over 1 percent a
year.  Grabbing More  Viacom and Oracle are cases of pathological greed, but the
essential sin of grabbing and then grabbing more -- without any
downside -- is commonplace. So is the fig leaf of hiring
consultants, each of whom lowers the bar for the next.  Watch this spring, as proxy disclosures (and bonuses, and
options, and “one-time” bonuses) roll. While shareholders are
still trying to earn back their losses, the brass will be
accumulating new fortunes. Congress thought it was taking a bold
step by instituting so-called say-on-pay for shareholders. But
these non-binding votes are merely show. Shareholders should be
able to vote, aye or nay on pay -- and have it count.  ( Roger Lowenstein , author of “The End of  Wall Street ,” is
a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  