-- 
Icahn Wins Dismissal of Lions Gate Claim He Violated U.S. Securities Law

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-24T20:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/lions-gate-judge-throws-out-claim-that-icahn-violated-u-s-securities-law.html
Part of a  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF)  lawsuit in which the movie studio accuses  Carl Icahn  of
trying to interfere with its plan to merge with Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Inc. was thrown out by a federal judge. One claim remains.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in  New York  yesterday
granted Icahn’s motion to dismiss the claim that his failure to
disclose information about his own plans to merge Lions Gate and
MGM violated federal  securities law .  The financier, chairman of Icahn Enterprises LP, also
didn’t fully disclose an agreement to buy Dallas Mavericks owner
 Mark Cuban ’s 5.4 percent stake in Lions Gate, the Santa Monica,
California-based company claimed.  “There is no allegation that defendants are involved in an
ongoing criminal investigation related to their dealings with
 Lions Gate , and they vigorously dispute any special dealings
with Cuban or plans for an MGM merger,” Baer said in his
ruling.  The remaining claim against Icahn is that he agreed to
provide Cuban with “further consideration in addition to” the
$7 a share that he was offering other Lions Gate shareholders in
a tender offer last year, and that this extra consideration
wasn’t provided to other holders, according to the lawsuit,
which was filed in October.  SEC Disclosure  Icahn argued in his motion that he made necessary
disclosures in an amended Schedule 13D filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Also named as defendants are Icahn’s companies and his son,
Brett. Joseph DiBenedetto, a lawyer for the Icahns, didn’t
return messages seeking comment today.  Peter Wilkes, a spokesman for Lions Gate, said the case
would proceed to trial.  Cuban didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  Lions Gate claimed that at the same time Icahn was publicly
criticizing the studio’s plan to buy MGM or another film
library, he was secretly buying MGM’s debt so he could merge the
two companies himself. Through tender offers, he had increased
his stake in Lions Gate to more than 37 percent.  In October, MGM announced that it was submitting a
prepackaged reorganization plan to its creditors under which it
would merge with independent producer  Spyglass Entertainment .  ‘Significant Positions’  Icahn then disclosed that he held “significant positions
in both Lions Gate stock and MGM debt” and criticized the
Spyglass proposal.  MGM filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in
November. Its reorganization plan, which gave control to
Spyglass and Icahn, was approved in December.  Lions Gate is an independent producer of films including
“Precious” and “American Psycho” and the “Mad Men”
television series.  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , based in New York, rose 60 cents, or
1.6 percent, to $37.88 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading at 4:15 p.m. Lions Gate fell 2 cents to $6.07.  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. V. Icahn, 1:10-
cv-08169, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  