-- 
IPad Frenzy Should Worry Carmelo Anthony’s Team: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/ipad-frenzy-haunts-carmelo-anthony-s-team-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Passing the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  store on
Fifth Avenue in  Manhattan , where the parade of wannabe iPad 2
owners stretches around the block, prompted thoughts not of
technology but sports. In particular, the  New York Knicks .  That line is a metaphor for a society addicted to immediate
gratification. We want it, whatever IT is, and we want it now.
What’s true for technophiles also applies -- probably more so --
to sports fans, which is why all those consumers sometimes
waiting in the rain for hours ought to scare the daylights out
of the saps who run the Knicks.  When the Knicks acquired  Carmelo Anthony  from the  Denver
Nuggets  last month, the ensuing hoopla would have led most
basketball fans to believe that the team was adding  Michael Jordan . Or, at least some reasonable facsimile of the five-time
Most Valuable Player whose statue sits outside of the United
Center in  Chicago .  Executives with the team, who know that titles take time,
didn’t do or say anything to squelch the outlandish
expectations. The Knicks, from owner  James Dolan  on down, didn’t
hesitate to sell Anthony as a megastar, as one of the top, say,
six or seven players in the league. He isn’t. Never has been.
There’s a difference between a great scorer, which Anthony is,
and a great player, the kind of athlete who makes his teammates
better.  The basketball fans of New York were downright bonkers at
the news of Anthony’s joining Amar’e Stoudemire in a Knicks
uniform. They couldn’t manufacture No. 7 jerseys fast enough.  Great Expectations  Look out, Miami. Move over,  Boston . The expectation in New
York wasn’t just vast improvement or even the playoffs. It was
parade preparation. Win now.  The savvy professional sports franchise tempers
expectations because winning at the game’s highest level isn’t
easy. There are so many things that can happen to derail a
season. Like a freak injury. Or a referee’s blunder or player
transgression. What happens to the  Los Angeles Lakers , for
instance, if in Game 1 of the National Basketball Association
Finals Kobe Bryant goes down with a high ankle sprain?  The Knicks should have given their fans the hard sell on
slowing down and breathing deeply. They could have admitted that
scrapping almost an entire starting five for one player, no
matter how many points he scores, is an exercise in trial and
error.  We’re talking about talent, yes, but compatibility, trust
and comfort, too. It all takes time, and it’s a lesson that fans
of all teams could use.  Big Plans  The Knicks have won seven games and lost 10 with Anthony as
a member of the team. The Nuggets, meanwhile, are 11-4 since the
trade. It’s too easy, and too soon, to determine which team got
the better of it.  Knicks fans need to remember that Anthony is part of a
bigger plan, one that isn’t finished yet. That isn’t to say, of
course, that the ultimate goal, a ring, will be achieved.  After all, Karl Malone and John Stockton got close but
didn’t win it all for the  Utah Jazz . And let’s remember the
 Buffalo Bills  of Jim Kelly, Thurman Thomas and Bruce Smith. Four
straight Super Bowls and, well, you know how those games ended.  Winning is a process, one for which too many fans don’t
have the patience.  Knicks fans had a team of energetic, talented upstarts.
They could have been nurtured and fiddled with to form a
contender someday. But fans aren’t interested in the
possibilities of tomorrow. They don’t want to endure the
tribulations that accompany growing pains, even though that’s
half the fun of rooting for a team, of investing so much
emotion.  Work in Progress  There’s already a sense of panic among Knicks fans that
 Anthony  isn’t what they thought he was. Why can’t fans sit back
and enjoy the process of finding out, though?  Let the players and team develop.  “It’s a process,” Anthony said the other day. “It’s a
long process.”  Uh-oh, folks. Wait is a taboo word for sports fans,
especially those pulling for these Knicks, who next season will
raise season-ticket prices by an average of 49 percent.  The basketball fans of  New York  want a championship.
Unfortunately for the team,  Steve Jobs  doesn’t have an app for
that.  If he did, Anthony himself would wait in that line, where
he and his like-minded pals could commiserate about the mindset
of having to have it now.  On a personal note, after almost six years opining on the
world of sports, this is my last column. I’m staying with
Bloomberg News and will report on the business of sports.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  