-- 
Irish Economy Shrinks 1.6% as Consumer Spending, Investment, Exports Drop

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-24T15:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/irish-economy-shrinks-1-6-as-consumer-spending-investment-exports-drop.html
Ireland’s economy shrank the most
in a year in the fourth quarter of 2010 as rising unemployment
curtailed  consumer spending  and investment and exports declined.  Gross domestic product fell 1.6 percent from the previous
three months, when it increased 0.6 percent, the  Central
Statistics Office  said in a report published in Dublin today.
Consumer spending declined 0.4 percent and exports fell 1.4
percent. In 2010, the economy shrank 1 percent, a third annual
contraction.  The Fine Gael-led government, which came to power after an
election last month, wants to revive the economy after a slump
that sent the  budget deficit  soaring and brought the banking
system close to collapse. Ireland, which received a bailout last
year after bank-rescue costs soared, is awaiting the results of
stress tests to determine how much more capital lenders need.  “The road to recovery for the Irish economy is set to be a
bumpy one,” said Lynsey Clemenger, an economist at  Ulster Bank 
in Dublin. “While we continue to expect exports will provide a
platform on which the Irish recovery process can build, overall
prospects are importantly affected by the ongoing fiscal
retrenchment.”  Ireland agreed a four-year budget-cut program in return for
the aid from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  in November. EU leaders meet in Brussels today to sign off
on measures to resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis as pressure mounts
after  Portugal ’s fiscal plan was defeated in parliament and
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  offered to resign.  Bond Yields  The yield premium on Portugal’s 10-year debt over German
bunds rose to 443 basis points today from 439 basis points
yesterday. The premium on Irish 10-year debt increased to as
high as 698 basis points, a euro-era record, before easing to
672 basis points.  The Irish data showed imports slipped 0.1 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, while investment
dropped 2.3 percent and  government spending  rose 0.3 percent.
Inventories also acted as a drag on the economy in the quarter.
From a year earlier, GDP fell 0.7 percent.  Based on gross national product, Ireland’s economy shrank
2.1 percent in 2010 after a 10.7 percent drop in 2009.  On a year-on-year basis, exports rose 10.6 percent in the
fourth quarter after a 13.5 percent increase in the third
quarter. In a separate report, the statistics office said the
current account surplus widened to 1.4 billion euros in the
fourth quarter from 255 million euros.  “While there was some moderation in the annual rate of
growth in both goods and services exports in the quarter, the
year-on-year rate in each remains strong,” Clemenger said. Net
trade will help the economy to return to “modest positive
territory” this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  