-- 
Japan Earthquake May Be ‘Catalyst’ for Higher Reinsurance Rates Globally

-- B y   K o m a k i   I t o   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-03-25T08:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japan-earthquake-may-be-catalyst-for-higher-reinsurance-rates-globally.html
Japan’s biggest non-life insurers
may have to pay higher reinsurance rates when they are renewed
next month after the nation’s strongest earthquake.  Revisions will be affected in the aftermath of the March 11
temblor and subsequent tsunami, said Hideyuki Ishii, a spokesman
at  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766)  Sompo Japan Insurance Inc. is
still assessing the impact from the disaster, said Yuzuru
Tsukui, a spokesman at the unit of  NKSJ Holdings Inc. (8630)   MS&AD
Insurance Group Holdings (8725)  Inc. is in negotiations, said
Toshitsugu Matsuura, a company spokesman.  “Given the current situation, it is a concern that it will
have an impact on our renewal discussions going forward,” said
Tokio Marine’s Ishii.  The outcome of negotiations on the reinsurance rates for
Japanese insurers, which typically are done once a year in
April, the start of the business year, may push up prices for
catastrophe cover that have fallen for two years. Japanese
insurers generally pass on 70 percent to 80 percent of their
catastrophe cover to overseas reinsurers, said Teruki Morinaga,
a director at Fitch Ratings  Japan  Ltd.  “Japan’s latest earthquake may become a catalyst to change
the recent trend in reinsurance rates around the world,” Tokyo-
based Morinaga said. “This could be the beginning of a
hardening in the global reinsurance rates,” said Morinaga. In
reinsurance terms, a hardening of markets or rates refers to an
increase in prices for coverage.  Passing on Risks  Reinsurance rates fell for a second straight year in
January on high levels of capital available in the industry,
according to Guy Carpenter & Co., the reinsurance brokerage of
New York-based Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Reinsurers help protect primary carriers against the cost
of major claims from disasters such as hurricanes and
earthquakes.  Japanese insurers and global reinsurance companies that
backstop their policies may face claims of as much as 2.8
trillion yen ($35 billion) tied to the disaster,  AIR Worldwide 
said earlier this month. Moody’s Investors Service said the
earthquake may cause as much as 400 billion yen in claims for
life insurers. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said it was the
country’s worst crisis since World War II.  The death toll following the disaster has risen to more
than 9,500 while more than 16,000 are still missing, according
to the National Policy Agency.  Ongoing Discussions  “It remains unclear how much of an impact it would have,”
said Sompo Japan’s Tsukui.  MS&AD’s Matsuura declined to elaborate on the renewal
discussions except to say that they were “ongoing” and that
talks are private.  The quake and tsunami damaged a nuclear plant run by Tokyo
Electric Power Co. in the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl, releasing radiation leakage into the sea and air.
Japanese casualty insurers are  not liable  for coverage of
nuclear damages or radiation leaks.  Shares of  Tokio Marine , Japan’s second-largest casualty
insurer, declined 0.6 percent to 2,254 yen at the 3 p.m. close
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. NKSJ, the third largest, rose 1.3
percent to 535 yen, while MS&AD, the biggest, advanced 2.7
percent to 1,885 yen. Each stock has declined about 10 percent
since March 10, the day before the earthquake.  Japan Risk  Japanese casualty insurers are passing on their earthquake
insurance to reinsurers mainly on commercial buildings, Fitch’s
Morinaga said. “Risks against earthquakes in Japan will
probably go up going forward from now on,” Morinaga said.  Recent natural disasters including a temblor in  New Zealand 
and floods in  Australia  have not been enough to prompt a review
in reinsurance rates because there was enough excess capital to
cover for the damages, he said.  “It’s inevitable that the reinsurance market is going to
face a tough time from now on,” Hisahito Suzuki, chairman of
 The General Insurance Association of Japan , said last week. “We
need support from the overseas reinsurers with which the
Japanese insurers will be having discussions -- we are looking
for reasonable rates to secure stable reinsurances for our
coverages.”  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, on March 22
dropped its 2011 profit target after estimating the company’s
claims from Japan’s catastrophe will reach about 1.5 billion
euros ($2.1 billion). Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, estimated on March 21 it will face claims of
about $1.2 billion from the earthquake and the tsunami in Japan.  Historical Trend  Reinsurers such as Munich Re and Swiss Re renew about two-
thirds of their annual property and casualty contracts in
January, and the remainder in April and July. The renewals on
April 1 typically focus on the Asia-Pacific region.  “In general prices are rising in the local market after
such an event, often globally as well,” Thorsten Jeworrek,
Munich Re’s head of reinsurance, said in an e-mail. “That’s how
it has been in the past.” He declined to elaborate further on
price developments.  Payouts for Japanese non-life insurers may reach a record
after the magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami, Suzuki of the non-
life insurance association said March 17. The insurers will use
reserves set aside, reinsurance and government funds to cover
the earthquake payouts, and the impact will be limited, he said.  The overall damages from the earthquake and tsunami are as
much as 25 trillion yen, almost four times the amount after
 Hurricane Katrina  in the U.S., Japan’s government estimated on
March 23. The country has suffered a record 262 aftershocks
measuring magnitude 5 or more in the seven days following the
March 11 earthquake,  Kyodo News  said on March 20.  “We do not rule out that this event might change not just
rates on Japan, but natural catastrophic rate, in particular
earthquakes around the Pacific,” said Birgit Roper-Gruner, an
insurance analyst at Societe Generale SA in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net ;
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  