-- 
Japanese Swap Fish for Burgers, Soy Milk on Radiation Contamination Fears

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r ,   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-25T05:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japanese-swap-fish-for-burgers-soy-milk-on-radiation-contamination-fears.html
Namiko Murata no longer gives her
three children their favorite salmon, saury and mackerel for
dinner.  “I’m really paying attention to food because of the
radiation problems,” said Murata as she waited in line at a
 Tokyo  supermarket. “We gave up eating fish even though my
family likes it very much. Now, for protein, we drink three cups
of soy milk a day.”  The detection of cobalt, iodine and cesium in the sea near
the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of Tokyo
this week hurt fish sales in the world’s second-biggest seafood
market. Shoppers ignored reassurances their food and water were
safe and countries from  Australia  to the U.S. restricted Japan
food imports. The  World Health Organization  said fears of
radioactive contamination may be unwarranted.  Ryoko Mizumoto, a 27-year-old mother of two, said she
stopped buying dried Shirasu fish and horse mackerel. “I gave
up buying maritime products and started buying cheap meat,” she
said while waiting to buy bottled water at one of Seven & I
Holdings Co.’s Ito-Yokado stores in Tokyo. “I make hamburger
steak to replace the fish.”  Japan has restricted shipments of milk, spinach and other
vegetables from Fukushima and neighboring prefectures as
radiation from the plant, damaged on March 11 by the country’s
strongest earthquake on record, contaminated agricultural
products.  Bottled-Water Shortage  The country’s biggest beverage makers, with plants running
at full capacity, face renewed pressure to raise bottled-water
production as shoppers cleared store shelves following news that
radiation contaminated Tokyo’s water supply. A  Lawson Inc. (2651) 
convenience store in the capital last night had a sign saying
customers could only buy one bottle of water each. Its shelves
for water, juice and tea were empty.  “People simply don’t understand the safety issue,”
 Hisashi Ogawa , team leader for environmental health at the WHO
said by phone today. “The perception of the general public is
that so long as standard levels are exceeded, they feel it’s
unsafe, and this is a misperception.”  Tolerable Levels  “At levels we observe today, food or water are safe to
drink and eat, although standards were exceeded,” said Ogawa,
who’s based in  Manila  and is in Tokyo to help the WHO coordinate
with the Japanese government.  The health ministry has tentatively set tolerable levels of
radioactivity. For fish, it’s 500 Becquerels per kilogram of
radioactive cesium and 100 Becquerels per kilogram of uranium.
 Japan ’s  Food Safety Commission  will assess the standards for
possible revision as early as next week.  “We have not received any test results showing fish
contaminated by more-than-acceptable levels of radioactivity,”
said Taiju Abe at the health ministry’s inspection and safety
division. “Prefectural governments are putting priority on
testing vegetables as they are at the highest risk for
contamination through the air and rain.”  Fishing in the northeastern prefectures of Fukushima,
Miyagi and Iwate has been halted since the earthquake and the
ensuing tsunami that engulfed towns in northeastern Japan,
damaged the Fukushima nuclear facility and shook buildings in
Tokyo.  ‘Not Enough Information’  The suspension lowered the risk that “tainted fish will be
in the market,” said Yasuo Sasaki, senior press counselor at
the  agriculture ministry . “We don’t see fish at a high risk of
contamination because of radiation dilution,”  Kazuko Nishihara said she isn’t convinced. “We don’t trust
the government,” said the 41-year-old mother of two who left
Tokyo for Hiroshima on March 18, where she said food is safe.
“It hasn’t disclosed enough information. When we get back to
Tokyo, I won’t eat vegetables produced in the Kanto region and
will only eat fish from the western part of Japan.”  The Kanto region encompasses Tokyo and six prefectures, and
contains about one-third of Japan’s 127 million people.  Japan consumes about 9 million metric tons of seafood a
year, second behind  China ’s more than 1.3 billion people,
according to the website of the  Sea Around Us Project , a
collaboration between the University of British Columbia and the
Pew Environment Group. It’s the world’s largest fish importer,
according to the  UN Food and Agriculture Organization .  Few Customers  “We are worrying about the marine radiation contamination
problem,” said 35-year-old Takashi Inoue, who works at Shoei
Suisan, a wholesaler at Tokyo’s  Tsukiji  fish market. “Unlike
vegetables, the source of production is quite vague.”  Susumu Takana, a 68-year-old worker at nearby fish
wholesaler Harahide, said business has dropped by 40 percent
since the earthquake.  “Our main customers are restaurants who say they have few
customers at night,” he said. “Some clients have started to
say they don’t want fish from north of Choshi,” near Tokyo.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said March 23 the
government told regulators to implement maximum monitoring on
seafood. Fukushima and neighboring prefectures Miyagi and Iwate
produce 707,500 tons of seafood, accounting for 13 percent of
Japan’s 5.6 million tons of annual production,  according  to
Statistics Japan.  No Tourists  Maruha Nichiro Holdings Inc. (1334)  which sells prawns, crabs,
octopus and shrimp from both Japan and overseas, is getting more
queries about where its produce is from, said Hiroyuki Metoki, a
spokesman. Customers may continue to avoid food from Fukushima
and nearby areas, he said.  “We may have to depend on products from other parts of
Japan and imports,” Metoki said. Because imported fish is
expensive, people may “have to switch some portion of their
fish consumption to something else, such as meat,” he said.  Getting enough fish hasn’t been a problem for Yoshiaki
Saito, president of fish wholesaler Saito Suisan. “Our sales
have fallen to about one-fifth,” he said. “There is plenty of
supply but there’s no demand.”  The decline in tourists is partly to blame, Saito said.
“There are usually many customers from overseas,” such as
Chinese who buy crabs, tuna and scallops, he said. “There are
no tourists now.”  Saito said he hasn’t heard of any impact of radiation on
fish. “Even if there is, it’s only a small amount. We can’t
worry about every little problem or there won’t be anything left
for us to eat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  