-- 
Japan Quake Will Boost Economy in 2012-2013, AXA’s Chaney Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-24T09:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japan-quake-will-boost-economy-in-2012-2013-axa-s-chaney-says.html
Eric Chaney , chief economist for
the AXA Group and the former chief economist for  Europe  at
Morgan Stanley, comments on Japan’s economy and the equities
market after the nation’s biggest-ever earthquake.  He spoke in an interview in Singapore:  On the impact of the earthquake on Japan’s economy:  “For Japan, it is a major blow, which probably implies a
significant loss of output, partly due to the destruction and
mostly due to the fact there is a big loss in electrical power,
which has an impact on all the sectors of the economy in the
whole country.  “The impact could be quite significant. The first fall of
GDP may be not far from 2 percent. As power supply comes back,
the economy will recover. The second stage, which will be
reconstruction, will in turn generate very strong growth for
 Japan . For this year, growth in Japan is likely quite weak
because of the loss of power production. For 2012-2013, I would
expect much stronger growth than usual in Japan, due to the
reconstruction of the destructions.”  On inflation in Japan:  “If supply goes down, demand is still there. How is Japan
going to fill the gap? One, you let prices do the job. Prices go
up, demand goes down.  “The other solution is import. Japanese people import the
products that Japanese companies cannot produce. If you want to
import, you have to accept an appreciation of the currency. In
that case, the population can be able to buy cheap imports that
the Japanese cannot produce.  “If you don’t want the currency to appreciate, i.e. you
want to be on the side of companies, then prices will go up. And
that is the choice the Japanese government has made with the
blessing of the G7. That implies prices in Japan will rise, so
there will be inflation in Japan.”  On the outlook for equities in Japan:  “Companies lose a lot of production, so it makes a lot of
sense to have a downward adjustment. The stars are aligned for a
very strong rally in the Japanese stock market because we know
reconstruction of the country will take place even if it costs
$300 billion. It will be financed by the government, by
companies and by Japanese savings.  “Inflation is good for companies because it means more
pricing power. The government does not let the yen rise. The
future is quite brilliant. They will benefit from reconstruction,
they will benefit from higher profit margins and a stable yen. I
am very positive on the Japanese equities market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  