-- 
Japan’s Bond Futures Decline as Global Stock Gains Damp Demand for Safety

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-25T06:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japanese-bonds-may-decline-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-stock-advances.html
Japan ’s bond futures fell, snapping
a two-day gain, as a rally by shares around the world curbed
demand for lower-yielding safer assets.  Yields on benchmark 10-year bonds rose from near a one-week
low after a U.S. report showed a drop in jobless claims,
boosting stocks in New York. Bonds also declined before a report
projected to show  Germany ’s retail sales increased for a third
month, bolstering confidence  Europe ’s economy will continue to
improve even as  Portugal  had its credit rating cut.  “Expectations for a global economic recovery are largely
intact, which is a catalyst for bond yields to rise,” said
Makoto Noji, a senior debt and foreign-exchange strategist at
Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “The economies of
Europe’s core countries remain in good shape.”  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery fell 0.12 to 139.80
at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The benchmark 10-year yield added 1.5 basis points to 1.22
percent as of 3:10 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent debt
due March 2021 declined 0.134 to 100.711 yen. The yield slid to
1.2 percent yesterday, the lowest since March 17.  The yield advanced one basis point since March 18, the
first weekly gain since the period ended March 4. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 1.1 percent after
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent in  New York 
yesterday. The number of Americans filing claims for jobless
benefits decreased by 5,000 to 382,000 in the week ended March
19, Labor Department figures showed yesterday.  Consumer Prices  “Domestic investors are reluctant to trade before the end
of this fiscal year” as financial companies are closing their
books and preparing earnings reports, said Nikko’s Noji. Japan’s
business year ends on March 31 for most companies.  Consumer prices in Japan excluding fresh food dropped 0.3
percent in February from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said today, matching the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said
it’s important to end deflation as soon as possible.  Japan may need to consider compiling an extra budget within
one month to help pay for reconstruction efforts after the
nation’s biggest earthquake on March 11, Economic and Fiscal
Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said. A combination of funding
sources may need to be mulled, including spending cuts, a review
of taxes and bond issuance, he said today.  Germany’s retail sales rose 0.3 percent in February from
the previous month when they gained 0.4 percent, according to
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Federal
Statistics Office report is due March 28.  Portugal’s debt was downgraded two notches by Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services, following a cut by  Fitch Ratings 
yesterday, after the country’s prime minister resigned when
lawmakers rejected his austerity measures.  The decline in bonds was tempered as Japan’s Ministry of
Finance said today that overseas investors bought 190.4 billion
yen ($2.35 billion) in the nation’s bonds in the week ended
March 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  