-- 
Threat of Radiation Pressures Beermakers Kirin, Asahi to Bottle More Water

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-03-24T08:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japan-drinks-makers-face-pressure-to-boost-production-on-radiation-fears.html
Japan ’s biggest beverage makers,
whose plants are already operating at full capacity, face
renewed pressure to raise bottled-water production after
radiation contaminated Tokyo’s water supply.  Rakuten Inc. (4755)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the country’s biggest
online retailers, face shortages, their websites show, after
Tokyo’s government warned against giving tap water to infants.
Authorities in the city, home to a 10th of Japan’s population,
plan to hand out 240,000 bottles of water to 80,000 families
with infants.  “We’re considering various possibilities” to ensure
water supply, including boosting imports,  Yukio Edano , Chief
Cabinet Secretary, said at a press conference in the Japanese
capital today. “We’d like people to act calmly.”  Supply may remain tight as Kirin Holdings Co., Suntory
Holdings Ltd. and  Asahi Breweries Ltd. (2502)  said they are already
operating at full capacity. The companies are boosting
shipments to the area in northeastern Japan devastated by the
tsunami that followed the March 11 earthquake, and where more
than 250,000 people are in evacuation centers.  Bulk Buying  Revelations of rising contamination in water and food have
triggered bulk buying of bottled water at supermarkets and
convenience stores even as the government said the health risks
are minimal. Edano also said beverage makers will be asked to
boost production.  The health ministry has advised against eating leafy
vegetables produced near the disaster site.  Radioactive iodine in tap water measured at the Kanamachi
purification plant in Tokyo at 6 a.m. today had a level of 79
Becquerels per kilogram, within the safe limit for infants, a
government inspection showed. A sample from the same plant two
days ago was found to have levels of 210 Becquerels per kilogram,
more than double the recommended limit for infants.  Because of today’s lower readings “there is no need to
withhold tap water from infants,” Governor Shintaro Ishihara
said at a press conference in Tokyo today.  The city government will distribute 240,000 bottles of
water tomorrow to families with infants “just in case,” he
said. The same amount of water was set to be distributed today.  Chiba Radioactive Readings  “I’ve asked my friend to send me bottled water from
 Osaka ,” about 400 kilometers (250 miles) southwest of Tokyo,
said Yuki Yauchi, a 36-year-old mother of a 5-month-old boy in
Tokyo’s Suginami area. “It may take longer than usual, because
many people are doing the same thing, making delivery companies
busy.”  The levels of radioactive iodine-131 in tap water samples
taken yesterday at two purification plants in Chiba prefecture,
east of Tokyo, hit 220 Becquerels per kilogram at one plant and
180 at another, according to a statement on the local
government’s website today. The recommended limit for infants
is 100 Becquerels per kilogram.  Kirin, Japan’s biggest beverage maker, fell 2.7 percent to
1,073 yen in Tokyo trading today. Asahi dropped 3.5 percent to
1,425 yen. Kirin had gained 9.5 percent in the three trading
days through yesterday while Asahi advanced 8.4 percent in the
same period.  Kirin’s Priority  Seven & I Holdings Co.’s Ito-Yokado stores will give
priority to buyers of bottled water who have babies, it said in
a statement today. Consumers can buy one 2-liter bottle of
water each at 40 stores starting today, and at 117 stores
starting tomorrow. Each store will sell the water to as many as
100 customers a day.  “We have been cooperating with authorities as much as we
can,” Kan Yamamoto, a spokesman at Tokyo-based Kirin, said by
phone today. “Our priority is to supply our products first to
the damaged area.”  The company produces Alkali Ion no Mizu bottled water at
its distiller in Shizuoka Prefecture, southwest of  Tokyo .  Kirin, Suntory, Asahi and Coca-Cola (Japan) Co. and its 12
bottlers plan to supply more than 8.7 million bottles of water,
tea and other beverages to the part of the country worst
affected by the earthquake and tsunami, according to statements
from the companies.  Engineers at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant, located 220 kilometers (135 miles) from Tokyo,
resumed work on reconnecting power to help circulate cooling
water.  ‘Too Many Orders’  The death toll from Japan’s worst postwar disaster climbed
to 9,700 as of 12 p.m. local time, with 16,501 people missing,
according to the  National Police Agency . The magnitude-9.0
earthquake and tsunami devastated the country’s northern
coastline and forced several hundred thousand people to
evacuate.  Closely held Suntory, Japan’s second-largest beverage
maker, increased production of bottled water on March 8, before
the quake, and its plants are running at full capacity,
spokeswoman Midori Takahashi said.  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501)  increased shipments of bottled
 mineral water  produced in Japan by 80 percent since March 11
from the same period a year earlier, spokesman Katsuhito Ogawa
said yesterday.  At Amazon.com’s website in Japan, 24 water products sold
by the Seattle-based  operator  were out of stock. The company
didn’t know when it will replenish its supply, it said.  Rakuten’s offerings of water are also limited, as some
shops such as the Aizu Discovery in Fukushima shut down due to
the quake.  Kyunan Service’s  Tamachan Shop , an operator of natural
food products in southwestern Japan’s Miyazaki Prefecture, is
“prioritizing sales in the damaged areas.”  “We’re getting too many orders, so please understand it
will take a time to confirm them and deliver products,” it said
on the website. Orders made now will be delivered in May or
June, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:erh k
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  