-- 
Japan Consumer Prices Fell in February, May Rise After Quake

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-25T01:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japan-consumer-prices-fell-in-february-may-rise-after-quake.html
Japan ’s deflation moderated in
February even before the country’s worst earthquake on record
and an ensuing tsunami and nuclear crisis this month push up
energy and food costs.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food declined 0.3 percent
from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo,
matching the median estimate of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The March 11 disaster may cause Japan’s gross domestic
product to shrink by as much 12 percent on an annualized basis
in the second quarter, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.
predicted. The shortage of daily necessities caused by the
magnitude-9.0 quake may push up prices, while the weakening
economy may dampen consumption and slump price gains, said
economist  Yoshiki Shinke .  “Price trends are getting harder to predict,” said Shinke,
a senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
“Even if prices surge temporarily, that won’t prompt the  Bank
of Japan  to tighten policy and its stance will remain
accommodative.”  Core consumer prices in Tokyo declined 0.3 percent from a
year earlier in March, today’s report showed. The data was
collected before the earthquake and doesn’t reflect the impact
of the disaster, according to the statistics bureau.  Crippled Plant  The quake and tsunami crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant located 220 kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo,
leading to an electricity shortage around Tokyo. Radiation from
the plant, operated by  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., has also raised
concerns over the safety of agricultural products grown in the
region.  Following the quake, Barclays Capital analysts Kyohei Morita and Yuichiro Nagai boosted their forecast for third-
quarter prices excluding fresh food by 0.2 percentage point to a
positive inflation rate of 0.6 percent.  “Electricity charges could rise due to the sharp drop in
domestic supply linked to the nuclear power plant accident,”
said Morita, chief economist at the brokerage in Tokyo.  Even before the quake, economists including Daiichi Life’s
Shinke had predicted core prices would rise in April because of
the economy’s recovery and as the effect of the high school
tuition waivers, which lowered prices over the past year, wears
off.  Core prices will probably fall about 0.3 percent in March
and rise 0.6 percent in April, Shinke forecasts.  Japan’s government this week said the damage from the post-
war worst disaster could total as much as 25 trillion yen ($309
billion), an amount almost four times the cost of  Hurricane
Katrina  on the U.S.  The central bank has pumped a record amount of funds into
the financial system since March 11 to calm markets and soften
the economic impact of the earthquake and tsunami. The bank last
week also doubled to 10 trillion yen its program to buy assets
such as government and corporate debt and real estate investment
trusts, providing more monetary stimulus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  