-- 
Japan Quake May Affect ‘Thousands’ of German Firms, Marsh Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-03-24T07:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japan-quake-may-affect-thousands-of-german-firms-marsh-says.html
Japan ’s worst earthquake on record
may hurt the production of “thousands of companies” in  Germany 
for several months, insurance broker Marsh & McLennan Cos. said.  “The most affected industries will be high-tech, steel and
automotive,” Jochen Koerner, a member of the executive board of
Marsh in Germany and  Austria , said in an interview. “It could
take a while until Japan has rebuilt its export infrastructure,
and as a result there will be serious supply-chain problems for
several months.”  The earthquake that hit Japan on March 11 may cause total
economic losses of $200 billion to $300 billion, with most of
the costs uninsured, catastrophe modeling firm Risk Management
Solutions Inc. said on March 21. The estimate includes damage
from the subsequent tsunami and the cost of evacuations, power
disruptions and business interruption, RMS said, adding that
insurance will cover “only a minor proportion” of the losses.  Catastrophe modeling firm Eqecat said on March 16 that
insurers and reinsurers will probably have losses of $12 billion
to $25 billion from the Japan earthquake and tsunami. Modeler
AIR Worldwide had estimated insured losses of as much as 2.8
trillion yen ($35 billion) from the quake alone.  Contingency Cover  “Most companies have basic business-interruption
insurance, but less of them have an all-risk cover and even less
have a contingency cover that also includes problems at
suppliers,” Koerner said. “Normal business interruption only
covers production stoppages at a company’s own facilities.”  Business-interruption insurance, which is sold by
commercial insurers such as units of  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Talanx AG, protects business owners
against lost earnings following catastrophes such as fire, flood
or earthquakes. Coverage, which depends on the specific
contract’s terms, may also include direct or even indirect
supply-chain problems via so-called contingency coverage.  The  Bank of Japan  said last week the disaster may hurt
business and consumer sentiment and prompt companies to cut
factory output. Japanese companies such as Sony Corp. and Toyota
Motor Corp. shut plants and extended production halts after the
earthquake and tsunami. The disruptions may impede growth in the
world’s third-largest economy, which was showing signs of
emerging from a fourth-quarter slump before the temblor.  It may take months until the scope of insurers’ business-
interruption claims from Japan can be estimated, Koerner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  