-- 
Japan Quake May Cut Global Auto Output by About 30%, Researcher IHS Says

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-03-24T18:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japan-earthquake-may-reduce-global-auto-production-by-about-30-ihs-says.html
Parts shortages caused by Japan’s
record earthquake may reduce global automobile production by
about 30 percent, research firm IHS Automotive said today.  If parts plants affected by the quake don’t return to
operation within six weeks, global auto output may drop as much
as 100,000 vehicles a day, said  Michael Robinet , vice president
of Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS. The industry produces
280,000 to 300,000 vehicles daily, he said.  “Most vehicle manufacturers will be affected by this,”
Robinet said in a telephone interview. “It will be very
difficult for any major automaker to escape this disaster.”  About 13 percent of global auto industry production is down
right now and production of about 320,000 vehicles has been
lost, mostly in Japan, Robinet said.  Auto executives have refrained from forecasting lost
production as their managers seek other sources for parts. If
solutions aren’t found soon, most major automakers will
experience disruptions by mid-April because supply networks are
intertwined, Robinet said.  Automakers and parts suppliers around the globe are girding
for possible shortages of key parts, especially electronics and
transmission components, Robinet said. If carmakers can’t find
alternate sources of parts, or if plants don’t come on line in
eight weeks, as much as 40 percent of daily production may be
lost, he said.  Lost Production  The third week of April could mark the start of more severe
production slowdowns, IHS said. The industry may lose 1.2
million to 1.8 million vehicles by then and almost 3 million
units within eight weeks, with about half of the losses coming
from assembly plants outside of  Japan , according to an IHS
presentation.  “We could lose up to 5 million vehicles in a worst-case
scenario,” Robinet said. “This will affect income for the
entire year if this continues for an extended period of time.”  While the earthquake is “disruptive,” automakers aren’t
likely to lose as much production as IHS’s worst-case scenario,
said Jeff Liker, a University of  Michigan  engineering professor
who studies the industry.  “It’s not the majority of parts, but rather a small number
of parts that are critical,” Liker said in an interview. “There
may be a part that is three levels down -- an electric circuit
board or something -- that is needed. They will figure that out
and find alternative sources.”  Honda Closings  Honda Motor Co., which today extended closings at two car-
assembly factories until April 3, is one of the most exposed
carmakers, Robinet said. The automaker has 110 suppliers located
in the earthquake zone, and about 10 of them can’t say precisely
how long it will take for them to recover, said Ed Miller, a
spokesman.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest automaker, has shut
down all vehicle-assembly plants in Japan until at least March
26. The company said it will resume production of three hybrid
models in Japan on March 28.  General Motors Co. (GM)  has idled two compact-car plants in
 Europe  and a pickup factory in Shreveport,  Louisiana , because of
parts shortages. GM sent electronics parts from Shreveport to a
factory in  Kansas City ,  Kansas , where it assembles the more-
profitable Chevrolet Malibu and Buick LaCrosse sedans, said two
people familiar with the matter.  GM executives sent out a memo on March 18 asking employees
to limit travel and expenses to only essential business. The
move was a precautionary measure, said Sherrie Childers Arb, a
spokeswoman.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  hasn’t had any disruptions yet, said Todd Nissen, a spokesman.  Automakers can make up for one week of lost production with
about six weeks of overtime, Robinet said. Japanese carmakers
may not be able to make up the lost output in 2011, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  