-- 
Japan's Energy Woes Yield Opportunities for BHP, Hyundai Mobis After Quake

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-03-24T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/japan-energy-woes-yield-opportunities-for-bhp-hyundai-mobis.html
Japanese demand for raw materials
and manufacturing diverted abroad as the nation rebuilds from
its worst earthquake on record may aid exporters from
Australia’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to  South Korea ’s  Hyundai Mobis (012330)  Co.  Seoul-based Hyundai Mobis, the nation’s largest auto-parts
maker, along with its biggest steelmaker  Posco (005490)  and oil refiner
SK Innovation Co. may benefit, as could Melbourne-based BHP, the
world’s largest mining company, said  Jonathan Garner , chief  Asia 
and emerging-markets strategist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong .  The rebuilding may take five years following an economic
slowdown in Japan and regional trade disruption in the short
term, the  World Bank  said this week. Commodity demand may
benefit Australia and Indonesia, while Japanese factory closures
could make buyers switch to South Korea,  Capital Economics  Ltd.,
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in notes.  “For companies that compete with  Japan  in key global
markets, damaged facilities or disrupted production in the Asian
nation mean more opportunities,” said Kim Young Joon, the Seoul-
based head of equities at NH-CA Asset Management Co., which
manages the equivalent of $8.9 billion in assets.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks has rebounded more
than 3 percent this week after sliding as Japan fought to
prevent radiation leaks at a nuclear plant damaged by the
disaster and as tension escalated in Libya.  Shares in Pohang, South Korea-based Posco have risen about
10 percent since the March 11 temblor, while Seoul-based SK
Innovation Co.’s stock has surged about 13 percent. Shares in
BHP, whose alliance with Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  is the
world’s biggest exporter of steelmaking coal, have risen about
1.2 percent during the period.  Quake Destruction  The death toll from the magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing
tsunami stood at 9,700 as of noon yesterday, with 16,501 people
missing. Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.
are among companies struggling to resume domestic output, with
Japan facing electricity shortages and disruption to road and
rail networks.  South Korea may act as a substitute for Japanese production
in the automotive, chemical, steel and technology industries,
Goldman Sachs said in a March 18 report. Demand at rival
companies in Taiwan may also increase, Capital Economics said
this week.  The world’s third-largest economy may set up a
reconstruction agency following the disaster, which the
government says caused as much as 25 trillion yen ($309 billion)
of damage.  The nation is likely to see a rebound in the second half of
this year after a blow that will be determined by the magnitude
of the electricity disruptions, a survey of economists showed.  Supply Disruption  While the catastrophe likely won’t “derail” worldwide
economic growth, interruptions to Japan’s exports,
transportation and output on the global supply chain are “the
biggest uncertainty,” Morgan Stanley said in a report this week.
The company expects the crisis to cut global expansion this year
by 0.5 percentage point to 3.8 percent.  South Korea said March 14 its exports and industrial
production will probably be hurt if the earthquake disrupts
supplies from Japan for an extended period. Thailand’s exports
and foreign direct investment from Japan may be curbed, the
Southeast Asian nation’s central bank said the same day.  Wuhan, Hubei-based Dongfeng Motor Group Co., the Chinese
partner of both Nissan and Honda, and Taipei-based  Asustek
Computer Inc. (2357) , may be negatively affected by supply issues,
Morgan Stanley’s Garner said.  Kobe Rebound  Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand look “relatively more
vulnerable” to a sharper slowdown in exports to Japan, Citigroup
Inc. economists Johanna Chua and Kit Wei Zheng said in a March
15 note. Asia’s exports to Japan slowed for about six months
after the Kobe earthquake in 1995 before rebounding, the
Citigroup economists said.  Japanese economic growth is poised to revive in 2012,
similar to the pattern expected in  New Zealand  after its
temblors in February and September. New Zealand’s economy will
grow 1 percent this year before earthquake reconstruction boosts
the expansion to 4 percent in 2012, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  Japan’s rebuilding “is going to start at some point and we
will see a nice boost from that,” said Matt Hildebrandt, a
Singapore-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The medium-
term outlook for the region hasn’t really changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  