-- 
Jared Lee Loughner Appeals Judge’s Order on Mental Competency Examination

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T01:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/jared-lee-loughner-appeals-judge-s-order-on-mental-competency-examination.html
Jared Lee Loughner’s lawyers filed
an emergency request with the U.S. Court of Appeals to have
their client returned from Springfield,  Missouri , where he was
sent for a competency examination.  Loughner was put on a plane to Springfield this morning
while his lawyers were still trying to persuade a judge to
reconsider his March 21 decision that had granted the
prosecution’s request to have Loughner sent to a prison facility
in Missouri to be examined, according to a filing today in the
U.S. Court of Appeal in  San Francisco .  “The matter is of the utmost urgency,” the lawyers said
in the filing. “The district court’s order, providing unlimited
prosecutorial access to the examinations by the defense as well
as by the Bureau of Prisons of this seriously mentally ill young
man and imposing unprecedented limitations on the work of the
defense, violates the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.”  Loughner, 22, has pleaded not guilty to charges he killed
six people and wounded 13 at U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords ’s Jan. 8 community meeting outside a supermarket in
Tucson,  Arizona . U.S. District Judge Larry Burns has scheduled a
May 25 hearing to determine whether Loughner is competent to
stand trial.  His lawyers had asked the judge to have him examined in
Tucson, where he has been held in a federal prison. Loughner’s
lawyers said in today’s filing that they were informed yesterday
that it would take three or four days to arrange his transfer to
Missouri and there would be time for the judge to consider their
request to change his ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District Court,
District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  