-- 
JBS Reports Quarterly Loss on BNDES Penalty Fee, Feed Costs

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-03-24T20:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/jbs-posts-88-million-fourth-quarter-loss-on-bndes-penalty-fee-feed-costs.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, posted a loss in the fourth quarter after it paid a
penalty to Brazil’s development bank for extending the deadline
on its planned U.S. unit’s initial public offering. The stock
fell the most in almost seven weeks.  The company’s net loss of 499.5 million reais ($300.8
million) compared with net income of 127.9 million reais a year
earlier, Sao Paulo-based JBS said today in a statement to
Brazil’s securities regulator. Excluding some items, the net
loss was 145.7 million reais, beating the 102.3 million-real
average estimate of three analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “JBS reported a weak result,” Renato Prado, an analyst at
Banco Fator Corretora, said in a telephone interview today in
Sao Paulo. “The fee they paid to BNDES was the main negative
highlight, but I think a price and demand recovery is on its way
and the company may benefit from it,” said Prado, who rates the
stock “hold.”  JBS paid 521.9 million reais in December to  Brazil ’s
development bank, known as BNDES, after it delayed an IPO of its
U.S. unit. In 2009, BNDES bought $2 billion of bonds from JBS in
a private placement that gave the bank the right to either
convert the debt into stock of the U.S. unit or the parent
company. JBS paid the fee to extend the deadline into 2011.  Feed Costs  Corn prices averaged 45 percent higher in the fourth
quarter compared with a year earlier, while soybeans were 24
percent higher. Corn and soybeans are two main ingredients used
as  animal feed .  Net sales jumped 93 percent to 14.3 billion reais, from
7.41 billion reais a year earlier, after the acquisition of
Brazil’s Bertin SA and  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  JBS said in a Nov.
9 statement that it paid $41.7 million to raise its stake in
Pilgrim’s Pride to 67.3 percent from 64 percent.  JBS shares fell 22 centavos, or 3.6 percent, to close at
5.86 reais in Sao Paulo trading today. It was the biggest
percentage drop since Feb. 4.  JBS is seeking to restructure its debt, which may boost
annual net income by about $1 billion over the next 10 years,
Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista told reporters today.  The company may sell new bonds and bank loans, as well as
transfer about $2 billion of debt, including notes, to its U.S.
unit, Batista said. The move would reduce borrowing costs and
“streamline” the balance sheet by providing additional
accounting benefits under Brazilian standards, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 