-- 
Michael Jordan's Agent Falk to Donate $15 Million to Syracuse University

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-03-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/jordan-s-agent-falk-donates-15-million-to-syracuse-university.html
David Falk, the sports agent who
represents  Michael Jordan , and his wife, Rhonda Falk, have
pledged $15 million to  Syracuse University  to fund programs in
sports management and public health.  Syracuse will rename its College of Human Ecology the David
B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics and unify its
programs at a new location, said the university, in Syracuse,
 New York , in a statement released today.  Falk is a Syracuse trustee who graduated in 1972, according
to the statement. He represented former National Basketball
Association players Patrick Ewing and Alonzo Mourning, as well
as Jordan, a five-time winner of the NBA’s Most Valuable Player
award. Jordan’s endorsement contract with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , based in
Beaverton, Oregon, was negotiated by Falk. Falk’s gift will help
elevate the reputation of the college, said Diane Lyden Murphy,
currently dean of the College of Human Ecology.  “It raises what we’ve been doing and known for regionally
to a national standing,” Murphy said in a phone interview.
“What’s important is that a person of this notoriety and fame
has decided to put their name, their legacy and their wealth
into this college. We feel very privileged.”  The Falks donated $5 million to create the David B. Falk
Center for Sport Management in 2008, and the following year they
endowed a faculty position.  Syracuse, a private university, was founded in 1870 and has
about 20,400 students. Graduates include Joyce Carol Oates, the
author; Jim Brown, a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame;
and Prince Alwaleed bin Talal of  Saudi Arabia , a billionaire who
received a master’s degree from Syracuse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  