-- 
Kan May Put Free-Trade Talks on Hold After Quake in Setback for Obama Goal

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-03-25T06:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/kan-may-suspend-free-trade-push-after-quake-in-setback-for-obama.html
Japan ’s strongest-ever earthquake
may derail Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s push to join U.S.-led
trade talks after the resulting tsunami devastated farmers.  Kan had set a June deadline to decide on whether to join
the talks toward slashing some of the world’s highest
agricultural duties, including a 778 percent tariff on rice. Two
lawmakers from Kan’s ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan said the
 Trans-Pacific Partnership  is off the table for now as the
government focuses on quake victims and the nuclear crisis.  Failure to pursue a trade deal may hinder companies such as
Mitsubishi Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp. in competing overseas
and set back Kan’s efforts to modernize Japan’s economy.
President  Barack Obama  aims to wrap up a U.S.-South Korea trade
deal before July while attempting to build the nine-country TPP
into an Asia-wide pact.  “Corporate Japan is really pushing, as they know Japan’s
failure to enter the TPP would be a further step towards second-
or third rate nationhood on the global stage,” said  Jesper Koll ,
head of equity research at JPMorgan & Co. in Tokyo. “Changing
agriculture policy faces big opposition.”  Urging Caution  About 100 members of Kan’s party signed a statement in
October urging caution on the trade talks, reflecting the
political power of the country’s 2.5 million farming households.
The area devastated on March 11 by the 9.0-magnitude earthquake
and subsequent tsunami accounts for more than a quarter of the
country’s rice production, government figures show.  “The Japanese have sympathy for those who had damage in
rural areas,” said Masayoshi Honma, a lecturer on agriculture
policy at the University of  Tokyo  who supports the accord.
“It’s not the right time to talk.”  Japanese farmers derive 47 percent of their revenue on
average from subsidies, price supports and restrictions on
imports, according to the Paris-based  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development . That  compares  with 10 percent for
the U.S. and 24 percent for the European Union.  Japan’s support for farmers totaled $46.5 billion in 2009,
according to the latest available data from the OECD. The
comparable figure for the U.S., with a population more than
twice Japan’s, was $30.6 billion.  Diet Staple  Rice is the staple of the traditional Japanese diet and
until the late 19th century was the basic measure of wealth. The
word for “meal” is “cooked rice.” The world’s first futures
market was  Osaka ’s Dojima rice market in the early 18th century.  Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano on March 22 announced a
delay in forging plans to bolster the farm sector to withstand
foreign competition, a prerequisite to join the TPP. It would be
“considerably difficult” for Kan to stick with his June
deadline, DPJ lawmaker  Isao Matsumiya  said by phone.  “All that talk has been completely wiped out,” fellow
ruling party legislator Hiroshi Kawauchi said about the TPP.  Kan’s administration has hinted at a delay without formally
announcing one. Staying out now doesn’t preclude Japan from
joining later, said Jeffrey Schott, a fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington .  ‘Without Regard’  “The global trend toward free trade is proceeding without
regard to the situation in Japan,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said today in Tokyo when asked about the government’s
position on the TPP. “Right now we’re focusing all our efforts
on the earthquake and nuclear power plant situation. We have to
assess the entire damage before making any political decisions
on our agenda.”  Kan’s DPJ ousted the Liberal Democratic Party 18 months ago
after more than 50 years of almost unbroken control. The LDP for
years imposed protective tariffs to win the support of the  Japan
Agriculture Cooperatives Group , the country’s dominant
distributor of rice and vegetables.  The group postponed rallies set for this month and next
opposing the trade accord and farm policy changes because of the
disaster, spokeswoman Eriko Narikiyo said by phone.  ‘Bite the Bullet’  “You can’t have a TPP or a U.S.-Japan FTA unless you bite
the bullet on agricultural reform, and they’re not even close to
doing that,” said  Gerald Curtis , a professor of Japanese
politics at  Columbia University  in  New York .  Besides the U.S., the TPP includes  Singapore , Brunei,
 Malaysia ,  Vietnam ,  Australia ,  New Zealand ,  Chile  and  Peru  -- an
eight-country grouping with a combined gross domestic product
about a third the size of Japan’s. Adding  Asia ’s second-biggest
economy would make the TPP the U.S.’s biggest free trade area by
GDP, topping the North American Free Trade Agreement.  The sixth round of talks is  set  for March 28 in Singapore.  “As some degree of normalcy returns, we will of course re-
engage with Japan as it makes important decisions on the
economic and trade policies it will pursue in the wake of this
tragedy,” Carol Guthrie, a spokeswoman for the Office of the
U.S. Trade Representative, said in an e-mail.  Goods  trade  with Japan reached $181 billion last year, or
5.7 percent of the U.S.’s global commerce in goods, according to
the Commerce Department. Obama, aiming to double exports in five
years, will discuss the deal at November’s Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation meeting in  Hawaii .  ‘Restore Japan’  Nippon Keidanren, a Tokyo-based business group representing
more than 1,200 companies, said in a  Dec. 6 report  the
government should join the TPP “in order to restore Japan.”
The group’s members include Mitsubishi, the country’s biggest
industrial supplier, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., Asia’s largest
drugmaker, and Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker.  Kan is struggling to jumpstart an economy burdened by
deflation, rising social welfare costs and the world’s largest
public debt at more than 200 percent of gross domestic product.  Fewer than one voter in four supported Kan’s government in
a poll a week before the earthquake by Yomiuri newspaper.  The disaster gives him an opportunity to redeem himself in
the eyes of the public and push through farm subsidy changes
down the road, said Shujiro Urata, a professor of economics at
Waseda University in Tokyo and a former World Bank economist.  “He has a better chance now than before the earthquake,”
Urata said. “If he can use this opportunity to regain
popularity and support, then he has a very good chance of
pushing through the TPP and other reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  