-- 
Kenyan Fuel Retailer KenolKobil's Profit Climbs, Sees Double-Digit Growth

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-24T12:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/kenolkobil-full-year-profit-jumps-38-percent-sees-more-growth.html
KenolKobil Ltd., a fuel retailer
with operations in seven African countries, said full-year
profit jumped 38 percent as sales climbed, and forecast
“double-digit” growth in earnings in the first half of the
current year.  Net income climbed to 1.78 billion shillings ($20.9
million) or 1.21 shillings per share in the 12 months through
December from 1.29 billion shillings or 0.88 shillings per share
a year earlier, the Nairobi-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Sales rose 5.3 percent to 101.8 billion
shillings, it said.  “Management strongly believes that the group performance
prospects remain very strong, with a high degree of confidence
to continue delivering strong growth in the coming years,”
Chairman Jacob Segman said in the statement.  KenolKobil is  Kenya ’s biggest fuel retailer by market value
and also has operations in  Uganda ,  Tanzania ,  Rwanda , Burundi,
Zambia and  Ethiopia . In November, the company said it plans to
begin operations in Zimbabwe and Mozambique this year.  Last month, KenolKobil acquired a fuel depot, a dry-goods
warehouse and an office complex from Societe d’Importation et de
Commercialisation de Petroliers in Burundi. In January, it
bought the assets of Phoenix Uganda Petroleum Ltd., consisting
of a fuel terminal, an office block and three gas stations.  KenolKobil’s expansion has been “innovative and bold,”
 Aly-Khan Satchu , an independent analyst based in Nairobi, said
in a phone interview today. “I think it’s a very undervalued
business.”  Shares in KenolKobil closed trading 0.5 percent down at
9.35 shillings as of 3 p.m. in Nairobi, pushing the year-to-date
drop to 6.5 percent. The benchmark NSE-20 index has fallen 12
percent over the same period.  The company’s directors have proposed a dividend of 0.52
shillings per share, compared with 0.33 shillings a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 