-- 
Kenya Sugar Board Expects Production to Increase as Much as 4% This Year

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-24T09:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/kenya-sugar-board-expects-production-to-increase-as-much-as-4-this-year.html
Kenya expects sugar production to
grow by 4 percent this year as new producers of the sweetener
start operations in the country’s west, said Solomon Odera,
chief executive officer of the  Kenya Sugar Board .  The East African nation, a net importer of sugar, produced
523,652 metric tons of the commodity last year, down 5 percent
from a year earlier, Odera said today in an interview in
Nairobi, the capital. Domestic consumption is more than 770,000
tons a year.  “We are looking at a moderate improvement this year after
drought affected the growing of last year’s crop,” Odera said.  Butali Sugar Co., a closely held producer in Kenya’s
Western Province, has begun processing cane, while two more
millers, known as Sukari Industries and Transmara Sugar, are
scheduled to start operating in the west of the country in the
second half of this year, Odera said.  The planned sale of five state-controlled sugar mills in
 Kenya  will bring in fresh capital required to upgrade and expand
them, Saulo Wanambisi Busolo, chairman of the Kenya Sugar Board,
told a conference in Nairobi today. Within five years of their
sale, sugar output may exceed national demand, he said.  Law Changes  Proposed amendments to Kenya’s Sugar Act to enable the sale
of the Nzoia, Chemelil, Sony, Muhuroni and Miwani sugar plants
have been approved by the Cabinet and are currently being
scrutinized by legislative committees, Odera said. Mumias Sugar
Co., Kenya’s biggest maker of the sweetener, has “expressed
interest” in acquiring at least one of the mills, he said,
without providing further details.  Debt-servicing of government-owned sugar factories, high
input costs and poor infrastructure have driven production costs
in Kenya to as much as $750 per ton, compared with about $500
per ton for competitors in other African nations, Odera said.
East African countries grow about 1.24 million tons of sugar
annually, less than the 1.45 million tons consumed in the region
every year, said Busolo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 