-- 
Key Supplier for Capacitor Makers Closes Plant on Nuclear Leak

-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-24T11:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/key-supplier-for-capacitor-makers-closes-plant-on-nuclear-leak.html
Shares of  Japan ’s capacitors makers
may fall further after a key supplier was forced to abandon its
factory near the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Production of a chemical solution used in the production of
aluminum-electrolytic capacitors has been halted at  Tomiyama
Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. ’s plant north of  Tokyo , according
to the company’s general manager, after workers were evacuated
following a 9.0 earthquake that struck the nation and crippled
the nearby nuclear plant. The manager declined to give his name.  “The supply chain from chemicals makers to aluminum-
electrolytic-capacitor makers is experiencing trouble overall,”
said Chikai Tanaka, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The
capacitors are used in most electronics other than cell phones,
so I expect some impact on industries including television and
computers.”  Nippon Chemi-Con Corp. (6997)  has tumbled 33 percent in Tokyo
since the close of trade before the quake hit through today,
while the Kyoto-based  Nichicon Corp. (6996)  slid 2.4 percent from the
March 10 close.  Tomiyama Pure Chemical, which says on its  website  to be
“Japan’s only manufacturer for the specialized electrolytes”
used in making the capacitors said a plant in Saitama prefecture,
further south, lacked capacity to make up for the shortfall in
production. A spokesman at Nippon Chemi-Con’s corporate planning
department, who declined to give his name, said Tomiyama Pure
Chemical’s market share is high and if the supply disruption
continues, it will hurt the industry.  “We still have some stock, so there is no impact on the
company at the moment,” said Fumio Yamashita, a spokesman for
Nichicon. “But looking forward, we are considering different
options including finding a substitute for the chemical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 