-- 
Kingfisher Gains on Earnings Growth Goal, New Store Plans

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-03-24T11:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/kingfisher-gains-on-incentive-earnings-growth-goal-store-plans.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, rose in London trading after setting
new earnings-growth goals for managers and saying it plans to
expand through store openings and enter new markets.  The shares rose as much as 15.5 pence, or 6.4 percent, to
259.3 pence, the steepest advance in more than three months.  For senior managers to get the maximum award under a new
incentive program, earnings per share must grow by an average of
15 percent in the three years through January 2014, London-based
Kingfisher said today in a statement. Adjusted earnings per
share in the final year of the plan would need to be 31.2 pence,
compared with the 20.2 pence reported today for fiscal 2011.  “This is a reassuring set of results,” said Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution Noble who has a “buy” rating
on the stock. “An encouraging earnings-per-share target implies
that management believe they can generate consistent growth
despite evident macroeconomic pressures.”  Kingfisher said today it plans to open more than 240 stores
to increase the total to more than 1,100. Most of the openings
will be in Poland and  Turkey  as well as Screwfix trade outlets
in the U.K. this year, with capital expenditure to climb to as
much as 450 million pounds.  Brazil ,  India   The retailer will also consider new markets such as Brazil,
India, Indonesia and eastern Europe, and will assess adding to
new formats in  China  and  Russia .  “We can see the potential in the market,” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Cheshire said on a call with reporters. “We haven’t
yet decided to commit to full expansion, if we felt we couldn’t
make money then ultimately you would have to withdraw.”
Cheshire said he sees scope for 125 stores in Poland, from 59
today, as well as opportunities in  France  and the U.K.  The owner of the B&Q chain in the U.K. and Castorama in
France updated its strategy today to include a focus on making
home-improvement easier. As much as 50 percent of products will
be common across all stores, including lighting and garden
furniture, compared with 5 percent now.  “The strategy is subtle, lacking big, easily modeled
initiatives such as store growth or new markets, but is not
necessarily the worse for that,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at
Liberum Capital, said in an e-mail. He raised his recommendation
on Kingfisher shares to “buy” from “hold.”  U.K. Budget  The retailer also reported adjusted pretax profit of 670
million pounds ($1.09 billion) for the fiscal year ended Jan.
29. That was ahead of the 667.9 million-pound average estimate
of 22 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The move in yesterday’s U.K. budget to cut fuel prices will
have a “big direct impact on customers” and the plan to help
first-time buyers will help the retailer, Cheshire said.  The U.K. market will still be a “bit tricky” in the first
half and “slightly better” in the second half, Cheshire said.
The executive said price inflation is about 1 percent to 2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  