-- 
Kissel Jury May Decide Today If Banker’s Killing Was Murder

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-25T06:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/kissel-s-jury-starts-deciding-whether-banker-husband-s-killing-was-murder.html
A Hong Kong jury reconvened today
to decide whether  Nancy Kissel  is guilty of murder or
manslaughter in the 2003 killing of her Merrill Lynch & Co.
banker husband.  Kissel’s family members, trial spectators and journalists
waited outside the courtroom after High Court Judge Andrew Macrae sent the seven women and two men back to their jury room
at 9:30 a.m. The foreman told Macrae yesterday the panel may
deliver a verdict today. The jurors didn’t reach a decision
after more than 5 hours yesterday.  Michigan-born Nancy Kissel is being tried for plotting the
murder of her husband Robert Kissel, a 40-year-old distressed
assets specialist at Merrill, on the night of Nov. 2, 2003. She
admitted to manslaughter, saying that she was mentally ill and
lost self-control after hearing her husband had filed for
divorce and would take custody of their children.  Defense lawyer Derek Chan declined to comment yesterday on
sentencing options. Her lawyers previously said they would seek
a manslaughter sentence of eight to 12 years. The mother of
three served more than six years of a life sentence for her 2005
murder conviction, which was quashed on appeal.  Macrae yesterday directed the jurors to find the 46-year-
old defendant guilty of manslaughter if they conclude she may
have been provoked or if mental illness “substantially”
impaired her self-control. No more than two jurors can be in
disagreement for a verdict to be returned.  Quick Verdicts  Defense lawyer  Edward Fitzgerald  called 16 witnesses to
support his case that Nancy Kissel endured years of physical and
sexual abuse. At least six witnesses, including parents at the
Hong Kong International School, where two of the Kissel children
were enrolled, testified they saw Nancy Kissel with a black eye
between 1998 and 2003.  A psychiatrist said by the time of the killing, she was
likely suffering from clinical depression, which began after the
birth of her third child in 1999. Later a psychologist testified
Kissel showed symptoms of battered-woman syndrome.  Nancy Kissel, at 38 kilograms (84 pounds) and requiring the
assistance of two corrections officers to walk, took the stand
for five days in February. She gave accounts of being slapped,
slammed against a glass panel and being forced into anal sex by
a husband whose career kept him away from home.  Forceful Sex  “The more involved he got with  investment banking , the
more forceful he got with me sexually,” Kissel testified.  Prosecution lawyer  David Perry  presented Kissel with
photographs from family vacations to challenge the truth of her
allegations.  “Yes, we looked so beautiful together,” Kissel said.
“But everything was so wrong.”  The prosecution sought to show the late banker was a victim
of a “highly-organized” wife who had fallen out of love with
her husband and wanted to “make him disappear.” She began an
affair with an electrical technician in the U.S. during the
summer of 2003, which her husband had discovered.  Evidence taken from Nancy Kissel’s computer showed the
defendant had searched the Internet for sleeping pill overdose
and heart-attack causing medications over two months before she
made her husband a milkshake containing four drugs prescribed to
her by two psychiatrists.  Lead Ornament  Later on the night of Nov. 2, 2003, as  Robert Kissel  lay
incapacitated in bed, his wife smashed an eight-pound lead
ornament against the side of his head, driving his skull into
his brain, Perry said. Nancy Kissel lied about a confrontation
in the bedroom of their apartment just before the killing in
order to get away with murder, he argued.  “In the real world, after people lose their self-control,
they are stricken with remorse,” Perry argued. “Did she call
an ambulance? Did she call for help? Instead of telling anyone,
she did everything in her power to conceal what she had done.”  Police discovered Robert Kissel’s body wrapped in a
sleeping bag and rolled up in a carpet in a rented storeroom
within the apartment complex. Nancy Kissel said on the stand she
had no memory of events in the days following the killing, which
a psychiatrist attributed to dissociative amnesia.  Hong Kong ’s top court ruled last year that Kissel’s 2005
trial was unfair because prejudicial evidence against her was
wrongly introduced.  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in the
Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  