-- 
Natural Gas Futures Drop After Smaller-Than-Forecast Inventory Decline

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-03-24T19:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/natural-gas-futures-drop-after-smaller-than-forecast-inventory-decline.html
Natural gas futures dropped for the
first time in three days in  New York  after a government report
showed that U.S. stockpiles fell less than expected last week.  Futures declined as much as 2.8 percent after the Energy
Department reported inventories slipped 6 billion cubic feet in
the week ended March 18 to 1.612 trillion cubic feet. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg and a separate survey of
Bloomberg users each predicted a decrease of 8 billion.  “Given the run-up we’ve had this week, we’re seeing a
release of some of that buying pressure,” said Kent Bayazitoglu, an analyst with Gelber & Associates in Houston.
“We expected prices to fall off after the storage report if the
number was within expectations.”  Natural gas for April delivery fell 9.1 cents, or 2.1
percent, to settle at $4.244 per million British thermal units
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest one-day drop
since March 10. The futures have declined 3.7 percent this year
and are up 1.8 percent this week.  Gas had climbed above the upper Bollinger band,  signaling
prices would fall, said  Peter Beutel , the president of Cameron
Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan , Connecticut, in a note to clients
today. Some traders use Bollinger bands, developed by technical
analyst  John Bollinger , to judge support and resistance levels
based on moving averages.  The stockpile decrease was smaller than the five-year
average withdrawal for the week of 17 billion cubic feet,
department data show. A surplus to the five-year average rose to
2.2 percent from 1.4 percent the previous week. A surplus to
year-earlier supplies was erased, leaving a 0.7 percent deficit.  Gas inventories have been above the five-year average since
the week ended March 4.  Weather Outlook  Normal or above-normal temperatures are likely across most
of the continental U.S. from April 3 through April 7, according
to Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . The mild
weather may reduce demand for the heating fuel.  The low temperature in New York on April 4 may be 44
degrees Fahrenheit (7 Celsius), 4 above normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. The low in
 Chicago  may be 40 degrees Fahrenheit, also 4 above normal.  Heating demand in the Northeast may be 6 percent below
normal on March 31,  David Salmon , a meteorologist with Weather
Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri , said in a note to clients
today.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Factory Demand  Orders for durable, or long-lasting, goods unexpectedly
fell in February, raising concern over the sustainability of the
rebound in U.S. business investment. Gas traders monitor
economic data to determine whether an acceleration in the
recovery may boost industrial demand for the fuel.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
dropped 0.9 percent after a 3.6 percent gain the prior month
that was larger than initially reported, the Commerce Department
said today in  Washington .  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
360,118 as of 2:38 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 305,000. Volume was 360,602 yesterday. Open interest was
893,452 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
878,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  