-- 
Netanyahu Says Israel Will Act Forcefully to Ensure Security After Attack

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-24T01:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/netanyahu-says-israel-will-act-forcefully-to-ensure-security-after-attack.html
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
said  Israel  would act “forcefully” to maintain security after
a bombing in Jerusalem killed one person and injured at least 30
others, and a Gaza Strip-fired rocket wounded another in
Beersheba.  “There are elements that are trying to violate the
quiet,” Netanyahu said. “They are trying to test our resolve
and the fortitude of our people. They will find the government,
public and military have an iron will to defend the country.”  The Israeli leader spoke before he boarded his plane for
Moscow yesterday, a departure delayed for meetings with Chief of
Staff Lieutenant General Benny Gantz and Defense Minister Ehud Barak, who said Israel won’t tolerate attacks on its civilians.  Netanyahu may cross paths in Moscow with  Palestinian
Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas , who condemned the Jerusalem
attack. Any meeting would come amid escalating violence between
Israel and the Palestinians, primarily between Israeli forces
and militants in the  Gaza Strip , which is ruled by the Islamic
Hamas group. Nine Palestinians have died, including several
civilians, in Israeli airstrikes on Gaza since March 19.  “Even if the two parties -- Israel and Hamas -- do not
want to get into further escalation, the dynamic of this circle
of violence is very dangerous,” said Yoram Meital, director of
Ben Gurion University’s Herzog Center for Middle East Studies
and Diplomacy in Beersheva, Israel.  ‘Stop It Now’  While no Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the
 Jerusalem  bombing, Meital said the attack was part of the
general increase in violence. “Hopefully the sides will be wise
enough to stop it now,” he said in a phone interview.  Israeli Public Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch said
Palestinians were behind the Jerusalem explosion that was caused
by a bomb as big as 2 kilograms hidden in a bag left next to a
bus stop.  “We heard a blast and started running to the central bus
station,” Moti Buchenstein, a worker with the Magen David Adom
rescue service, said on Army Radio. “All the windows of a bus
were blown out and people were lying in pools of blood.”  Israel warplanes carried out three attacks in Hamas-
controlled Gaza during the night, with at least one of them
targeting a tunnel,  Agence France-Presse  reported, citing
witnesses. There were no injuries as a result of the attacks,
AFP said.  ‘Significant Escalation’  “We are investigating a possible connection between Hamas
and the Jerusalem bombing, and if there is a connection, it
would be a significant escalation,” an Israeli official told
reporters on the condition of anonymity.  Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad said he
“strongly condemns” the attack, “irrespective of who stands
behind it.” He issued his remarks in an e-mailed statement.  Regarding the Gaza rockets, the Israeli official said that
“Hamas cannot subcontract out terrorism to other groups and
evade responsibility. They are very much in control of Gaza and
are responsible for all attacks from it.”  The TA-25 Index fell 1 percent to 1,284.04 at the close in
Tel Aviv yesterday and the shekel weakened 0.2 percent to 3.5380
per dollar. The cost of insuring Israeli debt jumped 16 basis
points to 164, the biggest increase since Jan. 28, according to
CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  “We have set a clear policy on security, the essence of
which is a vigorous response to any attempt to harm Israeli
citizens, and systematic and assertive preventive measures
against terrorism,” Netanyahu said yesterday.  Cast Lead  Israel in December 2008 launched Operation Cast Lead, a
three-week offensive against Hamas in what it said was a bid to
stop rocket fire. More than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis
were killed in that conflict.  “We are not looking to escalate, but if this continues
there is a possibility that this could also lead to a Cast Lead
2,” Vice Prime Minister Silvan Shalom said on Israel Radio.
“This isn’t what we would have wanted, but it is a possibility
that could come out of future developments.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in a written statement
that he condemned “in the strongest possible terms the bombing
in Jerusalem” and “the rockets and mortars fired from Gaza.”  Hamas seized full control of Gaza in 2007, ending a
partnership government with Fatah, the main movement within the
Palestinian Authority, after winning parliamentary elections the
previous year. The Palestinian Authority controls the  West Bank .
Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
European Union and the U.S.  Since March 19, at least 70 rockets and mortar shells have
been fired from Gaza into Israel, injuring at least three people,
the army said. Six mortar shells fell on Israel yesterday, in
addition to the rocket that hit Beersheba.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 