-- 
New Carbon Tax in Britain May Reduce Price of EU-Allowances, Orbeo Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-24T13:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/new-carbon-tax-in-britain-may-reduce-price-of-eu-allowances-orbeo-says.html
European Union carbon permits fell
to their lowest price in nine days as the U.K. introduced a
carbon tax for 2013 designed to reduce emissions.  U.K. utilities may be more likely to keep burning natural
gas because the new tax would limit their ability to profit from
switching to coal when market prices for EU emission allowances
are relatively low, said  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst in Paris at
Orbeo, the carbon-trading venture of  Rhodia SA (RHA)  and Societe
Generale SA.  “For the EU market, there is less allowance demand, and it
is bearish,” he said yesterday by e-mail. The tax would reduce
purchases of allowances by 7.2 billion pounds ($11.7 billion)
through 2030, according to U.K. Treasury estimates.  Carbon permits for December 2011 fell as much as 4.4
percent to 16.22 euros ($22.93) a metric ton and were at 16.52
euros as of 12:55 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London. Carbon for December 2013 dropped as much as 2 percent to
18.48 euros, above the “floor tax” of 16 pounds a ton, or
18.31 euros, that U.K. Chancellor  George Osborne  cited yesterday
in his budget presentation to Parliament.  That so-called floor of 16 pounds, the price that the U.K.
said will begin to provide an incentive for utilities to switch
away from fossil fuels, is just one of the variables that will
result in U.K. utilities having to pay the government a  levy of
4.94 pounds per ton  of emissions on top of the market price of
EU allowances.  The tax will encourage private investors to finance
construction of five nuclear reactors or 5,000  wind turbines  in
Britain by guaranteeing a minimum cost for burning fossil fuels,
even when EU carbon prices fall, according to Treasury
documents. The plan will reduce utility emissions by 263 million
tons through 2030.  Keep Burning Gas  Should emission permits drop to 10 euros a ton, EU power
utilities outside the U.K. would probably burn more coal and buy
allowances, Fages said. U.K. utilities would keep burning gas,
reducing demand for allowances, he said.  Any decline in carbon may be offset by higher natural-gas
prices, Fages said. Carbon permits track natural gas because
utilities burning the fuel need to buy about half as many
allowances as those using coal.  U.K. natural gas prices in 2013 may rise by about 4 pence a
therm, and power may increase 4.70 pounds per megawatt hour,
Lakis Athanasiou, a U.K. utilities analyst at Evolution
Securities in  London , said in an e-mailed note. Gas for the six
months through September 2013 rose 0.8 percent today to 66.5
pence a therm, according to ICE data.  Hedging Activities  “The additional CO2 price is being set three years in
advance so that generators will have time to include this rise
in hedging activities,” cutting risks, Athanasiou said.  Other nations may also impose measures to boost renewable
spending, said Matthew Cowie, an analyst in London at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  “The U.K. price floor also increases the chances that
other EU governments take unilateral steps outside the EU
emissions trading system to encourage facilities in their
countries to make more substantial low-carbon investments,”
Cowie said yesterday in an e-mailed research note. It referred
to the U.K. plans as “a bear in sheep’s clothing.”  The impact of the tax on carbon prices will be limited
partly because the U.K. power industry makes up 8 percent of
emissions in the EU program in the eight years through 2020,
Cowie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  