-- 
Next Advances Most in Six Months After Reporting Profit Gain

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-24T09:42:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/next-advances-most-in-six-months-after-reporting-profit-gain-1-.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the owner of more than
500 fashion stores in the U.K. and Ireland, rose the most in six
months after reporting annual pretax profit that was more than
analysts had anticipated and saying sales may advance this year.  Next gained as much as 7 percent, the most since Sept. 15,
and traded up 127 pence, or 6.5 percent, at 2,092 pence as of
9:33 a.m. in London. The company has a market value of 3.77
billion pounds ($6.1 billion).  The company’s level of sales can be maintained or advanced
in 2012 from the 3.45 billion pounds reported in the year ended
January, the retailer said today. Pretax profit rose 9 percent
to 551 million pounds, the Leicester, England-based company
said. Analysts had expected profit of 549 million pounds. Next
targets earnings on that basis of between 520 million pounds and
570 million pounds this year.  “The market is going to be reassured by the solid earnings
guidance,” said Andrew Wade, an analyst at Numis Securities in
 London , by phone. “Consumers and retailers are facing inflation
this year, but Next’s forward-looking statements for 2012 are
more positive.” Analysts forecast 2012 profit on that basis of
553 million pounds, the median estimate of 23 surveyed by
Bloomberg shows.  Next will raise prices between 8 percent and 10 percent in
the second half of the year to contend with an increase in input
costs stemming from higher cotton prices and labor costs in
 Asia , it said. Sales of the Next brand in the first half may be
in a range of a 0.5 percent contraction to up 2.5 percent, Next
said.  ‘Walking Up the Down Escalator’  Next is “well prepared” for the current, challenging
retail environment, it said in the statement, adding that things
are likely to get “worse before they get better. Retailing will
feel like walking up the down escalator -- we will have to work
hard to stand still!”  Next will invest in new areas of growth, including
expanding its internet and Directory division, where sales rose
7.1 percent last year. The company also anticipates generating
extra cash which would enable it to lift earnings per share
through buybacks and increase its dividend.  The company said retail will be “different” for the next
few years in the U.K. as consumers wrestle with higher inflation
amid government spending cuts.  “These factors mean that retailers cannot plan for never-
ending growth in like-for-like sales that many have enjoyed over
the last 15 years,” the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  