-- 
Next Anticipates More Challenging Environment This Year

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-24T07:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/next-anticipates-more-challenging-environment-this-year.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the owner of more
than 500 fashion stores in the U.K. and Ireland,
anticipates a more challenging consumer environment this
year amid higher inflation and government spending cuts.  The company will raise prices between 8 and 10 percent
in the second half of the year to deal with an increase in
input costs, more than an earlier disclosed hike of as much
as 8 percent, the Leicester, U.K.-based company said in a
statement today.  Britons are becoming more pessimistic about the
economy as the outlook for jobs worsens and inflation
increases.  Consumer confidence  stayed close to the lowest
since March 2009 last month, a report by GfK NOP Ltd.
showed. Next is adding home-furnishing only outlets and
expanding its children, sportswear and shoe lines to drive
growth as store sales decline.  “The consumer environment is likely to be dominated
by the challenges of global inflation, public sector cuts
and limited growth in  consumer credit ,” Chief Executive
Officer Simon Wolfson said today in a statement. The
company said it was too early for a full-year sales
forecast.  Next’s pretax profit rose to 551 million pounds ($893
million) in the year ended in January, compared with the
549 million-pound estimate of 24 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales at Next stores, excluding value-added tax,
slipped 2.3 percent, while revenue at the Directory catalog
and internet unit climbed 7.1 percent, the company said.  Next shares rose 28 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 1,965
pence in London trading yesterday. The stock has fallen 0.5
percent this year, compared to the 7.2 percent decline of
the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index.  The company plans to raise its dividend payment 18
percent to 78 pence and said it intends to use surplus cash
for buy backs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 