-- 
Nigeria Sells $16.6 Million at the Nation's First Currency Forward Auction

-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 
2011-03-24T10:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nigeria-sells-16-6-million-at-the-nation-s-first-currency-forward-auction.html
Nigeria  sold $16.6 million at its
first foreign-exchange forward auction yesterday where only one
commercial bank participated, the  central bank  said.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  met the lender’s demand for $10
million due in a month, $616,590 due in two months and $6
million in three, all at a weighted average rate of 151.31 per
dollar, the Abuja-based bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. That compares with the bank’s spot auction, also held
yesterday, where 23 lenders demanded $584 million, the biggest
amount sought since Dec. 15, and the bank sold currency at a
weighted average rate of 151.31 naira per dollar. Ten banks had
successful bids.  “The poor response at the foreign-exchange forward auction
is the result of low awareness about it,” Adedayo Idowu, a
research analyst at the Lagos-based Vetiva Capital Management
Ltd., said by phone. “Investors are very cautious, as this is
the first time so they are adopting a wait-and-see attitude.”  Nigeria, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy,
introduced the foreign-exchange forward auction to reduce demand
pressure for dollars at the twice-weekly spot auction and help
stabilize the value of the naira. Demand has exceeded supply at
every spot auction since Feb. 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Meeting Demand  The central bank will meet the rising need from investors
for foreign currency before elections in West Africa’s biggest
economy next month as it tries to stabilize the naira and
control inflation, Governor Lamido Sanusi said on March 16. The
jump in demand this month is “temporary,” based on investors’
fears that violence between religious and ethnic groups may
disrupt elections, he said.  The naira has weakened 2.7 percent this year and traded
unchanged from yesterday’s close at 156.11 per dollar at 10:03
a.m. in Lagos.  Forward currency sales won’t minimize pressure at spot
auctions “because unlike the forward auction, which is tied to
future trade and exports,” the current high dollar demand is
tied to concern before the vote, Idowu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Olukoya in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 