-- 
Nigeria, Xenel, Nagarjuna Sign Petrochemical Plant Accord

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-03-24T16:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nigeria-xenel-nagarjuna-sign-accord-on-petrochemical-fertilizer-plants.html
Nigeria signed a memorandum of
understanding with Xenel Corp. of  Saudi Arabia  and  Nagarjuna
Fertilizers & Chemicals (NFCL)  Ltd. of  India  to build petrochemical and
fertilizer plants in the West African country.  The projects include one petrochemical facility and two
fertilizer factories with capacity of 1.3 million metric tons in
the southern Delta state and in Lagos, the commercial capital,
Oil Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said today in Abuja, the
capital.  Nigeria, holder of Africa’s largest gas reserves, burns
off, or flares, most of the fuel it produces along with oil
because it lacks the infrastructure to process it. The country
in 2009 selected 15 companies including OAO Gazprom,  Royal Dutch
Shell PLC (RDSA)  and Chevron Corp. to participate in its development
plan. It has yet to announce the final outcome.  The new plants will “set the tone for final elimination of
gas flaring,” President  Goodluck Jonathan  said today in Abuja
when he unveiled an industrial investment agenda. “Full
implementation of the entire gas master agenda will result in
about $25 billion worth of investments in gas processing,
transmission and downstream gas utilization project” over the
next few years.’’  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country and the continent’s
top oil producer, hopes to attract over $10 billion of foreign
investment in 10 new plants in the petrochemical and fertilizer
industries, Alison-Madueke said.  The petrochemical and fertilizer plants are expected to
cost $3.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, and the
projects are expected to be completed by 2014, according to the
companies building the plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  