-- 
Nintendo Puts 3-D Future in Palm of Your Hand: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-03-24T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nintendo-puts-3-d-s-future-in-palm-of-your-hand-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
I’m not of the generation that grew
up playing handheld video games. I’m of the generation that
spent a lot of time saying, “Put that damn thing away.”  Still, even I have to admit that Nintendo Co.’s new 3DS
game system is pretty cool. I’ll go even further: It’s an
important signpost that points the way to the future of all
handheld devices, not just game players. And that signpost is
labeled “3-D.”  The $250 3DS, which goes on sale in  Europe  today and the
U.S. March 27, is the successor to Nintendo’s DS player. It’s
the first mass-market gadget to feature autoscopic 3-D -- that
is, a three-dimensional display that can be viewed without the
need to wear special glasses.  For the video industry, autoscopic 3-D is more or less the
Holy Grail. Some of the longest lines at this year’s  Consumer
Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas  surrounded  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s booth,
where it was showing a prototype of a glasses-free flat-screen
TV. The problem with the current state of the technology is that
the sweet spot -- the viewing angle from which you get the 3-D
effect on the big screen -- is very small. If you’re off to one
side or the other, all you get is a blurry, headache-inducing
picture. So even a large screen can essentially be watched by
only one person at a time.  So Much Fun  On the other hand, a small screen, like that on a game
player or mobile phone, is used by only one person anyway, and
it’s relatively easy to tilt or adjust the device to get the
desired effect. And that’s what makes the  3DS , even with some
significant drawbacks, so much fun.  The game player is a 2.9-inch-by-5.3-inch rectangle that
weighs about eight ounces and is less than an inch thick when
closed. Open it and you’ll find two color displays. On the
bottom, next to various buttons and controls, is a touch-
sensitive color screen that responds either to your finger or
the included telescoping stylus. The top display is the actual
3-D game screen, with a slider next to it that lets you
intensify or lessen the three-dimensional effects.  The biggest question hanging over the 3DS is whether
there’s any risk to users, particularly young ones. The player
carries a warning label for children under 7, and some early
testers have reported dizziness or eye strain after lengthy
sessions. Different people will react differently, and it’s
impossible to generalize. I had no such issues.  Depth and Perspective  For the most part, game publishers seem to be using the 3-D
effect not to create objects that fly out toward you, but to
provide depth and perspective; the goal is to pull you in, not
throw things at you.  Three dimensions or not, any game player is only as good as
the games available for it, and the initial batch of 3DS titles
includes some familiar ones that gain a new measure of fun
thanks to the enhanced display.  I spent a lot of time with  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ’s “Madden
Football,” where the 3-D effect simulated, for example, the
view downfield on pass plays. (I was whipped by my computer
opponent, which I attribute, against all evidence, to the
shortcomings of my beloved  San Francisco  49ers rather than my
own inadequacies.) Nintendo’s “Pilotwings Resort” sent me on
fun missions around mythical Wuhu Island using seaplane, rocket
belt or hang-glider.  3-D Snapshots  The 3DS has three cameras -- one in the front, useful for
taking self-portraits used in various games, and two in the
rear. Those rear cameras not only take three-dimensional
snapshots, they’re used to play four included “AR Games” --
augmented reality.  In this case, it’s more like augmented unreality: When you
aim the cameras at a special card placed on a tabletop, it comes
alive with animated objects that aren’t really there. Even the
tabletop itself seems to bend, warp and roll, at least on the
Nintendo’s screen.  Nintendo has built a bunch of additional goodies into the
3DS, not all of which are yet activated: wireless sharing of
information with other nearby 3DS units,  Internet access  at  AT&T
Inc. (T)  Wi-Fi hotspots, a deal with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  to bring movies
and 3-D trailers to the device.  There are a lot of disadvantages with the 3DS too. It’s
expensive, kind of chunky, the battery life is worse than with
Nintendo’s older players, and you have to hold it at just the
right angle to get the full three-dimensional effects. Plus, of
course, there are those eye-strain concerns.  That’s the price you, or the gamer in your family, pay for
being on the leading edge. Other 3-D gadgets are already in the
works -- AT&T and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  announced a new phone at
this week’s CTIA Wireless trade show in  Orlando ,  Florida , as did
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  -- and maybe they’ll solve
some of those issues. But Nintendo has already conquered a big
one: No dorky glasses.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 