-- 
Nuclear Safety Lessons Start With Manholes, Axes: Peter Coy

-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 
2011-03-24T18:12:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nuclear-safety-lessons-start-with-manholes-axes-commentary-by-peter-coy.html
(Corrects name of lab and description of project in 43rd
paragraph.)  Three Mile Island, Chernobyl,
Fukushima. First the accident, then the predictable allegations
in the postmortem: The design was flawed. Inspections were
inadequate. Lines of defense crumbled, and reliable backups
proved unreliable. Planners lacked the imagination or willpower
to prepare for the worst.  There’s a way to break out of this pattern. Nuclear power
plants will never be completely safe, but they can be made far
safer than they are today.  The key is humility. The next generation of plants must be
built to work with nature, and human nature, rather than against
them, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 28 edition.
They must be safe by design, so that even if everything goes
wrong, the outcome won’t be disaster.  In the language of the nuclear industry, they must be
“walkaway safe,” meaning that even if all power is lost and
the coolant leaks and the operators flee the scene, there will
be no meltdown of the core, no fire in the spent fuel rods, and
no bursts of radioactive steam into the atmosphere.  For inspiration, consider the manhole. If manholes were
square, a cover that got jounced around by a passing vehicle
could fall diagonally through the open hole. That’s why manholes
aren’t square--they’re round, because no matter how you rotate a
round cover, it can never fall through a round hole. The
solution is brilliant in its simplicity, and cheaper than hiring
armies of inspectors to go around making sure square covers are
correctly aligned on square holes.  Manhole Wisdom  The beginnings of manhole wisdom are incorporated into
nuclear power plants under construction in China,  India , and
probably soon in the U.S.  The plants use “passive” safety features, a label that
sounds underwhelming until you consider its implications.
Passive means that the reactor’s safety doesn’t depend on active
interventions, such as operators flipping the correct switches
or sensors and actuators working properly. The safety depends,
rather, on physics.  The new Westinghouse AP1000 (the AP stands for Advanced
Passive), for example, has a huge emergency water reservoir
above the reactor vessel that’s held back by valves.  If the cooling system fails, the valves open and a highly
reliable force takes over: gravity. Water pours down to cool the
outside of the containment vessel. Then another highly reliable
force, convection, kicks in. As the water turns to steam, it
rises. Then it cools under the roof, turns back into a liquid,
and pours down again.  Three Days  Westinghouse estimates that the pool contains enough water
to last three days, after which pumps operated by diesel
generators are supposed to kick in and add water from an on-site
lake.  This isn’t an idea on the drawing board. Westinghouse,
owned by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , is about halfway to completion of one of
the plants at Sanmen in China’s Zhejiang province. It’s supposed
to go online in 2013.  At the Vogtle plant in Georgia, excavation and non-safety-
related construction has begun for two AP1000 reactors. Southern
Co., the largest utility in the U.S. by market capitalization,
has 1,400 workers on the site and is expecting a combined
construction and operating license for them later this year.  France’s  Areva SA (CEI)  and a venture between  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  are among groups lined up behind
Westinghouse in getting Nuclear Regulatory Commission
certification for their own safer designs.  Obama Call  Critics continue to argue that there will never be a truly
safe nuclear power plant, and it’s true: Any time you split
atoms, there’s risk. But nuclear plants have one thing going for
them that hasn’t changed since the leak at Fukushima. They
generate badly needed electricity without creating  greenhouse
gases  that cause global warming.  In his State of the Union address in January, U.S.
President  Barack Obama  called for “building a new generation of
safe, clean nuclear power plants in this country.”  In his fiscal 2012 budget request in February, Obama asked
for $36 billion in government-backed loan guarantees for new
nuclear reactors. Obama also asked for $125 million for what the
Energy Department calls Generation IV nuclear reactors that the
department said “will feature advances in safety and
reliability to improve public confidence in nuclear energy while
providing enhanced investment protection for plant owners.”  Nuclear power faces all sorts of challenges, including the
multibillion-dollar construction cost of each new plant.
Fukushima is a reminder that making the plants simpler and safer
is the biggest challenge of all.  Ax Man  In late 1942, Enrico Fermi, the Italian physicist who was
one of the key figures in the development of the atomic bomb,
came up with nuclear power’s first safety mechanism: a man with
an ax. In case of a runaway reaction, he decided, the ax man’s
job was to cut a rope, dropping cadmium rods that would absorb
neutrons and halt the reaction.  “The ax man received his hand-signaled instructions from
Fermi, who stressed the speed necessary by holding one hand flat
and depicting a chopping motion with the other,” recalled Edwin
Blackburn, a millwright who was on the scene, in an Oak Ridge
National Laboratory publication.  The ax man’s skills were never needed, but in the decades
that followed, nuclear energy suffered a series of stigmatizing
accidents.  Light Water  One reason for that is the almost total reliance on one
particular design, the light water reactor, which has some
inherent problems. The light water’s prominence dates to a
fateful 1950s choice by Admiral Hyman Rickover, father of the
nuclear Navy.  Rickover decided that the first nuclear submarine, the USS
Nautilus, which was launched in 1955, would be powered by solid
uranium oxide and would use water as both a coolant and a
moderator. (A coolant carries heat from the reactor to produce
power; a moderator slows down the neutrons emitted by the fuel
so they have a better chance of interacting with other fissile
materials to keep the reaction going. There’s no requirement
that water perform either of those functions, but that’s the way
light water reactors work.)  Rickover went with the design because it was likely to be
ready soonest and because it produced plutonium-239, a bomb-
making material, as a byproduct. It has some big drawbacks, as
explained by physicist Robert Hargraves and nuclear engineer
Ralph Moir in a 2010 article in the American Scientist.  Damaged Rods  The bundles of fuel rods are quickly damaged by heat and
radiation. Short-lived byproducts such as xenon-135, which
poisons the fission process, are tricky to manage--and
contributed to the instability that led to the Chernobyl
explosion. Long-lived byproducts are abundant and highly toxic.
The water is corrosive and radioactive. To raise its boiling
point, it must be pressurized to 150 times atmospheric pressure.
That necessitates a costly network of vessels, pipes, and
valves--and raises the risk of an explosive release of
radioactive steam to the atmosphere. Overall, the design is the
precise opposite of passive safety.  Rickover’s choice had lasting consequences. The first
commercial nuclear power plant in Shippingport, Pennslyvania,
used a design similar to that of the Nautilus, setting a pattern
that endures to today.  Solid Fuel  “Maddeningly,” write Hargraves and Moir, “historical,
technological, and regulatory reasons conspire to make it hugely
difficult to diverge from our current path of solid-fuel,
uranium-based plants.”  New reactors such as the Westinghouse AP1000 and Areva’s
EPR don’t diverge from Rickover’s path. They too have the solid-
fuel cores and high-pressure water cooling systems. But they are
substantially safer than older light water reactors.  Areva says its EPR has four redundant safety systems
instead of the two or three found on most current reactors.
Westinghouse says the AP1000 is 100 times as safe as current
plants.  Those claims, while subject to debate, are not mere
corporate puffery. They’re based on engineering analyses that
have been reviewed by the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  as part
of the plant certification. The Energy Department is also
supporting development of small “plug-and-play” modular
reactors such as the 125-megawatt mPower design from  Babcock &
Wilcox Co. (BWC)  and Bechtel Group.  The case for these new, safer plants doesn’t come through
clearly because their existence conflicts with the agendas of
both pro- and anti-nuclear organizations.  Older Designs  Utilities and manufacturers don’t want to imply that the
older designs now in service are unsafe. In fact, Westinghouse
points out in its marketing materials for the AP1000 that even
the older reactors are twice as safe as the NRC requires.  “The plants we’re operating now are extremely safe as
well,” says Beth Thomas, spokeswoman for  Southern Co. (SO)   Nuclear opponents have even less reason to point out safety
advances.  “My shortest answer is that we shouldn’t build more
nuclear plants,” says Charles Perrow, a retired Yale University
sociology professor who wrote extensively about the partial
meltdown in 1979 at Three Mile Island nuclear power plant near
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. “There’s no way to make any system
free of a disaster.”  If worse comes to worst, as it so often seems to, the
safety systems that give the most confidence are the passive
ones.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  has created an
elegant hierarchy of these passive systems. The ones at the
highest level, Category A, require no signal inputs, no external
power sources or forces, no moving mechanical parts, and no
moving working fluid. Example: really thick concrete walls.
Westinghouse’s reservoir above the AP1000’s containment vessel,
clever as it is, doesn’t fit into Category A because it involves
moving fluids and valves.  Bigger Departure  Generation IV reactors will be a much bigger departure.
Many will do away with water, using elements such as helium or
liquid sodium as a coolant. Most also get rid of solid uranium-
235 as a fuel, relying instead on different uranium isotopes, or
liquid uranium mixtures, or even thorium as the primary fuel.  The profusion of creativity in nuclear design recalls the
early days of the automobile, when the Stanley Steam Car
coexisted with the Columbia electric buggy and internal
combustion engines running on gasoline and diesel.  The comparison with cars goes deeper. Just as electric
vehicles are staging a minor comeback after their early demise,
some long-since-rejected concepts for nuclear energy are getting
a second look as the faults of the incumbent technology become
clearer.  New Design  The only requirement is that somehow a nuclear chain
reaction must occur: A fissile material absorbs a neutron and
splits, releasing energy and more neutrons that carry the
process on. There are probably 1,000 conceivable combinations of
the basic choices, an Oak Ridge official once calculated.  The new design that’s closest to commercial electricity
generation is the pebble bed reactor, which has been under
development for decades in Germany, then  South Africa , and now
 China  and the U.S.  Its uranium fuel is encased in more than 300,000 tennis-
ball-sized “pebbles,” each one containing thousands of tiny
graphite-coated fuel seeds, like a metal pomegranate. The
radioactive fission products are absorbed in the coatings, and
the fuel doesn’t get hot enough to melt down even if the plant
loses all its cooling for days.  China Closest  China is closest to commercializing the pebble bed, pushing
forward where the South Africans left off for financial reasons.
 Tsinghua University , working with Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, already has a 10-megawatt experimental reactor in
operation. It is building a 200-megawatt plant in Shidaowan in
Shandong province with a unit of China Huaneng Group, the
nation’s largest power group.  The Energy Department is leading a U.S. initiative, based
at Idaho National Laboratory in Idaho Falls, called the Next
Generation Nuclear Plant. It, too, may be a pebble bed design.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu has appointed a review
committee to decide later this year whether to move on to the
second phase of the project, which could lead to an operating
pebble bed plant in the U.S. by around 2025, says David A.
Petti, director of the Very High Temperature Reactor Technology
Development Office at Idaho National Laboratory.  Scale Up  Pebble bed reactors don’t scale up well. Above 600
megawatts they lose their safety advantage over reactors with
ordinary fuel rods, says Petti. At that scale the pebbles can
get so hot that they can’t shed heat fast enough and can melt
down just like any other uranium fuel, releasing radioactivity.  The sweet spot for pebble bed reactors is 250 to 600
megawatts, Petti says. He envisions them being located next to
industrial plants, where their excess energy could be used to
heat facilities and produce petrochemicals.  Liquid fuels are getting another look, too. As early as
1944, Fermi tested the world’s first liquid-fuel reactor in
Chicago. It used uranium sulfate dissolved in water.  In 1965, Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee
achieved criticality with a reactor using a more advanced liquid
fuel: molten fluoride salt with uranium dissolved in it. The
experiment ran for five years, then stopped when the money ran
out. Now, scientists in India, France, and the U.S. are
experimenting with another variety: liquid fluoride thorium
reactors (known as “lifters”).  Perhaps the farthest-out design comes from a spinoff of
 Intellectual Ventures , a company headed by former Microsoft
Corp. chief scientist  Nathan Myhrvold  and funded in part by
Microsoft co-founder  Bill Gates .  ‘Massive Power’  TerraPower LLC, as the spinoff is known, used massive
computing power to design a reactor that could run for decades
on an isotope of uranium that is today considered waste.  The concept, first proposed in the 1950s, is to set up a
slow-moving wave in which neutrons transmute inert, nonfissile
fuel such as uranium-238 into fissile isotopes such as
plutonium-239 that can split and throw off energy.  TerraPower says its spent fuel would not be useful for
making weapons. The company, chaired by Gates, has been seeking
a production partner and a host country. So far, no takers.  Wave Reactor  Technological breakthroughs such as the traveling wave
reactor are part of the answer to nuclear safety, but not the
answer in its entirety. Better management is crucial as well.  For many people, the most disturbing thing about the
Fukushima disaster is that it occurred in a nation renowned for
quality control.  Japan  invented poka-yoke, a design approach
that is supposed to remove the possibility of doing things the
wrong way. (It means mistake-proof. Round manhole covers are
poka-yoke in spirit.)  The trouble with poka-yoke is that it lends itself mainly
to preventing day-to-day types of mistakes, not strategic
errors. On that score, Japanese regulators and officials of
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (known as Tepco) appear to have
underestimated the risk that a huge tsunami would overwhelm
Fukushima’s defenses.  Katsuhiko Ishibashi, Japan’s leading seismologist and an
adviser to the government, warned in 2007 of what he called
genpatsu-shinsai -- meaning a quake-caused meltdown.  The oldest of the six reactors on the site was recently
given a 10-year license extension in spite of regulators’
findings of inadequate management maintenance and Tepco’s spotty
history of compliance with regulation. (In 2003, regulators
forced it to suspend operations briefly at 10 reactors after
evidence emerged that it had falsified inspection records.)  Made Safe  In fairness to Tepco, no system can be made safe against
every risk.  “It’s a very difficult question,” says Tepco spokesman
Hiro Hasegawa. “Maybe we should have prepared for the worst,
worst, worst, worst, worst. But we can’t do anything if we
consider every risk.”  Hasegawa says the utility did reinforce the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi reactors after the 2007 quakes. And he says the 2003 tussle
with regulators was caused in part by their overstrictness about
a hairline crack in one key part.  There’s nothing particularly Japanese about what went wrong
at Fukushima. It’s natural to minimize the risk of catastrophic
events when you have no clear idea about how to deal with them,
says J. Edward Russo, a management professor at Cornell
University’s Johnson Graduate School of Management.  “It’s human nature to want to lower the probability of a
particular disaster. They say, ‘We can’t plan for and pay for
everything, so let’s knock that off the list.’ ”  Homer Simpson  Homer Simpson, the ultimate everyman-nuclear technician,
would approve.  To be truly safe, the reactors of the future will have to
withstand the worst that the Homer Simpsons of the world can
throw at them.  Remember the cynical adage: Whoever invented the term
“foolproof” underestimated the ingenuity of fools. Actually,
it’s worse than that. In a genuine emergency, even calm,
seasoned pros can make terrible decisions.  At Three Mile Island, operators refused to believe a dial
that told them the reactor was boiling dry, preferring to trust
another dial that was giving a different (and incorrect)
interpretation, says Perrow, the Yale sociologist, who studied
the accident in a 1984 book called Normal Accidents.  That’s where passive safety comes in.  The ideal system is one that’s inherently stable, like a
ball at the bottom of a bowl. However it’s shaken, the ball
tends to roll back to the bottom.  An inherently unstable system is the opposite, like a ball
balanced on top of another ball. In some special cases, such as
fighter aircraft, inherent instability is an asset.  Fighter Jets  Fighter jets are built to perform incredible dogfighting
maneuvers, but the price for achieving that airborne
maneuverability is radical instability: The onboard computer
must send adjustment signals as many as 40 times a second to the
engines and various wing surfaces to keep the plane flying true.  A nuclear plant should be like a ball in a bowl, not a jet
fighter. In other words, stable and safe.  For future plants, safety can be designed in as a basic
feature. Not so easy for existing plants, some of which may be
with us for decades to come. For them, the solution is
retrofitting where possible, greater vigilance, and creative
thinking about what might go wrong.  A “premortem” might help. Gary Klein, a consultant to the
Air Force Research Laboratory, advises institutions that deal
with risk to analyze a failure before it even occurs.  ‘Clever Enough’  Often, Klein says, planners will underestimate dangers by
assuming they will be clever enough to surmount any difficulty
that arises. Klein, who is senior scientist of MacroCognition in
Yellow Springs, Ohio, removes that overconfidence bias in
sessions with clients by asking participants to assume that a
terrible accident, however unlikely, has already occurred. The
challenge is to explain how it happened.  “You show you’re smart by trying to identify things that
are plausible and worrisome,” says Klein. “It almost gets into
a competition.”  To say nuclear power can be made much safer is not to say
it can be made safe enough. That’s a political judgment, not a
question for nuclear engineers.  If Japan’s radiation nightmare continues to worsen, the
outcry against nukes will be hard to ignore.  Some are already calling nuclear energy dead. Although
that’s premature,  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  said on Mar. 21 that it was
slowing work at its South Texas nuclear plant expansion because
of possible regulatory changes stemming from the Fukushima
disaster. Those plants are based on evolutionary, Generation
III+ designs.  Generation 4  On the other hand, Chinese executives confirmed on Mar. 22
that they are going ahead with building their Generation 4
pebble bed reactor.  “Japan’s Fukushima plant was using old technology while
Chinese reactors are more advanced,” Cui Shaozhang, deputy
general manager at Huaneng Nuclear Power Development, told
Bloomberg News.  Those are the two faces of the nuclear debate. Fukushima
could bring reactor development to a halt. Or it might stimulate
the demand for safer designs. The future of atomic energy is at
stake.  ( Peter Coy ’s column will appear in Bloomberg Businessweek’s
March 28 edition. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Coy at   pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  