-- 
Nuclear Industry Says Ready for Tests as EU to Discuss Criteria

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-24T10:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nuclear-industry-says-ready-for-tests-as-eu-to-discuss-criteria.html
Nuclear power producers in the
European Union are ready to participate in “stress tests” to
reassess the safety of their facilities, an industry group said
before a meeting of EU leaders poised to discuss the checks.  EU energy ministers failed to agree on criteria for the
tests at an emergency meeting earlier this week convened after
an earthquake and tsunami crippled nuclear reactors in Japan.
 Germany , which ordered a temporary halt of its seven oldest
reactors, led a push for stringent common rules and said
national leaders must tackle the matter at a summit today and
tomorrow in Brussels.  “Nuclear operators in  Europe  can confidently claim that
all  power plants  in operation are safe and that the combination
of events in Japan is extremely unlikely to occur in Europe,”
Foratom, the Brussels-based atomic industry group for Europe,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Nuclear power stations owned by companies including
Germany’s  RWE AG (RWE)  and Electricite de France SA produce a third of
the electricity in the EU at 143 plants. The voluntary tests may
cover threats from earthquakes, floods, airplane crashes and
terrorists as well as reactors’ cooling systems and their age,
EU officials have said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she will raise the
issue at the EU summit. She decided last week that Germany will
keep its seven nuclear reactors offline as part of the
nationwide safety review to run through June.  It’s up to national governments in the EU to decide whether
to use nuclear power, which is produced in 14 member countries.
Safety is a shared responsibility between national and EU
authorities.  “It is premature to draw conclusions from the tragedy in
 Japan  with regard to the European nuclear energy program,”
Foratom said. “ Nuclear energy is and will continue to be a key
element in meeting Europe’s energy needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  