-- 
Nuclear Doomers Should Study Canada, Colorado: James S. Russell

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nuclear-doomers-should-pipe-down-study-canada-colorado-james-s-russell.html
The nuclear-power-plant disaster in
 Japan  and political unrest in the oil-soaked Middle East make me
think of  Canada  and  Colorado .  These are good places to visit if you’re worried about the
cost of energy. There you’ll find successful conservation
efforts using the simple option of using less energy. And these
days the advantages of conservation -- cleaner, faster, cheaper,
safer -- suddenly loom very large.  Here’s a tour for anyone interested in the future of
energy.  On the eastern prairies of Manitoba, in Winnipeg, spring
weather is a benign respite between frigid, windy winters and
searing summers.  Such climate extremes often mean heart-stopping utility
bills. Yet the headquarters of Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board,
the local electric utility, features a so-called  solar chimney 
that uses the buoyancy of hot air to aid ventilation. In winter,
six-story-high glass-enclosed gardens harvest solar heat.  With these and numerous other tactics, the building uses
about one third the energy of an average U.S. commercial
building. Its performance is similar to what the most efficient
European buildings achieve in a milder climate.  Head southwest about 1,100 miles to Golden, Colorado,
outside Denver, where the Research Support Facility of the
 National Renewable Energy Laboratory  was completed last June.
Odd window hoods provide a shield against the sun in the summer,
while harvesting daylight in the winter.  Net Zero  A labyrinth of concrete basement walls holds cool nighttime
air to chill daytime ventilating air and stores heat from a  data
center  for nighttime winter warmth. While these and other
measures slash consumption, a total of four solar-panel arrays
will eventually be in place, making up a 2.6-megawatt system
that will generate about 3,700 megawatt hours annually, or
enough power to bring net energy use to zero.  A few years ago “net zero” was deemed unattainable,
certainly for a 222,000-square-foot office building constructed
on a conventional budget. That shows how fast conservation is
moving ahead, even in a political environment hostile to it.  Few existing buildings can be retrofitted to net zero, but
huge cuts in energy use are possible now at low cost. An
apartment in a conventional building oriented to harvest winter
daylight and reject summer heat can save more than 50 percent of
the heating and cooling energy needed to keep occupants from
frying in a typical single-family house designed with slabs of
glass facing the sun. Those savings cost nothing.  The U.S. can readily slash transportation energy use, too.
Already, automakers are building vehicles that meet new
standards of 35 miles per gallon. Trains could haul much more
freight at one-fifth the energy consumed by trucks.  Vancouver  Light Rail  Back up north, Vancouver’s new  Canada Line  light-rail
system operates faster and at lower cost than those in the U.S.
Vancouver also has long encouraged builders to erect the densest
developments convenient to transit lines. That’s why Canada Line
ridership quickly topped 100,000 passengers a day -- close to
the capacity of a four-lane freeway. By contrast the entire 48-
mile light-rail system in  Dallas  attracts only 66,000 daily
riders.  Even if Mideast and Libyan political unrest eases, oil and
gas prices will surely trend upward, given the rapid growth of
consumption in China and  India . Once U.S. recovery builds some
steam, those prices are likely to spurt further because
America’s 5 percent of the world’s population consumes about 25
percent of the world’s oil output. Nuclear energy, which had so
recently seemed the clean magic bullet, will now become even
more costly and therefore more difficult to finance.  Wary Investors  Government loan guarantees totaling $18.5 billion have yet
to spur the long-awaited nuclear renaissance. Investors won’t
sign on to the construction of plants until they know what
possible new safety measures will cost.  By contrast, dozens of conservation tactics await modest
incentives and government support of research. The diverse
technologies that slash energy use can create a wide variety of
research, engineering and manufacturing jobs.  And because conservation frees up cash otherwise delivered
to people like  Muammar Qaddafi , these jobs will create jobs,
while reducing pollution and greenhouse gasses -- a nice
payback.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press will publish
his book “The Agile City” in May. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 