-- 
Nuclear Warriors Find Respite on Ship in Fight to Avert Meltdown

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   P e t e r   L a n g a n
-- 
2011-03-24T01:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nuclear-warriors-recuperate-on-japanese-vessel-in-fight-to-avert-meltdown.html
Half a dozen crew of the Kaiwo Maru
bowed as  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. engineer Kenji Kawada emerged
from the belly of the four-masted sailing ship and returned to
fighting Japan’s worst civil nuclear disaster.  They applauded as he walked down the gang-plank and were
still waving as Kawada, 52, disappeared in a minibus that would
return him to duty. Kawada is one of dozens of engineers and
other workers who since March 11 have been sleeping on the floor
in freezing temperatures and living on biscuits as they race to
contain nuclear leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant north of Tokyo.  The magnitude-9.0 quake unleashed a 7.3-meter (23-foot)
tsunami that wiped out entire towns on the northeast coast, as
well as  power lines  and the back-up generators needed to keep
Dai-Ichi’s reactors from overheating. The Kaiwo, a merchant
marine training vessel, brought food, water and a place to
recuperate to the nuclear workers, who looked pale and gaunt
when they arrived yesterday in Onahama Port, about 50 kilometers
south of the power station.  “Our job is to provide a place for the engineers to sleep,
take a bath and relax,” Chief Officer Susumu Toya, 44, said in
an interview in front of the 110-meter white sailing ship docked
at the port, amid twisted cranes and cars wrapped around poles
by the tsunami. “I don’t ask about their work because they are
working under great stress. We are trying to lift their
spirits.”  No Beer  The workers refused an offer of beer two nights ago because
of the seriousness of their task, Toya said. “The engineers are
very quiet. No one speaks during meals.”  Workers at the plant have endured explosions, fires and
radiation leaks that prevented them from approaching the
reactors or working for more than 2 hours at a time, one of them
said yesterday.  “The situation is getting better,” said Kawada, who has
worked at Tokyo Electric for 30 years. “I will do my best to
make sure we can provide relief to the people of  Japan  as soon
as possible.”  During the afternoon, two 7-seater  Nissan Elgrand  minibuses
pulled up at the gangplank, bringing workers from another day of
trying to contain radiation leaks.  The driver, a Tepco official usually based in Tokyo who
declined to be identified, opened the passenger door to let one
man out at a time. The workers walked to the bottom of the
plank, where they were checked for radiation with a Geiger
counter before being allowed onto the boat.  ‘Grim Optimism’  The workers displayed a grim optimism, going about their
business quietly, with no open displays of emotion. Some
declined to answer questions from a group of about a dozen
journalists from local and international print and television
media. Others would say only that the work at the plant was
progressing and that they were cautiously optimistic.  Akira Tamura, 35, a  Tokyo Electric  employee, arrived at the
plant a week ago and spent nights sleeping on the floor without
blankets and no hot food, as he tried to restore cooling systems
at the No. 1 reactor. The team made progress after his 24-hour
shift, he said, without giving details.  “I want to stabilize the situation as soon as possible,”
he said, adding he will return to the plant today.  Tamura said it remained impossible to get close to the No.
1 reactor and he could only work for one or two hours at a time
because of the  radiation exposure , with about 20 engineers in
rotation.  Ordered to Area  Another engineer, who declined to give his name, said that
half the lights in the control room of the No. 3 reactor have
been restored, which makes it easier than working in the dark.  The Kaiwo, which means Sea King, and its crew of more than
40 arrived at the harbor March 21 and will stay till food runs
out, Toya said. The ship was close by, fueled and supplied when
the disaster struck, which is why it was ordered to the area by
the government.  “This is by no means a safe mission, you just don’t know
what might happen, so yes, my family is worried,” Masashi
Sugomori, chief navigation officer, said on board. “But an
order is an order.”  The ship was clean, cramped and mostly Spartan. Its brass
fixtures and lacquered wooden handrails and panels were clean
and shiny yesterday.  To get on board, visitors were scanned for radioactive
contamination. Once inside, there were no signs of other
passengers. Training cadets who are usually on the vessel bunk
in cabins 8 to a room and take lectures in a mess hall that’s
seats about a 100 people.  Mangled Port  The Kaiwo was built in 1989, according to the website of
the  National Institute for Sea Training . The 2,556-ton yacht,
which is based in the port of Tokyo, can accommodate 199 people,
including 128 students.  Earthquakes  rattled the area yesterday and sleet and snow
started falling in the port, where boats were washed ashore,
including a 50-meter barge loaded with pipes that blocked a
road. Broken roads led to the entrance of the port.  Yoichiro Toyoda, 63, and his wife, Nobuko, 62, live facing
the harbor and were working on repairs to their house after the
tsunami reached the second floor, ripping the first floor to
shreds.  “We would surely have died if we delayed evacuating for
another 10 minutes,” Yoichiro Toyoda said. “The tsunami siren
didn’t work this time."  They ran when they saw the tsunami approaching about 15
minutes after the quake struck and managed to reached ground
high enough to avoid being swept away.  ‘‘Now we have another worry, which is those nuclear  power
plants  over there,’’ Toyoda said. ‘‘We don’t want them to remain
in Fukushima."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan in Tokyo at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aaron Sheldrick at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net  