-- 
NYSE, CBOE May Form Swap-Trading Platforms Spurred by Dodd-Frank Rules

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-03-24T17:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/nyse-cboe-may-form-swap-trading-platforms-spurred-by-dodd-frank-rules.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and NYSE
Euronext may create venues for derivatives that now trade over
the counter to capitalize on proposed rules designed to bring
more transparency to the $583 trillion market.  The exchange operators may form swap-trading platforms for
privately negotiated derivatives that the government plans to
move onto regulated trading systems or exchanges that will
provide public data about prices and transactions, according to
interviews with company executives over the last week. Most of
the contracts are now traded between broker-dealers over the
phone or through private electronic systems.  Congress last year ordered that most standardized OTC
derivatives in the U.S. be guaranteed by clearinghouses and
traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities, also known as
SEFs, after a 100-fold surge in trading of credit-default
contracts over seven years made oversight of the financial
system more difficult. Regulators are now writing rules for the
swap platforms and the products that will be traded on them.  “Exchanges will be creating SEFs” and “we will explore
creating our own” once the regulations are completed, CBOE
Executive Vice Chairman Edward Tilly said in an interview last
week at the Futures Industry Association conference in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida .  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  executives are discussing whether to start a
SEF, said Walt Lukken, chief executive officer of New York
Portfolio Clearing, a joint venture between NYSE and Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.  Dodd-Frank  Derivatives sent to clearinghouses, the member-funded
organizations that guarantee transactions and monitor
collateral, must trade on SEFs or exchanges, according to the
 Dodd-Frank Act  approved last year. SEFs that handle interest-
rate and some credit-related swaps will be overseen by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, while security-based SEFs,
including credit default swaps on individual companies, will be
under the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The global market for such transactions was $583 trillion
as of June, according to the Basel-based Bank for International
Settlements.  Banks and interdealer brokers that trade derivatives are
the likeliest candidates to form SEFs since they’re in that
business now, said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in New York. The platforms could generate
between $5 billion and $6 billion in annual revenue by 2013,
according to a Feb. 16  joint report  by  Oliver Wyman  consultants
and Morgan Stanley analysts. Oliver Wyman is a unit of Marsh &
McLennan Cos., the second-biggest insurance broker.  ICAP, Tullett  Interdealer brokers including ICAP Plc and Tullett Prebon
Plc, both based in  London , already have platforms to trade OTC
products electronically or through a combination of voice
brokers and electronic conduits.  Tradeweb LLC , the bond and
derivatives trading network partly owned by Wall Street’s
biggest banks, intends to register as a SEF.  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) 
 introduced  RatesMatch, its electronic platform for interest rate
swaps, on March 1.  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  said it expects to qualify
as a SEF. Tradeweb, GFI and BGC are in New York.  Banks often use the inter-dealer swaps market to lay off
the risk of a transaction they have done with a customer,
turning to brokers to enter the opposite trade with another
bank. As OTC derivatives trading moves onto SEFs, the operators
of those platforms will decide where to clear transactions, with
clearinghouses competing for that business, Repetto said.  Clearinghouses  Clearinghouses are designed to reduce the effect of
defaults by guaranteeing payments on securities, futures and
derivatives, whose value is tied to an underlying asset such as
interest payments, currencies or indexes. They collect
collateral on open trades to keep accounts current and enable
regulators to monitor prices and positions, reducing systemic
risk.  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , Eurex and
other exchange operators that trade futures or facilitate over-
the-counter transactions are expanding their clearinghouse
operations as banks and dealers prepare for regulatory reform of
the  derivatives market .  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  and the Mexican
Derivatives Exchange, owned by Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB,
also plan to clear more interest rate swaps, especially from
domestic or regional dealers.  “Most exchanges are reluctant to talk about any SEF
strategy in fear of antagonizing dealers -- not that they won’t
get into it later,” Repetto said. “Right now, they’re focused
on opportunities in clearing.”  ICE  ICE, based in Atlanta, intends to offer a SEF for credit-
based products that are already being traded through its
Creditex interdealer broker. It plans to register Creditex, its
interdealer broker, as a SEF, Scott Hill, ICE’s chief financial
officer, said in an e-mail. Creditex provides voice broking and
electronic trading services for credit default swaps and credit
index products. Hill said about half its volume globally takes
place electronically.  The CME, which is expanding its clearing operation to
attract interest rate and other off-exchange derivatives volume,
hasn’t decided whether to provide a SEF to trade over-the-
counter products, according to Bryan Durkin, chief operating
officer at the Chicago-based company.  “CME’s plans to build a SEF haven’t been determined
because the definition of a SEF hasn’t been formulated,” he
said. “We’re very happy to provide our clearing solutions for
eligible SEFs to hook up to us and bring their OTC business into
our clearing organization.”  First Phase  Exchanges with clearinghouses aren’t as likely to be in the
“first phase” of SEF creations, though they may get in later,
according to Diego Perfumo, an analyst at Equity Research Desk
in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “It’s a conflicting issue for exchanges that have clearing
businesses,” he said. “They’ll be asking for a bank’s clearing
business and will be competing on the execution side with them.
Brokers will lose a lot of their role today, so they’ll fight
fiercely over that.”  Gary Katz, chief executive officer of  International
Securities Exchange , said his market is studying the rules being
written for SEFs. ISE has no “active project” to form a venue
for OTC derivatives, he said. The options exchange is owned by
Eurex, which is controlled by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
and SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd. of Zurich.  Deutsche Boerse  agreed
last month to buy NYSE Euronext for $9.53 billion.  Silvia Davi, a  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  spokeswoman, declined
to comment about the exchange operator’s plans. New York-based
Nasdaq OMX has a majority stake in the International Derivatives
Clearing Group LLC, which clears interest rate swaps.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, plans
to register SEFs with the CFTC and with the SEC, according to a
statement on March 17.  CBOE’s Tilly said he doesn’t know whether his company, if
it decides to form a SEF once regulators complete their rules,
would need to build one or two for products overseen by
different agencies.  “It depends on how wide the gap is” between the SEC’s and
CFTC’s requirements, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  