-- 
Oil Rises a Fourth Day in New York as Alliance Intensifies Libya Attacks

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-03-24T11:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/oil-rises-a-fourth-day-in-new-york-as-alliance-intensifies-libya-attacks.html
Oil rose for a fourth day in  New
York  as fighting in  Libya  heightened concerns about Middle East
exports, while expectations of an international bailout for
 Portugal  bolstered confidence in the economic outlook.  Crude gained as much as 0.9 percent as the U.K. launched
further attacks by submarine against Libyan air-defense systems.
Libyan government troops increased military action, killing 16
people yesterday in the towns of Misrata and Zentan, an
opposition spokesman said. European Union leaders meet in
Brussels today to sign off on measures aimed to resolve the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The growing consensus that Portugal will be bailed out is
driving prices this morning, though at the same time the focus
is still in the Middle East-North Africa region,” said
Thorbjoern Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in
Middelfart,  Denmark .  Crude for May delivery rose as much as 94 cents to $106.69
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $106.45 at 11:35 a.m. London time.
Yesterday, the contract climbed 78 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$105.75, the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008. Brent oil
for May settlement slipped 4 cents to $115.51 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Brent’s premium to Nymex-traded West Texas Intermediate
crude narrowed for a fifth day. The spread between the two May
contracts was $9.05 a barrel, compared with $9.80 at yesterday’s
close, according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.  German Boycott  Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  tendered his
resignation after plans to cut the budget were rejected by
parliament, pushing the country closer to a bailout.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  called for a boycott of
Libyan oil as a way to stop finance flows to the regime of
 Muammar Qaddafi .  There should be “no more oil exports from Libya to
European countries,” Merkel told lawmakers today in Berlin in a
speech on the European Union summit beginning today.  Germany 
supports the goals of the current military intervention, which
it abstained from approving in the  United Nations , she said.  U.S. crude inventories rose for a third week, climbing to
352.8 million in the seven days ended March 18, Energy
Department data yesterday showed. Gasoline stockpiles fell 5.32
million barrels to 219.7 million, the lowest level since
December. Supplies were forecast to decline by 2 million
barrels, according to the Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Total fuel demand increased 1 percent to 19.3 million
barrels a day, the Energy Department report showed. Gasoline
consumption climbed 2.8 percent to 9.07 million barrels a day.  “We’re definitely seeing a rise in gasoline demand, it’s
not as bearish as WTI stocks,” said Mark Keenan, chief
investment officer of Cubit Asset Management Pte in  Singapore .  Cushing Supplies Grow  Crude inventories climbed 2.13 million barrels to 352.8
million, the Energy Department said. Supplies were forecast to
increase 1.5 million barrels, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
West Texas oil, rose 177,000 barrels to 40.2 million last week,
the Energy Department report showed. Supplies increased to 40.3
million in the week ended March 4, the highest since the
department began collecting data at the hub in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  