-- 
Oil Trades Near Two-Day Low U.S. Economic Outlook; JPMorgan Raises Brent

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-03-25T08:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-signs-european-u-s-fuel-demand-may-weaken.html
Oil traded near a two-day low in
 New York  as speculation of reduced demand in the U.S. outweighed
concern the Libyan conflict and unrest in the Middle East will
further disrupt supply.  Futures dropped from the highest in more than two years
yesterday after durable-goods orders in the U.S., the world’s
largest oil consumer, unexpectedly fell in February. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. raised its forecast for London-traded Brent crude as
Allied warplanes carried out more strikes against ground forces
loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  “The market now wants to refocus on economic data and
what’s actually happening out there in the world rather than the
Gulf,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity
Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “The fact that it hasn’t moved
on from these levels suggest that people are discounting the
concerns” about  Libya  and the Middle East.  Crude for May delivery was at $105.57 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 3
cents, at 3:55 p.m. Singapore time. It declined 15 cents to
$105.60 yesterday. On March 23, the contract settled at $105.75
the highest since Sept. 26, 2008.  Prices have climbed 4.5 percent this week, the first gain
in three, and are up 31 percent from a year earlier.  U.S. orders for goods meant to last at least three years
decreased 0.9 percent last month, according to a Commerce
Department report yesterday. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News expected a median 1.2 percent increase.  Brent, JPMorgan  Brent crude  for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $115.89 a barrel, up 17 cents.
Yesterday, it rose 0.2 percent to $115.72, the highest since
March 9.  Brent will average $118 a barrel in the second quarter
because of export halts in Libya, JPMorgan said in a monthly
report e-mailed today. Prices may “spend some time” above $120
and reach as high as $130, according to the second-largest  U.S.
bank . Futures last traded at the level in July 2008.  New York crude has rallied 25 percent since protests began
Feb. 15 in Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. The conflict is the bloodiest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt 
and spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  ‘Tolerance Friday’  Yemen’s strengthening opposition movement plans to march to
the Presidential Palace today and hold nationwide protests as
government supporters pour into Sana’a, the capital, for a rally
dubbed “Tolerance Friday.”  Libya’s crude exports may be curbed for months due to
sanctions and damage to production facilities, the  International
Energy Agency  said March 15. The country is the third-biggest
producer in Africa and holds the continent’s largest reserves.  Shipments from OPEC will drop to the lowest since October
because of Libya’s civil war, according to tanker-tracker Oil
Movements in Halifax,  England . The producers’ group, which pumps
40 percent of the world’s crude, may raise official output
targets at its next meeting June 8, said David Kirsch, an
analyst at PFC Energy, a consultant in  Kansas City .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  