-- 
Oil Futures Slip From 30-Month High on Concern Over European Debt, Economy

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-24T20:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/oil-fluctuates-near-30-month-high-on-middle-east-unrest-portugal-bailout.html
Oil slipped from the highest price
in more than two years in  New York  on concern that demand from
 Europe  will be slow to recover if  Portugal  becomes the third
country using the euro to require emergency aid.  Crude dropped for the first time in four days after  Fitch
Ratings  cut Portugal’s credit ranking and U.S. durable goods
orders unexpectedly declined. Oil also fell after failing to
breach technical resistance at $106.95, the March 7 high.
Futures rose earlier on U.S. and allied airstrikes in Libya.  “We can’t support $100 oil, and that’s becoming more and
more evident as we see these economic figures come out from
Europe and the U.S,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks
& Opinions LLC in Houston. “We saw the highs, and we couldn’t
press through.”  Crude for May delivery fell 15 cents to settle at $105.60 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures touched
$106.69 in intraday trading. Prices have climbed 31 percent in
the past year. Yesterday, the contract reached $105.75, the
highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  Brent oil for May settlement gained 17 cents to $115.72 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Portugal’s debt woes may require a bailout of as much as 70
billion euros ($99 billion), said two European officials with
direct knowledge of the matter. The EU lent 177.5 billion euros
last year to Greece and Ireland to avert defaults, triggering a
backlash in Europe’s better-off countries such as Germany.  Fitch announced its ratings cut as a summit of European
Union leaders got under way in Brussels to discuss the
situation. Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned
before the meeting after plans to cut the budget were rejected
by parliament.  Fitch Downgrade  Fitch downgraded Portugal’s long-term foreign and local
currency issuer default ratings by two levels to ‘A-’ and its
short-term issuer default ratings to “good” from “highest”
 credit quality .  “The worries are back there about Europe again with
concerns about Portugal,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP
Paribas Commodity Futures in New York. “We also had the durable
goods orders come out this morning, and that gave us a bit more
of a pullback.”  Orders for long-lasting goods in the U.S. unexpectedly
dropped 0.9 percent in February after a 3.6 percent gain the
prior month that was higher than initially reported, the
Commerce Department said today in  Washington .  Air Strikes  Earlier, crude gained as much as 0.9 percent when U.S. and
allied warplanes carried out strikes against  Libya , heightening
concern that oil supplies from the region may be disrupted.  French aircraft bombed a Libyan air force base 250
kilometers (150 miles) south of the country’s coast late
yesterday, Thierry Burkhard, a military spokesman, said today.
Libyan government forces increased their attacks on cities,
killing 16 people yesterday in Misrata in the west and six in
the nearby coastal town of Zentan, Abdulhafid Ghoga, an
opposition spokesman, said at a news conference in Benghazi.  Oil supplies from Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest producer,
collapsed to a “trickle” last week from 1.6 million barrels a
day in January and may be halted for months because of
sanctions, the International Energy Agency estimates.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  called for a boycott of
Libyan oil as a way to stop finance flows to the regime of long-
time Leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  There should be “no more oil exports from Libya to
European countries,” Merkel told lawmakers in Berlin in a
speech on the European Union summit that began today.  Germany 
supports the goals of the current military intervention, which
it abstained from approving in the  United Nations , she said.  Oil Supply  Oil shipments from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will drop to the lowest level since October as the
fighting in Libya halts exports, according to tanker-tracker Oil
Movements.  Shipments will fall to 23.03 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to April 9, down 1.8 percent from 23.46 million in
the period ended March 12, the consultant said in a report
today. The data exclude Ecuador and Angola. Exports from West
Africa to Europe and the U.S. will jump as refiners seek to
replace disrupted Libyan shipments, the company said.  OPEC members are more likely than at any time in the past
two years to agree to a formal supply increase when they meet in
June because of a forecast for a “sustained” supply
disruption, according to David Kirsch, a  Kansas City , Kansas-
based analyst with PFC Energy.  “This is certainly the first production increase they’ll
be discussing since 2008,” Kirsch said. “Under any scenario,
even if Qaddafi were to depart tomorrow, Libyan oil is going to
remain at limited production for a significant period of time.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 503,961
contracts as of 3:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 519,675
contracts yesterday, 36 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.51 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 