-- 
Spanish Bank Ratings Cut at Moody’s After Nation Downgraded

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-03-24T17:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/moody-s-downgrades-30-spanish-banks-maintains-ratings-for-santander-bbva.html
Thirty of  Spain ’s smaller banks had
their senior debt and deposit ratings downgraded, as Moody’s
Investors Service reviews whether governments are willing to
support all their lenders in a crisis.  Citing heightened financial pressure on the country’s
sovereign rating and “many weak banks,” the New York-based
ratings firm cut 15 lenders by two levels and five by three or
four, according to a statement today. The outlook on most banks’
senior and deposit ratings remains negative, Moody’s said.  “It seems increasingly plausible that hard choices will
need to be made at some point over the rating horizon, balancing
the sovereign’s incentive to support the banks with the need to
protect its own balance sheet,” Moody’s said in the statement.
“It is, in Moody’s view, increasingly likely that the sovereign
will not be prepared to write all banks a blank check.”  Governments are seeking to guarantee taxpayers don’t have
to step in to support lenders in distress by ensuring creditors
bear losses, prompting Moody’s to reconsider the state support
it factors into its ratings. In  Denmark , where senior
bondholders of Amagerbanken A/S were forced to take losses, the
firm cut the grades of five lenders and may cut them again.  Wider Review  Pressure on senior creditors of banks is growing. Moody’s
has acted on the ratings of Irish banks, reflecting politicians’
remarks about their willingness to support the senior creditors
of the nation’s lenders. The European Commission recently closed
the comment period on its proposals to change the way  member
states  shore up banks.  “This is the first step in a wider review of the systemic
support available to smaller institutions, institutions we think
it unlikely would be considered to be systemic,” Moody’s chief
credit officer for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa ,  Alastair
Wilson , said by phone today. “We’re going to carry out a series
of country-by-country reviews of banking systems.”  He declined to say which countries would be examined next.  Banco Pastor SA had its long-term rating cut four levels to
Ba1, below investment grade, from A3. The outlook remains
negative. Moody’s imposed a similar downgrade on CatalunyaCaixa,
a grouping of savings banks. Ratings at  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) 
and  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , a unit of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
were lowered to A2 from Aa3, with a negative outlook, a two-
level downgrade. The rating at Santander Consumer Finance was
cut two steps to Baa1 from A2. Caja  Madrid  had its rating cut to
Baa1 from A1, a three-level reduction.  “We strongly disagree with this downgrade,” said Susana Quintas, deputy general manager at Pastor, in a phone interview
with Bloomberg Television. “It is driven basically by Moody’s
perception of the Spanish economy.”  ‘Highly Solvent’  Banks of a size to make them central to the smooth running
of the financial system are still likely to receive support,
Wilson said. Moody’s confirmed its Aa2 rating on the deposit and
senior debt ratings of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and
Banco Santander SA, the nation’s two biggest banks, as well as
 La Caixa , all with a negative outlook.  BBVA rose 1.2 percent to 9.059 euros at close in Madrid
trading, reversing earlier declines of as much as 2 percent,
while Santander  gained  1.4 percent to 8.57 euros after earlier
declining as much as 1.8 percent.  “That certain lenders have problems is well-known and
can’t be denied,” said  Pablo Garcia , head of equities at Oddo
Sociedad de Valores in Madrid. “But in our opinion, at least 70
percent of the Spanish financial system is highly solvent.”  Bonds Gain  Spain’s credit rating was cut to Aa2 on March 10 by
Moody’s, which said the cost of shoring up the banking industry
will eclipse government estimates. The ratings company said then
that Spanish lenders may need as much as 50 billion euros ($70.3
billion) to meet new  capital requirements , a figure that
compares with the Bank of Spain’s estimate that 12 lenders will
need 15.2 billion euros.  Senior unsecured bonds of Spanish lenders slipped after the
sovereign was cut. Today, the 900 million euros of floating-rate
bonds due 2013 issued by Bankinter SA rose to 97.72 cents from
97.4 cents yesterday, Bloomberg pricing data show. Banco de
Sabadell SA’s 4.375 percent notes gained to 100.62 from 100.30
to yield 3.8 percent, the prices show.  Credit default swaps protecting Spanish government debt
were little changed at 222.5 basis points, according to CMA,
compared with Nov. 30’s all-time high of 368.  Capital Plans  Spanish lenders that are short of capital have until March
28 to tell the Bank of Spain how and by when they will raise the
resources they need to meet the new requirements. The Bank of
Spain then has until April 14 to approve the plans.  Lenders including Bankia, the bank emerging from the merger
of  Caja Madrid , Bancaja and five other savings banks, and Banca
Civica, have said they will raise money through share listings.  “The Moody’s actions today are as a direct consequence of
the sovereign downgrade and are normal,” said Inigo Lecubarri,
who helps manage about $200 million at Abaco Financials Fund in
 London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  