-- 
OPEC Supply Falls to Six-Month Low on Libya, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-24T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/opec-supply-falls-to-six-month-low-on-libya-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will cut oil shipments to their lowest level
since October as civil war halts exports from  Libya , according
to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Shipments will fall to 23.03 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to April 9, down 1.8 percent from 23.46 million in
the period to March 12, the consultant said in a report today.
The data exclude Ecuador and Angola. Exports from West Africa to
 Europe  and the U.S. will jump as refiners seek to replace
disrupted Libyan shipments, the company said.  “It’s a precipitous drop,” Oil Movements founder Roy Mason said by phone from Halifax,  England . “Market tightness
will get worse through the spring as refiners are coming out of
maintenance now and their capacity is going up.”  Libyan oil output has slumped as a conflict between its
government and insurgents forced companies including Total SA
and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to suspend operations and evacuate staff.
Crude exports from the country may be halted for many months,
the  International Energy Agency  said on March 15.  This week’s data probably reflects the full extent of
losses in Libya, Mason said.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including those
from non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen, will increase 1.5 percent
to 17.72 million barrels in the four weeks to April 9 as  Saudi
Arabia  and other Gulf nations fulfill a pledge to replace lost
Libyan output, Oil Movements said.  Exports of West African oil, more similar in quality than
Gulf supplies to Libyan crude, going to refiners in Europe and
the U.S. will be up 30 percent at 2.6 million barrels a day
compared with the four weeks to Feb. 19, Mason said. West
African volumes sent to  Asia  will drop by an equivalent amount.  A total of 477.9 million barrels of crude will be on board
tankers in the four weeks to April 9, up 1.6 percent from the
March 12 figure of 470.2 million, according to Oil Movements.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  