-- 
Oracle Tops Estimates as Companies Buy Databases in Cloud Push

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-24T20:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/oracle-tops-estimates-as-companies-buy-databases-in-cloud-computing-push.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s top
supplier of  database software , posted third-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as companies stepped up spending on
programs they need to organize data and handle business tasks.  Profit excluding acquisition costs and some other expenses
was 54 cents a share in the fiscal third quarter, which ended
Feb. 28,  Redwood City , California-based Oracle said in a
statement today. That topped the 50-cent average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Oracle also raised its dividend.  Companies are bulking up on software and hardware that will
help them cater to customers expanding in computing via the
Internet, through the so-called cloud. That benefits Oracle,
which added server machines that help run corporate networks
through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems Inc. last year.  “They’re the No. 1 database supplier and any time there’s
a new IT initiative, it starts with a database,” Yun Kim, an
analyst at Gleacher & Co. in  New York , said in an interview.
“They can more than offset any disruption in  Japan .” Kim has a
“buy” rating on the shares and doesn’t own them.  New software license sales, a predictor of future revenue,
rose 29 percent to $2.21 billion, bolstered by favorable
currency exchange rates. That’s higher than the $1.98 billion
estimate of Jason Maynard, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities.  Sales rose 37 percent to $8.76 billion. Net income was
$2.12 billion, or 41 cents a share, compared with $1.19 billion,
or 23 cents a share, a year earlier.  Oracle rose 73 cents to $32.14 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Integrating  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  is doing a better job
than many expected in integrating the company’s acquisition of
Sun by focusing on profitable, high-end hardware that runs
Oracle software, Maynard said. That’s allowing Ellison to make
headway on his projection that the purchase will boost fiscal
2011 operating profit by $1.5 billion.  “They’ve done a remarkably good job at executing and not
having any major missteps,” he said. “What’s made them loved
among investors is they don’t make mistakes. A lot of other
companies get easily distracted.”  Oracle is in the process of releasing new versions of its
business applications developed under a project known as Fusion.  Results for this quarter may be affected by the earthquake
and resulting tsunami in Japan, analysts said. Oracle Japan
represented 5 percent of total sales last fiscal year, or about
$1.35 billion, said Patrick Walravens, an analyst at JMP
Securities, citing filings. Based on that, Walravens expects
$157 million in sales may be at risk in the fourth quarter.  Spat With Hewlett-Packard  Oracle said this week it would halt software development on
 Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium server chip. The move could affect sales
of servers that use Itanium sold by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the
biggest customer of the chip. Hewlett-Packard and Oracle are
increasingly competing in the burgeoning market for data
centers, or large rooms of servers that deliver software and
information globally.  Hewlett-Packard has termed Oracle’s plan a “shameless
gambit” that jeopardizes customers and will hundreds of
millions of dollars in productivity. Oracle claims that Intel
plans to stop making the chip, an assertion that Intel denies,
and has accused Hewlett-Packard of “knowingly withholding this
information” from customers.  Under Ellison, Oracle has spent more than $42 billion on
acquisitions since the beginning of 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  