-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Probably Rose in February

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-24T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-rose-in-february.html
Orders for long-lasting goods
probably climbed in February for a second month, pointing to
production gains that will keep driving the U.S. recovery,
economists said before a report today.  Durable-goods bookings increased 1.2 percent last month
after a 3.2 percent gain in January, according to the median
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another
report may show jobless claims were little changed last week.  Gains in exports, business investment and  consumer spending 
are helping fuel orders at companies such as Texas Instruments
Inc. Strength in manufacturing was among reasons the  Federal
Reserve  last week said the economy was on a “firmer footing.”  “The manufacturing sector has made a very good recovery,”
said Robert Brusca, president of Fact & Opinion Economics in  New
York . “As long as we have continued sales growth, which we do,
you would expect to see inventories picking up.”  The Commerce Department’s report on orders is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline
of 1.6 percent to a gain of 4.5 percent.  A report from the Labor Department at the same time may
show the number of applications for jobless benefits fell last
week to 383,000 from 385,000 the prior week, according to
economists’ forecasts.  Consumer confidence  last week probably held at the lowest
level since August as elevated gasoline prices made Americans
pessimistic about the economy. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index held at 48.5 in the period to March 20, economists project
the survey will show at 9:45 a.m.  Equipment Orders  Bookings for durable goods excluding transportation
equipment like commercial aircraft, which is volatile month to
month, may have climbed 2 percent after a 3 percent decline, the
Bloomberg survey showed. Capital goods orders climbed 4.3
percent, according to the median projection.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the largest U.S. maker of aircraft, this month
said February orders fell to 21 from 34 in January. Industry
data may not correlate precisely with the government statistics
on a month-to-month basis.  Auto sales climbed for the past six months. Demand at
General Motors Co., Toyota Motor Corp. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in
February exceeded analysts’ estimates as industrywide sales rose
to a 13.38 million annual rate, the most in 18 months.  “We still see good signs of progress despite some of the
challenges that do remain in the U.S. market,” Donald Johnson,
vice president for GM’s North America sales, said on a
teleconference on March 1. “We’re going to see this slow-but-
steady growth throughout the year.”  Business Spending  Factories, which account for 11 percent of the economy, are
likely to remain at the forefront of the recovery as consumers
step up spending and businesses replenish inventories and buy
new equipment.  “We have seen orders build through the quarter,” Ron
Slaymaker, vice president of  investor relations  for Dallas-based
Texas Instruments, said on a conference call with analysts March
8. “Based upon what we’re seeing through the first two months,
we would expect that orders will be up solidly compared to the
fourth quarter.”  Shares of industrial companies have been outpacing the
broader market in the recovery. The Standard & Poor’s Machinery
Supercomposite Index is up 39 percent in the 12 months ended
yesterday, while the  S&P 500  is up 11 percent during the same
period.  Tax Help  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may be helped in part by President Barack Obama’s  The December tax compromise reached by President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans also included a provision
allowing companies to depreciate 100 percent of investments in
capital equipment this year and 50 percent in 2011. The
incentive may give business investment, which helped lead the
economy out of recession in mid-2009, an additional boost.  Demand from fast-growing countries like  China  and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. America
exports in January rose to the highest level on record.  One potential hurdle is the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
in  Japan , which prompted a nuclear crisis and caused electrical
outages. U.S. companies are still trying to gauge the effects of
the tragedy on international supply chains.  “Manufacturing activity improved” in 11 of 12  Federal
Reserve  districts in January and early February, Fed policy
makers noted in their March 2 Beige Book survey of regional
economies. “Demand from abroad, particularly  Asia , was cited by
several Districts as a driving force in new orders.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  