-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Unexpectedly Declined in February

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-24T12:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-unexpectedly-drop-on-less-capital-investment.html
Orders for long-lasting goods
unexpectedly fell in February, reflecting declines in demand for
capital goods and military aircraft.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
dropped 0.9 percent after a 3.6 percent gain the prior month that
was higher than initially reported, the Commerce Department said
today in Washington. Orders excluding transportation equipment
fell for a second month and demand for business equipment
declined.  Companies may be tempering their purchases of new equipment
until further signs emerge that the recovery is broadening out
and will generate faster job growth. Even so, rising exports to
China and other emerging economies will keep manufacturers such
as  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , helping the economy expand.  “It’ll be a challenge to maintain the momentum” in
machinery orders,  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities USA
Inc. in  New York , said before the report. “But we still have
this uptrend.”  The median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 1.2 percent increase in orders after a
previously reported 3.2 percent rise in January. Estimates ranged
from a 1.6 percent decline to a 4.5 percent gain.  Orders excluding transportation equipment decreased 0.6
percent after a 3 percent January decline. They were forecast to
rise 2 percent. Bookings minus military goods rose 0.4 percent
after a 2.8 percent gain.  Civilian aircraft orders jumped 27 percent, while bookings
for military aircraft and parts slumped 18 percent in February.  Boeing Co., the largest U.S. maker of aircraft, this month
said February airplane orders fell to 21 from 34 in January.
Industry data may not correlate precisely with the government
statistics on a month-to-month basis.  Capital Goods  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
items like computers and communications gear, fell 1.3 percent
after falling 6 percent the prior month.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, increased 0.8 percent
after falling 2.3 percent in January.  Demand for machinery fell 4.2 percent after dropping 13
percent. Orders for communications equipment declined 2.3 percent
following a 19 percent plunge. Demand for automobiles rose 1.9
percent for a second month.  Auto sales climbed for the past six months. Demand at
General Motors Co., Toyota Motor Corp. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in
February exceeded analysts’ estimates as industrywide sales rose
to a 13.38 million annual rate, the most in 18 months.  ‘Signs of Progress’  “We still see good signs of progress despite some of the
challenges that do remain in the U.S. market,” Donald Johnson,
vice president for GM’s North America sales, said on a
teleconference on March 1. “We’re going to see this slow but
steady growth throughout the year.”  The manufacturing industries that account for 11 percent of
the economy are likely to remain at the forefront of the recovery
businesses replenish inventories.  “We have seen orders build through the quarter,” Ron
Slaymaker, vice president of  investor relations  for Dallas-based
Texas Instruments, said on a conference call with analysts March
8. “Based upon what we’re seeing through the first two months,
we would expect that orders will be up solidly compared to the
fourth quarter.”  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may be helped in part by President Barack Obama’s December compromise with congressional Republicans on
taxes. Companies will be able to depreciate 100 percent of
investments in capital equipment this year and 50 percent in
2011.  More Exports  Demand from fast-growing countries like  China  and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. U.S.
exports in January rose to the highest level on record.  One potential hurdle is the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
in  Japan , which prompted a nuclear crisis and caused electrical
outages. U.S. companies are still trying to gauge the effects of
the tragedy on international supply chains.  “Manufacturing activity improved” in 11 of 12 Federal
Reserve districts in January and early February, Fed policy
makers noted in their March 2 Beige Book survey of regional
economies. “Demand from abroad, particularly  Asia , was cited by
several Districts as a driving force in new orders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  