-- 
Moroccans Protest Monarch’s $2 Billion Fund as Democracy Barrier

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   A i d a   A l a m i
-- 
2011-03-24T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/moroccans-protest-monarch-s-2-billion-wealth-fund-as-barrier-to-democracy.html
When tens of thousands of Moroccans
took to the streets nationwide on March 20, their chanted
demands echoed those of citizens across the Arab world: freer
elections, greater civil liberties and less corruption.  Except they were also protesting an investment fund.  SNI, with assets worth at least $2 billion, is controlled
by  Morocco ’s King Mohammed VI and managed by Mohamed Mounir Al
Majidi, the king’s private secretary, who has business interests
of his own. The 47-year-old monarch holds stakes in banking,
insurance, dairy, sugar and cooking-oil companies; his advisers
are involved in ventures from consulting to advertising.  For protesters, SNI’s web of interests highlights the flaw
in the king’s March 9 promise to put Morocco on the path
to becoming the Arab world’s first constitutional monarchy.
Unless the influence wielded by Mohammed VI and his advisers is
weakened, his promises will ring hollow, they say.  “You can’t have fair competition when the people with
power descend into the souk,” said Abdelilah Benkirane, leader
of the  Justice and Development Party , an Islamist party modeled
on  Turkey ’s AKP. “That has to end.”  “SNI Out” and “Majidi Go Away,” read banners held by
demonstrators in many of the 53 cities that saw protests.  The popular movements that ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  have
spread to Morocco, though with a difference. The crowds have
been smaller and peaceful. Police have kept their distance.
Moroccan protesters are demanding greater democracy and an end
to corruption, not a change in regime.  Moroccan Difference  The best way to reduce the king’s hold over the economy is
to pressure him to go through with the constitutional changes
he’s promised, Benkirane said. The ruling family has reigned
since the  17th century , and Mohammed VI’s grandfather led the
liberation struggle that ended the French protectorate in 1956.  “A political person can’t also be an economic actor,”
said Chakir Aboubakir, a 28-year-old freelance salesman and
business student involved with  February 20 , a Facebook-based
movement that organized protests on that day and again on March
20. “He has to choose.”  Mohammed VI has already loosened freedom of speech since
becoming king in 1999, even setting up an Equity and
Reconciliation Commission in 2004. It investigated thousands of
victims of disappearances and arbitrary detentions under
Mohammed VI’s father, King Hassan II.  The constitutional changes, to be drawn by a commission by
June, will be put to a referendum in this country of 32 million.  Strikes, Demands  During three days last week, unemployed university
graduates gathered outside the parliament in Rabat to demand
jobs, teachers camped outside the  Education Ministry  protesting
low wages, retired bus drivers in Casablanca demanded back
pension payments outside the city courthouse and members of
February 20 met at the headquarters of an opposition party to
debate strategy. Police were barely in sight.  Among the 17 Arab countries, only Kuwait and Lebanon were
freer than Morocco, according to last year’s annual rankings by
Washington-based  Freedom House .  “The monarchy is not contested,” said Omar Radi, a 25-
year old economist and also a member of the February 20 group.
“Other countries haven’t had the opening we’ve had since 2000.
He’s let some pressure off.”  Share Buyback  SNI, which has no website and operates from an unmarked
Casablanca office building, was listed on the Casablanca stock
market until August 2010, when it merged with its subsidiary
Omnium Nord Africain and bought back its outstanding shares in a
$3.9-billion offer.  In 2009, its last full year as a quoted company, SNI
reported revenue of 3.4 billion dirhams ($430 million) and stock
market holdings valued at 17.4 billion. ONA and SNI accounted
for 11.7 percent of the Casablanca market’s 509 billion dirham
market capitalization at end of 2009, according to figures in
the bourse’s annual report.  According to the website of Bourse de Casablanca, the
country’s main stock market, SNI combined owns 48.3 percent of
 Attijariwafa Bank (ATW) , the country’s largest publicly traded bank;
79 percent of  Wafa Assurance (WAA) , the largest traded insurer; 63.4
percent of  Centrale Laitiere (CLT) , its largest dairy; 75.8 percent of
Lesieur Cristal, its largest maker of cooking oils; and 63.5
percent of Cosumar, the largest sugar refiner.  Steel and Sugar  It controls 65 percent of steelmaker Sonasid through a
joint venture with  ArcelorMittal (MT)  set up in 2006. Lafarge Maroc,
the country’s largest producer of building materials, is in a
50-50 venture with Paris-based  Lafarge SA. (LG)   At the time of the merger, SNI said it would sell its
stakes in Cosumar, Lesieur Cristal and Centrale Laitiere, which
is has yet to do. Shares of  Cosumar (CSR)  and Centrale Laitier are
both up 10 percent since the beginning of the year, making them
the ninth- and 10th-best performers on Casablanca’s benchmark
Madex index.  The index is unchanged since the start of the year, while
the Dow Jones Arabia Titans 50 Index is down 9 percent. Its
10th-best performer: Attijariwafa Bank, up 0.4 percent.  SNI didn’t respond to phone and e-mail requests for
comment. A receptionist at the unmarked SNI office space in an
Attijariwafa office building in Casablanca’s business district
said no documentation was available. Communications Minister
Khalid Naciri didn’t return phone and e-mail messages.  ‘Beneficial Rights’  “Institutions such as the royal family’s holding company,
Omnium Nord Africaine (ONA), which now clears most large
(property) development projects, regularly coerce developers
into granting beneficial rights to ONA,” said a U.S. diplomatic
cable written in December 2009 by Casablanca consul general
 Elisabeth Millard  and released by Wikileaks.  The king’s advisers are involved in the economy as well.
Fouad El Himma, the former deputy minister of interior who now
heads the Party of Authenticity and Modernity, owns Cabinet Mena
Media Consulting, said Rachid Filali Meknassi, secretary-general
of Transparency Maroc, a Rabat-based organization linked to
 Transparency International . Majidi, the private secretary, owns
FC Communication, the country’s largest outdoor advertising
company, Filali said.  “Once there is a real parliament and government in place,
then the real battle against the Makhzen can begin,” said
Azzedine Layachi, a political science professor at  St. John’s
University  in  New York . He was using a Moroccan term that means
the “warehouse” and refers to the royal advisers, business
leaders and top bureaucrats who hold power behind the scenes.  Prime Minister  In his 11-minute speech on March 9, seated between his
seven-year old son and his 40-year old brother, the king said he
would strengthen the powers of the prime minister, who will come
from an elected political party, and promote free and fair
elections. Regional councils also are to be elected.  The king didn’t mention abolishing the constitution’s
Article 19, which has been interpreted to give him full powers,
and he’ll choose the members of the commission himself --
ignoring two demands of the February 20 movement.  Karim Tazi, the former head of the  Moroccan Textile
Industry Federation , the country’s largest industrial employer,
said the state-run media’s derision of the February 20 movement
and the king’s power over the economy are worrying signs.  “There’s clearly pride on the side of the king, that he
wants to do it at his own rhythm and not be rushed by the
street,” Tazi said. “The risk is that by not listening, the
palace will radicalize the movement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Casablanca at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net 
Aida Alami in Cairo at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  