-- 
Osborne Seeks to Ease U.K. Voter Pain by Taxing Oil Companies, Banks, Rich

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a ,   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T13:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/osborne-seeks-to-ease-u-k-voter-pain-by-taxing-oil-companies-banks-rich.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  sought to pacify U.K. voters hit by his deficit-
reduction plans and a sluggish economy with money taken from oil
companies, banks and the wealthy.  Osborne’s annual budget in the House of Commons yesterday
left his plans for the biggest fiscal consolidation since World
War II intact even as he cut fuel duty and lowered the income-
tax bill for most Britons to alleviate the squeeze on living
standards. Dubbing it a “budget for growth,” Osborne cut
company tax to 26 percent before clawing back money through a
higher bank levy and increased charges on North Sea oil.  “The people who lost in the budget were the oil companies,
rich people who avoid tax and polluters,” Osborne said in an
ITV interview this morning. “The winners were motorists with
that fuel-duty cut, working families and businesses.”  Almost a year into government, Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is seeking to reverse lagging opinion-poll ratings and prepare
the path for tax cuts before the next election, due in 2015. The
challenge for Osborne is to make voters feel better about their
economic prospects without unsettling investors who are banking
on him seeing through plans to all but eliminate the deficit.  ‘Different Tone’  The budget was “impressively populist even though the
wider macroeconomic situation is appalling,”  Andrew Hawkins ,
chairman of London-based polling company ComRes Ltd., said in a
telephone interview. “This budget sets a different tone. The
emergency budget last year was bleak. He is now telling people
that he is a tax-cutter, something we haven’t heard from the
coalition yet.”  The main opposition  Labour Party  has opened a poll lead of
as much as  11 percentage points  over Cameron’s Conservatives as
their coalition with Nick Clegg’s Liberal Democrats makes cuts
that will see the loss of 310,000 public-sector jobs. Labour is
telling voters that Osborne is going too far and too fast at a
time when the economy is struggling and inflation is at its
highest for more than two years.  The pound fell for a second day, dropping 0.6 percent to
$1.6146 as of 1:38 p.m. in London. The yield on the 10-year gilt
rose 1 basis point to 3.57 percent.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband , responding to Osborne’s
statement in Parliament, sought to draw parallels with previous
Conservative administrations that he said had allowed
unemployment to soar. Miliband mocked Osborne’s statement as “a
budget for growth that downgrades the growth forecast.”  Osborne told the House that the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  now predicts the economy will expand 1.7 percent
in 2011, down from the previous forecast of 2.1 percent.  ‘It’s Hurting’  “The chancellor spoke for an hour but one fact said it
all,” Miliband said. “Growth down last year, this year and
next year. It’s the same old Tories. It’s hurting but it isn’t
working.”  As Labour lawmakers joined in chanting, Miliband said of
Osborne: “His three priorities for the year were growth,
growth, growth, and what happened in this budget? Growth down,
down, down.”  Moody’s Investors Service said the prospect of Britain
retaining its top credit grade is driven by economic growth and
the fiscal plans. Osborne’s statement “indicates that the U.K.
has the willingness to meet these challenges,” it said.  While the lower growth forecasts “do not directly cast
doubt” on the grade, “slower growth combined with weaker-than-
expected fiscal consolidation could cause the U.K.’s debt
metrics to deteriorate to a point that would be inconsistent
with an Aaa rating,” Moody’s said.  North Sea Oil  The OBR said today that the outlook may be jeopardized by
further gains in  oil prices . “If inflation doesn’t fall in
2012, that will undermine our growth forecasts,” said Stephen Nickell, a member of the three-person committee.  Among his headline measures, Osborne raised oil production
taxes to pay for a cut in fuel duty aimed at helping drivers
paying record gasoline prices. The supplementary charge on North
Sea oil profits went up to 32 percent from 20 percent, while
Osborne lowered the tax on gasoline pump prices by 1 penny a
liter and delayed a planned increase in line with inflation for
a year.  “The cut in fuel duty was politically astute as it was
better than people expected,” Wyn Grant, professor of politics
at Warwick University, said in a telephone interview.  “I know that by itself it will not end the pressure on
family budgets, but we’ve done what we can to help,” Osborne
said of the fuel-duty cut. He said his deficit-reduction policy
was keeping  interest rates  low, which would help families by
speeding economic recovery.  ‘No Funny Business’  Osborne spent the morning after the budget on television
rebutting suggestions by interviewers that  oil companies  would
seek to pass on the higher tax on profits by charging more at
the pumps.  “We will be watching like a hawk to make sure motorists
get the benefit of the changes and there is no funny business,”
he told ITV.  Osborne increased by 630 pounds ($1,024) to 8,105 pounds
the amount a person can earn without paying tax, providing a
120-pound  tax cut  to most earners. By abandoning last year’s
plan to lower the threshold at which people start paying the
middle 40 percent rate of tax, Osborne avoided creating more
losers from a cut to child benefit he proposed in October.  “It is a budget about carrying on taking the medicine,”
said Grant. “Follow on the course from last year but here’s a
couple of aspirin for your pain.”  Interest-Free Loans  For 10,000 people earning less than 60,000 pounds a year
who are buying their first home, Osborne offered 250 million
pounds in interest-free loans.  Still, yesterday’s plans failed to fully offset the effect
on households since Osborne became chancellor in May. His tax
and spending plans leave household incomes on average about 1.5
percent worse off, with the top and bottom deciles suffering
even more, according to  budget documents .  “The pressure to flinch will now mount,”  Andrew Tyrie ,
the Conservative lawmaker who chairs Parliament’s Treasury
Committee, told Osborne. “We simply mustn’t do so.”  The measures for households come alongside help for
companies, with a 2 percentage-point cut in  corporation tax  next
month followed by a further 1 point cut in each of the next
three years. That will take it to 23 percent, “making it the
lowest in the G-7,” Osborne said.  Bank Levy  Banks, though, face an increase in the levy on their
balance sheets to 0.078 percent starting in January 2012 to
offset any gains from company tax. Osborne also announced help
for small companies with new tax reliefs and tax credits.  Business groups welcomed the budget, saying the measures
will help the economy overcome a slump in the fourth quarter of
last year. Retail sales dropped 0.8 percent in February, more
than economists forecast, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today.  “This budget will help businesses grow and create jobs,”
 John Cridland , director general of the Confederation of British
Industry, the country’s biggest employers’ group, said in a
statement.  In order to claw back the money spent on tax reductions
without altering his deficit plans, Osborne said he’d squeeze
about 1 billion pounds a year from the rich, including a
clampdown on “disguised remuneration” payments, which includes
employees benefiting from getting compensation in shares at a
later date.  Top Rate  A 30,000-pound annual charge on people domiciled elsewhere
for tax purposes who’ve lived in the U.K. for seven years will
rise to 50,000 pounds for those in the country for more than 12
years, Osborne said. In return, he said, income remitted to the
U.K. for investment in British businesses won’t be taxed. He
also pledged not to change the tax status of the non-domiciled
again before 2015.  For the wealthy, though, Osborne held out the prospect of
abolishing the 50 percent top rate of income tax in the future.  “I am clear that the 50-pence  tax rate  would do lasting
damage to our economy if it were to become permanent,” Osborne
said. “That is why I regard it as a temporary measure.”  Underlying the measures to alleviate the difficulties
facing many households is a deteriorating economic outlook over
the next three years. The  OBR  said the economy will be almost 1
percent smaller next year than it expected in November, though
it forecast growth quickening to 2.9 percent in 2013 and 2014.  Fingers Crossed  “These forecasts look incredibly optimistic compared to
everybody else,”  David Blanchflower , professor of economics at
Dartmouth College and a former policy maker at the  Bank of
England , said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “The
budget is fiscally neutral, so how can it be a budget for
growth? I really don’t get it. This is economics by crossing
your fingers: It lowers growth and raises unemployment.”  The deficit plan, while broadly on track, will require an
extra 43 billion pounds of borrowing by 2016 compared with a
November forecast. The position would be improved by a sale of
the British taxpayer’s 65.8 billion-pound stake in  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which is
likely to start next year, according to four people familiar
with the talks.  Unemployment will peak at 8.2 percent of the workforce this
year and inflation will be 4.2 percent, the OBR said.  “We still a have very difficult deficit-reduction plan and
a lot will come down to achieving those spending cuts,”  Ross Walker , chief U.K. economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said in a telephone interview. “It was a neutral budget --
there was never any significant leeway for him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  