-- 
How Acosta Stocks Your Grocer's Shelf

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-03-24T21:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/how-acosta-stocks-your-grocer-s-shelf.html
     March 24 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- After one of the four
plants that produce Kellogg's (K) Eggo brand waffles had to be
shut down in late 2009 as a result of flooding and another was
crippled due to manufacturing mishaps, shortages of the frozen
breakfast staple spread across the U.S. While Kellogg struggled
for several months to get production back online, the
billion-dollar Eggo brand saw its share of the frozen breakfast
market slide from about one-third to 19 percent in early 2010,
according to researcher Nielsen. That's when Kellogg—which has no
shortage of in-house marketers—turned to Acosta, an 84-year-old
sales and marketing firm.  Acosta has 13,000 workers patrolling 130,000 stores in North
America every day for blue-chip clients such as Kellogg, Procter
& Gamble (PG), and Nestlé. They pay Acosta to persuade retailers
such as Wal-Mart Stores (WMT) and Kroger (KR) to carry,
prominently display, or even promote their products to build
future sales. Acosta even helps craft revival plans for brands
that need to regain the attention of retailers, as it did with
Eggo.  "We are the brand behind the brands," explains Chief
Executive Officer Robert Hill, who learned the trade from his
father and grandfather, who owned a small sales agency that
Acosta absorbed in 1994. Acosta, based in Jacksonville, Fla., was
bought in January by private equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners
for $2 billion.  As grocery producers jack up prices to cover surging
commodity costs, Acosta's revenue—which comes from commissions
and totaled $1 billion last year—keeps climbing. "Acosta has a
seat in the boardroom when it comes to a brand's overall business
strategy," says Mark Baum, a partner at strategy firm Marcat
Group. This month, Acosta got the contract to handle Starbucks'
(SBUX) packaged coffee, a $500 million business, after the coffee
giant ditched previous marketing partner Kraft Foods (KFT).  Acosta's 1,000 clients include two-thirds of the No. 1 and 2
brands in most supermarkets. Kellogg chose Acosta because of its
expertise in frozen foods, says Michael Hunter, who oversees
Kellogg's sales strategy for that business. Acosta handles frozen
brands such as Ore-Ida and Birds Eye and has reams of consumer
preference data it can use to convince retailers what strategies
work in the freezer case.  For accounts such as Eggo, Acosta representatives work with
national retailers to plan what their store shelves will look
like, recommending extra space for fast-selling items and placing
new products at eye level to grab attention. They also craft the
manufacturer-funded promotions (such as two-for-one deals)
scheduled at busy shopping times such as holiday weekends. Acosta
deploys teams to work in stores about once a week to ensure that
products are stocked and merchandised correctly. In 2009, Acosta
steered Nestlé through a two-month recall of its Toll House
cookie dough when at least 72 people became ill after eating it
raw. In two weeks, Toll House was back on every major retailer's
shelves.  Acosta has been working with Kellogg since 2001, and its
point man on the Eggo account makes two or three trips to
Kellogg's Battle Creek (Mich.) headquarters each month. Last
spring, when the Eggo plants were back on line, Hill's team met
with retailers such as Kroger to plot Eggo's return. Acosta's
sales team suggested a back-to-school promotion in the middle of
August that would feature two boxes of Eggo's most popular waffle
flavors for $4—more than $2 off the regular price. Acosta's
in-store reps began selling the promotion to retailers a month
earlier, and when Eggo's boxes came back, they got ample display
space and prominent positioning. Last month, Eggo's market share
rose back above 30 percent.  The bottom line: Big food companies use marketing firms
such as Acosta to promote their goods and win shelf space at
supermarkets nationwide.