-- 
Toyota, Panasonic CEOs Silent as Quake Concerns Hurt Shares

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   M a k i   S h i r a k i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-25T09:26:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/toyota-panasonic-ceos-silence-conveys-investors-don-t-matter.html
Two weeks after  Japan ’s strongest
earthquake on record, investors have yet to hear from the
leaders of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  about how
they’re dealing with the crisis.  Toyota President  Akio Toyoda ’s public comments have been
limited to condolences for victims and their families in a March
14 posting on the company website and another two days later on
a racing blog through his alias “Morizo.” Panasonic, Japan’s
biggest home-appliance maker, hasn’t disclosed how many
factories were idled by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, and
President Fumio Ohtsubo has shunned interview requests.  The government estimates the disaster that’s killed more
than 10,000 people may also cost as much as $300 billion.
Japan’s CEOs are unlikely to turn their attention toward
informing investors as fast as Western executives would, said
Kuniko Odaka, who teaches corporate strategy at Kwansei Gakuin
University in western Japan.  “In Japan, the belief that the president runs the company
for employees is very strong, so in cases like these it’s not
uncommon for the president to say the investors don’t matter,”
said Odaka, who worked for  Procter & Gamble Co . during the 1995
Kobe earthquake that killed more than 6,000. “In the West,
companies feel a stronger obligation to shareholders and to
disclose information.”  Tepco Crisis  The magnitude-9 temblor crippled a  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
nuclear plant in Fukushima prefecture that has since leaked
radiation. Utility President Masataka Shimizu attended a press
conference March 13 and hasn’t appeared before reporters since
because he’s been at company headquarters dealing with the
crisis, Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman, said by phone yesterday.  There aren’t any current plans for Shimizu to hold a press
conference, Iwamoto said.  As Japan’s chief executives scramble to assess damages,
holding back on disclosure may erode confidence for some
investors, said  Michael Yoshikami , president and chief
investment strategist at Walnut Creek, California-based YCMNet
Advisors.  “No news can be perceived negatively when your investor
population is global and when much of your market is outside
Japan,” said Yoshikami, whose firm manages about $1 billion.
“I can understand culturally what is going on. Toyota may be
thinking it’s unseemly to talk about their own issues.”  Losses from Japan’s record earthquake and ensuing tsunami
may total $200 billion to $300 billion, according to Risk
Management Solutions Inc., which advises insurers and is based
in Newark,  California .  Twitter Updates  Investors outside Japan comprise almost 25 percent of the
shareholders in Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, said
 Shiori Hashimoto , a company spokeswoman.  “President Toyoda has been working tirelessly to secure
the safety of workers and restoring operations in Japan as soon
as possible,” said Keisuke Kirimoto, a spokesman.  Toyoda has been in back-to-back meetings and is not at a
point where he can go public with any statements, he said.  Eighteen factories will remain closed through March 26, and
the company said yesterday it would resume production of Prius
and Lexus hybrid models at two of those factories on March 28.  Toyota’s market capitalization has dropped by 1.3 trillion
yen ($16 billion), a decline of 10 percent, since the day before
the quake. Panasonic’s market value has fallen by 8.3 percent or
221 billion yen. That’s in line with the 8.6 percent drop in the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average over the same period.  “We’re prepared to issue our top executive’s comments at
the appropriate time,” said  Akira Kadota , a Tokyo-based
spokesman for Panasonic. Ohtsubo heads the company’s  task force 
set up March 12 to deal with the emergency, he said.  Softbank, Nissan  Not all CEOs have kept quiet.  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Chairman
Masayoshi Son updated his almost 950,000 Twitter followers on
what the nation’s third-largest wireless operator was doing to
help relief efforts and to fix downed phone lines.  “Our engineers are working all night to restore
telecommunications,” he wrote in a March 18 posting. “We’re
facing difficulties such as the lack of electricity, the tsunami
wiping out telecommunications equipment, as well as closed roads
and shortage of gasoline.”  Son met governors in the disaster areas to offer assistance
in relief efforts, stopped charging for some services and
visited shelters in disaster areas.  “I cannot stop my tears,” he posted March 18.  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , who
also leads France’s  Renault SA (RNO) , was in Paris attending an
executive committee meeting when the earthquake hit.  Emergency Center  Japan’s second-largest carmaker set up an emergency center
“within hours” of the earthquake, Ghosn said this week in an
interview. About 100 employees, including top management, are
there monitoring factories on an hourly basis.  Nissan resumed operations at six plants on March 21. It
will take the Yokohama-based carmaker until mid-April to resume
major production at its engine plant in Iwaki, Fukushima
prefecture, Ghosn said.  Nissan’s other Japanese production sites are now operating.  “We have a pretty good assessment of the situation of the
company,” he said. “We are getting more confident every day.”  Ryuji Yamada, president of  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s largest
mobile-phone operator, hopped on a helicopter to Miyagi
prefecture March 12 to witness the damage ravaged by the tsunami
in the northeastern region of the country.  Yamada ordered the deployment of 30 mobile base stations
and 30 power-generating cars, the installation of 400 power
generators and the distribution of 910 mobile and 630 satellite
phones to local governments and shelters, according to Naoko
Minobe, a company spokeswoman.  Honda Drive  Takanobu Ito, president of Tokyo-based Honda Motor Co., the
country’s third-largest carmaker, drove more than four hours
north to Tochigi prefecture the day after the earthquake,
spokeswoman Natsuno Asanuma said. The temblor killed one worker
and injured about 30 at three facilities there.  “We want everyone in various fields to do the best to
revive,” Ito told employees in a March 14 message.  Honda’s research-and-development center in Tochigi won’t be
fully operational for several months, the company said
yesterday.  Some CEOs dealt with the crisis remotely.  It was the middle of the night when  Sony Corp. (6758)  Chairman
Howard Stringer, in  New York  to have back surgery, received word
of the disaster that knocked out eight of the company’s 41
plants, representing about 5 percent of the manufacturing output
by Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics.  Stringer was stuck on “the wrong side of the world,” he
said in an e-mail. Vice Chairman Ryoji Chubachi and Executive
Deputy President Yutaka Nakagawa oversaw rescue operations.  Sony Helicopter  Sony sent a helicopter to deliver water and basic
necessities to the 1,100 employees and 100 neighbors trapped in
a building in Tagajo, Stringer told employees in an e-mail.
Engineers built a “make-shift boat” so workers could deliver
food to people trapped nearby, he wrote.  “Our employees there are working impossible hours to
provide support to our employees and operations in the hard-hit
areas,” Stringer wrote.  It is “too early” to discuss the potential impact of the
disaster on Sony’s business and financial results, said
spokesman Shiro Kambe.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  President Yukio Sakamoto learned of the
earthquake while aboard All Nippon Airways Co. flight NH1172
from  Hong Kong  to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport.  “The first thing I did when we landed was to try to call
our factory directors, purchasing managers and human resources
department to find out what happened, but I couldn’t get
through,” Sakamoto, who runs the world’s third-largest maker of
computer-memory chips, said in an interview. “We’re now sending
our customers and business partners daily updates on the
situation.”  ‘Especially Cautious’  When the earthquake struck,  Seiko Epson Corp. (6724)  President
Minoru Usui was attending a graduation ceremony for the
company’s information technology institute in Suwa, central
Japan.  “The safety of employees was my immediate concern,” Usui
said in an e-mail.  Fourteen minutes after the temblor, Usui set up a task
force at the nearby headquarters of the world’s third-largest
maker of printers. The company closed four plants, including one
inside the evacuation zone near the crippled Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant. A plant in nearby Akita prefecture resumed operations
March 22.  As analysts try to quantify the impact on corporate
earnings -- Deutsche Bank AG estimates a 2.4 percent shortfall,
twice that of the Kobe quake -- CEOs may be running out of time
in testing investor patience, said  Hideaki Miyajima , an
economics professor at Waseda University in Tokyo specializing
in corporate governance.  “They may be especially cautious about what information
they make public given the wide-ranging possible scenarios,”
Miyajima said. “It’s forgivable to wait until the 28th, two
weeks after the plant shutdowns began. If they are silent past
then, it may appear that there is a serious problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Osaka at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  