-- 
Procter & Gamble to Form Consumer-Health Venture With Teva

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-03-24T20:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/p-g-teva-in-joint-venture-to-gain-market-share-for-over-the-counter-drugs.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  agreed to combine their consumer-health
businesses outside  North America  in a joint venture that aims to
capture more of the $200 billion market for over-the-counter
medicines.  Teva, the world’s biggest maker of generic drugs, will be
responsible for manufacturing, and also will supply Procter &
Gamble’s North American consumer-health operations, the
companies said in a statement. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed. The markets covered by the venture generated sales of
more than $1 billion in 2010, the companies said.  The agreement will help Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble
expand the market for its consumer-health brands, which include
 Vicks  cough and cold products, Metamucil fiber supplements and
 Pepto-Bismol  upset-stomach products, the companies said. Teva
will strengthen its business with pharmacies by expanding its
offerings.  “It’s two companies that have strengths in different
areas,” said  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis . Teva brings international strength in over-the-
counter medicines, while P&G has marketing prowess and strong
brands, said Russo, who recommends buying P&G shares.  ‘Outside the Box’  The category could represent a higher-growth area for P&G,
with less competition from private-label products and with aging
populations in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  likely to spur demand,
Russo said. Still, he added, “it’s not something that’s really
going to be meaningful for a long time” as a portion of sales.  “Clearly P&G’s thinking outside the box here a little bit,
trying to be creative,” he added. “It’s been tough for them
lately to grow sales.”  P&G, the world’s largest consumer-products maker with $79
billion in sales last year, has a 51 percent stake in the
venture.  The agreement “makes a lot of sense” for Teva, said Gilad Alper, an analyst at Meitav Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .
“It looks like a good, sound, well-structured move into a new
market.” Alper rates Teva shares “market perform.’’  Teva’s American depositary receipts rose $1.23, or 2.5
percent, to $50.35 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. Procter & Gamble advanced 23 cents to $61.14 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Procter & Gamble, based in Cincinnati, had $11.5 billion in
health-care sales in the year ended June 30.  ‘Ideal Partner’  “We have found the ideal partner for this deal,” Teva
Chief Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai said today during a
conference call.  The joint venture is likely to exceed $1 billion in sales
and has the potential to reshape the global market for over-the-
counter drugs, Yanai said.  The companies will work together to switch prescription
medicines to over-the-counter status, they said. The transaction
is expected to close in the fall, after obtaining the required
regulatory approvals, the companies said.  Teva, based in  Petah Tikva ,  Israel , had revenue of $16.1
billion last year and doesn’t break out sales of over-the-
counter products. Teva’s over-the-counter brands include the
Plan B contraceptive. The company gained European consumer
products in last year’s acquisition of German generic-drug maker
Ratiopharm GmbH.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  