-- 
Pentagon Issues 90-Day Stop-Work Order on GE’s F-35 Engine

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-24T18:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/pentagon-issues-90-day-stop-work-order-on-ge-engine.html
The U.S. Defense Department today
told  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  to halt work
on a second engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter until there
is more explicit direction from Congress.  The order applied immediately for 90 days and stopped the
expenditure of $1 million a day for an engine the military has
said consistently since fiscal 2007 that it doesn’t want, the
Pentagon said in a statement.  The order doesn’t terminate the engine program, defense
undersecretary for acquisition  Ashton Carter  said in an
interview. “This is a not an irreversible step,” he said.  While halting spending now, it’s “the prerogative of
Congress to give further direction on the extra engine. We do
not have definitive direction this year,” Carter said.  “We understand the ultimate outcome will be decided by
Congress,” he said. “We have shown great forbearance to
continue to fund something we don’t believe is needed” as
Congress continues to debate defense spending for the current
fiscal year and for 2012.  GE plans to use its own funds to continue developing the
engine for 90 days while Congress debates, said company
spokesman  Rick Kennedy .  “We are disappointed that DoD took this unilateral action
before Congress has completed its work on the fiscal year 2011
budget,” said Kennedy in a statement.  GE Self-Funding  “We feel so strongly about this issue, as do our
Congressional supporters, that we will, consistent with the
stop-work directive, self-fund” the program “through this 90-
day stop-work period,” Kennedy said.  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard ‘Buck’ McKeon, a California Republican, said in a  statement  that his
committee “will explore all legislative options to maintain
engine competition in the largest acquisition program in U.S.
history.”  The senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee,  John McCain  of  Arizona ,  applauded  the stop-work
decision, saying the GE engine was “unnecessary and wasteful.”  The F-35 program is currently estimated to cost at least
$382 billion. It is the only U.S. jet fighter currently in
development.  None of the military funding legislation pending in
Congress for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 includes money
for the alternate engine. The House voted last month to strip
$450 million for the second engine from the fiscal 2011 Pentagon
spending bill, which Congress hasn’t yet passed.  Freshmen Oppose  More than half of the new Republicans in the U.S. House of
Representatives joined in the 233-198 vote to kill funding for
the second engine.  About 2,500 jobs, the majority of them in Ohio,
Massachusetts and  Indiana , are tied to its development. If GE
and Rolls-Royce reach their projected peak production, that
figure would increase to as many as 4,300 jobs, according to
Kennedy.  President  Barack Obama  and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
have opposed the engine as unneeded and a waste of money at a
time of tight budgets. Gates said last month he’d use “all
available legal options” to kill the engine.  Pratt & Whitney , a division of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
is the main supplier of engines for the Joint Strike Fighter,
which is manufactured by Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)   McKeon’s statement said the Pentagon’s stop-work order “is
especially troubling when you consider their preferred engine
has experienced development delays and a cost-to-complete
increase of 445 percent over the last three years.”  Pratt Delays  The F-35 program manager, Admiral David Venlet, said in
March 15 testimony that Pratt & Whitney was two to three weeks
behind schedule this year with the first six engines.
Projections indicate the company will get back on schedule soon,
he said.  Carter, the Pentagon acquisition official, sought to
minimize the impact of the engine decision to GE.  The company “does lots of work for us and will do lots of
work for us -- this is just one program,” he said. “We value
having more than one industrial partner in the military jet
engine business. There is other business for GE, but we do not
need the extra engine.”  GE provides engines for the Navy’s F/A-18E/F fighter. The
service is buying more of those planes as a hedge against
additional F-35 delays. GE also competes for F-16 and F-15
engine work.  GE last year had $2.9 billion in defense contracts, out of
total revenue of $150.2 billion, according to Bloomberg
Government derived data. Jet engines represented as much as $2.2
billion of the total, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  