-- 
Pertamina, Listrik Negara to Build Eight Indonesia LNG Receiving Terminals

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-03-24T06:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/pertamina-listrik-negara-to-build-eight-indonesia-lng-receiving-terminals.html
PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state oil
company, and PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara plan to build eight
small-size liquefied natural gas receiving terminals with a
combined capacity of 1.4 million metric tons a year.  The facilities aim to guarantee supplies of the cleaner-
burning fuel to Listrik Negara’s power plants in eastern
Indonesia, Daniel Purba, vice president of engineering and gas
projects at Pertamina, told reporters today.  Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy and the world’s
third-largest LNG exporter, is increasing domestic use of gas to
make up for falling crude output from aging fields, which led to
the country withdrawing from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries in 2008.  “Four receiving terminals are expected to be operational
at end of next year, with the rest in 2013 and 2015,” Purba
said after the signing of an accord on the project in Jakarta
today. He declined to give investment and financing details.  The receiving terminals will be built in eastern Indonesia
including in Balikpapan, East Kalimantan province, Pomala in
Southeast Sulawesi and in Bali, according to a statement from
Pertamina.  “Pertamina and Listrik Negara will form a venture to
operate the terminals,” Purba said. “We’re still evaluating
the source of LNG, but most likely they will come from our plant
in Bontang in East Kalimantan.”  The terminal in Pomala will help Listrik secure fuel to
power a ferronickel plant owned by PT Aneka Tambang, said Dahlan Iskan, president director of the Indonesian state utility.  LNG is natural gas chilled to liquid form for
transportation by ships to places not connected by pipelines.
Qatar and Malaysia are the world’s largest and second-biggest
exporters of the fuel, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 