-- 
Pfizer Drug Tricks Immune System to Shrink Pancreatic Tumors in Research

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-03-24T20:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/pfizer-drug-tricks-immune-system-to-shrink-pancreatic-tumors-in-u-s-study.html
An experimental drug made by  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  slowed deadly pancreatic cancer in a study that revealed a
new treatment approach that tricks the immune system to attack
tissue protecting tumors, researchers said.  Four of 21 patients with incurable pancreatic cancer had
their tumors shrink after being given the drug, known as CP-
870,893, along with  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Gemzar chemotherapy,
according to the study published today in the  journal Science .
The median time before the disease progressed was 5.6 months
compared with 2.3 months expected for patients taking just
chemotherapy, researchers said. More surprising, biopsied tissue
samples showed the treatment didn’t do what scientists expected.  Designed to activate immune system  T-cells  to attack the
tumor, tests revealed the Pfizer drug instead spurred an
abundance of white blood cells, called macrophages. Those cells,
which normally protect tumors, had been retrained to attack the
cellular structures supporting the cancer, the scientists said.  “Until now, we thought the immune system needed to attack
the cancer directly in order to be effective,” said lead author
Robert Vonderheide, a cancer professor at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s  Abramson Cancer Center , in an interview. “We
think that this may be a general approach for treating other
types of solid tumors.”  In addition to the four patients who had their tumors
shrink, 11 patients had their disease stabilize. The cancer
eventually progressed for all of the patients in the study.  Seeking Evidence  Now that researchers understand how the drug worked, they
are working on ways to boost the macrophage response,
Vonderheide said. The trial was in the first round of human
tests typically used to evaluate safety and dosing.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, is currently
conducting two early tests using the drug to treat melanoma,
said Vonderheide, who is working on one of the studies, which
combines the treatment with another experimental Pfizer
antibody.  The medicine still requires larger successful tests, which
typically take years to conduct, before the New York-based
company might seek regulatory approval.  Pfizer shares rose 38 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $20.30 at 4
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
gained 16 percent this year.  Pancreatic cancer kills about 37,000 people in the U.S.
each year, according to estimates by the  National Cancer
Institute  in Bethesda,  Maryland . Just 4 percent of patients are
still alive five years after being diagnosed with pancreatic
cancer, according to the  American Cancer Society , based in
Atlanta.  The report published today includes clinical trial results
and laboratory results in mice. It is an example of a new model
of research that speeds discoveries by taking results in humans
back to the lab to conduct tests in genetically engineered mice.
The study team was made up of laboratory scientists and clinical
doctors, Vonderheide said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 