-- 
Peso Gains, Bonds Drop as Central Bank May Raise Benchmark Rate

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-03-24T07:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/philippine-peso-gains-as-central-bank-may-raise-interest-rate.html
The  Philippine peso  gained and
 government bonds  fell on speculation the central bank will raise
the benchmark interest rate from a record low at today’s meeting.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will increase the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4.25 percent, according to 10 of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Four said they expect no change and one
predicted an increase to 4.5 percent. The central bank will
“take the necessary pre-emptive action” to damp price
pressures, Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  “The interest-rate-differential play will tend to boost
the peso in the near-term,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading
at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in  Manila . “Rising oil prices
could temper gains as more dollars are needed for imports.”  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 43.40 per dollar as of 2:56
p.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency
touched 43.33 on March 22, the strongest level since March 10.
The yield on the 7 percent bond due January 2016 rose 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 6.00 percent, according to
Tradition Financial Services.  Borrowing costs were previously kept low “because of a
favorable inflation rate and the need to support the economy
through the global financial crisis,” Tetangco told a forum
yesterday. “But this time around, there’s been a change in the
situation.”  Inflation accelerated to a nine-month high of 4.3 percent
in February as food and oil prices climbed, official data show.
The central bank aims to keep the average rate of gains in
consumer prices in a range of 3 percent to 5 percent this year
and in 2012.  The  Philippines  imports almost all of the crude oil it uses
and the cost of the fuel has climbed 15 percent this year,
spurred by conflict in the Middle East.  The central bank will announce the benchmark rate at a
briefing later this afternoon.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  