-- 
Winslet Snubbed by Snooty Daughter; Falco’s Lovable Addict: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-03-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/pie-baking-winslet-snubbed-by-snooty-daughter-falco-s-lovable-addict-tv.html
Kate Winslet slaps the Joan Crawford right out of “ Mildred Pierce ,” all but vanquishing
memories of the classic 1945 weeper.  Under Todd Haynes’s direction and with a first-rate
ensemble, Winslet bakes up a sumptuous if indulgent new HBO
miniseries about the spunky 1930s housewife who becomes a
restaurant tycoon while her family falls apart.  Tinting the Great Depression in an overripe palette of
hunter greens, dusky golds and the odd smear of crimson,
Haynes’s Technicolor vision owes less to Dust Bowl photos than
to the deep-hued floral patterns of your grandmother’s frayed
sofa.  Unlike Crawford’s Hollywood classic, this adaptation of the
James M. Cain novel replaces noirish intrigue with a languid
portrait of gentility tested by hard times.  True, at almost six hours spread over three Sundays, that’s
a lot of hard times. But Haynes’s lush style and the superb
Winslet keep the sacrifice onscreen.  The story begins in 1931, with a cash-strapped Mildred
struggling to raise two young daughters after her husband (Brian F. O’Byrne) takes up with another woman. In an era when work
outside the home is an affront to middle-class feminine dignity,
Mildred’s new job as a hash-house slinger is nothing short of
humiliation.  Particularly appalled is Mildred’s snobby eldest daughter
Veda, played as a child by Morgan Turner and an adult by Evan Rachel Wood.  Pie Baker  “It’s a uniform, stupid,” Veda says to Mildred after
discovering the waitress uniform her embarrassed mom has
carefully hidden away. “You think I’m dumb?”  Dumb, no. Venomous, definitely. Veda sneers as Mildred
slaves to finance the respectability they both cherish. Before
long, the pie-baking, numbers-crunching Mildred has opened a
restaurant of her own, then another and another. She makes short
work of the Depression, but winning over Veda won’t be so easy.  Even 1940s audiences must have doubted Veda was worth the
trouble, and  HBO  viewers will feel the same.  Haynes, working from a script he co-wrote with Jon Raymond,
knows he can’t make Veda sympathetic or even credible so he
directs Turner and Wood to overplay with almost campy excess.  No Murder Mystery  Wood, in particular, gives a histrionic performance that
doesn’t match the quality of her co-stars, particularly Melissa Leo as Mildred’s loyal neighbor, Mare Winningham as a hardbitten
waitress and Guy Pearce as a sleazy gigolo.  Although it ditches the murder mystery plot invented for the
Crawford film, the miniseries dives headlong into Cain’s soapy
waters of heartbreak, duplicity, fame and fortune won and lost.  The sexual hijinks only hinted at in black and white are
here made explicit, though not to say enticing: In Haynes’s
socially conscious telling, Mildred’s dalliances often seem
little more than commercial transactions, a means to an end.
Someone has to pay for the brat’s piano lessons.  “Mildred Pierce” airs Sunday on HBO at 9 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: ***  ‘Nurse Jackie’  Is it OK to rejoice in a failed intervention? A clean and
sober  Nurse Jackie  would be nothing short of rock bottom for the
Showtime dramedy bearing her name.  Edie Falco’s Emmy-winning performance as a pill-popping
nurse is the one constant in this otherwise hit-and-miss series.  As Season Three begins, All Saints Hospital’s favorite
nurse/addict strives to win back the trust of her husband (the
terrific Dominic Fumusa) and best friend (Eve Best) after last
season’s cliffhanger intervention.  Her affair with the hospital pharmacist (Paul Schulze) has
come to an end, though deception will continue to strain her
marriage, even affecting her two young daughters.  Last season’s reckoning, it seems, has done little more than
make the duplicitous Jackie more cunning.  Frankly, that’s a bit of a cheat, which will surprise no one
who savors this series mostly, even solely, for Falco’s
brilliance. The awkward mix of her uncompromising performance,
the hospital staff’s intrusive sitcom antics and scripts that
never quite live up to the acting remains as tenacious as any
Vicodin habit.  “Nurse Jackie” airs Monday on Showtime at 10 p.m. New York
time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 