-- 
Pinehurst Golf Officials Betting Facelift Reverses 13% Decline in Visitors

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/pinehurst-golf-officials-betting-facelift-reverses-13-decline-in-visitors.html
Pinehurst Resort ’s No. 2 course
didn’t get the financial boost its owner expected after hosting
the 2005 U.S. Open. Over the next four years, visits by casual
golfers fell 13 percent.  To reverse the decline after  New Zealand ’s Michael Campbell
won his only major at the Pinehurst, North Carolina, course six
years ago, Bob Dedman Jr., the resort’s chief executive officer,
hired Ben Crenshaw and Bill Coore to restore the 104-year-old
layout to its original  Donald Ross  design at a cost of $2.5
million.  “Our hope is to attract more and more golfers to the
resort,” Dedman, 53, said in a telephone interview. “We didn’t
do this very lightly.”  The number of golfers who visited the course -- where about
35,000 rounds are played annually -- dropped by about 5,000 from
2005 to 2009. Over the same period, rounds played at public
courses in the U.S. fell 2.7 percent, according to the National
Golf Foundation.  Dedman declined to provide financial details about the
decline.  The course, where Payne Stewart won the 1999  U.S. Open 
before dying in a plane crash four months later, has slipped in
Golf Digest magazine’s ranking of the  top U.S. courses . By 2010,
it was No. 32, down 13 spots in three years. It had been in the
Top 10 as recently as 2002.  The renovation required the resort in Sandhills, about an
hour’s drive south of Raleigh, to shut down No. 2 for four
months. To restore the course, 26 acres of grass was stripped
out and 700 sprinklers removed. Rough was replaced by sandy
waste areas and fairways hardened by less watering.  ‘Wow Factor’  The  U.S. Golf Association  was consulted at every stage,
because the course is scheduled to stage the U.S. Open
championships for men and women a week apart in 2014.  “Now I think you’ve got the wow factor,” USGA Executive
Director Mike Davis said. “Aesthetically, it’s a huge change.”  Crenshaw and Coore reviewed photographs from the 1940s and
Ross’s writings from Pinehurst’s  Tufts Archives  before beginning
work.  The No. 2 course, which costs as much as  $410 to play , had
over the years been transformed into a layout with wiry Bermuda
rough lining each fairway, removing a number of Ross’s strategic
intentions, Crenshaw said.  “Bermuda was allowed to grow almost wall to wall,” said
Crenshaw, the 1995  Masters Tournament  winner.  Now Pinehurst has two lengths of grass -- fairway and
green. Where there used to be rough, there is hard sand, pine
straw and wiregrass. Over 100,000 sprigs of  wiregrass , which
grows in long tufts, were planted along fairways.  Hidden Subtleties  “We spent the last 25 years growing grass,” Dedman said.
“And when it’s covered up like that, you don’t see the
subtleties he intended.”  Natural bunker edges were re-established, said Crenshaw, so
that a number of traps now blend into sandy waste areas,
allowing players to hit shots from them as if in the fairway.  The course’s signature “turtleback” greens were also re-
sodded with bent grass, with minor changes made to the 15th and
17th greens to allow more pin positions.  Even though the landing areas of some fairways are now 50
yards wide, compared with less than 30 yards before, the course
remains difficult for top professionals while improving its
appeal to the everyday golfer, Crenshaw said.  Firm, Fast Fairways  By using only a main sprinkler line down the middle of each
fairway, the course also will use about 30 percent less water.
The lack of moisture will allow well-placed drives to travel
further down fairways, while errant shots will bound into sandy
areas, Crenshaw said.  “We wanted to let Mother Nature have a hand in how the
course is played again,” Dedman said. “Firm and fast with
larger fairways and no rough. It will play much different.”  New tees were added to eight holes, increasing the yardage
to 7,485 from 7,214 when Campbell won in 2005.  Dedman sold ClubCorp Inc., which had been built by his late
father into the world’s largest owner of golf courses, clubs and
resorts, to KSL Capital Partners LLC in 2006 for more than $1.8
billion. His family bought Pinehurst in 1984 and retained the
resort in the sale, which included closely held KSL assuming
$600 million of debt.  Dedman said business was hurt by the economic crisis of
2008, which curtailed golf travel and corporate outings.  “We made the decision at a very tough time to reinvest in
No. 2,” he said. “But I think time will tell that it was one
of the best decisions we’ve made for the next 50 to 100 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Pinehurst,  North Carolina  at 
Or  mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  