-- 
Plaza Hotel Condo Sold for $48 Million Sets Manhattan Real Estate Record

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-24T19:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/plaza-hotel-condo-sold-for-48-million-sets-manhattan-real-estate-record.html
A condominium at Manhattan’s  Plaza 
hotel sold this week for $48 million in a record real estate
transaction.  “This is the highest price for single condo ever sold in
 New York City ,” said Howard Lorber, chairman of  Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate , which represented the buyers and
sellers. Prudential agent  Lisa Simonsen  brokered the sale,
Lorber said. Simonsen didn’t immediately return a telephone
message seeking comment.  The deal for the 6,000-square-foot (560-square-meter) unit
was completed on Monday, Lorber said. City property records
don’t yet reflect the sale, which was reported earlier today by
the  New York  Post.  The buyers are Russian composer Igor Krutoy and his wife,
Olga, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction
who asked not to be named because the details of the purchase
haven't been made public.  A century-old destination for socialites and plutocrats,
the Plaza reopened in March 2008 after a two-year restoration
that cost more than $400 million. The building, at 768 Fifth
Ave., was designed with 282 hotel rooms and suites and 180
condominiums, according to the hotel website and StreetEasy.com,
a property-listings website.  Nineteen units in the Plaza are  listed for resale , at
prices ranging from $1.5 million for a studio to $22.5 million
for a four-bedroom apartment, according to StreetEasy.  Sales of  Manhattan  luxury apartments, defined as the top 10
percent by price, fell 6.9 percent to 230 units in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, according to New York appraiser
Miller Samuel Inc. and Prudential Douglas Elliman. The median
price of luxury units jumped 15 percent to $4.35 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  