-- 
Point Blank Acting Chief Henderson Sued by Ex-CEO’s Brother

-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-24T02:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/point-blank-acting-chief-henderson-sued-by-ex-ceo-s-brother-1-.html
Point Blank Solutions Inc. (PBSOQ) ’s acting
chief executive officer, James Henderson, was sued by the former
CEO’s brother, an investor in the bankrupt military contractor
who claims Henderson failed to conduct proper audits.  Jeffrey Brooks filed the complaint today in  New York  state
 Supreme Court  in  Manhattan . He is the brother of cofounder and
former CEO David H. Brooks, who was convicted last year of
committing a $185 million fraud involving the company, along
with Sandra Hatfield, the firm’s former chief operating officer.  Jeffrey Brooks accuses Henderson of failing to obtain
financial audits for the past two years in violation of
regulatory obligations. Misconduct by Henderson and other
company officers led Point Blank to apply for deregistration,
“a step that could cause trading in the company’s equity
securities to cease and deprive plaintiff and the company’s
other shareholders of all liquidity in their investments,”
according to the complaint.  While the company, which makes body armor, hasn’t been
listed on a national stock exchange since 2006, it has an
aggregate market capitalization of $20 million and continues to
be traded over the counter, according to the complaint. Jeffrey
Brooks said he holds 2.4 million shares in  Point Blank .  The complaint seeks more than $7 million in damages,
including punitive damages.  Glenn Wiener, a spokesman for Pompano Beach, Florida-based
Point Blank, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and
e-mail after regular business hours.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued three
former directors of the company on Feb. 28. The SEC accused
directors Jerome Krantz, Cary Chasin and Gary Nadelman of being
“willfully blind” to accounting fraud by David Brooks.  Point Blank, formerly known as DHB Industries Inc., filed
for bankruptcy last year and has proposed a plan for
reorganization.  The case is Brooks v. Henderson, 650781/2011, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pamela MacLean in federal court in  San Francisco  at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  