-- 
Politics, Radiation to Decide Fate of Land Near Japan’s Fukushima Reactor

-- B y   S t e v e   F e a t h e r s t o n e
-- 
2011-03-24T04:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/politics-radiation-to-decide-fate-of-land-near-japan-s-fukushima-reactor.html
The fate of Japan’s Fukushima
prefecture, where hundreds of thousands of people have been
evacuated, may lie somewhere between the outcomes at Three Mile
Island and Chernobyl. There were no evacuations during the Three
Mile Island accident, which released about 50,000 curies of
radioactive gas. Today you can picnic outside the gates of the
plant without fear of lingering radiation.  Chernobyl , by comparison, was a nuclear volcano, churning
millions of curies of radiation into the sky,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its March 28 edition. Twenty-five years
later, only official workers are allowed within 30 kilometers
(18.6 miles) of the entombed reactor at Chernobyl, and radiation
levels inside the zone exceed normal background radiation by
factors of 100.  Decisions about when to return to Fukushima and how to
mitigate any leftover fallout depend on the results of work to
stabilize the pressure inside the reactor cores of units 1
through 3 at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, and to cool
the fuel rods stored in the spent fuel pools. Until then the
amount of radiation falling on the land and sea around the
complex, and far beyond it, will continue to accumulate with
every puff of steam and cloud of smoke issuing from the wrecked
reactor buildings.  ‘Uninhabitable’  At best, evacuees from the exclusion zone won’t be able to
return to their homes for months, according to Arnold Gundersen,
a nuclear consultant and chair of the Vermont Yankee Public
Oversight Panel, which oversees the nuclear power plant of the
same name.  Gundersen, however, isn’t expecting the best. “I think
there’ll be local contamination off the site, certainly out two
or three or four miles, that will make that portion of the
exclusion zone uninhabitable for 20 years,” he says.  In a worse case, the spent fuel rods catch fire, releasing
millions of curies of volatile radioisotopes directly into the
atmosphere. Wind would carry a radioactive plume over  Japan , and
rain or snow would bring the fallout down to earth and deposit
it in highly localized patterns. That’s what happened during the
Chernobyl disaster. Some abandoned villages inside Chernobyl’s
30-kilometer exclusion zone are radioactively cleaner today than
populated villages outside the zone. The map of hot spots shows
not concentric circles but oddly shaped blobs.  Political Decision  If conditions aren’t so bad, decisions about a return will
likely be as political as they are scientific, because no
regulatory body has determined a “safe” level of radiation.
The Japanese ban on milk, agricultural products, and drinking
water in the four prefectures nearest to the Dai-Ichi plant
suggest that radioactive fallout in levels potentially hazardous
to human health has already contaminated areas far outside the
exclusion zone.  Authorities have revealed few details about the particular
radionuclides they’ve found in the food and water, and the
situation changes daily. Yesterday,  Tokyo officials  announced
contamination of tap water by iodine-131 and advised parents not
to give tap water to infants. Radioactive iodine is linked to
thyroid cancer. It’s not the only radioactive component in the
fallout. Cesium-137 is also present.  Long Half-Life  According to Robert Alvarez, a senior scholar for nuclear
policy at the Institute for Policy Studies, there’s enough
cesium-137 in the spent fuel pool of unit 4 at Fukushima Dai-
Ichi to equal all the cesium-137 released from Chernobyl’s
shattered reactor core. Cesium-137 has a long half-life -- 30
years as opposed to eight days for iodine 131 -- and it persists
in the environment at dangerous levels for many decades.  Because Cesium-137 mimics potassium, it accumulates in
muscle tissue as well as in plants, and has the ability to
chemically bind to concrete, making it difficult to remove. If
the spent nuclear fuel in unit 4’s cooling pool caught fire,
some Japanese communities could, depending on weather
conditions, become so saturated with cesium-137 that they would
have to be abandoned for generations.  In a stabilized situation, the radiation levels that
triggered bans of spinach and milk and other foods will likely
diminish mostly because of radioactive decay, and as radioactive
particles are washed by rain from plants and into the soil. Once
contaminants such as cesium-137 and strontium-90 get into the
soil, though, plants absorb them, and they enter the food chain.
Chernobyl, an extreme case that Fukushima may not mimic, pumped
so much fallout across the northern hemisphere that many
European countries still have limits on the consumption of
sheep, reindeer, and hogs.  Bulldozed Towns  Short of scraping off the top layer of soil, there is no
way to get rid of this kind of fallout. Entire villages near
Chernobyl were bulldozed into trenches to keep radioactive
contaminants from spreading. In any event, Japanese regulators
will be forced to make a range of hard decisions about how much
radiation is safe for people to eat or be exposed to in their
homes, playgrounds, and workplaces.  There is some comfort, but it is chilly indeed. Fukushima
is already the second-worst nuclear accident in history, but it
doesn’t yet begin to approach the total radiation released at
Chernobyl. For such an event to occur, said  Michael W. Golay , a
professor of nuclear science and engineering at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , “it would have to
involve all the nuclear fuel at a multitude of sites within the
overall power plant location, and with failure of everything the
people there are trying to accomplish. I don’t really see a
prospect for things occurring in such an awful form.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  