-- 
Porcelain Nymph Returns to Dresden From Ohio After 70 Years

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-24T09:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/porcelain-nymph-lost-in-world-war-ii-returns-to-dresden-from-toledo-museum.html
A porcelain sea nymph worth about
$1 million returns home to the German city of Dresden today,
more than 70 years after it disappeared from a box in a castle
where it was kept for safekeeping during World War II.  The sea nymph, or Nereid, is a sweetmeat holder and the
centerpiece of an elaborate swan table service comprising about
3,000 items made for Heinrich von Bruehl, prime minister of the
18th-century Saxon Elector and King of Poland, Augustus III.  Ulrich Pietsch, director of Dresden’s state porcelain
collection, discovered the Nereid by chance during a visit to
the  Toledo Museum of Art  in  Ohio .  “With the help of x-ray and infrared image, the figure
exhibited in Toledo was compared with historical pictures of the
war loss,” the  Dresden State Art Collections  said in a
statement. “The pictures proved that the figure from Toledo is
identical with the missing Nereid from Dresden.”  During the war, millions of artworks were hidden in German
underground depots, mines and country palaces to keep them safe
from the bombing. Many were later lost through looting.  Dresden, whose town center was largely destroyed in allied
raids, shipped artworks including the porcelain, which was on
loan from the von Bruehl family, to Reichstaedt Castle, about 20
kilometers south of the city.  After the war, the two boxes of artworks that had been lent
to Dresden’s museums by the von Bruehls were recovered at the
castle. Yet the boxes had been broken into and 10 items,
including the porcelain sea nymph, were missing. The Nereid
found its way to the U.S. via the art trade and was sold to the
Toledo museum by a New York gallery in 1956.  The U.S. ambassador to  Germany , Philip D. Murphy, will hand
over the work to Pietsch and Martin Roth, the director of
Dresden’s state collections, at a ceremony today. Friedrich
Leopold von Bruehl will renew his family’s loan agreement with
the museums at the same ceremony.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 