-- 
Portugal Is Said to Require as Much as $99 Billion in Any European Bailout

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-03-25T00:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/portugal-is-said-to-need-as-much-as-99-billion-in-any-financial-bailout.html
A bailout for  Portugal  may total as
much as 70 billion euros ($99 billion), two European officials
with direct knowledge of the matter said, as credit-rating cuts
threatened to deepen Portugal’s debt woes.  Preliminary calculations put the cost of a lifeline from 50
billion to 70 billion euros, said the officials, who declined to
be named because the issue is confidential. Portugal continued
to rule out a rescue after the parliament’s rejection of budget
cuts led Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  to offer to quit.  Downgrades by  Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s dealt a
further blow, as European Union leaders called on Socrates and
the opposition parties to unite behind belt-tightening measures
that might spare Portugal from becoming the third euro country
to tap emergency aid.  Portugal has proposed “a very ambitious, a very demanding
reform program for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013,” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters yesterday before a
summit in Brussels. “It will depend on all with responsibility
in Portugal today or possibly tomorrow committing to the goal of
this program so that the markets can gain confidence.”  The leaders’ meeting, which ends later today, will also
consider lower  interest rates  for Ireland’s emergency loans and
German efforts to renegotiate the financing of a permanent
rescue fund to be set up in 2013.  As the summit began, Fitch announced the cut in Portugal’s
long-term foreign and local currency issuer default ratings to
A- from A+ and in its short-term issuer default ratings to F2
from F1. The ratings were placed on rating watch negative.  Parliament’s ‘Failure’  “The downgrade reflects increased risks to policy
implementation and fiscal financing in light of the Portuguese
parliament’s failure to pass fiscal consolidation measures and
the resignation of the prime minister,” Douglas Renwick,
director in Fitch’s Sovereign group, said in a statement.  Hours later,  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Portugal’s sovereign
credit rating to BBB from A-, citing “increased political
uncertainty” that could “hurt market confidence and heighten
Portugal’s refinancing risk.”  The yield on Portugal’s two-year note jumped 10 basis
points to 6.71 percent at 5 p.m. in  London  yesterday, and
reached 6.89 percent, the highest level since the euro’s
inception in 1999. The 10-year yield advanced three basis points
to 7.66 percent, leaving the difference in yield investors
demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds at 442
basis points.  Rescue Chances  “It’s pretty inevitable” that Portugal will need a rescue,
said  Jacques Cailloux , a London-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “The market will deteriorate in the absence
of other measures going through. There is obviously the risk of
further downgrades, which will become anticipated by the markets
and be a self-fulfilling prophecy.”  Portugal navigates the next stage of the crisis with the
government’s powers in doubt. President Anibal Cavaco Silva said
he will meet with the main parties today and the government will
retain its full authority until he accepts Socrates’s
resignation.  The political deadlock comes as Portugal braces for its
first bond maturities of the year. It faces redemptions worth
about 9 billion euros in total on April 15 and June 15, which
could coincide with early elections. Portugal intends to sell as
much as 20 billion euros of bonds this year to finance its
budget and cover maturing debt.  Portugal’s situation is “precarious,” Belgian Prime
Minister Yves Leterme said.  German Politics  A backlash in  Europe ’s better-off countries against the
177.5 billion euros lent last year to  Greece  and Ireland will
color the handling of Portugal. German political jitters over
propping up debt-swamped states dominated the crisis response
last year, with Merkel delaying aid for Greece and calling for
bondholder losses that hastened Ireland’s plunge into the fiscal
abyss.  Germans vote in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg on March 27
in an election threatening to end almost six decades of control
there by Merkel’s party. Political sensitivity is high in
 Finland , where polls show a surge in support for an anti-euro
party in the run-up to April 17 elections.  Germany and Finland squared off over the planned permanent
rescue fund yesterday, with Merkel questioning a March 21 accord
to endow the fund with 80 billion euros in cash and 620 billion
euros in callable capital.  Germany  would furnish 27.1 percent of
the total.  Merkel’s Plan  Merkel wants to stagger Germany’s cash payments over five
years instead of four and cut its upfront payment in 2013 to 4.3
billion euros from 10.9 billion euros, potentially limiting the
fund’s firepower.  No “easy answers” are likely for the German demands,
Finnish Prime Minister Mari Kiviniemi said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We understand the German position, but
what is important is that, when it comes to decisions made on
Monday, that we are not increasing any country’s
responsibilities.”  Merkel’s bid to renegotiate the three-day-old financing
accord punctured the EU’s plans to proclaim a “comprehensive”
solution to the debt crisis, including tougher sanctions on
excessive budget deficits and national pledges to increase
competitiveness.  Details remain unresolved over how the bloc will fulfill a
promise to get full 440 billion-euro lending capacity out of the
temporary rescue fund, set up last year at the height of the
Greek phase of the crisis.  The fund, known as the European Financial Stability
Facility, is limited by collateral rules to lending only 250
billion euros.  About 19,000 demonstrators protested governments’ austerity
measures before the summit started in Brussels, Nicolas
Dassonville, a spokesman for Brussels City Mayor Freddy
Thielemans, said by telephone. Police used water cannons after
30 demonstrators tried to break through a police cordon,
injuring 12 officers, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  