-- 
Portugal Pushed Closer to EU Bailout After Socrates Budget Cuts Defeated

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-24T11:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/portugal-pushed-closer-to-eu-bailout-after-socrates-budget-cuts-defeated.html
Portugal moved closer to an
international bailout as Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’s offer to
resign left his government in limbo on the eve of a European
Union summit to address the region’s debt crisis.  Two-year Portuguese bond yields reached the highest since
1999 before today’s summit of EU leaders in Brussels to sign off
on measures aimed at drawing a line under the sovereign-debt
crisis. The government of Socrates, who will attend the meeting,
retains its powers for now before President Anibal Cavaco Silva
meets tomorrow with the main parties to resolve the political
crisis or call elections.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  praised Socrates today for
putting “far-reaching” austerity measures to parliament, which
rejected the package last night. The vote prompted him to tender
his resignation and moved the nation closer to following Greece
and Ireland in requiring a bailout, which Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc estimates at about 80 billion euros ($113 billion).  “It’s pretty inevitable” that Portugal will need a
rescue, said  Jacques Cailloux , a London-based economist at RBS.
“The market will deteriorate in the absence of other measures
going through. There is obviously the risk of further
downgrades, which will become anticipated by the markets and be
a self-fulfilling prophecy.”  Yield Jumps  The yield on Portuguese two-year notes jumped as much as 29
basis points to 6.89 percent at 6:34 a.m. in  New York , the
highest level since the euro’s inception. The cost of insuring
against a default on Portuguese sovereign debt advanced, with
credit-default swaps on the nation climbing 7.5 basis points to
542, near the record of 555 reached Jan. 10, according to CMA.  Portugal has already raised taxes and implemented the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades to convince
investors it can reduce its budget shortfall. Additional cuts,
announced on March 11, prompted a political backlash and failed
to persuade investors.  “I regret that there wasn’t a parliamentary majority for
it,” Merkel said today, outlining her stance before the two-day
summit. The proposed Portuguese cuts had been supported by the
EU and  European Central Bank , she said.  The spread between Portuguese and German 10-year bond
yields widened 15 basis points to 439 basis points yesterday
after reaching a euro-era record of 484 on Nov. 11. It was at
448 basis points today.  Bad Timing  “This crisis occurs in the worst possible moment for
Portugal,” Socrates said last night. Greece and Ireland were
forced to seek bailouts last year.  “Clearly the near-term problem is that Portugal has no one
with the authority to commit to a bailout,” said  Paul Donovan ,
a global economist at UBS AG in London. “This makes any
negotiations uncertain, and will disappoint market hopes for a
solution by this weekend.”  The spotlight now falls on President Cavaco Silva, with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Nicola Mai saying his statement
stresses that Socrates still holds power as he heads into the
summit that starts later today.  It “could open the door for a possible negotiation of an
international bailout package as soon as this week,” said Mai
in an e-mailed note. He said further options include calling an
election, which could take more than two months; asking the
parties to form a coalition; or appointing an “independent
technical government.”  Parliament’s Rejection  Opposition parties united to reject the additional cuts
that were the equivalent of 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product over three years. The package included a reduction in
pensions of more than 1,500 euros ($2,114) a month and further
cuts in tax benefits.  The government said the extra measures were needed to trim
the deficit to 4.6 percent of GDP this year and within the EU’s
3 percent limit in 2012.  Socrates warned on March 15 that parliament rejecting the
cuts would cause “a worsening of the financing risks of our
economy and would lead Portugal to request external
intervention.”  Socrates, who first came to power in 2005, leads a minority
government. The  Social Democrats , the biggest opposition group,
had allowed the government’s earlier batch of austerity measures
to pass with this year’s budget plan. They say they still
support efforts to reduce the budget gap, while voting against
the current package.  Poll Results  The Social Democrats would defeat the Socialists if
elections were held today, polls indicate. In a Feb. 25 survey
published by  Diario Economico , 48 percent said they supported
the Social Democrats with 29 percent backing the Socialists.  “The country has faced very difficult times before and has
always been able to overcome them,”  Pedro Passos Coelho , the
leader of the Social Democrats, said in Lisbon last night after
Socrates announced his resignation.  The political crisis comes as  Portugal  braces for its first
bond maturities of the year. Portugal faces redemptions in April
and June worth about 9 billion euros in total. It also faces
bill maturities in July, August, September, October and
November. The country intends to sell as much as 20 billion
euros of bonds this year to finance its budget and cover
maturing debt.  “Portugal faces heavy redemptions in April and June and
difficult and costly access to the primary market, which makes
it hard to roll over the debt,” Tullia Bucco, an economist at
UniCredit SpA in Milan, said in an e-mailed note to investors.  Rating Cut  Concern about Portugal’s finances also led to a decline in
its creditworthiness. Portugal’s credit rating was cut two steps
by Moody’s Investors Service on March 15 to A3, four steps from
so-called junk status, with the outlook on the grade
“negative.”  Portugal should continue to finance itself in the market at
present, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said on
March 16, though “it’s obvious that current market conditions
are unsustainable in the medium to long term.”  The ECB has prevented those yields from rising further by
buying Portuguese debt in secondary markets to shore up demand.
The ECB has bought about 20 billion euros of Portuguese debt
since last May,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  “In a situation of political void, cutting a deal with the
IMF and the EU to trigger financial support would be
particularly cumbersome,”  Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche
Bank AG in  London , said in a research note yesterday. “In the
meantime, ECB intervention may be required.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 