-- 
Portugal May Be Moving Closer to Requesting a Bailout: Analysts’ Comments

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-24T11:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/portugal-may-be-moving-closer-to-requesting-a-bailout-analysts-comments.html
Analysts comment on Portuguese
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  tendering his resignation after his
plans to cut the budget were rejected by parliament, increasing
speculation the country will seek an international bailout. The
vote came hours before European Union leaders meet in Brussels
to sign off on measures aimed at drawing a line under the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The comments were collected from
reports published by banks.  BNP Paribas SA’s Ken Wattret, chief eurozone market economist:  “The probability of a bailout for Portugal, which we have
long considered inevitable, has risen, but the current situation
is very fluid and the path from where we are today to the
assistance being provided to Portugal by the  International
Monetary Fund  and the EU remains unclear.”  Standard Bank Plc’s Steve Barrow, head of research for Group-of-
10 currencies:  “The news clearly increases the pressure on  Portugal  to
accept a bailout. One EU source suggested yesterday that, if
Portugal does opt for a bailout, it is likely to be in the 60-80
billion-euro region, which would make it smaller than both
Greece and Ireland. Portugal has 4.3 billion euros ($6.1
billion) of coupon payments in mid-April and 4.9 billion euros
in June and we suspect that a deal could be done before these
payments.”  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.’s Lee Hardman, foreign-
exchange strategist:  “The Portuguese prime minister’s resignation will create a
power vacuum ahead of the EU leaders’ meeting today which aims
to finalise the new comprehensive solution to the euro-zone debt
crisis. Hopes of a final agreement as early as today were
already dwindling given ongoing disagreements over funding the
expanded financial support mechanisms.  “Escalating sovereign-debt tensions in the euro-zone
periphery will help to dampen the euro’s recent upward momentum
in anticipation of the first rate hike from the ECB. However, at
the current juncture we doubt that it will be enough to trigger
a trend reversal resulting in the euro declining again on a more
sustained basis for now.”  Rabobank International’s Jane Foley, senior foreign-exchange
strategist:  “The euro has been taking a decidedly nonchalant view on
the EMU crisis this year. The assumption that monetary union
will stay the course has become the overwhelming view. The
convergence of a number of negative EMU-related events this
week, however, should question the confidence of the  currency
market . EMU is not yet out of the woods and the euro could yet
suffer another bout of pressure.”  Barclays Capital’s Giuseppe Maraffino, fixed-income strategist:  “With respect to market impact on Portuguese bonds, in the
near term, we suspect bond yields will keep pushing higher if
only because uncertainty will prevail, and a number of investors
will likely be forced or willing to reduce their positions
further.  “In a way, the previous Greek and Irish experiences show
that these uncertainties will eventually be resolved and a near-
term default -- or restructuring -- is very unlikely. But, in
the near term, they are likely to weigh on the bond markets,
especially in the context of very thin liquidity.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. strategists including  Sean Maloney , Guy Mandy, Dimitris Drakopoulos and Nick Firoozye:  “We expect further peripheral widening on the back of
continued uncertainty. An interim government will not
automatically seek a bailout, but without much prospect of
passing new budgetary measures and a large unfunded redemption
looming in June, it looks like the clock is ticking for Portugal
to seek a package.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 