-- 
Portugal Unlikely to Ask for Aid Before National Elections, Analysts Say

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-24T16:36:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/portugal-unlikely-to-ask-for-aid-before-national-elections-analysts-say.html
Portugal is unlikely to request an
international bailout before a new government is elected, after
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned yesterday following
parliament’s rejection of his budget plan, analysts said.  “Socrates isn’t likely on his own initiative to request a
bailout unless the country is in a state of emergency,” Miguel
Morgado, a professor at Catholic University’s Political Studies
Institute in Lisbon, said by phone today. “The Socialist Party
won’t want to lose that electoral campaign trump card, if it can
be avoided.”  Socrates, a Socialist who has led the country without a
parliamentary majority since 2009, opposes following Greece and
Ireland in accepting external aid. While parliament’s rejection
of the premier’s budget cuts left Portugal in a “more difficult
situation,” a bailout isn’t inevitable, government minister
Pedro Silva Pereira said today.  The government will “use all its efforts to avoid external
aid,” he said today at a press conference in Lisbon. He added
that the government already considers itself to be a caretaker
administration.  The political crisis comes as  Portugal  braces for its first
bond maturities of the year. It faces redemptions worth about 9
billion euros in total ($12.8 billion) on April 15 and June 15,
which could coincide with early elections. Portugal intends to
sell as much as 20 billion euros of bonds this year to finance
its budget and cover maturing debt.  Key Redemptions  Should the Treasury have the funds or obtain a “credit
line/bridge loan to meet funding needs through June, it would
seem reasonable to wait for the new government” to negotiate a
rescue from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund ,
analysts at  Barclays Capital  including Antonio Pascual said in a
note to investors today.  Portugal today had its long-term foreign and local currency
issuer default ratings cut to ‘A-’ from ’A+’ and short-term
issuer default ratings cut to ‘F2’ from ’F1’ by  Fitch Ratings .
The ratings were placed on rating watch negative.  The yield on Portugal’s two-year note jumped seven basis
points to 6.68 percent as of 2:30 p.m. in  London , and reached
6.89 percent, the highest level since the euro’s inception in
1999. The 10-year yield advanced three basis points to 7.66
percent, leaving the difference in yield investors demand to
hold the securities instead of German bunds five basis points
higher at 444 basis points.  Portugal’s President Anibal Cavaco Silva said he will meet
with the main parties tomorrow and the government will retain
its full powers until he accepts Socrates’s resignation. The
events in Lisbon came hours before EU leaders were to meet in
Brussels today to sign off on measures aimed at drawing a line
under the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Caretaker Powers  The government will have limited, caretaker powers once
Cavaco Silva accepts the prime minister’s resignation, which he
can only do after consulting the parties and the Council of
State, which is likely early next week, said Marina Costa Lobo,
a professor at the Social Sciences Institute at the University
of Lisbon. Elections may happen no sooner than 55 days after
they are called, according to the electoral law.  During the interim, a so-called parliamentary permanent
commission would supervise the caretaker government’s actions.
Its members must come from all the parties in parliament, the
Constitution says. While the caretaker government wouldn’t have
the power to accept foreign aid on its own, it could so with the
commission’s approval, Morgado said.  Bailout Cost  “I don’t think it would be possible for the parliament
that rejected the government’s budget measures to support it on
a bailout request,” Costa Lobo said. “We mustn’t forget that
the government is still a minority one.”  A bailout may total as much as 70 billion euros, said two
European officials with direct knowledge of the matter who
declined to be named as the issue is confidential. The figures
are preliminary, the officials said. Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc estimates the rescue cost at about 80 billion euros.  A request for aid could “call in question the legitimacy
of any caretaker government’s” decisions, “should the IMF
request long-term specific measures,” analysts including  Sean Maloney  at Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a note today.  “An interim government will not automatically seek a
bailout, but without much prospect of passing new budgetary
measures and a large unfunded redemption looming in June, it
looks like the clock is ticking for Portugal to seek a
package,” Nomura said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  