-- 
Pound Extends Decline Versus Euro, Notes Rise as U.K. Retail Sales Slump

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-24T17:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/pound-extends-decline-versus-euro-gilts-rise-as-u-k-retail-sales-slump.html
The pound slumped to the weakest
versus the euro since November and two-year British government
notes rose after data showed U.K. retail sales in February
dropped more than economists estimated.  Sterling weakened the most in two months against a basket
of nine developed-nation currencies. Sales fell 0.8 percent from
January, the  Office for National Statistics  said, more than the
median 0.6 decline estimated by economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Minutes of the  Bank of England ’s March meeting published
yesterday showed policy makers voted 6-3 to keep  interest rates 
on hold, even as they forecast inflation may accelerate. Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale , who voted to raise the key rate, today
said he would reconsider his stance if the recovery stumbles.  “The retail sector is cooling off at a fast pace, which
obviously must be worrying for policy makers,” said  John Hydeskov , chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in London. “The
pound will continue to lose against the euro, especially if the
European Central Bank hikes rates in early April. An imminent
U.K. hike can turn out to be very far away.”  Sterling slid 1.5 percent to 88.04 pence per euro as of
4:59 p.m. in  London , after reaching 88.09 pence, the weakest
since Nov. 4. The pound fell 0.8 percent to $1.6106. It
depreciated as much as 1.4 percent against nine major peers
gauged by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, its
steepest decline since Jan. 25.  The yield on the two-year gilt fell two basis points to
1.26 percent. The 4.5 percent bond due March 2013 fell 0.035, or
0.35 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,617) face amount, to 106.225.
The benchmark 10-year yield was three basis points higher at
3.58 percent.  Short-Sterling Futures  “If growth turns out to be materially weaker than I
anticipate or other medium-term pressures on inflation ease
unexpectedly, I will reverse my decision,” Dale said in a
speech in London.  Short-sterling futures rose, sending the yield on the
contract expiring in December down four basis points to 1.40
percent, as traders pared bets on an increase in U.K. rates.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised next
year’s borrowing target in yesterday’s budget speech and said
the  Office for Budget Responsibility  now sees economic growth in
2011 of 1.7 percent, down from November’s 2.1 percent forecast.  Sterling has gained 0.6 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. It trails the euro’s 3.6 percent
advance, the Swedish krona and Norwegian krone.  “If the U.K. strategy risks a double-dip recession and low
policy rates for longer, sterling is likely to fall, not rise,”
 Steven Barrow , London-based head of research for Group-of-10
currencies at Standard Bank Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note
today. “In the short term we feel that the pound won’t be able
to break too far away from 1.60.”  U.K. government debt has handed investors a 0.2 percent
loss this year, compared with a 1.7 percent drop for German
bonds and 0.4 percent return for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  