-- 
Premier Oil $1.1 Billion Tax Credit Offsets Budget Increase

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-24T16:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/premier-oil-s-1-1-billion-tax-allowance-offsets-budget-increase.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , a U.K.-based
explorer with assets in Asia and  Europe , won’t have to bear the
burden of higher  North Sea  production taxes for the next few
years because of a $1.1 billion tax allowance.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne yesterday
boosted the supplementary charge on North Sea oil profits to 32
percent from 20 percent. Premier Oil’s tax allowance carried
over from the 2009 acquisition of Oilexco North Sea Ltd. means
the company won’t have to pay taxes until 2015 or 2016.  “For the next few years, we are not going to be paying
U.K. tax,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Lockett said today in
a telephone interview. “The effect is mitigated considerably.”  Premier gained 77 cents, or 4 percent, to 1,988 pence in
London. The shares fell 4 percent yesterday.  “We begin to view these tax increases as presenting
Premier with growth opportunities,” Jonathan Copus, a London-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, the company’s broker, wrote
in a report to clients.  Premier plans to double production to 100,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day by 2014. Full-year earnings increased 15
percent to $129.8 million, with startups planned for  Vietnam ,
Indonesia and the North Sea, and plans to expand in  Egypt  and
Kenya, the London-based company said in a statement.  Solan Interest  Premier has agreed to buy a 60 percent interest in the
Solan field west of the Shetland Islands from Chrysaor Ltd. The
field may hold 45 million barrels of oil equivalent resources,
according to company estimates. Premier is committed to
investing about $500 million in the project, due to start in
2013, according to Chief Financial Officer Tony Durrant.  Operations in Egypt weren’t affected by the recent
political unrest in the North African country, Lockett said. “I
can see bigger and better opportunities right now in Egypt as
the result of what’s going on,” he said.  Premier and  Hess Corp. (HES)  are drilling the Cherry well in
Block 1, the deepwater play in the northern  Red Sea . “What we
are drilling is a decent-sized, 100 million barrel-sized
prospect,” Lockett said. “It’s quite a wild territory for
exploration so it’s quite a high risk.”  Premier isn’t interested in the assets  BP Plc (BP/)  is selling in
the south of the North Sea, Lockett said. It decided not to bid
for BP’s assets in Pakistan and Vietnam.  “If we can find the right opportunities that fit with our
portfolio where we can see we can add value, then we will” buy
it, he said. Premier has pre-emption rights in the Wytch Farm
onshore oil field with BP and may use them “if the price is
right,” Lockett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  