-- 
Prince Charles Favored Over Prince William as Next U.K. King

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-03-24T09:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/prince-charles-favored-ahead-of-prince-william-as-next-u-k-king.html
Prince Charles is favored by
Britons as the next U.K. monarch ahead of his son  Prince William , 
who marries next month, according to a poll.  Some 45 percent of respondents support Charles, 62, as king, 
while 37 percent would prefer William to succeed  Queen Elizabeth II , according to a YouGov poll for Prospect magazine published
today.  Five years ago, William, the 28-year-old grandson of Queen
Elizabeth, was favored by 41 percent of those asked compared
with 37 percent for his father. Popularity for Charles dipped
after he married Camilla Parker Bowles in 2005, according to the
poll.  Charles is next in line to the throne under U.K. law and
Britons have no input into the decision.  William will marry  Kate Middleton  on April 29, marking the
most important royal wedding since 1986 when Prince Andrew
married Sarah Ferguson. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
declared the day a public holiday. William’s mother, Diana, the
Princess of  Wales , was killed in a car accident in Paris in
1997.  Three-quarters of respondents in the poll want to see the
male inheritance rule scrapped for the British monarchy, while
71 percent support an end to the ban on a monarch marrying a
Roman Catholic. Only 13 percent support abolishing the monarchy.  Queen Elizabeth, who turns 85 in April, has the backing of
65 percent of respondents to stay on as monarch, with 25 percent
wanting her to step down, the poll showed. The Queen should
remain as head of state of the Commonwealth according to 65
percent of respondents, while 56 percent said she should remain
head of the Church of  England .  The poll of 2,409 adults was conducted Feb. 1 and Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast News at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  