-- 
PV Crystalox Solar Profit Declines 21% in 2010 as Average Price Falls

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-24T15:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/pv-crystalox-solar-profit-declines-21-in-2010-as-selling-price-falls.html
PV Crystalox Solar Plc (PVCS) , the U.K.’s
biggest maker of silicon wafers for solar plants, said profit
dropped 21 percent last year as prices for its products slipped.
The shares fell the most in seven months.  Net income declined 21 percent to 23.3 million euros ($32.9
million) from 29.6 million euros a year earlier, the Abindon,
England-based company said in a statement. Average sales prices
declined 28 percent.  “Prices fell in the first half of 2010 but stabilized in
the second half and remain stable,” Chief Executive Officer
Iain Dorrity said by phone today. “Prices may come under
pressure ahead of impending cuts in feed-in tariffs in the two
major global PV markets, Italy and  Germany , in April and July.”  Solar-equipment makers in  Europe  and the U.S. are fighting
to maintain profit margins as global sales prices slide under
pressure from Chinese producers.  Costs for polysilicon, the main raw material for solar
modules, are edging up and cell and module prices at the other
end of the supply chain are under pressure, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance research shows.  PV Crystalox, which supplies multicrystalline silicon
wafers to cell makers, increased sales volume by 48 percent last
year and revenue edged up 6.4 percent to 252.6 million euros.
Operating margin, the company’s earnings before interest and tax
as a percentage of sales, fell to 13 percent from 18 percent,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , a
Changzhou, China-based competitor, grew its operating margin to
22 percent from 16 percent last year.  Shares Fall  PV Crystalox shares dropped as much as 8 percent in  London ,
their biggest decline since Aug. 19, and traded at 56 pence,
down 5.5 percent, at 2:50 p.m. local time.  “Though we acknowledge some risks on second-half outlook,
we believe with strong balance sheet, better cost position and
very attractive valuation versus European peers, PV Crystalox
stock will fare better in case of slowdown in demand,” JP
Morgan analyst Sandeep Deshpande said in a note to clients.  PV Crystalox expects “double-digit” growth in global
photovoltaic installations in 2011, according to the statement.  The company, which manufactures silicon ingots in the U.K.
and cuts them into wafers in Germany and  Japan , plans to expand
manufacturing capacity to 670 megawatts this year from 430
megawatts. It said it cut wafer production costs 20 percent.  PV Crystalox expects these costs to fall another 10 to 15
percent and will decide within a few months whether to expand
production capacity to 855 megawatts by 2013, Dorrity said.  Top Markets  The company’s largest market remains Japan and China is
almost at the same level after shipments there tripled from last
year to account for 30.7 percent of revenue. Sales to Taiwan are
also expected to double or triple next year from the current 11
percent, according to the statement.  “Taiwan is becoming an increasingly important
manufacturing center for photovoltaics,” Dorrity said. “It has
overtaken Japan and Germany to become the world’s second-largest
solar cell manufacturer after  China , which has about 50 percent
of the market.”  The earthquake and tsunami in Japan this month have had no
impact on PV Crystalox’s customers, suppliers, sub-contractors
or its operations, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  