-- 
Rand Advances, Erasing Earlier Drop, Before South African Rates Decision

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-24T11:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/rand-depreciates-for-second-day-as-rates-unchanged-may-dampen-carry-trade.html
The rand strengthened against the
dollar, reversing an earlier decline, on speculation concern
about rising food and oil prices may prompt an interest rate
increase later this year.  The rand gained as much as 0.3 percent, and traded 0.2
percent stronger at 6.9020 per dollar as of 1:15 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Earlier, the currency had slipped as much as 0.6
percent to 6.9615 per dollar.  The Reserve Bank will today keep its benchmark interest
rate at 5.5 percent, according to all 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Crude oil has surged 16 percent in  New York  this
year, adding to pressure on inflation at a time when food prices
have also soared. The bank may signal its intention to raise
 interest rates  after June, according to economists including Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at Nedbank
Capital.  “The market is on hold, waiting for the Reserve Bank,”
Cruickshanks said by phone from Johannesburg. Traders will
scrutinize the Monetary Policy Committee’s statement, due after
3 p.m., for signals on future interest-rate moves, he said.  Inflation was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February, the
statistics office said yesterday. While the central bank expects
price growth to remain inside the target until the end of 2012,
rising food and fuel costs may worsen the outlook,  Reserve Bank 
Governor Gill Marcus said on March 15.  “We expect food and oil prices to remain key inflation
risks going forward,” said Adenaan Hardien, chief economist of
Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset Management. “Rates have bottomed
and would likely start rising over the second half of the
year.”  Government bonds  were little changed. The 13.5 percent
security due September 2015 dropped 1 cent to 121.08 cents. The
yield was unchanged at 7.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 