-- 
RBA Says Banks to Weather Natural Disasters, Face Slower Growth

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-24T00:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/rba-says-banks-to-weather-natural-disasters-face-slower-growth.html
Australian banks will weather the
financial damage from natural disasters that struck the nation
this year and face a period of slower growth as borrowers show
restraint, the central bank said in a twice-yearly report.  While the floods and cyclone in Queensland state “could
impinge on banks’ asset quality to some extent,” the impact
should be limited given the affected regions account for a small
share of total lending, the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  said in its
financial stability review released today in Sydney.  “Banks’ domestic growth opportunities are likely to be more
limited in the future” as the expansion prior to the global
financial crisis was partly fueled by financial deregulation and
a shift to low inflation, the RBA said. “It appears unlikely
that credit growth will return to very high rates that were
sustained in the pre-crisis period.”  Australia’s four biggest banks reported aggregate profits of
A$11.2 billion in their latest half-yearly results, about A$3.7
billion higher than a year earlier, as economic growth
accelerated in the final three months of last year, the eighth
straight quarterly expansion before disasters ravaged the
northeast.  “While banks expect overall business lending to remain
subdued in the near term, some expect a pickup associated with
the reconstruction effort following the recent natural
disasters,” the RBA said today. “The challenge for financial
institutions and regulators will be to manage an expansion under
post-crisis conditions.”  Insurers  Banks are “well capitalized” and insurers have the
capacity to absorb costs associated with recent natural disasters
in the country, the report said.  Australians are putting aside more money than at any time
for 20 years or more, RBA Governor Glenn Stevens said March 9 at
a conference in  London .  “Having taken on quite a degree of debt over the preceding
15 years or so, households have thought better of taking on too
much more,” he said. “So are households in many other
countries, of course, but our good fortune is to be making that
adjustment against a backdrop of rising income.”  Stevens has paused for three straight meetings at 4.75
percent after raising the overnight cash rate target seven times
from October 2009 to November last year to contain inflation. The
RBA’s last quarter-percentage-point increase was followed by
larger advances in standard variable home-loan rates by Westpac
Banking Corp., National Australia Bank Ltd., Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Bank Competition  That prompted a political backlash and government moves to
increase competition in the banking industry. Local politicians
are sensitive to increases in borrowing costs as more than 90
percent of Australian borrowers have variable-rate home loans.  “While indicators of financial stress are relatively
subdued, a continuation of this recent borrowing restraint would
help build additional resilience into households’ balance
sheets,” the central bank said today.  Household savings approached 10 percent of incomes last
year, up from 1.5 percent in 2007, after a 41 percent drop in
Australia’s benchmark equity index in 2008 spurred investors to
seek more stable returns.  Incomes are rising with the economy expected to grow 4.25
percent this year by the RBA as Chinese demand helps drive up
revenue from raw materials exports to a record.  Australia is undergoing a surge in resource investment as
mining and energy firms boost output to meet demand from China
and  India . That’s helped bolster demand for Australia’s dollar,
the world’s fifth-most traded currency, which touched a record
$1.0256 on Dec. 31.  Currency Trading  “Activity in foreign-exchange transactions involving the
Australian dollar has continued to increase in line with market-
wide trends,” today’s report said.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent in the final
three months of 2010 from the third quarter, when it rose a
revised 0.1 percent, according to a March 2 government report.  Australia’s labor market, which had record job creation last
year, has gone through its worst three-month period since mid-
2009. The economy lost a net 2,300 jobs from December through
February after gaining 362,800 during the first 11 months of
2010, according to statistics bureau figures.  “Households are benefiting from solid growth in employment
and wage incomes,” the RBA said in today’s report.  Torrential rains in Queensland in December and January
flooded coal mines, cut railways and roads and damaged about
30,000 houses. A cyclone stronger than  Hurricane Katrina  slammed
into northern Queensland in February.  The RBA noted today that there had been a pickup in the
frequency of large insurance claim events in recent years.  “Nine of Australia’s 15 largest claim events since 1967,
measured in constant price terms, have occurred since 2006,” the
central bank said. Total annual catastrophe claims, in constant
prices, averaged about A$2 billion since 2006, compared with an
average A$600 million since 1970, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  