-- 
RBA’s Edey Says Australia’s Era of Rapid Credit Growth Is Over

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-24T02:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/rba-s-edey-says-australia-s-era-of-rapid-credit-growth-is-over.html
Australian banks will have to
adjust to slower expansion rates as the era of “double-digit”
credit growth before the global financial crisis comes to an end,
a  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  official said.  Borrowing restraint likely means “less demand for leverage
and less growth in private balance sheets, even when the economy
itself is growing strongly,” Assistant Governor Malcolm Edey
said in Sydney today. “If those trends continue, I think it
will be good for financial stability, but it will also mean that
our lending institutions have to get used to lower rates of
expansion than were typical in the pre-crisis years.”  Australia’s economic growth accelerated in the final three
months of last year, the eighth straight quarterly expansion,
before floods and cyclones ravaged the nation’s northeast
earlier this year. RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has paused for
three straight meetings at 4.75 percent after seven increases in
the overnight cash rate target from October 2009 to November
last year to cool inflation.  “When we think about what the post-crisis environment
might look like, it seems unlikely that we’ll be going back to
the days of consistent double-digit growth in credit that we saw
in the pre-crisis years,” Edey said in the text of his prepared
remarks.  “That growth was driven in part by factors that can’t be
repeated -- the deregulation of the financial system in the 80s,
and the transition to low inflation in the 90s,” he said. “In
the post-crisis environment, borrowers and investors are more
cautious than they were, both at home and abroad.”  Australia’s gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent in
the final three months of 2010 from the third quarter, when it
rose a revised 0.1 percent, according to a March 2 government
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  