-- 
Reagan Airport Gets Second Controller on Sleep Concerns

-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-03-24T16:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/reagan-airport-gets-second-night-controller-on-sleep-concerns.html
Ronald Reagan  Washington  National
Airport will get a second nighttime air-traffic controller after
two flights had to land unaided, possibly because the lone
person on duty was asleep. That controller was suspended.  “It is not acceptable to have just one controller in the
tower managing air traffic in this critical air space,” U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. He also asked the  Federal Aviation
Administration  to study staffing levels at other airports around
the country.  The controller has been suspended “from all operational
duties” pending an agency investigation, Randy Babbitt, the
FAA’s administrator, said in an e-mailed statement today. “I am
determined to get to the bottom of this,” Babbitt said. His
statement didn’t address whether the worker was asleep.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  began an
examination after pilots on two flights were unable to contact
air-traffic control at the hub airport outside Washington,
forcing them to land unassisted, Peter Knudson, a spokesman,
said in an interview yesterday. The board doesn’t yet know why
contact couldn’t be made, and it is looking at the possibility
that the sole controller on duty was asleep, he said.  The  AMR Corp. (AMR)  American Airlines and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  United planes involved landed safely around
midnight on March 22, Knudson said.  The American pilots aborted a first landing attempt when no
one in the tower responded to calls, and landed the second time
without assistance, Knudson said. The United pilots regarded the
airport the same as others that don’t have controllers in early
morning hours, and landed on the first attempt, he said.  The planes were in contact with controllers at a regional
center in  Virginia , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net ;
John Hughes in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net 
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  