-- 
Lone Controller's Silence at Reagan Airport Puts FAA on Guard for Fatigue

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-03-24T21:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/reagan-tower-silence-spotlights-concerns-over-traffic-controller-fatigue.html
Radio silence at Ronald Reagan
Washington National Airport’s tower yesterday during two early-
morning landings renews concerns about U.S. controllers working when
they’re too tired to function, after the lone worker on duty fell
asleep.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  said today the 20-
year controller revealed he fell asleep while working his fourth
consecutive overnight shift, from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., according
to an e-mailed statement from the agency. The NTSB said it
interviewed the controller, who was not named, earlier today and
will study the role of fatigue in investigating the incident.  Sleepiness “will be one of the issues you would want to
look at,” Steven Chealander, a former NTSB member and American
captain, said in an interview. “Fatigue can degrade your
performance. You don’t have to fall asleep to be fatigued.”  The Federal Aviation Administration today said it suspended
the controller while it investigates. Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood said yesterday Reagan’s tower will get a second
nighttime controller, and he asked the FAA to study staffing
levels at other airports around the country.  The pilots for  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s  United Airlines  were unable to hail
the worker on approaches to the airport after midnight. Both
planes landed safely with assistance from a regional control
center.  The United flight was an Airbus SAS A320 carrying 63
passengers and five crew members from  Chicago ’s O’Hare airport,
according to the airline. The American plane was a  Boeing Co. (BA) 
737 from Miami with 91 passengers and six crew members aboard,
according to that carrier.  Scheduling ‘Problematic’  The controllers’ union and safety advocates have voiced
concerns about fatigue for years.  The  NTSB four years ago  asked the FAA to work with the
controllers’ union to revise work schedules and practices, and
to develop a fatigue awareness program. The safety board singled
out the common practice of scheduling controllers to work
increasingly early shifts over a week as “especially
problematic.”  “It’s coming down to the bottom line dollar, where the FAA
wants to staff facilities at midnight with one person,” said
Patrick Forrey, former president of the National Air Traffic
Controllers Association. He said there are several towers in the
U.S. with only one worker at that hour. The FAA was unable to
immediately provide figures on how common the practice is.  The union released a statement today applauding LaHood for
ordering the additional staff at Reagan. The lone controller on
duty was an FAA supervisor, the union said. “One-person shifts
are unsafe. Period,” according to the statement.  The NTSB in its 2007 recommendation pointed to an earlier
study by the FAA’s Civil Aerospace Medical Institute that found
“widespread evidence of fatigue” among controllers.  Nodding Off  That study included survey findings that 60 percent to 80
percent of responding controllers had caught themselves about to
doze off during early morning or midnight shifts, according to
the NTSB. More than two-thirds reported attention lapses while
driving to work for early morning or midnight shifts, and more
than a third reported falling asleep while driving to or from a
midnight shift.  “There was a lot of concern then about the schedules,”
Kitty Higgins, a former NTSB member and now president of The
Higgins Company, who, along with Chealander, approved the
controller fatigue recommendation to the FAA.  “Many of them liked to work the back of the clock, it
gives them more days off. That’s a benefit, but there are also
risks involved,” she said.  The board found in 2007 that the lone controller on duty
when a plane used the wrong runway in Lexington,  Kentucky , and
crashed, killing 49 on board, had slept for about two of the 24
hours before the accident.  The board couldn’t determine the extent to which tiredness
affected the controller’s decision to not monitor the plane’s
departure.  Long Weekends  Sixty-one percent of controllers worked schedules that
opposed normal sleep-wake patterns, the NTSB found. A schedule
may look like this, the NTSB said then: The first day, a 3 p.m.
shift start; the second day, a 2 p.m. start; the third day, 7
a.m.; the fourth day, 6 a.m. The worker may return to work a
fifth shift at 10 p.m. on the fourth day to get a longer
weekend, the board said.  Adding a staff member to towers overnight would allow one
worker to relieve a colleague who is tired, ill, or needed to
use the bathroom, Forrey said.  Chealander, now vice president of training and flight
operations for Airbus SAS’ North American unit, said that while
it is not clear what happened in the Washington tower, fatigue
remains a concern in the industry.  “We can regulate the heck out of things, at the same time
it is incumbent upon us as employees to be ready to go to
work,” Chealander said. “If we’re not ready to go to work,
then we don’t go. We have got to be the adults in all of that
and be ready to do the job that we signed up to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  