-- 
Treasuries Rise on Safety Bid After Moody's Cuts Ratings on Spanish Banks

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T07:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/treasuries-snap-5-day-loss-as-demand-from-g-7-nations-may-rise.html
Treasuries gained as Moody’s
Investors Service cut its ratings on 30 Spanish banks,
increasing demand for the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  Ten-year notes reversed losses from yesterday as efforts in
Japan to avert a nuclear meltdown and airstrikes in Libya
reduced investor appetite for higher-yielding assets. The U.S.
plans to auction 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
today and two-, five-, and seven-year notes next week.  “Problems in  Europe , Japan and the Middle East continue to
dog global markets,” said Colin Embree, Singapore-based head of
fixed-income trading and sales at Bank of Nova Scotia  Asia  Ltd.,
a unit of  Canada ’s third-largest lender. “There remains anxiety
and uncertainty, and people betting against Treasuries are
getting no joy in this market.”  The 10-year yield declined two basis points to 3.33 percent
as of 7:23 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.
The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 rose 5/32, or
$1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 14/32. The yield increased
two basis points yesterday.  Treasuries advanced initially in Asia as Spain’s Expansion
newspaper reported the rating cuts would occur today. Bonds held
gains when London trading began and Moody’s made its
announcement.  The reduction is the latest reason to seek the security of
 U.S. government debt  after Portugal Prime Minister  Jose Socrates 
quit yesterday, pushing the country closer to an international
bailout.  Japan fought to recover from the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, while  Tokyo authorities  said yesterday tap water was
unsafe for infants. Allied warplanes bombed Muammar Qaddafi’s
ground forces in  Libya .  Debt Sales  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $11 billion of 10-year
TIPS and announce the sizes of next week’s auctions today.  The U.S. will probably sell $35 billion of two-year debt on
March 28, the same amount of five-year notes the following day
and $29 billion of seven-year securities on March 30, according
to Wrightson ICAP LLC, which is based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
and specializes in  government finance .  Ten-year TIPS yield 0.95 percent, compared with 1.17
percent at the last auction of the securities on Jan. 20.  Investors bid for 2.37 times the amount of debt offered two
months ago, versus the average of 2.74 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders, the investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 37.9 percent, versus the 10-sale average
of 44 percent.  Inflation Bets  TIPS have returned 2.2 percent in 2011, versus 0.4 percent
for conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Inflation-protected bonds are outperforming as
investors bet U.S. growth is fast enough to push up prices in
the economy.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of expectations for consumer prices, has widened to 2.38
percentage points from 1.84 percentage points six months ago.  “I’m bullish on the macroeconomic picture,” said Sungjin Park, who oversees the equivalent of $62 billion as head of
fixed income in  Seoul  at Samsung Investment Trust Management Co.,
South Korea’s largest private bond investor. “Treasury yields
will rise.”  Durable-goods orders increased 1.2 percent last month,
after a 3.2 percent gain in January, according to the median
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department report today.  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 3.10 percent this
year, the fastest pace since 2004, Bloomberg surveys show.  The Federal Reserve plans to buy $5.5 billion to $7.5
billion of securities maturing from September 2013 to February
2015 today, according to its website.  G-7 Buying  Treasuries also advanced on speculation Group of Seven
nations will buy at U.S. debt sales this week and next,
investing dollars they purchased when they sold the yen to
weaken it.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley & Co. both
said they expect increased foreign demand following the yen
sales on March 18 that were designed to support  Japan ’s economy
after its biggest earthquake on record.  Foreign purchases at U.S. debt sales may increase as they
did in September 2010, when the  Bank of Japan  last intervened in
its currency market, Bank of America strategists Priya Misra and
Shyam Rajan wrote in a report yesterday. The yen sales last week
may have totaled $25 billion, according to the report.  Central banks intervene, buying or selling currencies, to
influence exchange rates. When they purchase dollars, they are
left with U.S. currency that they can use to invest in the
world’s biggest economy.  “These interventions have led to higher inflows” into
Treasuries by Japan, Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Jim Caron ,
New York-based global head of interest-rate strategy, wrote in a
report dated March 18.  Worldwide reserve assets climbed to a record $9.38 trillion
as of March 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of
America and Morgan Stanley are two of the 20 primary dealers
that underwrite the U.S. debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 