-- 
Rajaratnam’s Wiretapped Call With Brother Bolsters Insider Case

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/rengan-rajaratnam-s-call-to-brother-raj-bolsters-u-s-insider-tradng-case.html
A wiretapped telephone call between
Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam and his brother Rengan was
used by prosecutors to bolster their case against the hedge fund
co-founder in the insider-trading trial.  Yesterday, Rajiv Goel, who had worked in  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
treasury group, returned to the witness stand to testify that he
leaked secret information to his friend Raj Rajaratnam. His
testimony centered on his alleged 2008 tip that Intel would
invest $1 billion in a new wireless network company formed by
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and Sprint Nextel Corp. Prosecutors played
several recordings of Goel telling Rajaratnam about the deal.  To counter possible claims by defense lawyers that the news
Goel leaked was already public, prosecutors also played a tape
from March 25, 2008, of a conversation between Raj and Rengan Rajaratnam. The Raj-Rengan discussion took place six days after
Goel was recorded telling Rajaratnam about the venture and
Intel’s investment -- and just moments after the Wall Street
Journal posted an online story about the Sprint-Clearwire deal.  “It’s all over the Wall Street Journal,” Rengan
Rajaratnam told his brother at 8:22 p.m., according to the
wiretapped recording played for jurors in  Manhattan  federal
court. “They’re short on details, but they kind of say, you
know, they’re looking to raise as much as $3 billion.”  Sprint Venture  The brief telephone call is intended to show that Goel’s
tips to  Raj Rajaratnam , beginning on March 19, did in fact
contain confidential information and included news that hadn’t
appeared in the press. Prosecutors have said that Rengan
Rajaratnam, founder of hedge fund Sedna Capital Management,
conspired with his brother to trade on inside information.
Rengan hasn’t been criminally charged.  Raj Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders such as Goel. Rajaratnam
denies wrongdoing, saying he based trades on research.  Goel, who pleaded guilty on Feb. 8, 2010, to conspiracy and
securities fraud charges and is cooperating with the U.S.,
recounted a call from Rajaratnam in 2009 after Intel acquired
Wind River Systems Inc. Rajaratnam complained that Goel hadn’t
told him about the deal, Goel said.  “He said, ‘How come you didn’t tell me?’” Goel testified.
He adding that Rajaratnam also said, “Fortunes are made and
lost on this” type of information.  Also that year, Rajaratnam yelled at Goel when Goel
couldn’t uncover Intel financial data, he testified. “What kind
of executive are you?” Rajaratnam shouted, according to Goel.  Public Announcement  Part of yesterday’s court session was devoted to reviewing
Goel’s taped conversations with Raj Rajaratnam about the venture
Sprint formed with Clearwire. The transaction was publicly
announced on May 7, 2008.  “What are you going to do?” Goel is heard asking
Rajaratnam on a tape from March 20, 2008, after Goel outlined
the contours of the Sprint-Clearwire deal and Intel’s
investment.  Other wiretaps showed how close the two had been. They
include Goel asking Rajaratnam about their planned vacation in
 Italy  together, Goel asking for help getting a job “with one of
your powerful friends,” and Rajaratnam asking about hotel
accommodations during a reunion for the  Wharton School  at the
 University of Pennsylvania , from which they graduated in 1983.  ‘Psychic Reward’  At one point, Goel told Rajaratnam that he received an
Intel Achievement Award from his employer for his work on a
particular transaction. Rajaratnam replied that Goel would get
only a “psychic reward” from Intel, not a financial one.  Goel testified that Rajaratnam made $123,000 in profit for
him in 2008 from trading in the stock of PeopleSupport Inc. A
unit of Essar Group, an Indian company, offered to buy
PeopleSupport that year.  Goel told jurors that Rajaratnam bought 15,000 shares of
PeopleSupport in Goel’s Charles Schwab account on July 2, 2008,
and another 15,000 shares on July 28.  When the companies announced the deal on Aug. 4, 2008,
PeopleSupport stock jumped 25 percent. Goel sold his 30,000
shares one week later at a profit of $103,000, he testified.  Later, when Essar announced in October 2008 that it would
need additional time to close the acquisition, PeopleSupport
shares dropped sharply. Goel said Rajaratnam again bought 30,000
shares for his account, telling him he was “100 percent sure”
the deal would close.  ‘Our Guys’  “We know because one of our guys is on the board,”
Rajaratnam said on a wiretap played for jurors earlier in the
trial.  Goel sold the stock two days later, after the parties
announced a new closing date, for a $20,000 profit, he said.  On cross-examination, Goel testified that he and Rajaratnam
stayed in touch after graduating together from the Wharton
School. Their friendship developed in 2001, a year after Goel
started working at Intel, he said.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, asked Goel
repeatedly if he was testifying against his former friend to get
a more lenient sentence.  “I’m asking whether you understand that that’s your best
chance of getting a lower sentence,” Lynam said.  “Best chance, yes,” Goel said.  Lynam suggested to Goel that Rajaratnam traded in Goel’s
account not as payment for tips but because he was a generous
friend. The lawyer also noted that Rajaratnam often kidded with
Goel and that the two men carried on “a game where you would
talk about how Intel was going to do.”  BMW Cars  In testimony earlier this week, Goel said that Rajaratnam
told him in 2003 that Rajaratnam had given BMW cars to two women
in Intel’s sales department who leaked information to him. Lynam
asked Goel if he thought Rajaratnam was joking.  “I don’t think that was a joke, sir,” he responded.  Wasn’t Rajaratnam kidding when he told Goel in a wiretapped
conversation that he would kiss Goel on the cheek the next time
he saw him? Lynam later asked.  “I hope he was,” said Goel, to laughter in the courtroom.
“If not, I had him figured out all wrong.”  Prosecutors said yesterday they will present another two
weeks’ of testimony in the trial.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 