-- 
Replacing Dollar Bills With Coins Might Cut Deficit, Group Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-03-24T15:55:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/replacing-dollar-bills-with-coins-might-cut-deficit-group-says.html
For lawmakers looking for ways to
cut the projected $1.6 trillion U.S. deficit, David DuGoff has
an idea: dollar coins. DuGoff, the owner of College Park Car
Wash in  Maryland , is a member of a new coalition, the  Dollar
Coin Alliance . The group’s goal: outlawing dollar bills and
replacing them with coins.  Signing on to the cause is a mix of car wash owners and
others who rely on vending machines that often reject paper
bills; Brink’s Co., the armored transport company that offers
coin sorting and wrapping services, and mining companies, which
would benefit from greater demand for metal, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its March 28 issue.  DuGoff has been preaching the primacy of coinage for almost
a decade. He argues that the current push for deficit reduction
makes this time different. The alliance is seizing on a report
released earlier this month by the Government Accountability
Office, Congress’s investigative arm, that found using metal
dollars instead of paper ones would save the government
$5.5 billion over the next 30 years, because it earns revenue on
the difference between the coins’ production costs and their
face value.  That translates to about $184 million annually, an amount
that the coalition concedes won’t balance the budget but isn’t
pocket change, either.  Citizens Against Government Waste , a prominent group of
budget hawks, has joined the campaign. “This cuts across party
lines,” says Shawn Smeallie, the alliance’s lobbyist and a
former aide to Republican President  George H.W. Bush . “For a
Republican, you are not raising one tax. And for Democrats, you
are not cutting one program.”  The group’s opposition? The public. Since the Mint’s 1979
introduction of the Susan B. Anthony dollar, dollar coins have
been rejected by consumers who don’t want to lug around heavy
change. The 2000 release of the Sacagawea dollar and the 2007
launch of the Presidential dollar coin series did little to spur
interest.  To improve the image of dollar coins, the alliance is
highlighting their environmental benefits (they’re recycled
instead of shredded like most old bills) and pointing out that
 Europe ,  Australia , Britain, and  Canada  have already swapped
their smallest denomination bills for coins.  “If we can’t get it done in this budgetary crisis, then
it’s not going to happen,” says DuGoff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 