-- 
Republican ‘YouCut’ Agenda Attacks U.S. Deficit With Small Cuts

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-24T13:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/republican-youcut-agenda-attacks-u-s-deficit-with-small-cuts.html
With Congress stalemated over
trimming a $1.6 trillion  U.S. budget deficit ,  House Republicans 
have been pushing their own plan to slice a little at a time.  Under the “ YouCut ” program created by Majority Leader
Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, the House has voted to trim
Congress’s expenses by printing fewer copies of proposed bills.
The chamber also has voted to end taxpayer financing of
presidential campaigns, at a 10-year savings of $520 million,
and has canceled a $1 billion loan fund to help unemployed
homeowners avoid foreclosure.  Those ideas, chosen in online straw polls by readers of
Cantor’s website, wouldn’t make much of a dent in the deficit
even if they could get past the majority-Democratic Senate.  Still, Republicans are “upending the culture of spending
that prevailed in  Washington  and replacing it with a culture of
savings,” Cantor said as the House voted March 16 to revoke $1
billion to help cities buy foreclosed homes under the
Neighborhood Stabilization Program.  Democrats scoff at YouCut as empty theatrics.  Massachusetts Democratic Representative  Barney Frank  called
YouCut “pure posturing” and blamed the influence of the Tea
Party movement, which helped Republicans gain the House majority
in the November elections.  Mad Hatter  “When your agenda is essentially being dictated by the Mad
Hatter or the White Rabbit,” Frank said, “you are not going to
be seriously legislating.”  Frank said the Neighborhood Stabilization Program is
supported by mayors and county executives, many of whom are
Republicans, because it helps cities buy abandoned properties
that are a blight on neighborhoods.  Democrats and Republicans are in a standoff over this
year’s budget, with Republicans insisting on $61 billion in
spending reductions. Current spending authority ends April 8,
and a failure to agree by then would force non-essential
government functions to shut down.  Cantor initiated YouCut on his  website  last year when
Republicans were in the House minority.  Although Democrats blocked votes on 13 proposals, the
program became a “conduit to demonstrate to people that we’re
listening,” said Utah Republican Jason Chaffetz.  Construction Signs  One winner would have removed highway-construction signs
bearing the motto “Putting America to Work” to show that the
work was funded by the 2009 economic stimulus package. A plan by
Texas Republican Mac Thornberry sought to end the taxpayer
subsidy for  Amtrak ’s sleeper-car service that the  Congressional
Budget Office  said costs $158 million a year.  Now that Republicans are in charge of the House they can
win the floor votes, even if the measures stand little chance of
becoming law.  “It’s all show business,” said Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat. If Republicans “want to be
serious about  deficit reduction , let’s look at the whole
budget” and “not these little nickel-and-dime things,” he
said.  Ohio Republican Steve LaTourette says YouCut “does look a
little bit like ‘American Idol’ to me in that some people log on
and vote,” referring to the television talent show.  House Republicans failed to pass one of their ideas this
year -- a plan to collect $179 million in surplus money from a
United Nations fund for reimbursing UN employees whose wages are
taxed by the U.S.  Lawmakers defeated the proposal after Homeland Security
Committee Chairman  Peter King , a New York Republican, said most
of the money already was designated to improve UN security
against terrorist attacks.  The episode showed that cutting  government spending  is
“not as easy as people think,” King said later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 