-- 
Retail Sales Fall More Than Forecast on Department Store Slump, VAT Rise

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-24T10:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/retail-sales-in-u-k-fall-more-than-forecast-as-department-stores-languish.html
U.K. retail sales dropped more than
economists forecast in February after a surge the previous month
when shoppers brought forward spending to beat a tax increase.  Sales fell 0.8 percent from January, when they jumped a
revised 1.5 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in  London . The median forecast of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was a 0.6 percent decline in February.
Sales at department stores dropped the most in two years. From a
year earlier, overall sales increased 1.3 percent.  Retailers may face further pressure after the government
increased  sales tax  and inflation accelerated to more than
double the Bank of England’s target.  Consumer confidence  fell to
a record low in February, and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who is cutting public spending to rein in the  budget
deficit , said yesterday he will do what he can to “help
families with the cost of living.”  “Given the strength of the January figures, we always
expected some reaction last month,” said  Peter Dixon , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “Given slow wage growth
and the gloomier environment because of the VAT hike, these
factors combine into a bit of a poisonous cocktail. It’s hard to
see where the consumer strength could come from.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.6178 as of 9.58 a.m. in
London. Bonds were little changed, with the yield on the 10-year
gilt at 3.57 percent.  ‘Slowing Down’  Excluding fuel, sales fell 1 percent in February from
January and were up 1.2 percent on the year, the statistics
office said.  The retail data showed sales at “non-specialized stores,”
which mainly includes department stores, dropped 3.2 percent in
February from January. Food sales slipped 0.4 percent, while
clothing and shoe sales fell 1.3 percent.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  said Feb. 28 it’s seen a
“noticeable slowing down” in U.K. demand at its Primark
clothing stores this year.  Sales of household goods declined 2.5 percent in February,
and the statistics office said consumers brought forward
spending on items such as furniture and electrical appliances to
January to beat the increase in sales tax to 20 percent from
17.5 percent. Retail sales were also boosted in January as
spending rebounded after the coldest December in a century.  Internet sales  accounted for 9 percent of all retail sales
in February, up from 7.2 percent a year earlier. Average weekly
internet sales amounted to 474.4 million pounds ($769 million).  Inflation  The food-store price deflator, a measure of annual price
changes, rose to 5.3 percent in February, the highest since May
2009, from 5.2 percent in January. The deflator for all retail
sales was 3.9 percent, the highest since September 2008.  The monthly price deflator for all sales also increased, to
2.5 percent from 1.8 percent. The February reading, partly
affected by the tax increase, is the highest since the series
began in 1994.  U.K. inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in February, the
fastest pace in more than two years. The central bank said
yesterday there is a “significant risk” of inflation
accelerating to more than 5 percent this year.  Next Plc (NXT) , the owner of more than 500 fashion stores in the
U.K. and Ireland, said today it will raise prices between 8 and
10 percent in the second half of the year to deal with an
increase in input costs, more than previously planned.  “The consumer environment is likely to be dominated by the
challenges of global inflation, public-sector cuts and limited
growth in  consumer credit ,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Wolfson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  