-- 
Retiree Health-Plans’ U.S. Subsidies May Run Out This Year

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-03-24T21:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/retirees-health-plan-subsidies-from-u-s-may-run-out-this-year.html
A $5 billion U.S. government fund
to subsidize retiree health costs for employers including
Johnson & Johnson,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  may run
out of money as soon as this year, a congressional report found.  The health law President  Barack Obama  signed last year
created the fund as a stop-gap measure to help keep people
insured until 2014, when the measure creates a national system
of subsidized plans for most Americans. The government pays 80
percent of insurance costs, as much as $90,000 a year, for
retirees aged 55 to 65, who don’t yet qualify for Medicare.  Government officials have never promised that the money
would last until 2014, and it may run out sooner, according to a
report released yesterday by the Republican-controlled  Energy
and Commerce Committee . An official at the Health and Human
Services Department told the committee leadership in a private
briefing March 2 that the fund would be exhausted in 2012,
according to the report.  “Majority Committee staff believes that the program could
exhaust its resources even sooner,” the authors wrote.  Jessica Santillo , a spokeswoman for the secretary of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius,
said in an e-mail that “employers were dropping coverage for
early retirees,” those age 55 to 65, before passage of the
health law.  The retiree insurance program, she said, “gives critical
assistance to businesses so they may continue to provide
coverage to retirees who aren’t eligible for Medicare.”  Retiree Fund Payments  According to the fiscal  2012 budget , the fund’s balance
will fall to $24 million in fiscal 2013 from $1.4 billion in
fiscal 2012 and $3.6 billion in 2011. New insurance exchanges
are scheduled to open Jan. 1, 2014, where retirees will be able
to shop for coverage, eliminating the need for the health fund.  The retiree health fund paid out $535 million to 253
organizations in 2010 the report found. More than 5,000
additional organizations have been approved for future payments
from the fund. The report didn’t outline the effects on retirees
when the fund is depleted.  Employers can use the money to reduce benefit costs or
premiums, retirees’ premiums, co-payments, deductibles and other
out-of-pocket costs, or a combination.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  of  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey ,  New York- 
based Alcoa and General Electric of Fairfield,  Connecticut , are
named in the report as among the 253 organizations that have
already received money from the fund. The companies didn’t
immediately respond to calls or e-mail seeking comment.  The report didn’t say how much each employer was paid,
instead singling out government organizations that it said
received 56 percent of the money.  State Plans Benefit  The largest amount, $57.8 million, went to the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , the report said. The State
of New Jersey’s pension office got $38.6 million,  Georgia ’s
employee health benefit plan received $34.9 million, Kentucky
was the recipient of $29.7 million and Texas got $21 million.  The report states that funds not spent on “government
entities will go to companies that do not appear to need the
financial assistance of the federal government.”  If the 5,000 additional applicants withdraw money at the
same rate as the first 235, the fund will be exhausted “as
early as this year,” the report found.  Sebelius’ agency said in a  regulatory filing  last May that
it would require fund applicants to project how much money they
would need to “help us determine if and when we should stop
accepting applications due to funding limitations.”  Even if a group’s application is approved, Sebelius “may
deny all or part” of any requested payments, the filing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 