-- 
India Survives Australia Pressure, Meets Pakistan in World Cup Semifinal

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-24T20:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/ricky-ponting-gets-century-in-australia-s-260-6-against-india-in-world-cup.html
India ’s Yuvraj Singh said his team
came through “immense” pressure to depose 12-year reigning
champion Australia in yesterday’s Cricket World Cup quarterfinal
and set up a meeting with archrival Pakistan in the last four.  Yuvraj and Suresh Raina clinched a five-wicket victory with
an unbeaten stand of 74 as the hosts reached 261-5 in Ahmedabad,
India. Australia, winner of the past three World Cups, had
totaled 260-6, led by 104 from captain  Ricky Ponting  in 118
balls.  India had looked wobbly at 187-5 before the final pair
steadied the innings to win with 14 balls of the 50 overs to
spare. As well as scoring 57, Yuvraj also took two wickets to
pick up a fourth man-of-the-match award in this World Cup.  “The pressure today was immense, playing  Australia , it was
something else,” Yuvraj said at the post-match ceremony. “When
(Mahendra Singh) Dhoni got out, I knew we still had Raina to
come, and thought if we can add 40-odd runs it would be good and
we can take the game till the end. We held our nerve and won the
match.”  It was a second straight defeat for Australia, whose 34-
game unbeaten World Cup run was ended by Pakistan in the last
group game.  “We competed hard, no doubt about that,” said Ponting,
who was aiming to be a three-time World Cup-winning captain.
“260, with that wicket, I thought was a reasonable total. It’s
disappointing to be bowing out now, we’re probably a better team
than we showed. We played a reasonable game today but not good
enough.”  Reverse Sweep  Sachin Tendulkar, though failing to clinch a 100th
international century, laid the foundation for victory with 53,
and Gautam Gambhir added 50.  Brad Haddin , with 53, was Australia’s second-highest scorer
after Ponting won the toss. The captain held the innings
together as wickets fell and was out when he tried a reverse
sweep and was caught by Zaheer Khan off Ravichandran Ashwin at
245-6.  It was Ponting’s first international century in over a
year. Speculation has surrounded his future after Australia’s
loss against  England  in the Ashes Test series. Earlier this week
the 36-year-old denied a report that he planned to quit
international cricket after the World Cup.  He reiterated that yesterday, saying “it’s a bit premature
to say it was the end of an era for Australian cricket, it was a
pretty good game tonight.”  India lost its first wicket on 44, Virender Sehwag caught
by  Michael Hussey  off  Shane Watson .  Gambhir Runout  Tendulkar was the next to fall, ending his hopes of
clinching the landmark score. He was caught by wicketkeeper
Haddin off Shaun Tait. Tendulkar had begun walking off when
umpire Ian Gould called him back while the incident was viewed
on video replay.  Even after his departure India appeared to be gaining
momentum, only for Virat Kohli to be caught by  Michael Clarke 
off David Hussey’s full toss at 143-3. Then, amid a
misunderstanding with Yuvraj, Gambhir finally got himself run
out after surviving two close shaves.  “I told Gautam ‘I am not Virender Sehwag, I can’t run like
that.’ Well, maybe it was my fault and I apologized to him,”
Yuvraj said.  The pressure increased on India as captain Dhoni was out
for 7, caught by Clarke off Brett Lee with the score on 187-5. A
27-run spree off two overs then sent the match in India’s
direction again as Yuvraj imposed himself on the game, supported
by Raina, to see their team to victory. Raina made 34.  Pakistan  defeated West Indies by 10 wickets in the first
quarterfinal two days ago.  India, which won the World Cup in 1983, will play Pakistan
at Mohali, India, on March 30.  New Zealand  plays  South Africa  in
the third quarterfinal at Dhaka today and the winner will play
 Sri Lanka  or England in the other semifinal in  Colombo  on March
29.  The final of the World Cup, co-hosted by India,  Bangladesh 
and Sri Lanka, is in Mumbai on April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  