-- 
RIM Falls Most in 18 Months as PlayBook Cuts Into Forecasts

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-25T20:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/rim-drops-after-blackberry-maker-s-first-quarter-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, fell the most in 18 months on the
Nasdaq Stock Market after forecasting first-quarter revenue and
profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Profit will be $1.47 to $1.55 a share as the company spends
more on research and steps up marketing for its PlayBook tablet
and new smartphones, RIM said yesterday in a statement. Analysts
had predicted profit of $1.66 on average, excluding some costs,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  RIM’s PlayBook, due in the U.S. April 19, will have to play
catch-up with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, which came out more than a year
ago. New BlackBerry models like the Torch, designed to compete
with Apple’s iPhone and premium devices built on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android platform, may not be enough to stop consumers defecting
to rivals, said William Power, a Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst.  “With Apple and Android both on a roll in the U.S., we
believe RIM will be facing long odds to win back lost
customers,” Power said. In emerging markets, where RIM’s
cheaper Curve model has sold well, new Android devices have the
potential to take share, he said.  Power reduced his rating on Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM’s
shares to “underperform” from “neutral” and Brian Modoff, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, cut his recommendation to “sell.”
Caris & Co. analyst Robert Cihra reduced his rating to “above
average” from “buy.’”  RIM fell $7.20, or 11 percent, to $56.89 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq trading, for the largest decline since Sept. 25, 2009.
That reversed gains the stock had made in recent months, leaving
it 2.1 percent lower this year.  Sales Forecast  Revenue will be $5.2 billion to $5.6 billion in the first
quarter, which ends in May, the company said. Analysts had
estimated $5.65 billion on average.  Getting into new products requires a big investment, Chief
Executive Officer Jim Balsillie told analysts on a conference
call yesterday.  “We’re investing in opening up a new category, bringing in
a new platform -- this is no time for half measures,” he said.
“This is a time of enormous investment and transition.”  The company aims to use its close ties to the corporate
world to get business users interested in the PlayBook. RIM is
discussing possible orders of more than 10,000 tablets with
“several” corporate customers, Balsillie said. The PlayBook
will be able to play software applications from Google’s
Android, RIM said.  “It’s a winner, it’s such a winner,” Balsillie said.  Apple’s Lead  The PlayBook is built on a new operating system developed
by QNX Software Systems, a company that RIM bought a year ago.
The QNX software also will begin appearing in BlackBerry
smartphones starting in 2012, Balsillie said.  Apple has sold more than 15 million iPads to date and has
said that over 65 percent of Fortune 100 companies are testing
or deploying the device, including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  RIM has
shown the PlayBook to a “significant” portion of the same
companies and interest in the device is “very high,” the
company has said.  RIM’s share of worldwide smartphone sales slipped to 14
percent in the fourth quarter from 20 percent a year earlier,
according to Canalys, a British research company. Apple’s share
was unchanged at 16 percent, while Android’s more than tripled
to 33 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup
Inc. are among the banks that began testing iPhones and Android
devices late last year, with an aim to letting employees use
them for work, according to people familiar with the trials.  BlackBerry Sales  RIM’s fourth-quarter net income rose to $934 million, or
$1.78 a share, from $710 million, or $1.27, a year earlier.
Revenue climbed 36 percent to $5.56 billion in the period, which
ended Feb. 26.  The company shipped 14.9 million BlackBerrys last quarter.
Analysts had estimated 15 million. RIM expects to ship 13.5
million to 14.5 million BlackBerrys this quarter, compared with
the 14.8 million estimated by analysts.  RIM’s gross margin -- the percentage of sales left after
production costs -- will be about 41.5 percent this quarter,
short of the 42.7 percent predicted by analysts. The PlayBook’s
gross margin will be lower than for BlackBerry phones, because
of the research and development costs going into the device.  “Higher spending on R&D and marketing makes sense, but the
gross margin is going to need some explaining,” said Steven Li,
an analyst at Raymond James Ltd. in Toronto. He has an
“outperform” rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  