-- 
Roach Sees a ‘Powerful’ Japan Rebound Fading to Lost Decade

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-24T07:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/roach-sees-powerful-japan-quake-recovery-fading-to-another-lost-decade.html
Japan ’s economy is likely to have a
powerful rebound from earthquake rebuilding and then may fade
into another “lost decade,” said  Stephen Roach , nonexecutive
chairman of Morgan Stanley  Asia .  The economic “silver lining” of reconstruction “tends to
be relatively short-lived in terms of altering the fundamental
trend,” Roach said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Hong Kong today.  A rebound is “not going to change the big issues that are
still bearing down on the Japanese economy, like weak
productivity, declining population because of aging and the lack
of effective and coherent leadership,” he said.  Japan’s so-called lost decade during the 1990s saw the
economy slip in and out of recession and grow at an average rate
of about 1 percent a year after the collapse of a real-estate
bubble. Now, Morgan Stanley forecasts a “short and deep”
recession from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that killed
more than 9,000 people and crippled a nuclear power plant.  “There will be a powerful rebound,” Roach said today. At
the same time, the economist said it’s “very hard to make a
compelling case” that the nation is emerging from what he
described as two lost decades.  ‘Totally Unforeseen’  Morgan Stanley has cut its forecast for gross domestic
product to a contraction of as much as 3 percent in 2011, from
the previous estimate of 2 percent growth. The crisis may affect
other economies via goods and services trade, capital flows,
financial system contagion and commodity prices, the bank said.  Roach’s view contrasts with one potential scenario laid out
by economist Simon Wong.  “It’s hard to predict -- these types of events tend to
lead to something totally unforeseen,” said Wong, a former  Hong
Kong  Monetary Authority economist who now works at Standard
Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. One possibility is that the calamity
mobilizes policy makers to address long-standing challenges such
as the need to rein in Japan’s fiscal deficit, and spurs
corporate leaders to ramp up investment, he said.  Engineers resumed work today on reconnecting power at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant and Tokyo city officials
prepared to hand out bottled water after determining that levels
of radioactive iodine may make tap water unsafe for babies.  Homeless Families  The death toll from Japan’s worst postwar disaster climbed
to 9,700 as of noon today, with 16,501 people missing, according
to the  National Police Agency  in  Tokyo . More than 250,000 people
are living in 1,913 evacuation centers. The magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami devastated the northern coastline.  Japan’s government estimates the damage at as much as 25
trillion yen ($309 billion), an amount almost four times the hit
imposed by  Hurricane Katrina  on the U.S.  The destruction will push down gross domestic product by as
much as 2.75 trillion yen for the year starting April 1,
according to a government report. The figure, about 0.5 percent
of the 530 trillion yen economy, reflects a decline in
production from supply disruptions and damage to corporate
facilities without taking into account the effects of possible
power outages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net ; or
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  