-- 
Romanian Leu Extends World’s Biggest Rally After UniCredit Note

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-24T17:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/romanian-leu-snaps-five-day-rally-drops-from-strongest-in-year.html
Romania ’s leu gained for a sixth
day, extending the world’s biggest currency rally this year,
after UniCredit SpA said the currency may appreciate further.  The leu strengthened as much as 0.4 percent to 4.0883 per
euro, its strongest intraday level in almost a year, and traded
0.3 percent firmer at 4.0932 as of 7 p.m. in Bucharest.  Deputy Governor Cristian Popa yesterday signaled the
central bank will not attempt to stop the appreciation, saying
it is in line with economic fundamentals and may curb inflation
expectations. This may further boost the leu toward 4 per euro,
UniCredit wrote in a report to clients today, after the Italian
lender previously projected gains to 4.1 per euro.  “We expect the positive sentiment to prevail in the coming
weeks with Popa’s comments yesterday suggesting that the bank is
not against further currency appreciation,”  Gyula Toth , a
Vienna-based strategist at UniCredit, wrote in the note.  A 2 percent rally in the past six sessions has driven up
the leu’s 14-day relative strength index to 91.4. That is the
highest in 5 1/2 years. Readings higher than 70 indicate an
asset’s price may fall, according to technical analysis.  “We see some further downside in euro-leu also but worry
about the size and speed of recent leu appreciation,”  Luis Costa , emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London ,
wrote in a report today.  While the leu may extend the gain to 4.03 per euro, “we do
not think it will break those levels sustainably as the central
bank will wish to discourage overly fast currency moves and may
squeeze the market at those lower levels,” Costa wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  