-- 
Rupiah Trades Near Strongest Since May 2007 on Growth Prospects

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-03-24T09:58:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/rupiah-trades-near-strongest-since-may-2007-on-growth-prospects.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah traded near the
strongest level in almost four years after overseas investors
boosted holdings of local equities to take advantage of the
nation’s growth outlook. Benchmark bonds were little changed.  Global funds bought $25.9 million more Indonesian stocks
than they sold yesterday, exchange data show. Gross domestic
product may increase 6.6 percent in the three months through
March, compared with an earlier forecast of 6.4 percent, Bank
Indonesia Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said on March 16. The
country’s sovereign credit rating may reach investment grade in
the third quarter, Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta
Rajasa said March 17.  “Positive factors from faster economic growth to
expectations that Indonesia may reach investment grade this year
are helping the rupiah,” said Wiling Bolung, head of treasury
at ANZ Panin Bank in Jakarta. “Inflation is no longer an issue
because investors are confident that  Bank Indonesia  will take
the right steps to manage inflation by allowing the rupiah to
strengthen.”  The rupiah was little changed at 8,719 per dollar as of
4:29 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 8,703 yesterday, the strongest level since May 2007.
The rupiah has rallied 2.9 percent this year, the best
performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies.  The strengthening of Indonesia’s rupiah supports the
country’s economic growth and won’t hurt exports or imports,
Bambang Brodjonegoro, the  Finance Ministry ’s head of fiscal
policy, said today in Jakarta.  Consumer prices rose 6.84 percent in February from a year
earlier, the least in three months, official figures show.
Prices rose 7.02 percent in January, the most since April 2009.
Inflation data for this month will be released on April 1.  Fitch Ratings  raised its assessment on Indonesia to
“positive” from “stable” on Feb. 24 while keeping the rating
at BB+, one step below investment grade, citing favorable
economic prospects.  Ten-year  government bonds  were little changed. The yield on
the 8.25 percent note was little changed at 8.13 percent,
according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  