-- 
Russia Stocks Most Expensive Since 2008 on Oil as BRIC Valuations Tumble

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T02:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/russia-stocks-most-expensive-since-2008-on-oil-as-bric-valuations-tumble.html
Russian stocks are trading at the
most expensive relative valuations since September 2008 after
surging oil prices spurred mutual funds to pour record amounts
of money into the world’s largest energy exporter.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at 1.4 times net assets, its
smallest discount to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in 30
months, after a 4.9 percent gain this year that beat every major
developing nation except  Hungary . Russian shares, the cheapest
among the world’s 15 largest markets for more than two years,
are now more expensive than stocks in France and trade in line
with  Germany  and  South Korea , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors should reduce Russian holdings after $2.5 billion
of mutual fund inflows since December, according to Deutsche
Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc. The government needs crude at
$115 a barrel to balance its budget, the highest-ever breakeven
level, and Russian companies are spending more of their revenue
on capital investments than any other emerging market, putting
stocks at risk if oil retreats, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You’ve got a lot of people staying there as long as oil
remains high,” John-Paul Smith, the London-based emerging-
market strategist at Deutsche Bank, said in an interview. “But
they’re aware of the structural problems in  Russia , and
something that begins as a small fall in the market could quite
quickly turn into something bigger.”  Corruption Policies  Russian stocks trade at lower valuations than emerging-
market peers amid concerns related to financial reporting and
legal protection. OAO Gazprom, the nation’s gas-export monopoly,
was among eight energy companies identified by Transparency
International and Revenue Watch Institute this month as having
the world’s worst reported anti-corruption policies.  OAO Yukos Oil Co., once Russia’s largest oil producer, went
bankrupt in 2006 after Vladimir Putin’s government claimed more
than $30 billion in back taxes. Moscow-based United Co. Rusal,
the world’s largest aluminum producer, was barred from marketing
to individuals for its  Hong Kong  initial public offering in
January 2010. Regulators delayed Rusal’s IPO at least twice on
concern about the company’s debt.  Investors boosted holdings of Russian shares this year
after the Micex surged 229 percent from its bear-market low in
October 2008 through December, the top performance among
benchmark indexes in the world’s 30 largest markets.  Middle East Turmoil  This year’s inflow into Russian funds was bigger than in
any first quarter since at least 2001 even as emerging-market
funds worldwide lost $11.7 billion, EPFR Global data show.
Developing-nation money managers have their top “overweight”
holdings in Russia, according to Bank of America Corp.  Bets that Russia would outperform have paid off so far
after oil jumped 15 percent since December. The MSCI emerging-
market index fell 2.4 percent to yesterday on concern political
turmoil in the Middle East and  Japan ’s biggest earthquake would
slow global economic growth. Brazil’s Bovespa lost 2.2 percent
and  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index tumbled 11
percent. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index rose 0.5 percent.  While Russian stock valuations climbed, shares in the other
so-called BRIC markets have gotten less expensive. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index trades at 2.2 times net assets, a 15
percent discount to its five-year average, while the 3.1 times
price-to-book ratio on India’s Sensex is 16 percent cheaper than
the average since March 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa is valued at 1.7 times book value, a 14
percent discount to the MSCI emerging-market index, the biggest
gap since August 2007, monthly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  More Gains  Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  trades at 1.48 times book value, while
the MSCI South Korea Index is valued at 1.45 times and France’s
 CAC 40 Index (CAC)  has a ratio of 1.3, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Strategists are sticking to calls for gains in emerging-
market stocks this year. The average year-end projection for the
MSCI emerging-market gauge from forecasters at five of the
world’s largest banks is 1,428, or 27 percent higher than
yesterday’s level of 1,123.62, and compares with a 1,463 average
estimate four months ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  UBS AG’s Nicholas Smithie is the most bullish forecaster
with a 1,700 estimate, while Morgan Stanley’s  Jonathan Garner 
has the lowest projection of 1,290. The MSCI emerging gauge
trades for 2 times book value, almost double its nadir of 1.1
times in October 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Micex’s price-to-book ratio has more than tripled from
its bear-market low near 0.5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Russian shares are now valued 32 percent less than
global stocks, a smaller discount than the average of 43 percent
since 1996, MSCI Inc. data show.  ‘Over-Owned’  Gazprom trades at 0.9 times book value, the most expensive
level since November 2008 relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets
Energy Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Moscow-based gas producer has a dividend yield of 1.1 percent,
or 35 percent below the average for global peers.  “Russia now appears over-owned,” John Lomax, HSBC’s
London-based emerging market strategist, wrote in a March 11
research report. He cut his rating on Russian shares to
“neutral” from “overweight.”  There are signs investors are starting to pare their bets
on Russia. Mutual funds had their first outflow in 16 weeks in
the period ended March 16, a $58 million withdrawal, according
to EFPR Global. Metals companies ChelPipe and OAO Koks called
off plans to sell shares last month as money managers demanded
lower valuations.  Short Sellers  Short sales of the Market Vectors Russia exchange-traded
fund, the biggest U.S-listed Russian ETF, jumped to 11 percent
of shares outstanding on Feb. 28, the highest level in a year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Short sellers sell borrowed
shares, hoping to buy them later at a lower price and return
them to the lender.  “We are reducing Russian risk,”  Adrian Mowat , the chief
 Asia  and emerging-market strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Hong Kong, wrote in a March 18 report. “A decline in the oil
price is likely to be the catalyst for a rotation out.”  Russia’s prospects are tied to more than just commodities.
The country may join the World Trade Organization “soon,”
European Commission President Jose Barroso said last month at a
Brussels conference with Putin, Russia’s prime minister. WTO
Membership may add 1 to 3 percentage points a year to Russia’s
economic growth as increased foreign investment in services
industries diversifies sources of growth, according to Troika
Dialog.  Profit Growth  The nation’s earnings estimates are climbing faster than
the average for emerging markets. Analysts have increased their
forward 12-month income growth projections for Micex companies
to 32 percent from 22 percent at the beginning of the year,
according to about 300 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Profits
in the MSCI emerging-market index are projected to climb 24
percent, the data show.  The Micex is valued at 7.2 times profit estimates, the
lowest among 21 major emerging markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Russia is in pretty good shape at the moment,” said
Julian Mayo, a London-based money manager who helps oversee
about $3.5 billion in developing nations at Charlemagne Capital
Ltd. and has “overweight” holdings. “I think it will continue
to outperform.”  While Russian profits are increasing because of higher  oil
prices , Deutsche Bank’s Smith says long-term returns may
disappoint investors as companies restrict payouts to minority
shareholders and boost spending on projects that may lead to
losses if crude retreats.  Investment Plans  Companies in the Micex pay dividends equivalent to 1.5
percent of their share prices, the least in about 11 months and
the lowest level compared with the 7.6 percent yield on Russia’s
benchmark five-year ruble bonds since the debt was issued in
July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russian firms are spending more money to maintain and
expand their businesses than in any other emerging market, even
as economic growth trails the developing-nation average. The 25
percent average capital expenditure to sales ratio for Micex
companies compares with 14 percent for global emerging markets
and 18 percent for China, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia’s economy will probably expand 4.5 percent this year,
slower than the 6.5 percent rate in emerging markets and 9.6
percent in China, according to January estimates by the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  Exxon, PetroChina  OAO Mobile TeleSystems, Russia’s largest mobile-phone
company, spends about 20 percent of its sales on capital
expenditures, compared with 8.7 percent for Sao Paulo-based Vivo
Participacoes SA and 16 percent for Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri
AS, Turkey’s biggest mobile phone company, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Gazprom’s capital expenditures amount to about 27 percent
of revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Irving,
Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and PetroChina Co. of Beijing, the
world’s largest energy companies, had levels of 7.9 percent and
18 percent, respectively.  “A disproportionate amount of investment is going to
commodity-related projects” in Russia, said Deutsche Bank’s
Smith. “The economy is more dependent on oil, and to a lesser
extent other commodities, than ever before.”  Russia may balance its budget this year if oil averages
about $115 a barrel, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said on
March 14. That would be the highest level ever required to
eliminate the gap between government expenditures and revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Urals crude, Russia’s
main export blend, has averaged $101.44 a barrel this year.  Election Spending  Increased government spending ahead of 2012 presidential
elections, along with record world food prices, have helped
boost Russia’s inflation rate to 9.5 percent, within 0.1
percentage point of the highest level since October 2009,
according to government data.  The central bank raised its benchmark refinancing rate by
25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 8 percent on Feb.
25 and may lift borrowing costs another 25 basis points tomorrow,
according to Societe Generale SA. The central bank has also
loosened control of the ruble to tame inflation, fueling an 8
percent appreciation against the dollar this year.  The Micex peaked about three months after the central bank
began raising  interest rates  in 2008.  The 55 percent surge in oil prices since May, driven by the
global economic recovery and spreading unrest in the Middle East
that sparked regime changes in Tunisia and Egypt and a war in
Libya, might cause economic growth to slow and lead to lower
demand over the longer term. An 85 percent to 90 percent annual
gain in the cost of crude led a U.S. recession or growth shock
six times since the early 1970s, according to New York-based
Morgan Stanley.  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  When oil jumped during December 2002 and January 2003 on
speculation an American invasion of  Iraq  would curb supplies and
derail the economic recovery, the Micex lost 4.2 percent and
underperformed the MSCI emerging-market index, which slid 3.9
percent during the period.  “It’s a double-edged sword when the oil price goes up for
Russia,” Roland Nash, chief investment strategist at Verno
Capital, said at the Bloomberg Link Hedge Fund conference in
 London  on March 17. “By making it less necessary to do reforms,
arguably a higher oil price sets Russia up for a fall in the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 