-- 
Russia May Pause Rate Increases as Ruble Tames Inflation

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   Z o y a   S h i l o v a
-- 
2011-03-25T07:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/russia-may-pause-rate-increases-as-ruble-gains-tame-inflation.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged after a surprise
increase last month, the first since 2008, as a stronger ruble
tames price growth and consumer demand stagnates.  Bank Rossii in Moscow will leave the refinancing rate at 8
percent today, according to 13 of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Policy makers are also likely to keep the overnight
auction-based repurchase rate at 5.25 percent and lift the
interest paid on central  bank deposits  by a quarter-point from 3
percent, the survey showed. No time is set for the decision.  Central banks in east Europe and other emerging markets are
pausing rate increases to sustain an economic recovery. Ruble
gains have helped stem the fastest inflation among the so-called
BRIC nations, including China, India and Brazil, by making
imports cheaper. The government has also sold discounted grain
from state stockpiles and ordered  oil companies  to cut fuel
prices to curb cost pressures.  “Further tightening would only be justified by quickening
inflation,”  Vladimir Osakovsky , chief economist at  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  in Moscow, said by e-mail before the release. “Industrial
output is stagnating and remains below expectations. Other
indicators also signal a continued weakness in the economy.”  Monthly inflation will probably reach 0.6 percent in March,
Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said yesterday. That would be
the slowest pace since October, Bloomberg data show.  Output, Investments  Industrial output unexpectedly slowed last month and fixed-
 capital investment  shrank during the first two months of the
year after 10 consecutive monthly gains.  Real disposable incomes fell an annual 1.5 percent last
month after a 5.8 percent drop in January. Unemployment was 7.6
percent in February, almost the highest level in 10 months.  “Evidence from consumption and labor-market data points to
a recovery, albeit for the time being a relatively slow one,”
 Clemens Grafe  and  Anna Zadornova , economists at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , wrote in an e-mail, predicting that all rates will
be left unchanged. “Recent ruble strength has also, in our
view, helped to keep inflation in check and will continue to do
so.”  The ruble has outperformed the other BRIC currencies this
year, gaining about 7.9 percent against the dollar, boosted by
oil, Russia’s chief revenue earner, trading above $100 a barrel.
The currency gained 0.4 percent to 28.22 per dollar and added
0.1 percent to 40.0325 against the euro at 10:31 a.m in Moscow.  Bank Rossii raised its main rate for the first time in two
years last month while also increasing mandatory  reserve
requirements  for banks and allowing a stronger ruble by widening
the currency’s trading band on March 1.  Inflation Target  The central bank expects to meet its annual target of 6
percent to 7 percent, compared with 9.5 percent in February,
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said on March 17.  “The inflation problem is gradually ceasing to be as
pressing as it was a few months ago,” ZAO Raiffeisenbank
economists said in an e-mailed note.  Even so, Bank Rossii may choose to lift borrowing costs
today as real  interest rates  remain negative, Alexander Morozov,
chief economist for Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan at HSBC Bank,
said by e-mail yesterday.  “Despite some slowing in inflation in the past few weeks,
it remains at a level significantly above the central bank’s
rates and inflation’s slowdown doesn’t look firm,” he said. “A
hike to the central bank’s interest rates shouldn’t seriously
slow economic growth at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Zoya Shilova in Moscow at 
 zoya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  