-- 
Russia Seeks Palestinian Reconciliation to Bolster Mideast Role

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-24T14:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/russia-seeks-palestinian-reconciliation-to-bolster-mideast-role.html
Russia  is seeking to broker
reconciliation between the  Palestinian Authority  and the Islamic
Hamas movement in a bid to bolster its role in Middle East
peacemaking.  “Russia will use all the means at its disposal to assist
in this initiative,” Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman at the
Foreign Ministry, told reporters in Moscow today. “This is an
integral part of the Middle East peace process.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is in Moscow
today for talks with Russian leaders, two days after Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  met President  Dmitry Medvedev 
in the Russian capital.  Abbas said on March 16 that he planned to visit the  Gaza
Strip  in a bid to heal a nearly four-year divide with Hamas that
has forced repeated delays in plans to hold elections. The
Palestinian leader said yesterday that Hamas hasn’t yet
officially responded to his offer, which aims to reach agreement
on holding new parliamentary and presidential elections in the
Palestinian territories.  The division between Abbas’s Fatah movement and Hamas dates
back to 2007, when Hamas ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza a year
after winning parliamentary elections, ending a partnership
government with Fatah and leaving Abbas in control of only the
 West Bank .  Talks with Hamas  Russian Foreign Ministry envoy Sergei Vershinin traveled to
Damascus on Feb. 28, where he held talks with Hamas’s political
leader Khalid Mashaal. Russia has maintained regular contacts
with Hamas, which is classified as a terrorist group by the U.S.
and European Union, and previously invited Mashaal for high-
level talks in Moscow.  Russian diplomats may hold further talks with Hamas and
work together with  Egypt  to help the rival Palestinian sides
reach a compromise, Lukashevich said today.  Medvedev and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov “have
completely supported our initiative for Palestinian
reconciliation,” Abbas told reporters yesterday in Moscow.  Saeb Erakat, a member of the central committee of Abbas’
Fatah movement, told Bloomberg News by phone yesterday from
Ramallah that “Russia is playing a role in this respect.”
Senior Hamas leader, Mushir al-Masri, declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg in Gaza City yesterday.  Medvedev told reporters after meeting Abbas that he was
concerned about peace efforts in the wake of continuing turmoil
in the region, according to the Kremlin. The Russian president,
on a visit to Jericho in January, renewed Russia’s call for a
Middle East peace conference to be held in Moscow.  ‘Front Line’  “Moscow has long considered itself one of the countries in
the front line to mediate the Palestinian-Israeli conflict,”
said Dmitri Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.
“The fact that Moscow is inviting both sides no doubt
demonstrates its drive to be a mediator.”  The Middle East peace Quartet, composed of the U.S., the
 United Nations , the European Union and Russia, says new talks
between Israelis and Palestinians are a priority as political
unrests sweeps through the Middle East. Peace negotiations
stalled in September after  Israel  refused to extend a 10-month
partial construction freeze in West Bank settlements.
Palestinians say they won’t negotiate while building continues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  