-- 
Hungary’s Budget Plan Fails to Improve Credit Rating at S&P

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-03-24T12:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/s-p-maintains-hungary-sovereign-rating-and-outlook-on-fiscal-plan-concerns.html
Hungary , the European Union’s most
indebted eastern member, had its  credit rating  maintained at the
lowest investment level at Standard and Poor’s because of risks
in implementing the government’s budget plan.  Hungary had its credit grade maintained at BBB- with a
negative outlook, S&P said in a statement today. That means the
rating company is more likely to cut than to raise it or keep it
stable. S&P’s grade and outlook on Hungary matches that of
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The government, which announced a three-year plan to cut
spending to avert a downgrade to junk and make up for a revenue
shortfall after temporary business taxes run out after 2012, may
only implement 60 percent of its spending cuts, S&P said. Along
with the effective nationalization of private pension funds,
that should be sufficient to stabilize the debt level, S&P said.  “The Hungarian government has announced an expenditure-
focused reform plan, which it estimates will bring about a
fiscal consolidation of more than 7 percent of GDP over 2012-
2014,” S&P said. “We estimate that the government will achieve
only 60 percent of this targeted fiscal adjustment.”  The forint rallied to a six-week high against the euro,
rising 0.6 percent to 267.70 against the euro as of 12:42 p.m.
today. The forint has been the best-performing of the 20
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year behind
the Romanian leu. OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender,
rose 1.5 percent to 5,475 forint after S&P raised the bank’s
credit to investment grade.  IMF Bailout  Hungary, the first EU member to get an International
Monetary Fund bailout in 2008, is cutting spending after relying
on revenue-side measures to meet creditor-imposed budget-deficit
targets in 2010 and 2011. It is counting on resurgent demand in
the euro region, which buys 60 percent of products made or
assembled in Hungary including Audi AG cars and Nokia Oyj
phones, to boost growth.  Savings from the fiscal plan will reach 900 billion forint
($4.6 billion) annually in 2013 and 2014, starting with 550
billion forint in 2012, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on
March 1. The measures include a delay in a cut of the corporate
income tax rate, extending a bank tax and tighter retirement and
welfare rules.  Debt Stabilization  The fiscal plan will probably stabilize the government debt
level at 65 percent of gross domestic product “over the
forecast horizon,” S&P said. Hungary’s debt level was 80
percent of GDP at the end of last year  The plan will be “fully implemented,” Mihaly Varga, Prime
Minister Viktor Orban’s chief of staff, told reporters today in
Budapest after S&P’s statement.  Concerns were heightened after the government cut off
funding last year to the Fiscal Council after the independent
watchdog criticized budget policy. The government set up a new
council dominated by allies of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban .  “The negative outlook on the ratings reflects our opinion
that the government’s efforts to weaken the independence of key
institutions, such as the Fiscal Council, present a risk to the
overall quality of economic governance,” S&P said. “As a
result, we are concerned that the government may become less
committed to the implementation of its reform plan.”  Implementation  Hungary’s credit grade may be cut to junk if the
government’s commitment to implement policies “weakens,” S&P
said. This may become “apparent” if specific measures aren’t
outlined, legislation isn’t implemented and policies aren’t in
place by the end of this year, S&P said.  The credit outlook can be raised to “stable” if the
government “proactively” addresses issues that are obstacles
to growth and demonstrates that its budget plan will be fully
implemented, S&P said.  Hungary’s growth rate may average 2.8 percent in the 2011-
2015 period, compared with the government’s forecast of 3
percent to 3.5 percent, S&P said. The  budget deficit  should
average about 3 percent of GDP annually between 2012 to 2015,
after a surplus of 3.6 percent this year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 