-- 
Saudi Arabia’s GDP Growth to Exceed 4% in 2011, Jasser Says

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-03-24T15:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/saudi-arabia-s-gdp-growth-to-exceed-4-in-2011-jasser-says-1-.html
Saudi Arabian government spending
probably won’t increase inflation and economic growth in 2011
will be “north of 4 percent” as the extra funds take effect,
central bank Governor Muhammad al-Jasser said.  “There are two main sources of inflation in  Saudi Arabia ,
rental and food prices,” he told reporters at a conference in
Doha, Qatar, today. “Extra spending will not go into extra food
demand as people are already consuming what they need. There may
be a little bit of an uptake in rentals in the very short term,
but most of the spending is really to increase the supply of
housing” so demand will start to decline, he said.  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah ordered sweeping increases in
spending last week as protests calling for better employment
opportunities and democracy engulfed the Middle East. The March
18 package included $67 billion on housing and funds for the
military and religious groups that backed the government’s ban
on domestic protests, and followed a $36 billion handout
announced on Feb. 23.  Inflation may accelerate after Saudi companies listed on
the Tadawul All Share Index, including  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC)  and Al Rajhi Bank, agreed on March 19 to pay their staff
two months’ pay in bonuses in line with the royal decree
covering Saudi civil servants, Banque Saudi Fransi said.  The spending “is already getting into the system,” said
al-Jasser, who was attending a meeting of Gulf central bankers.
“The income supplements or the wage supplements are being
disbursed immediately, so the effect will be immediate.”  Saudi Arabia doesn’t need to issue bonds, he said. “We
have good reserves and good revenue, so we do not expect any
need for raising funds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  