-- 
Siemens Hasn’t Finished Revamp Yet as Board to Vote on Osram IPO

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-24T23:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/siemens-hasn-t-finished-revamp-yet-as-board-to-vote-on-osram-ipo.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Loescher , who four months ago announced an end to a dozen
years of restructuring, isn’t done yet.  Siemens’s supervisory board will meet for an extraordinary
meeting on March 28, two people with direct knowledge of the
situation said. The 20-member panel may approve an initial
public offering of the Osram lighting unit and fold the
industrial solutions unit into other businesses, said one of the
people, declining to be named because the plans are private.  “The lighting industry faces huge changes,” said James Stettler, an analyst at UniCredit in  London , who estimates Osram
has an enterprise value of about 5 billion euros ($7 billion).
“ China  is subsidizing local manufacturers and the business will
eventually be commoditized. It makes sense to exit Osram to
avoid getting out too late.”  Loescher will be keen to avoid the pitfalls of keeping a
business too long after a protracted exit from
telecommunications resulted in costly overhauls in the past
decade. The 53-year-old executive declared Siemens a “normal”
company in November after tens of thousands of job cuts, a
bribery scandal that swept out his predecessor and a divisional
overhaul that focused Siemens on three main business areas.  Siemens shares have advanced 55 percent over the past year,
compared with a 30 percent increase for  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
4.6 percent for  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   The supervisory board may sign off on a possible IPO of
Osram and on folding the industrial solutions unit into other
industrial businesses, one of the people said. Siemens spokesman
Alexander Machowetz declined to comment on the board’s agenda.  Osram IPO  Siemens is weighing a share sale of the lighting business
before the end of April, two other people familiar with the
discussions told Bloomberg News on Feb. 28. The company has
retained Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Commerzbank AG to help prepare the IPO, they said.  The German maker of  power plants , scanners and trains is
emerging from more than a decade of programs designed to
streamline its focus on equipment for industrial, energy and
healthcare clients and improving profitability. Profit from the
main industrial, energy and healthcare sectors rose 4.3 percent
to a record 7.79 billion euros in fiscal 2010, as economies
recovered from the slump and manufacturers resumed investing.  Industrial head Siegfried Russwurm flagged looming changes
to employees within his divisions in an e-mail last month.
Industrial automation, drive technologies, and industry
solutions may be among the areas affected, Russwurm said, adding
that the moves would be designed to foster growth, rather than
another “restructuring program.”  Margin Drag  Siemens has drawn criticism from investors and analysts for
moving too slowly on restructuring. By the time Siemens agreed
to transfer its handset units to  Taiwan ’s Benq Corp., the unit
had lost so much money and market share that a turnaround failed
and the new owner gave it up within a year. It moved a network
unit into a joint venture with Nokia Oyj and the business has
struggled to turn a profit since.  Industry solutions posted order growth of 4 percent in its
fiscal first quarter through December, the slowest advance among
the six industrial divisions. It was the only unit where sales
fell, and had the weakest profit margin at 3.5 percent. The
factory-automation division had the highest at 20.2 percent.  “We welcome any change that gets Siemens industry sector
more exposure to services businesses, as these are less cyclical
and have higher margins,” said Ben-Ari Elias, an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach in  New York  said.  The industry solutions division has a history of
underperforming. After losses in 2002 and 2003, stemming from
increased competition from smaller-scale and lower-cost
enterprises, the business went on to improve profitability over
the next five years, reaching 6.2 percent in 2008.  Exiting Consumer Goods  A deal involving Osram would be Siemens’s biggest
structural change since the company sold its VDO automotive unit
to Continental AG for 11.4 billion euros in 2007. A sale would
also bring Siemens close to a total withdrawal from consumer-
oriented products, after giving up its mobile and cordless
phones businesses.  Siemens’s other remaining consumer product is hearing aids,
which the company considered selling before shelving the plan
last year.  Osram is the world’s second-largest lighting maker after
Royal Philips Electronics NV of the Netherlands. Its order
intake and sales grew 14 percent in the most recent quarter.
About 5,000 jobcuts helped improve the margin to 11 percent.  “It makes sense to exit the business now in order to avoid
getting out too late, the mistake Siemens made in its
telecommunications businesses,” Stettler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 