-- 
Small-Business Hiring in U.S. Gaining Momentum, Paychex, Intuit Data Show

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-03-24T14:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/small-business-hiring-in-u-s-gaining-momentum-paychex-intuit-data-show.html
U.S. small businesses are starting
to ramp up hiring 21 months after the end of the deepest
recession since the 1930s, supporting Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s confidence in a gradual labor-market recovery.  Paychex Inc. (PAYX) , which manages payroll accounting for
companies that employ fewer than 100 workers, said checks per
client rose 2.8 percent from a year ago in the quarter ended
Feb. 28, the biggest gain in at least two years. The data,
released with the company’s fiscal third-quarter earnings
yesterday, adds to other evidence showing growing confidence by
small businesses, including data from Insperity Inc. and surveys
by  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and the  National Federation of Independent
Business .  “The upward momentum is very impressive,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc. in New York.
“Disproportionately, job growth comes from the small-business
sector,” which is “key to a self-sustaining expansion.”  During the first year and a half after the recession ended
in June 2009, small companies struggled more than larger ones to
get loans, restraining hiring, O’Sullivan said. Recent surveys
show banks are easing credit, which could help boost monthly
nonfarm-payroll gains to more than 200,000 by midyear, he
estimated. Growth averaged 127,500 in January and February.  Bernanke cited a survey by ADP Employer Services when he
told the House Financial Services Committee on March 2 that
greater credit availability and growing demand among consumers
may encourage small-business hiring. The ADP survey estimated
that companies with fewer than 50 employees increased payrolls
by 100,000 last month.  ‘Very Important’  “I think there is some recovery going on” in these
businesses, said Bernanke, who estimated that they generate
about 60 percent of jobs. He called small companies “very
important” as he noted “increased evidence that a self-
sustaining recovery in consumer and business spending may be
taking hold.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which Bernanke heads,
agreed on March 15, saying the rebound “is on a firmer footing,
and overall conditions in the labor market appear to be
improving gradually.”  Paychex’s customer base “makes it a good proxy for hiring
trends within existing small businesses,” which appear to be
“on a solid pace of improvement,” said Tim McHugh, analyst at
William Blair & Co in  Chicago , who rates Paychex “outperform.”
Most of the Rochester, New York, company’s clients have fewer
than 20 employees, according to Paychex’s annual report.  Rising Hires  Paychex’s rising checks-per-client figures were echoed by
data from Kingwood, Texas-based Insperity, formerly Administaff
Inc., which also provides human-resource services to small and
mid-size businesses. Insperity forecasts that the number of
work-site employees paid per month will climb 9.5 percent this
quarter compared with a year ago, the most since the fourth
quarter of 2007.  “Labor-market conditions continued to strengthen modestly,
with all Districts reporting some degree of improvement,” the
Fed said in its  Beige Book survey  of 12 regional Fed banks three
weeks ago. Boston, Richmond and Chicago reported increases in
the conversion of temporary to permanent hires and permanent job
placements.  Fewer Americans are filing applications for  unemployment
benefits , in another positive sign. Jobless claims declined by
5,000 to 382,000 in the week ended March 19, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington , in line with the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The total
number of people receiving benefits dropped to the lowest level
in almost three years.  Optimism Index  Mountain View , California-based Intuit’s Small Business
Employment Index was the highest in February since December
2008. Confidence among U.S. small companies also rose in
February, the Nashville-based  independent business  federation
reported March 8. The group’s optimism index climbed to 94.5,
the highest since the recession began in December 2007.  Amber Schweitzer, owner of five-year-old PEP Sports Club in
Parker,  Colorado , hired her first two employees this year: one
full-time and one part-time.  “I am looking to expand to some other nearby cities,”
said Schweitzer, 34, who runs sports programs for children that
teach soccer, baseball, golf and tennis. “Even when the economy
was bad, people still pay for their children to do things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Feld in  New York  at 
 afeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  