-- 
South African Central Bank Likely to Keep Key Rate Steady for Second Time

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-24T07:31:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/south-african-central-bank-likely-to-keep-key-rate-steady-for-second-time.html
South Africa ’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second
consecutive meeting today, concerned that rising food and oil
prices will push up inflation.  Governor Gill Marcus will leave the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent, according to all 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Marcus is due to announce the rate decision in a televised press
conference after 3 p.m. in  Pretoria .  Crude oil has surged 16 percent in  New York  this year as
political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa raises
concern that oil production may be disrupted. That’s adding to
pressure on inflation at a time when food prices have also
soared. With inflation still inside the central bank’s 3 percent
to 6 percent target range, Marcus may have enough room to keep
the rate unchanged through June.  “We expect food and oil prices to remain key inflation
risks going forward,” said Adenaan Hardien, chief economist of
Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset Management. “Rates have bottomed
and would likely start rising over the second half of the
year.”  Inflation was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February, the
statistics office said yesterday. While the central bank expects
price growth to remain inside the target until the end of 2012,
rising food and fuel costs may worsen the outlook, Marcus said
on March 15.  Under Pressure  “Upside risks have certainly increased,” Marcus said.
“We remain concerned that the rise in oil and food prices, as
well as administered prices, will impact going forward.”  Bonds were little changed today, with the yield on the 13.5
percent bond due 2015 rising 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.83 percent as of 9:21 a.m. in Johannesburg. The rand
was trading at 6.9528 per dollar at that time from 6.9177 late
yesterday.  The government raised gasoline prices by 4.8 percent on
March 2 after lifting them by 3 percent the previous month. The
price of white corn, a staple in South Africa, has surged 22
percent on the South African Futures Exchange in the past six
months.  “CPI stabilization in January and February should make the
 Reserve Bank  comfortable to keep the repo rate stable for the
time being, but the outlook remains for higher inflation,” said
Johan Rossouw, chief economist of Vunani Securities in  Cape
Town . “The first 50 basis-point hike is expected in the fourth
quarter.”  The Reserve Bank cut the repurchase rate three times to a
30-year low in 2010 to help spur  consumer spending  and bolster
the economy’s recovery. Growth accelerated to an annualized 4.4
percent in the fourth quarter from 2.7 percent in the previous
three months, the statistics office said on Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 