-- 
South Korean Consumer Confidence Drops to 23-Month Low After Japan Quake

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-25T04:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/south-korean-consumer-confidence-drops-to-23-month-low-after-japan-quake.html
South Korean consumer confidence
fell to the lowest level in almost two years, damped by  Japan ’s
strongest earthquake and political unrest in the Middle East.
Retailers’ stocks dropped in  Seoul  trading.  The sentiment index declined to 98 in March from 105 in
February, the fourth monthly drop, the Bank of  Korea  said in an
e-mailed statement in Seoul today. A number below 100 indicates
pessimists outnumber optimists.  “Consumer confidence worsened so sharply, boding ill for
private consumption and also economic growth,” said  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “If oil prices stay above $100 a barrel for another
month, sentiment will deteriorate further, prompting the central
bank to pause interest-rate increases next month.”  The  Bank of Korea  raised rates for the second time this
year on March 10 after inflation exceeded its target ceiling for
two consecutive months. The benchmark seven-day repurchase rate
now stands at 3 percent. Consumer prices climbed 4.5 percent
last month.  Shares in major retailers declined after the data. Lotte
Shopping Co. lost 1.3 percent, Shinsegae Co. slipped 0.4
percent, and Hyundai Department Store Co. dropped 1.9 percent,
as of 1:22 p.m. in Seoul. The benchmark Kospi stock index rose
0.8 percent, trimming earlier gains. The won rose 0.65 percent
to 1,113.95 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pessimistic Outlook  “Japan’s disaster and volatile  oil prices  due to the
Middle East crisis have made many people pessimistic about the
economic outlook,” Jang Wan Sub, a senior economist at the
central bank, said by telephone. “It will be difficult to
restore confidence anytime soon.”  A sub-index measuring consumers’ views of the economic
outlook fell to 75 in March from 94 the previous month, while
the expected inflation rate over the next year rose to 3.9
percent from 3.7 percent, today’s report showed, underscoring
the dilemma the central bank faces between slowing growth and
accelerating price gains.  “This is a sign that inflation expectations in Korea still
are not anchored and that more policy action will be needed to
stabilize expectations,” Wai Ho Leong, a regional economist at
Barclays Plc in  Singapore , said in a report today.  He said he now expects three more 25-basis-point interest-
rate increases -- in May, July and September -- compared with
two previously. That would lift the benchmark rate to 3.75
percent by the end of this year. Authorities will increasingly
tolerate a stronger won to limit the rise in imported price
pressures, he said.  Oil Pressure  Governor Kim Choong Soo has signaled that rates won’t be
increased abruptly and that inflation pressure, largely driven
by oil prices, may ease in coming months. The economy will
remain on a “solid growth track” due to stronger-than-expected
expansion in the U.S., he said March 10.  The  consumer confidence  index is based on survey responses
from 2,091 households in 56 cities and was conducted by mail and
telephone between March 14 and March 21, days after Japan,  South
Korea ’s third-largest trading partner, was hit by a magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami.  -- With assistance from and Saeromi Shin in Seoul. Editor: Nerys
Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  