-- 
South Africa Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged at 5.5%

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-24T14:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/south-africa-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-5-5-.html
South Africa ’s central bank left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second consecutive
meeting today, as surging food and oil prices threaten to boost
inflation.  The repurchase rate was kept at 5.5 percent, Governor Gill Marcus said in a televised speech from  Pretoria  today. That was
in line with the forecasts of all 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Marcus cut the key rate three times to a 30-year low last
year to support the recovery in Africa’s biggest economy as a
rally in the rand helped to keep price pressures under control.
That focus is now shifting after crude oil surged 16 percent in
 New York  this year and food costs soared, boosting the inflation
rate in three of the past five months.  “It is clear that the  Reserve Bank  is very concerned about
the inflation risks,” said Elna Moolman, an economist at
Renaissance BJM, a Johannesburg-based stockbroker. “We’re
forecasting a rate hike in the first quarter” of next year.
“The risk that we may see earlier tightening has increased.”  Inflation, which was unchanged at 3.7 percent in February,
will probably stay within the bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range until the end of 2012, Marcus said. The bank
expects inflation to average 4.7 percent in 2011, up from the
4.6 percent estimated at the previous meeting, and 5.7 percent
in 2012, compared with a previous estimate of 5.3 percent.  Biggest Risks  “The biggest risks to the inflation outlook remain food
and administered prices, but in particular  oil prices ,” Marcus
said. “I don’t think anybody knows what will happen to the oil
price. This is a huge risk on the upside.”  The Monetary Policy Committee members didn’t discuss
raising or cutting the benchmark rate given “uncertainty” in
the global economy, Marcus said. Inflation pressures are
“mainly of a cost push nature,” while there are still risks to
the domestic growth outlook, she added.  “The rate-cutting cycle is over, there is no question
about that,” Rian le Roux, chief economist of Old Mutual
Investment Group, said in a phone interview from  Cape Town . “I
don’t necessarily know that rates will rise that soon. She
poured a little bit of cold water on expectations of early
hikes.”  The rand was unchanged at 6.8855 against the dollar as of
4:23 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the R157 bond, due 2015,
fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.75 percent.  Rising Costs  The government increased gasoline prices by 4.8 percent on
March 2 after lifting them by 3 percent the previous month. The
price of white corn, a staple in South  Africa , has surged 22
percent on the South African Futures Exchange in the past six
months.  Economic growth is also picking up, adding to pressure on
prices. Growth accelerated to an annualized 4.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from 2.7 percent in the previous three months as
mining and manufacturing output rebounded, the statistics office
said on Feb. 22.  The economy will probably expand 3.7 percent in 2011, up
from an earlier forecast of 3.4 percent, and grow 3.9 percent in
2012, Marcus said.  “The domestic growth prognosis has improved and the
recovery is expected to be sustained, although not at rates
sufficient to make appreciable inroads into the unemployment
situation in South Africa,” Marcus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 