-- 
South African Public Servants Reject Above-Inflation Salary Increase Offer

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-24T14:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/south-african-public-servants-reject-above-inflation-salary-increase-offer.html
Unions representing the majority of
 South Africa ’s 1.3 million state workers rejected an offer for
an above-inflation wage increase, just six months after a 20-day
strike closed schools and disrupted hospital services.  “What they’ve put on the table so far is too low to even
take to our members,” Sizwe Pamla, a spokesman for National
Education Health and Allied Workers Union, said in an interview
today. “They need to come back with something serious.”  The government offered to raise wages by 4.8 percent, less
than half the 10 percent requested by unions. Nurses, teachers,
policemen and other state employees last year won a 7.5 percent
raise and a 60 percent increase in housing allowances after nine
months of negotiations and a strike that shut schools and
interrupted services at hospitals and courts.  Employees need more than double the current 3.7 percent
inflation rate because their current incomes reduce them to a
“hand-to-mouth” existence, Pamla said. The union represents
about 250,000 workers, most of whom are nurses, he said.  “We are playing catch-up,” Pamla said. “For us to end
with this discussion we need to up the base of public servants’
salaries so they can lead decent lives.”  The Independent Labour Caucus, a group of 11 public sector
unions representing about 460,000 workers, is also pushing for
the government to pay employees better benefits, including
backing property bonds to promote home ownership, Chairman Chris
Klopper said in an interview from  Pretoria  today.  Dumisani Nkwamba, the spokesman for the Department of
Public Service and Administration, confirmed the government’s
wage offer. He declined to comment further.  The national budget, released on Feb. 23, provides for the
government wage bill to grow an average 6.6 percent annually
over the three fiscal years beginning April 1. That increase
includes the cost of hiring additional workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 