-- 
Sprint Cheaper Than 99% of S&P 500 Signaling Merger: Real M&A

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-24T20:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/sprint-cheaper-than-99-of-s-p-500-as-below-book-signals-merger-real-m-a.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s shares are so
battered after  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion offer for T-Mobile USA
that investors are valuing the third-largest U.S. mobile phone
carrier at a discount to its net assets.  Sprint’s 11 percent slide to $4.49 since the T-Mobile USA
deal was announced March 20 through yesterday left its stock
trading below the company’s $4.87 a share in assets minus
liabilities. That means investors can buy Sprint for 92 cents on
the dollar, cheaper than 99 percent of companies in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index excluding financials, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sprint’s licenses from the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission , which give it the right to operate
its network in specific regions, alone are worth $19.9 billion,
44 percent more than its market capitalization of $13.8 billion.  AT&T’s purchase of T-Mobile USA from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
will give the combined company more than double the customers of
Sprint, while  Verizon Wireless  has almost twice the market
share. To boost value, Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint may
buy the remaining stake in partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  or another
carrier such as  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , according to Dan Hays, a director at consultancy PRTM. It may also become a
target for Verizon as carriers that run on the same network
technology are forced to combine, he said.  “Someone, whether it’s Sprint or Verizon, is going to have
to serve as a catalyst for the consolidation,” said Washington-
based Hays, who specializes in telecommunications. “What’s
clear is that they can’t all afford to remain independent.”  Today’s Trading  Cristi Allen, a spokeswoman for Sprint, declined to comment
on potential acquisitions.  Marquett Smith , a spokesman for
Verizon Wireless, declined to comment, as did Clearwire’s Susan Johnston and Jim Mathias of Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS.  Shares of Sprint rose 1.6 percent to $4.56 on the  New York 
Stock Exchange today. Clearwire slid 0.1 percent to $5.34, while
MetroPCS climbed 1.8 percent to $15.78.  Sprint had held discussions with Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom about buying  T-Mobile USA  prior to the AT&T
announcement, people with knowledge of the matter said this
month. Talks had been on and off, and the companies disagreed on
the value of T-Mobile USA, the people said. Sprint’s shares had
surged 19 percent this year before the AT&T deal was announced.  With the purchase of T-Mobile USA, AT&T will surpass
Verizon as the largest U.S. wireless carrier, in a deal the
company said may take a year to close. Dallas-based AT&T
anticipates having to divest some network assets and subscribers
as a condition for regulatory approval, a person with knowledge
of the situation said this week.  ‘Odd Man Out’  Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse, 57, said Sprint plans to
submit its concerns over AT&T’s proposed acquisition of T-Mobile
USA to Congress because the combination hurts the wireless
industry and will have “tremendous” power.  “They got stood up at the altar,” said Kevin Smithen, a
New York-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., who rates Sprint
“underperform.” “Without that transaction, we believe that
Sprint is the odd man out.”  Sprint gained 0.5 percent yesterday, leaving it valued at
0.92 times net assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
cheaper than all the other 420 non-financial stocks in the  S&P
500  except for three utilities: Princeton, New Jersey-based  NRG
Energy Inc. (NRG) ; Constellation Energy Group Inc. in Baltimore; and
St. Louis-based  Ameren Corp. (AEE)   The price-to-sales ratio of 0.41 for Sprint was also the
cheapest among 50 companies in the MSCI World Telecommunication
Services Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Destroying Value’  Sprint’s shares traded as low as 0.18 times book value in
November 2008, two months after New York-based Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse deepened the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, the data show.  “It’s a reflection of their weak performance for a number
of years,” said Kevin Shacknofsky, who helps manage $7 billion
in Purchase, New York, for Alpine Mutual Funds. “When you trade
below book, it means that you think management is destroying
value. They are not getting returns on investments they are
putting in the network in building the business.”  Sprint listed net assets of $14.5 billion at the end of
2010, according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Total assets amounted to $51.65 billion,
while it had $37.11 billion in liabilities.  Property, plants and equipment were valued at $15.2
billion, after depreciation costs, and intangible assets were
$22.7 billion, mostly made up of $19.9 billion in FCC licenses.  Market Share  AT&T’s absorption of T-Mobile USA and its 34 million
customers will leave Sprint further behind with 16 percent of
the U.S. wireless market. The new AT&T will have 39 percent and
Verizon Wireless has 31 percent, according to data from research
firms EMarketer Inc. and ComScore Inc.  Sprint will likely consider buying other companies that use
the same network technology, known as CDMA, said Michael Nelson,
a New York-based analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. The
standard is shared by Verizon Wireless, MetroPCS,  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP)  and U.S. Cellular Corp. of Chicago. AT&T and
T-Mobile USA are on the GSM standard, used more worldwide.  “They were in the bidding for T-Mobile. Therefore, they
are clearly looking for acquisition candidates to help them grow
their capacity,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about
$2.7 billion at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois. “They
are further behind the curve than their competitors are. So,
they are facing higher costs to upgrade and keep pace.”  Leap Wireless  Sprint may consider acquiring MetroPCS, which has a market
value of $5.5 billion, and Leap Wireless, a $1.2 billion
company, said Nelson, who recommends buying Sprint shares.
Purchasing both would still leave Sprint with less than 21
percent of the wireless market, the data from EMarketer and
ComScore show.  Greg Lund, a spokesman for San Diego-based Leap Wireless,
declined to comment. The company’s shares advanced 2 percent to
$15.02 today.  Sprint may also buy the 46 percent of Kirkland, Washington-
based Clearwire that it doesn’t already own, said PRTM’s Hays
and Macquarie’s Smithen. The cost to buy the stake, meet
Clearwire’s funding needs for its construction and update the
network to a more commonly used technology standard may reach
$4.5 billion, Smithen said.  Sprint had $20.2 billion in debt at the end of last year,
while cash and near cash items totaled $5.17 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Ratings  The wireless carrier is currently rated B1H, four levels
below investment grade, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit
Ratings, which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness, market
capitalization, profitability and other financial ratios.  If Sprint’s long-term debt were to climb by $6 billion in
an acquisition, its credit ranking would drop one level to B1,
Bloomberg’s ratings show. An increase of $4.5 billion, Smithen’s
estimated price tag for Clearwire, would not change its rating.  Verizon may also consider acquiring Sprint to regain its
title as the largest U.S. carrier, PRTM’s Hays said. Verizon
Wireless is co-owned by New York-based  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) , which holds a 55 percent stake, and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  of
Newbury, England.  Shares of Verizon Communications gained 0.5 percent to
$37.18 today, while Vodafone rose 0.7 percent in  London .  “In the past few years, Verizon has been satisfied to let
Sprint hand over subscribers on its own,” Hays said. “If we’re
now faced with a race to be the biggest, Verizon has to look at
Sprint.”  ‘Don’t Know How’  Verizon Wireless Chief Executive Officer Dan Mead has said
the company isn’t interested in buying Sprint, according to
Verizon’s spokesman Smith.  Sprint has lost money every year except one since acquiring
Nextel Communications Inc. in 2005 for $45.9 billion including
assumed debt. Customers abandoned the carrier after complaints
about call quality as Sprint struggled to integrate the Nextel
network into its operations. The company wrote down most of the
acquisition, and the stock has retreated 81 percent since the
deal was completed in August 2005, Bloomberg data show.  “We don’t own Sprint. There’s a reason we don’t own it,”
said  Michael Cuggino , who oversees more than $11 billion at
Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San Francisco . “AT&T and Verizon
are taking the right steps to remain competitive and achieve
growth, whereas Sprint appears to be falling behind. I don’t
know how Sprint deals with that.”  Overall, there have been 5,295 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $539.4 billion, a 21 percent increase from
the $444.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 