-- 
Stock Trading, Near 2011 Low, May Sink More: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-24T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/stock-trading-near-2011-low-may-sink-more-technical-analysis.html
Trading in U.S. stocks, which fell
to the slowest pace this year, is poised to contract because
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s reverse stock split may take out about one-
tenth of the volume, according to Birinyi Associates Inc.  “We won’t be surprised when we read in a few weeks that
volume is declining and how this is a negative signal for
equities,” Jeffrey Yale Rubin, Birinyi’s director of research,
wrote in a note yesterday. “Just be aware that it’s because of
a structural change and not a ‘real’ decline in volume.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 6.4 percent between
Feb. 18 and March 16 on concern rising energy costs will hurt
global economic growth and Japan’s 9.0-magnitude earthquake may
tip the world’s third-biggest economy into a recession. The
benchmark gauge then rose 3.3 percent in the next three days as
 Japan  made progress in bringing an quake-stricken nuclear plant
under control.  Trading slowed this week as fighting in  Libya  and concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis overshadowed the progress in Japan.
Volume declined to 3.75 billion shares on March 22 and 3.97
billion shares yesterday, marking the second and the sixth-
slowest trading days this year, respectively, Bloomberg data
show.  The market may resume its decline should stocks fail to
advance on growing volumes, according to Philip J. Roth, chief
technical market analyst at Miller Tabak & Co.  “We are in a hiatus period for new company outlooks,”
Roth wrote in a note yesterday. “It would be unlikely for a new
downleg to start without increased volatility on the downside,
especially with low volume. But the onus is on the bulls now.”  Citigroup said it will exchange one new share for every 10
of common stock after the close of trading on May 6. So far this
year, the New York-based bank accounted for 11 percent of daily
NYSE volume, on average. After the split, the average volume in
Citigroup will drop to 52 million shares, from 520 million,
Birinyi estimated.  Technical analysts study charts of trading patterns and
prices to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in  New York  at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 