-- 
Swiss Stocks Fluctuate; Lonza, Bucher Advance in Zurich Trading

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-24T09:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-lonza-bucher-advance-in-zurich-trading.html
Swiss stocks swung between gains
and losses after  Portugal ’s Prime Minister resigned, pushing the
country closer to an international bailout.  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , the maker of chemicals for drug companies,
increased 1.4 percent for the biggest gain in the  Swiss Market
Index. (SMI)   Bucher Industries AG (BUCN) , the world’s biggest maker of feed-
mixing equipment, rose after announcing an acquisition.  The SMI of the biggest and most actively traded companies
lost less than 0.1 percent to 6,252.76 at 10:22 a.m. in Zurich.
The broader Swiss Performance Index also slipped less than 0.1
percent.  Jose Socrates  tendered his resignation yesterday as
Portugal’s Prime Minister after plans to cut the budget were
rejected by parliament, pushing the country closer to an
international bailout.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva said late yesterday he will
meet the main parties on March 25 and the government will retain
its powers until he accepts Socrates’s resignation. The vote
came hours before European Union leaders meet in Brussels to
sign off on measures aimed at drawing a line under the region’s
sovereign debt crisis.  In the U.S. orders for durable goods probably climbed in
February for a second month, pointing to production gains that
will keep driving the U.S. recovery, economists said before a
report today.  Durable-goods bookings increased 1.2 percent last month
after a 3.2 percent gain in January, according to the median
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another
report may show jobless claims were little changed last week.  Lonza rallied 1.4 percent to 76.40 Swiss francs. The
company has climbed 6 percent in the last 6 days of trading.  Bucher Climbs  Bucher advanced 4.3 percent to 205.40 francs. The company
is acquiring Hutchinson, Kansas-based Krause Corporation, Bucher
said in a statement.  Petroplus Holding AG dropped 1.9 percent to 15.30 francs.
Credit Suisse Group AG decreased its price estimate for the Zug,
Switzerland-based company. Simple refining margins are
“challenging,” Thomas Adolff, an analyst at the bank, wrote in
a report today. “Complex refiners will be better positioned,”
he wrote.  Gottex Fund Management Holdings Ltd. (GFMN)  sank 8.2 percent to
6.61 francs after reporting a loss of $3 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 