-- 
Twelve Killed in Syrian City of Latakia in Fighting With Security Forces

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-27T22:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/syrian-protest-demands-legitimate-after-death-reports-assad-adviser-says.html
Twelve people, including Syrian 
security personnel, were killed in clashes in the coastal city 
of Latakia, the state-run news agency said, as U.S. Secretary 
of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. won’t intervene there 
as it has in  Libya .  Clinton said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that what
led to intervention in Libya -- international condemnation, an
Arab League call for action, a United Nations Security Council
resolution -- is “not going to happen” with Syria.  “What’s been happening there the last few weeks is deeply
concerning, but there’s a difference between calling out
aircraft and indiscriminately strafing and bombing your own
cities,” Clinton said yesterday, referring to Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s attacks on civilians, “than police actions
which, frankly, have exceeded the use of force that any of us
would want to see.”  Another 200 people were injured, the state Syrian Arab  News
Agency  reported. Syrian forces have fought protesters in several
cities after President Bashar Al-Assad’s promises of more
freedoms and pay increases failed to prevent unrest from
spreading. Demonstrations that started earlier this month may
have led to the deaths of 55 people, London-based  Amnesty
International  said in a statement on its  website .  Syria is the latest country in the region to be hit by the
wave of uprisings that ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and
Tunisia, and sparked armed conflict in Libya. Assad’s regime is
an ally of Iran and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon, where
it supports the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement.  U.K. Concern  “We’re very concerned about  Syria ,” U.K. Defence
Secretary  Liam Fox  told the BBC’s “Andrew Marr Show” from
Brussels, where he was attending a summit of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization. “The position on the ground seems to be
deteriorating. There needs to be international pressure. You
cannot simply shoot people who have a different point of view.”  Syria has decided to end the state of emergency that was
imposed in 1963 at a date that has yet to be determined,  Agence
France-Presse  reported, citing President Assad’s adviser
Buthaina Shaaban.  Saleh has said that no further concessions would be made,
according to the state news agency SANA yesterday. Assad has
received telephone calls supporting him from  Kuwait ’s prince,
Bahrain’s king, Qatar’s prince and the president of Iraq,
according to SANA.  Shaaban on March 24 said protesters’ demands were
“legitimate” and would be met “but in a calm way.”  Foreign Reserves  Central Bank Governor Adib Mayaleh said foreign reserves at
the bank are enough to keep the pound’s exchange rate stable and
meet local demand, SANA said.  Syrian army vehicles entered Latakia, Al Arabiya reported
March 26, citing unidentified witnesses. Khalid Kamal, an imam
in the port city, said in a phone interview with  Al Jazeera  that
“military police and unknown snipers opened fire randomly on
protesters.”  Video footage on the Internet broadcast by pan-Arab news
networks Al Jazeera and  Al Arabiya  March 26 showed hundreds of
protesters in cities including Homs and Daraa. SANA said an
armed group killed one man in Homs while another group in
Sanamein attacked security forces, who killed several
assailants.  Shaaban said the government plans move to combat
corruption, a new media law guaranteeing more freedom, improving
 living standards  for residents of border areas, and changes to
criminal law to ban random arrests and speed the processing of
cases.  Assad has already ordered pay increases of between 20
percent and 30 percent for state employees and an income-tax
cut, state television reported. He also ordered a 25 percent
increase in the pensions of former government employees.  Assad’s father, the late President Hafez Assad, ruled the
Arab country for 29 years. In 1982, he crushed a rebellion led
by Islamist militants in the city of Hama, killing as many as
10,000 people, according to estimates cited by  Human Rights
Watch.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 