-- 
EU Carbon Falls as U.K. Tax Pushes Costs Above Osborne’s ‘Floor’

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-24T18:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-k-s-new-carbon-tax-is-higher-than-assumed-citigroup-says.html
European Union carbon prices fell
as U.K. utilities prepared for emissions charges that will 
exceed the “floor” cited yesterday by the chancellor.  EU permits for December dropped 2.4 percent to 16.54 euros
($23.50) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange   
after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  included a
a so-called carbon-price support in yesterday's budget.  Osborne said the floor price will be 16 pounds ($25.84) per
ton of carbon dioxide in 2013. That minimum, designed to wean
utilities from fossil fuels, turns out to be only one of the
variables that will force U.K. utilities to pay the government
a levy of 4.94 pounds per ton of emissions on top of the market
price of EU allowances. That brings their total emissions costs
to 21 pounds a ton, according Redpoint Energy.  “The market is digesting the premium of the U.K.’s carbon
tax, which wasn’t immediately apparent in the budget
yesterday,” Meg Brown, a London-based analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
said by telephone. “It’s much higher than it first appeared.”  The Treasury set its floor at 16 pounds a ton, rising to 
30 pounds by 2020, after consulting with utilities, according
to a Treasury spokesman who declined to be named, citing
government policy. The 16 pounds is based on 2009 prices and
would now be 19.16 pounds, adjusting for inflation, he said.  Britain will raise 3.2 billion pounds over the three tax
years beginning in 2013, the Treasury said in documents posted
on its  website . The tax will slash Britain’s emissions by 263
million tons through 2030 and accelerate private funding for
five nuclear reactors in Britain, a separate  document  says.  ‘Doubly Bad’  The Treasury calculated the average price of EU carbon
allowances for delivery in 2013 at 14.21 pounds a ton in the
year started in February 2010 based on data from ICE, the
spokesman said.  The U.K.’s new tax on CO2 will push utilities costs higher
than the floor price cited by Osborne and will be “doubly bad
news for coal-fired,” said Duncan Sinclair, a director at Redpoint
Energy. His estimates for total U.K. emission costs are based on
current forward CO2 prices and the levy announced yesterday.  “These measures will most likely displace U.K. coal in the
order of merit, possibly accelerating the closure of some
plants,” Citigroup said in an e-mailed report. “It will also
support further investments in green technologies and also in
 energy efficiency .”  Drax Declines  Drax Group Plc (DRX) , owner of the U.K.’s largest power station,
dropped for a third day in London trading on concern the
government’s carbon tax will erode earnings. The stock retreated
5.2 percent to 371.9 pence as of 5 p.m.  About half of Britain’s electricity comes from coal-fed
power stations, which emit twice the carbon-dioxide of natural
gas plants for each megawatt hour of output. From 2013,
utilities will be required to buy all their emissions allowances
under the EU cap-and-trade program, rather than getting them
mainly for free. The program started in 2005 and offered
emitters free allowances to help with costs.  EU permits for December had jumped 10 percent in the last
month, before today’s loss, on concern Europe will rely more on
fossil-fuel generation, after  Germany  halted seven nuclear
reactors after the tsunami and earthquakes caused radiation
leaks at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  raised price forecasts to 21 euros.  Few Allowances  U.K. utilities may be more likely to keep burning natural
gas because the new tax would limit their ability to profit from
switching to coal when market prices for EU emission allowances
are relatively low, said  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst in Paris at
Orbeo, the carbon-trading venture of Rhodia SA and Societe
Generale SA.  “For the EU market, there is less allowance demand, and it
is bearish,” he said yesterday by e-mail. The tax would reduce
purchases of allowances by 7.2 billion pounds ($11.7 billion)
through 2030, according to U.K. Treasury estimates.  Should emission permits drop to 10 euros a ton, EU power
utilities outside the U.K. would probably burn more coal and buy
allowances, Fages said. U.K. utilities would keep burning gas,
reducing demand for allowances, he said.  U.K. natural gas prices in 2013 may rise by about 4 pence a
therm, and power may increase 4.70 pounds per megawatt hour,
Lakis Athanasiou, a U.K. utilities analyst at Evolution
Securities in  London , said in an e-mailed note. Gas for the six
months through September 2013 rose 0.8 percent today to 66.5
pence a therm, according to ICE data.  Hedging Strategies  “The additional CO2 price is being set three years in
advance so that generators will have time to include this rise
in hedging activities,” cutting risks, Athanasiou said.  Other nations may also impose measures to boost renewable
spending, said Matthew Cowie, an analyst in London at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  “The U.K. price floor also increases the chances that
other EU governments take unilateral steps outside the EU
emissions trading system to encourage facilities in their
countries to make more substantial low-carbon investments,”
Cowie said yesterday in an e-mailed research note. It referred
to the U.K. plans as “a bear in sheep’s clothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  