-- 
U.K. Horse Racing Championship Series Sign Sponsorship With Qatari Company

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-24T00:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-k-horse-racing-championship-series-sign-sponsorship-with-qatari-company.html
Qatar International  Investment &
Projects Development Holding Co. signed a “multi-million
pound” title sponsorship deal with horseracing’s 35-event
 British Champions Series .  “This will have a significant impact on the sport as a
whole,” Karl Oliver, chief executive officer of the British
Champions Series, said in an interview.  Under the two-year agreement, Qipco will have exclusive
naming rights for the inaugural series as well as full
partnership rights for the new British Champions Day at Ascot on
Oct. 15. With total prize money of 3 million pounds ($4.9
million), that day will be the richest event in British racing
history.  “We want to raise the international profile of Qipco and
the British Champions Series provides the perfect platform for
the company to reach a wider audience,” Qipco CEO Sheikh Hamad
bin Abdullah Al Thani said in a joint e-mailed statement.
“Through Qatar Bloodstock, which owns the stallion Makfi, we
already have an interest in the British racing and breeding in
industry.”  Racing Enterprises Ltd., the commercial arm of U.K.
horseracing, is trying to use the series to boost the sport’s
appeal amid a decline in betting revenue, a drop in terrestrial
television coverage and lower racecourse attendances. Its long-
term goal is for the British Champions Day to match the prestige
of the Breeders’ Cup in the U.S. and  France ’s Prix de l’Arc de
Triomphe.  Qipco will be the official partner of the Guineas Festival
at Newmarket’s Rowley Mile, where the British Champions Series
will start on April 30, and the Sussex Stakes, which will be
staged as part the Glorious Goodwood festival in July.  Qipco, which is owned by six brothers who are members of
the royal family of Qatar, is a private shareholding company
with interests in real estate, oil and gas, finance and health
industries.  Having a clear seasonal structure that builds up to one
final day at  Ascot  near London in October “will not only be of
benefit to the top end of the sport, but across the sport,”
Oliver said.  “You see many examples in many other sports such as
football, where if the focus is rising towards a certain race or
match, it has a trickle-down effect across the whole sport,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the  London  sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  