-- 
U.K. Said to Prepare Bank-Stake Sales for Pre-Election Windfall

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-24T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-k-said-to-prepare-sales-of-rbs-lloyds-stakes-for-pre-election-windfall.html
A sale of the British taxpayer’s
65.8 billion-pound ($107 billion) stake in  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is likely to start next
year, creating a one-time budget windfall before the next
election, according to four people familiar with the talks.  Lloyds, 41 percent government-owned, will probably be
offered to investors first as the London-based bank is better
prepared for a sale, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private and the plans may
change. The coalition government would aim to return RBS, 83
percent taxpayer-owned, to majority private ownership by the end
of 2014, three of the people said.  “That level of windfall would open the way for tax cuts in
the run up to the next election,” said Mark Wickham-Jones,
professor of politics at  Bristol University . “That could be a
remarkable opportunity for the coalition.”  By the time of Britain’s next election in 2015, the
country’s budget deficit is slated to drop by more than two-
thirds to 46 billion pounds, or 2.5 percent of gross domestic
product, as spending cuts and tax rises take effect, according
to the independent  Office for Budget Responsibility . That will
give Britain’s Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition the
freedom to spend privatization proceeds on alternatives.  “There’s nothing better than coming into an election with
a message saying ‘We’re looking forward to a period beyond the
age of austerity, and tax cuts signal the beginning of this,’”
said Stephen Driver, author of Understanding British Political
Parties. “If you’re a Conservative government wanting to make
sure you mobilize the Conservative vote, how better to do that
than through tax cuts?”  ‘Important Issue’  The windfall may also be used to exempt more of Britain’s
poorest people from income tax and to fund extra social
spending, which are priorities for  Liberal Democrats , the
smaller of the governing parties.  Potential proceeds from selling the entirety of taxpayer
shareholdings in Lloyds and Edinburgh-based RBS are equivalent
to more than 4 percent of annual GDP, estimated to be about 1.5
trillion pounds this year, according to the  OBR , the agency
monitoring  government borrowing .  The sales will be an “important issue” for the current
parliament, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told the
 House of Commons  on Feb. 9. The time to sell will come, though
“not right now,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  told the House
of Commons yesterday. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said on
Jan. 26 that any sale must recoup the taxpayer’s entire
investment.  ‘Handsome Return’  The Treasury and  U.K. Financial Investments Ltd. , which
manages the taxpayer stakes, declined to comment on possible
sale timetables. RBS and Lloyds also declined to comment.  The previous  Labour  government injected 20.3 billion pounds
into Lloyds and 45.5 billion pounds into RBS to bolster the
banks’ capital during the credit crisis. Lloyds traded at 60.24
pence at yesterday’s close in London, less than the average of
73.6 pence at which the government bought in. RBS trades at
41.42 pence, compared with the 50.2 pence price of the taxpayer
investment. That puts the U.K.’s paper loss at about 11.7
billion pounds.  British taxpayers will get a “handsome return,” from the
investment, Lloyds’s former Chief Executive Officer  Eric Daniels 
told a House of Commons committee on March 16. “It looks like”
the U.K. will profit from its bank investments, RBS CEO Stephen Hester told the same hearing.  Hurdles Remain  The U.K. government’s preference will probably be to sell
to institutional and individual investors rather than sovereign
wealth funds, as the latter generally demand too big a discount
to invest and the government needs to show a profit on the deal,
two of the people said. While there’s a chance that the first
sale may occur as early as November this year, it’s very
unlikely before 2012, one of the people said.  Several hurdles remain which may derail or delay the sales,
including a decline in RBS’s and Lloyds’s share prices and the
outcome of the  Independent Commission on Banking ’s study into
competition, which may force banks to sell assets or separate
their investment and commercial banking units. ICB Chairman  John Vickers , a former  Bank of England  chief economist, will present
an interim report on April 11 and final conclusions in
September.  “The timing has to await the Vickers report because you
couldn’t sell the bank shares at the moment with the uncertainty
hanging over them,” John Redwood, a former  Conservative  Cabinet
minister who advised  Margaret Thatcher  on privatizations in the
1980s. “If Vickers has proposals that don’t make much
difference to the state holdings, they’ve got the option of
selling them earlier. If he’s got proposals to change them, it
will delay it.”  Support Programs  A sale would also lower the cost of servicing the country’s
national debt, estimated by the  Office for National Statistics 
at 2.25 trillion pounds. Once taxpayer assistance to banks is
excluded, net debt is 875.8 billion pounds, 61 percent lower.  Both banks are reducing their reliance on government and
central bank support programs, like the  Special Liquidity
Scheme . Lloyds cut its dependence on taxpayer-funded programs by
almost half to 83.6 billion pounds in February from the end of
2009, according to company filings. RBS lowered its support by
21 percent to 57.6 billion pounds last year from the end of
2009,  filings  show.  The SLS was introduced at the peak of the credit crisis in
2008 to improve liquidity by allowing banks to swap hard-to-
trade mortgage-backed securities for  government bonds . The banks
have since reduced their reliance as access to bond markets has
resumed.  Return to Profit  That process will need to be completed before sales can
commence, said Joe Dickerson, a banking analyst at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank.  “It provides an investor with a greater level of comfort
in investing in the riskiest part of the  capital structure ,”
said Dickerson. “That’s probably going to come after Lloyds and
RBS have demonstrated a better profile of profitability.”  RBS, which received the biggest bank bailout in the world,
expects to return to profit in 2011, according to CEO Hester.
Lloyds may almost double pretax profit in 2011 to 4.1 billion
pounds, according to the median estimate of 21 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The lesson from  Sweden , which nationalized two banks in the
1990s, is that it may take longer than expected to sell the
stakes, Bo Lundgren, Sweden’s minister for fiscal and financial
affairs in the 1990s, said last year. The government still owns
13.5 percent of Nordea AB almost two decades after taking over
its predecessor, Nordbanken, which went on to merge with
Gotabank, which was also nationalized.  Even so, the idea of starting a sale before the election
would echo Thatcher’s tax-cutting and asset-sale programs of the
1980s, according to Tim Bale, professor of politics at  Sussex
University .  “It wouldn’t be the first time that a British government
has tried something similar,” he said. “It would certainly fit
with the pattern of Conservative governments in the 1980s, who
similarly managed to synchronize the economic cycle with the
electoral cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  