-- 
Europe Prepares to Impose Carbon-Reduction Measures on Maritime Transport

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-25T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-k-treasury-to-review-how-carbon-tax-affects-existing-plants.html
The European Union is preparing to
include maritime transport in its emissions-trading system or
impose charges on carbon discharges from ships should
international talks fail to cut pollution from the industry.  The  International Maritime Organization , created under the
United Nations system, has been unable to agree on measures to
curb emissions from ships for more than a decade. The EU is now
pursuing a “parallel track” to design its own tools to limit the
industry’s pollution, said Yvon Slingenberg, head of the
emissions-trading unit at the European Commission.  “Whereas a global agreement in the context of IMO is still
the preferable option, and we continue working for that, we have
started really seriously preparing for tackling the sector,”
she said in an interview at a climate seminar this week in
Budapest. “It could be for bringing them into the emissions
trading system; it could be also other options such as charges
or levies.”  Global maritime transport accounts for almost 3 percent of
carbon-dioxide discharges, and emissions from ships are expected
to more than double by 2050, according to the commission, the
Brussels-based EU regulatory arm.  The EU emissions trading system, known as the ETS, is the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade program. Started in 2005, it
imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers, allowing those that emit less than their quota to
sell surplus permits. One permit gives the right to discharge
one metric ton of CO2.  The program will expand to include aviation next year and
chemical and aluminum companies in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Budapest at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  