-- 
Treasuries Fall as Stocks Advance; TIPS Demand Highest in Year

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-24T21:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-s-10-year-treasury-yields-near-highest-in-more-than-a-week-before-sale.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing the 10-
year note yield to a one-week high, as global stocks rose on
improved corporate profits and speculation European financial
bailouts will end with  Portugal .  A bond market gauge of inflation expectations known as the
break-even rate widened after today’s $11 billion auction of 10-
year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, drew the
highest demand in a year.  U.S. debt  also fell as the government
said it would offer $99 billion of two-, five- and seven-year
securities next week.  “There is a general sense that there has been a shift in
attitude after the raw emotion of the flight-to-quality trade,
which seems to have dissipated,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a
Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist at Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney. “Investors are moving back into risk and
out of Treasuries some.”  The benchmark 10-year note yield rose six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 3.41 percent at 5:15 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
3.625 percent security maturing in February 2021 dropped 15/32,
or $4.69 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 26/32.  The yield on the 10-year note advanced today to the highest
level since March 14. It touched 3.77 percent on Feb. 9, the
highest since April 2010. The 30-year bond yield gained four
basis points to 4.48 percent.  ‘Lot of Optimism’  “There is a lot of optimism, which is driving Treasuries
lower,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York. “Yields are at levels where most
people think they are headed higher, and the market seems to be
discounting news from abroad.”  U.S. stocks gained, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
up 1 percent as Micron Technology Inc. and the Linux-software
maker Red Hat Inc. surged after earnings beat estimates.  At today’s sale of inflation-indexed debt, the securities
drew a yield of 0.920 percent, compared with the average
forecast of 0.981 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 9 of the
20 primary dealers, which are obliged to participate in U.S.
government auctions.  Investors bid for 2.97 times the amount of debt, the
highest level since April 2010. Primary dealers purchased 67.7
percent of the debt, the highest since April 2009. Indirect
bidders, the investor class that includes foreign central banks,
bought 25.2 percent, the lowest since April 2007.  ‘Strong’ Auction  “We see investors coming back to the TIPS market as risks
are leaning toward higher inflation given the Fed’s stance and
the economic recovery,” said Sergey Bondarchuk, an interest-
rate strategist in  New York  at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.
“It was a very strong TIPS auction.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt known as the break-even rate, widened to 2.48 percentage
points, from 2.40 percentage points, after falling to 1.82
percentage points six months ago.  TIPS have returned 2.2 percent in 2011, compared with 0.4
percent for conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year debt on March 28,
the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year securities on March 30, the Treasury
Department announced today.  Corporate Bonds  Surging U.S. company bond sales have helped drive up
Treasury yields as corporate issuers sell government debt to
lock in borrowing costs, according to Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia.  “There’s certainly been a huge amount of corporate
issuance creating a modest bias toward higher Treasury yields
from both rate-lock selling and crowding out,” LeBas said.  Borrowers have issued at least $45.4 billion of U.S.
corporate bonds this week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $48.8 billion during the first
week of this year, the most ever.  Bonds earlier pared their drop after the Commerce
Department reported that durable-goods orders slid 0.9 percent
last month after a 3.6 percent gain in January. The median
forecast of 80 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
1.2 percent advance.  ‘Data Inconsistency’  “We’ve seen lots of data inconsistency of late,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, a primary dealer. “It goes to the idea that global
growth momentum is likely to slow over the next couple of
months, which may keep a bit of a bid under the rates market.”  The  Fed  bought $6.987 billion of securities maturing from
October 2013 to November 2014 today as part of its $600 billion
program of quantitative easing to support the economy.  Portuguese notes tumbled, leading declines in  Europe , as
the resignation of Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  stoked concern
the government is moving closer to seeking a bailout.  Spain ’s
notes fluctuated as Moody’s Investors Service cut credit ratings
on 30 of the country’s lenders.  “The greatest concern for the market right now is whether
the  euro zone  is going to implode,” said Thomas Meissner, head
of fixed-income research at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  