-- 
U.S. Credit Swaps Decline Most This Week as First-Time Jobless Claims Fall

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-03-24T21:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-s-credit-swaps-decline-most-this-week-as-first-time-jobless-claims-fall.html
The cost of protecting corporate
bonds from default in the U.S. fell by the most this week as
investors speculated the labor market is improving and that
European bailouts may end with  Portugal .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 94.4 basis points as of 5:13 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index
typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates.  “This is somewhat surprising, considering the negative
news on the sovereign, Japanese nuclear, and  Libya  situations,”
Michael Reiner, a New York-based credit strategist with Societe
Generale SA, wrote in a note. “We are returning to the broader
tightening trend we have been trumpeting for several weeks. Even
considerably weaker durable goods orders this morning haven’t
been enough to derail the rally.”  A report showed orders for long-lasting goods unexpectedly
fell in February. Bookings for goods meant to last at least
three years dropped 0.9 percent after a 3.6 percent gain the
prior month that was higher than initially reported, the
Commerce Department said today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
1.2 percent increase in orders.  Jobless claims declined by 5,000 to 382,000 in the week
ended March 19, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington, in line with the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Warplane Strikes  Allied warplanes continued strikes against Muammar Qaddafi’s ground forces in Libya. European leaders met in
Brussels today after Portugal’s parliament rejected budget-
cutting measures, pushing the country closer to requiring a
bailout.  In  Japan , dangerous radiation levels, fires and explosions
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant have hampered repair
work since a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11
knocked out electricity needed to operate cooling systems and
prevent a meltdown.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  