-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for March 23 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-24T18:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-march-23-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Colder weather moved into major population centers this report
week, increasing demand related to space heating for much of the
country. Prices moved higher at all trading locations in the
lower 48 States, with the biggest increases occurring in the
Northeast. During the report week, the Henry Hub spot price
increased $0.33 to $4.18 per million Btu (MMBtu).  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), futures prices also
increased significantly as the weather outlook suggested higher
consumption for the remaining days of March. The futures
contract for April delivery climbed $0.40 on the week to $4.34
per MMBtu. Upward pressure on prices at the NYMEX also appears
related to concerns over events in Japan that could affect
energy markets. Japan, the world’s largest liquefied natural gas
(LNG) consumer, is expected to boost consumption of LNG as a
fuel for power generation following the nuclear crisis in the
country. However, it should be noted that LNG demand in the
United States has fallen significantly in recent years as a
result of higher U.S. production.  As of Friday, March 18, working gas in underground storage was
1,612 billion cubic feet (Bcf), which is 2.2 percent above the
5-year (2006-2010) average, according to the Energy Information
Administration’s Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report (WNGSR). The
implied net withdrawal from storage was 6 Bcf.  The number of rigs drilling for natural gas continued to
decline, although the decrease slowed from the prior week.
According to data reported by Baker Hughes Incorporated, the
number of active rigs fell by 7 to 875 for the week ending March
18. The natural gas rig count is at its lowest level in more
than a year (see Other Market Trends below).  Prices  Cold, winter-like temperatures and even a large snowstorm in the
Northeast are characterizing the opening days of spring,
resulting in higher natural gas consumption related to space-
heating. Overall U.S. consumption increased 9.6 Bcf per day, or
6.1 percent, from the beginning of the report week (Thursday,
March 17) through yesterday (Wednesday, March 23), according to
BENTEK Energy Services, LLC. In the residential and commercial
sectors, consumption grew 11.1 Bcf per day, or 15.2 percent, to
33.8 Bcf per day yesterday. As often occurs during the winter,
the cold weather this week translated into higher prices for
natural gas on the wholesale spot markets. The Henry Hub price
averaged $4.18 per MMBtu yesterday, which was 8.6 percent higher
than the price of $3.85 at the beginning of the report week. The
Henry Hub spot price was either unchanged or increased in each
of the 5 trading days this report week. The report week began
with price increases following EIA’s release of the March 17
edition of the WNGSR, which showed withdrawals from storage
occurring more rapidly than expected by analysts. Toward the end
of the report week, the weather outlook appeared to drive prices
higher. At markets in the producing region surrounding the  Gulf
of Mexico , price increases during the week were generally
between $0.30 and $0.45 per MMBtu. The price at the  Houston Ship
Channel  in East Texas increased by $0.36 on the week to $4.16
per MMBtu, while the price at Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
(Transco) Station 65 in  Louisiana  increased by $0.34 to $4.20
per MMBtu.  U.S. domestic production continues to create new records as
volumes from shale formations increase. Supplies from
unconventional gas fields such as the Marcellus Shale in the
Northeast/Appalachia region and the Haynesville Shale in
Louisiana helped boost domestic production above 63 Bcf per day
on average during the report week, and as high as 63.3 Bcf on
Sunday, March 20, which is the highest production level ever
reported by BENTEK in its daily production statistics (See Other
Market Trends below). U.S. domestic production is 5.9 percent
higher compared with this time last year, according to BENTEK
statistics. Domestic production has not declined substantially
despite reductions in overall rig counts compared with this time
last year, likely in part because of greater efficiencies in the
drilling process and the high initial production levels at shale
fields. However, it should be noted that there is often a
delayed effect on production output from changes in drilling
trends.  In the Northeast, prices increased by as much as 35 percent on
the week, as temperatures in the region turned winter-like. Many
points in the Northeast region posted increases of more than
$1.00 per MMBtu on the week. For delivery in Zone 6 into  New
York  off Transco, the price increased by $1.22 per MMBtu to an
average of $5.48 by the end of the report week. This price was
the highest at this market center in about 3 weeks, and $1.30
higher than the Henry Hub price yesterday. The Northeast’s price
premium over Gulf of Mexico regional prices typically widens
significantly with the advent of colder weather because of a
lack of alternatives for transportation of supplies into the
region during periods of high demand.  Prices at the majority of markets west of the  Mississippi River 
increased over 10 percent. The price at the Opal,  Wyoming ,
trading point increased by $0.39 on the week to $4.04 per MMBtu.
Consistent with other regional trends, this price was the
highest average price at this market center for several weeks
(February 9). Although prices in the Rocky Mountain region are
generally the lowest in the country, discounts of Rockies prices
to other markets have grown less in the past two years. To date
in 2011, the average difference between the Opal price and the
Henry Hub price is $0.14 per MMBtu. During the same time periods
in 2010 and 2009, the average differential was, respectively,
$0.33 and $1.50 per MMBtu. The change in the price relationship
likely is resulting from increased pipeline capacity from
pipeline projects such as Rockies Express Pipeline and the new
Bison Pipeline, which have integrated Rockies markets with other
regions.  Imports of natural gas continue to flow into the  United States 
at much lower levels than in previous years, likely as a result
of higher U.S. domestic production. During the report week, net
Canadian imports averaged 5.5 Bcf per day, which is 8.0 percent
lower than the same week in 2010. The pace of deliveries of U.S.
LNG imports in recent weeks has also decreased considerably in
comparison with this time last year. Sendout from U.S. LNG
import terminals averaged about 0.9 Bcf per day during the
report week, or 11.8 percent lower than the same week in 2010.
The lower level of U.S. LNG imports this week is the result of
much higher prices being available to suppliers of LNG in
regional markets in  Europe  and  Asia . Following the nuclear
crisis in  Japan  (which will likely result in higher demand for
LNG) and conflict in North Africa, the difference in prices in
the United States and other world markets has increased even
more. Currently, however, the extent to which this will affect
current deliveries of LNG to the United States is unclear.  Spot Prices  At the NYMEX, the price of the near-month contract (for April
delivery) increased $0.40 during the report week to $4.34 per
MMBtu. The increase was attributable chiefly to colder
temperatures moving into consuming regions of the country.
Upward price pressure also appears related to concerns about the
stability of international supplies of LNG, although
domestically these supplies make up meet a very small portion of
overall U.S. consumption. The April 2011 contract is currently
priced about 12 percent higher than the expiration price of
$3.84 per MMBtu for the April 2010 contract. At the end of
trading yesterday, the 12-month strip, which is the average for
natural gas futures contracts over the next year, was priced at
$4.72 per MMBtu, an increase of about $0.32, or 7.3 percent,
since last Wednesday.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage fell to 1,612 Bcf as of Friday,
March 18, according to EIA’s WNGSR. After a 6-Bcf draw, stocks
are now 34 Bcf above the 5-year average but 12 Bcf below last
year. The draw was less than the 5-year average draw of 17 Bcf.
Last year, however, saw a stock build of 6 Bcf during the same
week. This marked the beginning of last year’s injections, which
continued until November. Typically, we can expect to see one
more week of draws before injections begin.  Once again, the drawdown last week was centered on the East
Region where 22 Bcf was withdrawn. The Producing and West
Regions injected 15 Bcf and 1 Bcf respectively. It is normal for
the Producing Region to see consistent stock builds in March
while the East Region will usually continue to draw into the
start of April, especially if cold weather continues. Regional
weather patterns and changing production and consumption
dynamics can easily disrupt these historical averages, however.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending March
17 were about 3 degrees warmer than normal but about 1 degree
colder than last year. The  National Weather Service ’s degree-day
data show that the temperature in the lower 48 States last week
averaged 47.0 degrees. Regional differences were significant
with the East North Central Region a full 7 degrees cooler than
last year. That amounts to a 38 percent increase in heating
degree-days in a major gas-consuming region, and contributes to
an 8 percent increase in heating degree-days in the lower 48
States.  Other Market Trends  Haynesville Shale Production Surpasses Barnett. Citing data from
BENTEK Energy, EIA reported on Friday, March 18, that natural
gas production in Louisiana’s Haynesville Shale has surpassed
that of the Barnett Shale in  Texas . For the past decade, the
Barnett has been the Nation’s largest shale producer. EIA noted
that Haynesville producers were able to take advantage of
technological advances in drilling. Additionally, pipeline
infrastructure has expanded recently to accommodate Haynesville
production. More information is available here:
 http://www.eia.doe.gov/todayinenergy/detail.cfm?id=570# 
< http://www.eia.doe.gov/todayinenergy/detail.cfm?id=570 >  Natural Gas Rig Count Falls to 875. The natural gas rotary rig
count, according to data reported by Baker Hughes Incorporated
on March 18, fell for the third week in a row to 875. The rig
count has fallen by about 5 percent since the beginning of 2011,
and rigs are at their lowest level in more than a year. As the
overall natural gas rig count has fallen, strength in production
has continued, likely the result of more efficient drilling
techniques and drilling in shale formations. The horizontal rig
count (which includes both oil and natural gas) rose this week
to 986, an increase of 5 from the previous week. Horizontal
rigs, which are often found in shale formations, are at their
highest level in the 20 years for which Baker Hughes has data.
Vertical rigs (also including both oil and natural gas) dropped
this week by 6 to 503.  Natural Gas Transportation Update  In anticipation of colder-than-normal weather in the Northeast,
several pipelines this week issued imbalance warnings. Texas
Eastern Transmission Corporation issued a notice effective March
24 through March 31, requiring all delivery point operators in
Market Area Zone (M3) “to keep actual daily takes out of the
system less than or equal to scheduled quantities regardless of
their cumulative imbalance position” and receipt point operators
in Market Area Zone (M3) “to keep actual daily receipts into the
system greater than or equal to scheduled quantities regardless
of their cumulative imbalance position.” Additionally, Texas
Eastern is requiring all power plant operators in Market Area
Zone (M3) to provide information on the hourly consumption
profile of directly connected power generation facilities.  Similarly, Algonquin Gas Transmission Company issued a notice
effective March 23 through March 31 requiring all shippers and
point operators to “carefully review demands for gas and
schedule gas consistent with daily needs and to tender and
receive gas consistent with confirmed nominations.” Algonquin is
requiring that all receipt point operators keep actual daily
receipts into the system greater than or equal to scheduled
quantities regardless of their cumulative imbalance position.
Algonquin has also required all power plant operators to provide
information on the hourly consumption profile of directly
connected power generation facilities.  Questar Pipeline Company has a reservoir test scheduled April 7
through April 20 at their Clay Basin, Utah, facility. An
operational flow order issued March 22 by Questar stated that
during the testing period, they will be unable to inject or
withdraw for its Clay Basin balancing account and will not be
able to accept any imbalance payback nominations to or from the
pipeline for gas during the testing period. Additionally,
Questar is requiring shippers and point operators to align
nominated and actual volumes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  