-- 
U.S. Aircraft Carrier Moved From Yokosuka Port to Avoid Radiation Traces

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-24T00:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-s-aircraft-carrier-moved-from-yokosuka-port-to-avoid-radiation-traces.html
The  aircraft carrier  USS George
Washington was moved this week from its Japanese port to avoid a
potentially costly and complex future cleanup to remove traces
of radiation, the Navy’s top uniformed official said yesterday.  The carrier did not face an acute, near-term radiation
threat that would have forced its departure from Yokosuka, about
175 miles (280 kilometers) south of the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant, said Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead.  Rather, Roughead said, he wanted to move the flattop
because even residual traces of radiation on a nuclear-powered
warship, while not harmful from a health standpoint, could be
mistaken as a sign of a shipboard nuclear leak requiring
identification and cleanup, he said.  “The fact that somebody could go aboard and detect some
trace, I think, injects challenges,” he said in an interview.
“When you think of an aircraft carrier that has literally
thousands of miles of ventilation ducting in it, you’ve got a
significant cleaning issue.  ‘‘My view was ‘let’s just get her out,’ get her away from
where she could pick up any sort of contamination so that that
ship stays clean,” Roughead said.  U.S. Navy ships and helicopters have been involved in
rescue efforts following the 9.0 magnitude earthquake and
subsequent tsunami that hit  Japan ’s Tohoku region on March 11.  ‘Not Health-Threatening’  The U.S. military has about 38,000 personnel ashore in
Japan and an additional 11,000 afloat in the region or  dispersed 
among 85 facilities on Honshu, Kyushu and Okinawa, according to
U.S. Forces Japan.  “Radiation levels” from the crippled power plant “are
not life-threatening or health-threatening -- for all Americans
there -- but I watch that very closely,” Roughead said.  “I am very comfortable were we are in Japan in terms of
the safety to our people and the precautions being taken,” he
said.  The Japanese government has struggled to contain the ripple
effects of the natural disasters that crippled the nuclear
facility north of  Tokyo .  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said fuel rods at the plant have
been damaged, releasing five kinds of radioactive material and
contaminating seawater for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  