-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally Amid Higher-Than-Estimated Corporate Profits

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T21:20:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-before-european-leaders-meet-in-brussels.html
U.S. stocks advanced, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a second day, after
corporate profit topped analysts’ estimates and a government
report showed a decline in jobless claims.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the biggest U.S. producer of
computer-memory chips, rose 8.4 percent and Linux-software maker
 Red Hat Inc. (RHT)  surged 18 percent after earnings beat analysts’
estimates.  GameStop Corp. (GME)  jumped 2.9 percent as the largest
video-game retailer forecast profit above analyst’s projections.
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  gained 3.5 percent after William Blair & Co.
raised its rating for the world’s biggest online retailer.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.9 percent to 1,309.66 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the highest level in two weeks. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  advanced 84.54 points, or 0.7 percent, to
12,170.56. The benchmark measure of U.S. stock options completed
its biggest six-day drop since November 2008.  “There’s no shortage of cheap stocks,”  Leon Cooperman ,
chairman of hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc. said in an interview
today with Bloomberg Television at the Strategas Global Macro
Conference in New York. “You have good profits and good
economic growth. You have good valuations and conservative
posture.”  The S&P 500 has advanced 4.1 percent in 2011, extending
last year’s 13 percent rally, amid government stimulus measures
and as companies reported earnings that topped analysts’
estimates for the eighth straight quarter. The benchmark index
is trading at 15.4 times reported earnings, compared with the
average ratio of 19.7 at bull-market peaks.  Jobless Claims Drop  Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, signaling the labor market is mending.
Jobless claims declined by 5,000 to 382,000, Labor Department
figures showed, in line with the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The total number of people receiving
benefits dropped to the lowest level in almost three years.  “The economy is improving and this is a good environment
for corporate profits,” said  David Kelly , who helps oversee
$450 billion as chief market strategist at  JPMorgan Funds  in  New
York . “The latest numbers suggest an advance in the  U.S.
economy . Investors are buying the idea that even though there
are many headwinds, if you believe the economy will grow, then
stocks are cheap.”  Global stocks rose for a sixth day, the longest rally for
the MSCI World Index since September, amid speculation the need
for European Union bailouts may end with Portugal. European
leaders meet in Brussels today after Portugal’s parliament
rejected budget-cutting measures, pushing the country closer to
needing an EU rescue.  Volatility Slumps  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, fell 6.1 percent to 18, extending its drop since
March 16 to 39 percent. That’s the biggest drop over the same
number of days in 28 months. The VIX needed to fall below 17.53
to beat the six-day record set two months after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s September 2008 bankruptcy sent stocks plunging.  Micron Technology jumped 8.4 percent to $11.50. Second-
quarter sales and profit beat analysts’ estimates on increasing
demand for chips used to store data on mobile phones and
tablets. Revenue climbed 15 percent to $2.26 billion in the
period that ended March 3. That compared with $2.1 billion, the
average of predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  Red Hat gained 18 percent, the most in the  S&P 500 , to
$47.26. The largest seller of the  Linux operating system  posted
a profit of 26 cents a share excluding some items, beating the
22 cent average of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg survey, as
customers updating data centers to take advantage of cloud
computing boosted billings.  GameStop Rallies  GameStop rose 2.9 percent to $21.73. The world’s largest
video-game retailer forecast first-quarter profit excluding some
items of at least 53 cents a share, beating the average analyst
estimate of 52 cents in a Bloomberg survey.  Amazon.com added 3.5 percent to $171.10 after being raised
to “outperform” from “market perform” at William Blair by
equity analyst  Mark Miller .  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sank 1.3 percent to $13.48. The
biggest U.S. lender was cut to “market perform” from
“outperform” at FBR Capital Markets. The bank may not have the
earnings power to be in compliance with the new  capital
requirements , analyst  Paul Miller  said in a note.  Trading in U.S. stocks, which fell to the slowest pace this
year, is poised to contract because  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s reverse
stock split may take out about one-tenth of the volume,
according to Birinyi Associates Inc. New York Stock Exchange
volume declined to 3.75 billion shares on March 22 and 3.97
billion shares yesterday, the second and the sixth-slowest
trading days this year, respectively, Bloomberg data show.  “We won’t be surprised when we read in a few weeks that
volume is declining and how this is a negative signal for
equities,” Jeffrey Yale Rubin, Birinyi’s director of research,
wrote in a note yesterday. “Just be aware that it’s because of
a structural change and not a ‘real’ decline in volume.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Johnson in New York at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  