-- 
Mubadala Posts Comprehensive Loss of $86 Million for 2010

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-24T11:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/mubadala-of-abu-dhabi-posts-2010-profit-of-1-1-billion-dirhams.html
Mubadala Development Co., an  Abu
Dhabi  government-owned investor with stakes in  Carlyle Group  and
 General Electric Co. (GE) , posted a comprehensive loss of 315 million
dirhams ($85.8 million) for 2010, because of declines in “mark-
to-market” investments.  The loss followed a comprehensive profit of 9 billion
dirhams in 2009, according to an e-mailed statement today. Net
income fell to 1.1 billion dirhams, from 4.6 billion a year
earlier. Mubadala said last year its 2009 profit attributable to
shareholders was 4.79 billion dirhams, after reporting a loss of
11.44 billion in 2008.  Abu Dhabi, home to more than 7 percent of the world’s
proven crude reserves, is seeking to diversify from oil by
investing in industries such as real estate and aerospace.
Waleed Al Mokarrab Al Muhairi, Mubadala’s chief operating
officer, said Oct. 27 that emerging markets represent a “gaping
hole” for the company.  Mubadala said March 10 that it’s in talks with state-owned
Dubai Aluminium Co. to expand their partnership. Gulf News
reported that day, citing Sheikh Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum,
Dubai’s deputy ruler, that Mubadala has offered to buy a stake
in Dubai Aluminium to create a new holding company.  “All options are on the table,” Al Muhairi said today,
responding to questions on the matter.  Mubadala agreed in January to buy convertible bonds valued
at 2.8 billion dirhams from  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , as part of a
government bailout for Abu Dhabi’s biggest developer.  Higher Revenue  Revenue rose 22 percent to 16 billion dirhams as the
company gained from its aerospace, infrastructure and oil and
gas businesses, according to today’s statement.  “Our revenue mix has increased its diversification,” Al
Muhairi said on a conference call. “We’ve seen a decrease in
the relative contribution of the oil and gas portfolio and an
increase in the aerospace portfolio.”  The company said in November it was in talks to complete
the transfer of a 5 percent stake in sports-car maker Ferrari
SpA to Fiat SpA. Mubadala earned a profit from selling the
stake, Al Muhairi said today.  The company’s long-term debt is 24 billion dirhams and
short-term debt stands at about 2 billion, Chief Financial
Officer Carlos Obeid said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  