-- 
Uncle Sam Wants Your Cash, Not Confession: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-03-24T23:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/uncle-sam-wants-your-money-not-your-confession-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Sitting in a federal prison for the
rest of his life,  Bernard Madoff  neither admits nor denies that
he committed civil  securities fraud .  Yes, he pleaded guilty to criminal fraud and drew a 150-
year sentence for his $20 billion bilking. But the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  settled  its civil fraud case
against him without making him acknowledge a solitary lie.  So routinely do people and firms resolve SEC cases
“without admitting or denying” wrongdoing, as the agency’s
boilerplate phrase goes, that even the guiltiest of fraudsters
who confess in criminal court to the most audacious of crimes
never come clean with the SEC, which has its own, civil cases to
resolve. They don’t have to admit anything for the agency to get
off their backs, as long as they agree to disgorging allegedly
ill-gotten gains and other penalties.  At least with Madoff and anyone else pleading or found
guilty in criminal court, the public can be pretty sure they
ripped off someone. But what about those who are never charged
with crimes, who are accused only by the SEC in civil actions?  How are we to know whether an accused person or firm really
lied to investors? Except for the rare defendant who denies
wrongdoing and goes to trial, there’s no way to know.  Only about 20 lawsuits go all the way to trial out of more
than 600 filed nationally a year, says SEC spokesman  John Nester .  “Our main objective in any case is to obtain appropriate
sanctions against wrongdoers,” says Nester.  Avoiding Trial  Not demanding an admission while forbidding a denial is
supposed to help accomplish that. Accused violators will give up
a lot to avoid a trial where they could be found liable. And
they’re not about to confess anything. An admission or verdict
against them would be manna from heaven for plaintiffs’ lawyers
representing investors or others who say they were cheated.  It’s the same policy the  Justice Department  and other
agencies follow in civil cases. For that matter, how often do
you see two private parties resolve a lawsuit where one of them
admits misconduct? It’s rare.  You can say the SEC is different because its civil actions
are sort of semi-criminal. At least one federal judge has had
enough of the SEC practice of letting defendants settle with no
confession.  “An agency of the  United States  is saying, ‘Although we
claim that these defendants have done terrible things, they
refuse to admit it and we do not propose to prove it, but will
simply resort to gagging their right to deny it,” U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff wrote this week.  Implied Mea Culpa  “The disservice to the public inherent in such a practice
is palpable,” he wrote in a court order. He approved a
settlement despite the boilerplate language it contains.  He signed it, he said, because guilty pleas in parallel
criminal cases and the size of the civil penalty consented to by
 Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS)  mean the “company has effectively
admitted the allegations.” The SEC accused it of cooking its
books, back-dating  stock options  and lying in material public
statements.  But not every SEC case has a parallel criminal case, and
it’s not always clear from settlement terms whether the alleged
villains did bad things.  Did International Business Machine Corp. employees really
bribe Chinese and South Korean officials, as the SEC claims? The
computer-services provider agreed this month to pay $10 million
to resolve the matter, without admitting or denying anything.  Companies would have us believe that sometimes it’s simply
cheaper to settle than fight. And if they don’t have to admit
liability, then why not get it over with?  ‘Stew of Confusion’  Or maybe Company X really did what the SEC says. Of course
it would rather leave that question unresolved than face trial
and be found liable, anyway.  “The result is a stew of confusion and hypocrisy,” Rakoff
complained. “The defendant is free to proclaim he never
remotely admitted the terrible wrongs alleged,” as long as he
doesn’t flat out deny them, the New York judge wrote.  Rakoff warned that he is “reserving for the future
substantial questions” of whether he could keep signing off on
agreements when the accused doesn’t say whether the allegations
are true.  At least one SEC commissioner has had similar misgivings.  Luis Aguilar told an audience last month that he wants
defendants to “take accountability for their violations and
issue mea culpas to the public.”  Press Releases  He wants an end to company press releases that suggest the
SEC over-reacted. Otherwise, he  said , the commission may
reconsider its routine acceptance of settlements in which the
accused culprit neither admits nor denies misconduct.  Aguilar’s comments sound more like a threat aimed at those
who try to squirm around the no-denial provision of their SEC
settlements.  As for Rakoff, who has tangled with the SEC in the past,
stay tuned to see whether he can force a redo of SEC  practices 
by rejecting a settlement now and then.  He makes a point. The current policy looks silly in cases
like Madoff’s, and inconclusive in the grayer ones.  But in the real world of litigation, it’s hard to see how
demanding an admission as part of a settlement would do anything
other than drive more accused violators to trial, at taxpayer
expense, without producing tougher penalties for the wrongdoer.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  