-- 
Lundin CEO Wright Says Inmet’s Panama Mine Setback Is a ‘Material Change’

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-03-24T20:54:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/lundin-ceo-wright-says-inmet-s-panama-mine-setback-is-a-material-change-.html
Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , which agreed
in January to be acquired by  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  for C$3.47
billion ($3.55 billion), said Panama’s opposition to part of a
proposed Inmet copper project represents “a material change.”  Lundin Chief Executive Officer Phil Wright said he first
learned that Panama’s government doesn’t favor construction of a
coal-fired power plant to supply electricity to the Cobre Panama
mine last week.  “That is quite a material change for us,” Wright said in
a telephone interview yesterday from  London .  Lundin, which like Inmet is based in Toronto, is fending
off an unsolicited C$4.28 billion cash-or-stock bid from
 Australia ’s  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  The Inmet deal is “dead,”
Equinox CEO  Craig Williams  told the  Globe & Mail  March 22.
Lundin won’t consider scrapping the takeover until it has
assessed the viability of alternative power sources for Cobre
Panama, Wright said.  “Inmet are saying there are alternatives and that those
alternatives would not delay the project,” Wright said. “I see
nothing that would enable me to draw that conclusion.”  Wright’s comments have fueled speculation that Lundin may
be preparing to back out of its deal with Inmet, citing
“material adverse change” in relation to the Cobre Panama
project, Peter Campbell, a Toronto-based analyst at Jennings
Capital Inc., said today in a telephone interview.  ‘Telegraphing’  “Lundin seems to be telegraphing that this is potentially
the case,” Campbell said.  The company’s shareholders will probably vote against the
tie-up with Inmet at a special meeting in Toronto on April 4,
David Davidson, a Toronto-based analyst at Paradigm Capital
Inc., said in a telephone interview. Inmet shareholders are
scheduled to vote the same day.  “One of the big attractions in the deal was Inmet’s
impressive pipeline of mining projects, especially Cobre
 Panama ,” Davidson said. “The situation in Panama as it relates
to Cobre Panama is a concern.”  Lundin rose 20 cents, or 2.7 percent, to C$7.58 at 4:15
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. Inmet gained 11 cents to
C$64.55, while Equinox’s Canadian shares advanced 11 cents, or
2.1 percent, to C$5.45.  Alternative Power Sources  Panamanian President Ricardo Martinelli told Inmet CEO
Jochen Tilk he’s not in favor of the coal-fired plant, Tilk said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Panama. The mine
wouldn’t face delays if the plant isn’t built because Cobre
Panama could rely on power from the national grid in the first
few years of operation, Tilk said.  Lundin said March 20 its shareholders should reject
Equinox’s offer partly because the bid represents an inadequate
takeover premium and the Perth-based company would take on too
much debt to finance the deal.  “I see no strategic benefit in terms of us getting
involved with Equinox’s assets,” Wright said.  Martinelli said this month the government would repeal a
law allowing investment by foreign governments in its  mining
industry .  Inmet said today in a statement it received a letter from
Roberto Henriquez, Panama’s minister of industry and commerce,
asserting the repeal of changes to a mining law “does not
affect the contracts or concessions that have already been
granted to companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 