-- 
Vestas Sees Asia Adding Wind Farms After Japan Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T06:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/vestas-sees-asia-adding-wind-farms-after-japan-nuclear-crisis.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the
world’s largest maker of  wind turbines , said demand for wind
projects may increase after  Japan ’s worst earthquake triggered a
nuclear crisis.  Asia Pacific nations installed about 19 gigawatts of wind
power including 16.7 gigawatts by  China  last year and this
year’s additions may be higher, Sean Sutton, president of
Vestas’ Asia-Pacific business, said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday. Nations excluding China may add 4 gigawatts of wind
power this year, he said.  “We don’t have a rush of orders since the earthquake but
the possibilities are there,” said Sutton, who oversees Asia
Pacific, excluding China. “I project a growth in wind after
what happened in Japan.”  Japan is trying to prevent a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear complex after cooling systems were knocked out by a
9.0-magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11, prompting
nations including  Germany  and China to review their plans to
expand nuclear power. Financing for wind projects in the Asia-
Pacific region may increase as policy changes in Australia and
 India  draw lenders, Sutton said Nov. 3.  India  added  2.1 gigawatts in wind-power capacity last year
compared with 1.2 gigawatts in 2009, Sutton said.  “India should exceed 3 gigawatts a year in additions
soon,” Sutton said.  Plan Halts  China, planning to build more nuclear reactors than any
other country, said on March 16 it suspended approval of all new
atomic projects until a safety review is carried out. The
country’s existing reactors use second-generation technology,
the official Xinhua News Agency said on July 22.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has put plans to extend the
life of Germany’s reactors on hold for three months while the
implications of events at Fukushima are examined. The British
government ordered a review of nuclear safety, and Swiss policy
makers put projects to renew three of their country’s five
nuclear power stations on hold, the Environment Ministry said on
March 14 in an e-mailed statement.  Investment in the wind sector slowed since the end of 2008
as the global credit crisis prompted banks to restrict loans to
wind-energy developers and a sovereign debt crisis limited
prospects for economic growth in  Europe , the world’s  biggest
wind market by region .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  Singapore  at o
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at o
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  