-- 
VIX Posts Its Biggest Six-Day Retreat Since 2008 as Global Stocks Advance

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-03-24T20:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/vix-heads-for-biggest-six-day-drop-since-08-as-japan-quake-concerns-abate.html
The benchmark measure of U.S. stock
options completed its biggest six-day drop since November 2008
as concern that this month’s Japanese earthquake will curb
global economic growth eased.  The VIX, as the  Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, fell 6.1 percent to 18 at 4:15 p.m.  New York 
time, extending its retreat since March 16 to 39 percent. That’s
the biggest drop over the same number of days in 28 months. The
VIX needed to fall below 17.53 to beat the six-day record set
two months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s September 2008
bankruptcy sent stocks plunging.  “This market is as remarkably resilient as any I’ve
seen,” said Mike Shea, a managing partner and trader at Direct
Access Partners LLC in New York. “We had a nuclear disaster in
 Japan  and the Mideast two days from who-knows-what, and with
that, you’d think the VIX would stay at 30.”  Global stocks advanced for a sixth day, the longest rally
for the MSCI World Index since September, amid improving
earnings and speculation the need for European bailouts may end
with  Portugal .  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. continues to fight to
prevent radiation from leaking at a nuclear plant damaged by the
9-magnitude quake and resulting tsunami on March 11.  The VIX measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which rose
0.8 percent today after corporate profit topped analysts’
estimates and a government report showed fewer jobless claims.  May VIX futures lost 2.6 percent to 21.05. June contracts
decreased 2 percent to 21.90.  ‘People Feel Confident’  “People feel confident that the market is not going to
take a dive,” said Mark Sebastian, director of education at
Option Pit Mentoring in Chicago. “The market has processed what
happened last week and decided that the risk of an absolute
crash is low.”  Options prices and bets on higher equity volatility jumped
from Tokyo to  Frankfurt  and Chicago last week as investors
sought protection against stock-market losses amid concern that
Japan couldn’t contain the radiation leak. The VIX climbed 46
percent in the first three days of last week to close at 29.40
on March 16, the highest since July.  In  Europe , the benchmark gauge of stock-market volatility
also fell for a sixth straight session today. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) ,
which measures the cost of protecting against a decline in the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index, slumped 7.6 percent to 22.10. The Euro
Stoxx 50 stock index gained 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  