-- 
Weather Pattern Change Makes Forecast for U.S. Cold Hard

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-24T13:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/weather-pattern-change-adds-difficulty-to-forecast-on-u-s-cold.html
A change in weather patterns is
making it more difficult for forecasters to determine how cold
the U.S. East will be as March ends and April begins.  Commodity Weather Group LLC  today predicted near-normal
temperatures in the East with the possibility of above-average
warming in  Maine  and the Canadian Maritimes from April 3 to 7,
said the group’s president,  Matt Rogers .  MDA Federal Inc.’s Information Systems  has a similar
forecast for the period. However, MDA’s Robert Haas said he has
low confidence because of unsettled weather erupting as the
patterns change next week.  “A faster progression could allow for a much cooler
looking map,” Haas wrote in a note to clients.  An alteration to patterns affecting weather across the
continent is adding a layer of difficulty to forecasting,
according to Rogers. The current cold in the East is being
brought on by a negative phase of the North Atlantic
Oscillation, a change in pressures near Greenland that can
determine U.S. weather.  The negative phase goes away near the end of the 6- to 10-
day forecast time frame and will be replaced by a pattern that
will bring cold southward in the 11- to 15-day period, Rogers
said.  ‘Struggling’ Computer Models  “The models are definitely struggling with pattern
transition issues in the 11-15 day,” Rogers said in a note to
clients today.  Average temperatures for the end of March and early April
in  New York  are about 47 degrees Fahrenheit (8.3 Celsius),
according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  St. Louis , the
average is about 52; in Boston, 43;  Chicago , 44; Atlanta, 58;
and in Houston, 65.  Haas said a storm pattern across the South March 29 to
April 2 has caused problems for computer models.  Yesterday, the U.S.  Climate Prediction Center , in  Camp
Springs , Maryland, forecast an above-average chance of cooler
weather spreading across the eastern half of the country until
at least April 6.  In the 6- to 10-day outlook, the climate center and Rogers
agree an area from Nebraska to the Atlantic has an above-average
chance of below-normal temperatures. Haas predicts the cold will
be more concentrated in the Ohio Valley, mid-Atlantic and
Northeast.  Haas and Rogers diverge from the U.S. forecast in the
south.  The area from eastern  Texas  to  Florida  is included in the
climate center’s forecast for possibly colder-than-normal
weather.  Rogers said Texas and the U.S. Gulf will probably have
near-normal temperatures. Haas has the area of normal
temperatures extending from the Gulf to southern Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  