-- 
Wells Fargo Sees Home Equity as ‘Top Concern,’ Analyst Says

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-24T22:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/wells-fargo-chief-sees-home-equity-losses-as-top-concern-bernstein-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive
Officer John Stumpf said home-equity losses remain his “top
concern” because unemployment in the U.S. is still high,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “Stumpf noted that home-equity losses remain his number
one concern, which makes sense to us given Wells has the largest
portion of its loan book allocated to mortgages and home-equity
loans among large banks,” analyst John McDonald wrote in a note
yesterday. He has an “outperform” rating on the bank, the
biggest home lender in the U.S.  McDonald wrote the report after meeting with Stumpf,
finance chief Timothy J. Sloan and other executives in San
Francisco, where the bank is based. Analysts including  Laurie Goodman  of Amherst Securities Group LP have said lenders
including Wells Fargo are jeopardizing the housing market’s
recovery by not recognizing impairments on home-equity holdings.  Wells Fargo held $117.5 billion of home-equity loans at the
end of December, with $42.8 billion of those made in California
and  Florida , according to the bank’s year-end filing. Almost
$110.6 billion of the loans was held in a so-called core
portfolio. The  unemployment rate  in the bank’s mortgage
footprint is a percentage point higher than the national average
of 8.9 percent, McDonald wrote.  “Management was clear that it views the outlook for home-
equity and mortgage losses to be more tied to employment
conditions than  home prices ,” McDonald wrote.  Potential Loss  Home-equity loans typically are granted on top of a primary
mortgage, which has first claim on payments or the property
itself in case of default. If that happens and the value of the
home has dropped, the bank holding the home-equity loan can
suffer a total loss.  Purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in
February to the slowest pace on record and prices dropped 8.9
percent annually to the lowest level since December 2003, the
Commerce Department said yesterday. Jes Staley, head of
 investment banking  at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , told visiting
analysts that risks tied to U.S. home mortgages deserve as much
concern as risks facing the European Union, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc.  JPMorgan held $88.4 billion of home-equity loans at the end
of December while  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  owned $125.4 billion,
according to the companies’ annual filings. The numbers for all
three banks exclude acquired loans marked at fair value at the
time of purchase.  Still, only about three of every 100 customers with a Wells
Fargo home-equity loan are more than two payments past due,
wrote Stumpf, 57, in his annual letter to shareholders.  Wells Fargo executives reiterated their belief that the
bank can achieve a 1.5 percent return on assets “over time,”
McDonald wrote.  Wells Fargo rose 9 cents to $31.54 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading. It has gained 1.8 percent this year,
making it the fourth-best performer in the 24-company KBW Bank
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 