-- 
West Australian News ‘Confident’ of Seven Takeover Success After Offer

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-03-24T04:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/west-australian-newspapers-says-retail-take-up-of-seven-media-offer-low-.html
West Australian Newspapers Holdings
Ltd. (WAN) , attempting to buy Seven Media Group., said it’s confident
of gaining shareholders’ support after a rights offer to smaller
investors to help fund the takeover was 14 percent subscribed.  “From a voting point of view, we’re very confident the
proposal will be successful,” Kerry Stokes, chairman of both
West Australian and Seven, told reporters in Perth today.
“Indications from the major shareholders are that they’ve all
taken up their entitlements.”  Shareholders will vote next month on whether to support
billionaire Stokes’s plan to create  Australia ’s biggest media
company by combining West Australian with his 45 percent-owned
Seven, owner of the nation’s top-rated TV network and more than
25 magazines. Stokes today blamed unstable market conditions
after the earthquakes in  New Zealand  and  Japan  for the 14
percent take up of the A$328 million ($332 million) rights offer
to smaller investors in the newspaper group.  “There has never been a more tumultuous period of time
than occurred between Christchurch and Japan,” Stokes said.
“Anything that causes uncertainty always affects shareholders
in subscribing for any new shares.” West Australian’s “too
complex” takeover prospectus also contributed to low retail
support, he said.  The entitlement offer was underwritten and managed by UBS
AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Australia’s Biggest  West Australian will acquire Seven Media for A$1.98 billion
from  Seven Group Holdings Ltd. (SVW)  and buyout firm KKR & Co., the
companies said Feb. 21. Including assumed debt, the A$4.09
billion offer would make it the biggest ever purchase of
Australian media assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  West Australian News fell 0.8 percent to A$5.20 at 1:22 p.m.
in Sydney trading on the Australian stock exchange. Seven Group
rose 3.4 percent to A$8.27.  Seven Media’s magazines include Men’s Health, In Style and
Management Today. Channel Seven’s “Packed to the Rafters” is
the country’s most-watched drama, according to its website. The
company also owns Australia’s second-most visited web portal
through a venture with Yahoo! Inc.  Stokes, 70, is Australia’s fourth-richest person with a
fortune of A$1.8 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  