-- 
Wheat Production Will Exceed Prior Estimate, Council Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-24T14:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/wheat-production-will-exceed-prior-estimate-council-says-1-.html
World wheat production next season
will be higher than estimated a month ago, the  International
Grains Council  said.  Output is forecast to rise 4 percent in the year through
June 2012 to 673 million metric tons as farmers boost planting
in response to higher prices, the London-based council said
today. That’s up from its February forecast for a 3.7 percent
gain.  Chicago wheat prices jumped 51 percent in the past year,
boosted by  Russia ’s ban on grain exports after a crop-wasting
drought and flooding in  Canada ,  Germany  and  Australia . The
council’s forecast is below yesterday’s  United Nations  forecast
for wheat output of 676 million tons.  “World wheat supplies and demand are projected to be
broadly balanced, with carryover stocks slightly increased,”
the council said of the coming season.  The surge in grains helped to lift world food prices to a
record in February, according to an index tracked by the UN’s
 Food and Agriculture Organization .  Rising food costs threaten democracies in poor countries
and cause civil conflict, a study published by the  International
Monetary Fund  this month found. Pricier food contributed to
riots across North Africa and the Middle East in the last few
months that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  Wheat Planting  Wheat sowing will rise 3 percent to 224 million hectares
(554 million acres), the most since 1998, the IGC said last
month.  Global corn stocks will decline for a third season in the
year through June 2012 as record production will still fail to
fulfill rising demand, causing availability of the grain “to
remain tight,” the council said in February.  World corn stocks are forecast to drop to a four-year low
of 118 million tons when the current season ends this June
because of increased demand from U.S. ethanol makers, the IGC
said today.  Corn outpaced other grains on the Chicago Board of Trade in
the past year, advancing 87 percent.  Based on first assumptions of corn planting for harvesting
in the 2011-2012 season and “trend yields,” the council last
month forecast larger crops in “several key producers,”
including China and the U.S.  Global wheat output this season will be 649 million tons,
up from 648 million tons forecast last month, the council said.
The corn production estimate for 2010-2011 was lowered to 808
million tons from 811 million tons last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 