-- 
Wisconsin Top Court's Help Sought in Suit Over Public Employee Union Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-03-24T22:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/wisconsin-appellate-judges-seek-state-top-court-s-advice-in-union-law-case.html
A  Wisconsin  appellate court panel
considering the validity of a state law limiting public
employees’ collective-bargaining rights has turned to the
state’s  Supreme Court  for answers.  The three-judge panel today asked Wisconsin’s top court
whether a violation of the state’s open meetings law by
legislators enables a court to void the legislation. The case
raises questions involving the courts’ jurisdiction over other
branches of state government and remedies available under the
Open Meetings Law, the appellate judges said.  “Because this appeal presents significant issues, we
believe the Supreme Court is the proper forum for it,” the
appellate court judges said in an eight-page certification
order.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  is asking the
appeals court to block a trial court judge’s March 18 temporary
restraining order preventing the law signed by Governor  Scott Walker  a week earlier from taking effect.  Dane County  District Attorney Ismael R. Ozanne filed the
lawsuit, initially against four Republican state legislators, on
March 16. He alleged they violated the open meetings law in
drafting legislation. He also asked for an injunction blocking
Secretary of State Doug La Follette, a Democrat, from putting
the law into effect by publishing it.  ‘Awaiting an Order’  Two days later, state court Judge Maryann Sumi in Madison,
Wisconsin’s capital city, issued the temporary restraining
order.  “The decision whether to accept certification, and upon
which issues, is up to the State Supreme Court,” Bill Cosh, a
spokesman for Van Hollen, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are awaiting an order from that court.”  Ozanne didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  At least four of the seven Supreme Court justices must
agree to take the case. Tom Sheehan, a spokesman for the court,
said no timeline for a vote has been established.  One of the seven high court members, Justice David Prosser Jr., faces re-election in April. He served as a Republican
member of the state assembly for 17 years and was appointed to
the court in 1998 by former Governor Tommy Thompson. In 2001, he
was elected to a full 10-year term.  The Supreme Court, if it takes the case, wouldn’t
necessarily be limited to addressing the issues framed by the
appellate court, said attorney Robert J. Dreps, a member of the
political law group at Godfrey & Kahn SC in Madison.  Other Issues  “There are a lot of other issues raised,” Dreps said.
“The Supreme Court can decide to address any of them.”  A decision by either the Supreme Court or the Appeals Court
won’t mean that the case is over, he said. There is still a
question of whether Sumi could impose penalties on the four
Republican legislators who attended the joint committee meeting
that Ozanne claims violated the state law.  State law allows for fines of $25 to $300 if they
“knowingly attended” an illegal meeting, Dreps said.  Two Democratic lawmakers added yesterday as defendants in
Ozanne’s lawsuit, Assemblyman Peter Barca and Senator  Mark Miller , likely wouldn’t be fined, Dreps said. Barca attended the
joint committee hearing and protested when the vote was taken,
while Miller didn’t attend at all.  The case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne v.
Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  