-- 
Workers With Epilepsy, Diabetes Gain Under Obama Disability Rule

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-03-24T16:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/workers-with-epilepsy-diabetes-gain-under-obama-disability-rule.html
Employers will be barred from
discriminating against workers with conditions such as epilepsy
and diabetes under an Obama administration rule that broadens
the definition of disabilities.  The regulation makes it easier for employees to win
workplace  accommodations , according to a statement today from
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which enforces
discrimination laws. A business group said the rule won’t be
burdensome.  Workers with diabetes, cancer, epilepsy and bipolar
disorder have conditions that should be considered a disability,
according to the statement. Previously, employees with those
conditions were sometimes denied legal protection.  “I am confident that these regulations will work well for
both people with disabilities and employers,” EEOC Commissioner
 Chai Feldblum  said in the statement.  Congress directed the agency to overhaul the rules after
lawmakers expanded the federal disabilities law in 2008.  The requirements shouldn’t be onerous for companies,
Michael Eastman, director of labor law policy with the  U.S.
Chamber of Commerce , a Washington-based group representing more
than 3 million companies, said today in an interview.  “These issues can be exceedingly difficult,”  Randel K.
Johnson , senior vice president of labor, immigration and
employee benefits at the Chamber, said in a statement. “The
commission gave substantive consideration to our comments and
those of other stakeholders.”  Significant, Substantial  Impairments no longer have to significantly restrict a
major life activity such as sleeping or concentrating on a task
to be “substantially limiting” and deemed a disability,
according to the commission statement. Businesses with 15 or
more employees have to comply.  Short-term impairments may qualify as a disability if they
substantially limit major life activities. Employees who use
treatments such as psychotherapy or devices like hearing aids to
cope can still be considered disabled, according to the agency.  Workers with post-traumatic stress disorder, obsessive-
compulsive disorder, HIV infection and cancer can be classified
as disabled, according to the EEOC statement. That includes
workers who previously had the conditions and don’t show
evidence now, the agency said in the statement.  The regulation will be published tomorrow in the Federal
Register.  Law Amwended  Congress in 1990 passed  legislation  under President  George
H.W. Bush  that protected workers with disabilities from
discrimination. The law was amended in 2008 to expand the
definition after employees with impairments such as multiple
sclerosis and major depression reported they were unable to be
considered disabled, according to the EEOC.  Businesses must make  reasonable accommodations  for disabled
employees unless such steps would pose an undue hardship.
Accommodations can include restructuring a job, part-time
schedules or granting leaves of absence, and making work areas
more accessible.  Discrimination claims  by workers because of a disability
rose to 25,000 in fiscal year 2010, up from about 18,000 in
1997, according to the EEOC website. The agency won $76 million
from employers for violations in 2010, up from $41 million in
1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 