-- 
Worst Texas Drought in 44 Years Damaging Wheat Crop, Reducing Cattle Herds

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-24T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/worst-texas-drought-in-44-years-eroding-wheat-beef-supply-as-food-rallies.html
The worst  Texas  drought in 44 years
is damaging the state’s wheat crop and forcing ranchers to
reduce cattle herds, as rising demand for U.S. food sends grain
and meat prices higher.  Texas, the biggest U.S. cattle producer and second-largest
winter-wheat grower, got just 4.7 inches (12 centimeters) of
rain on average in the five months through February, the least
for the period since 1967, State Climatologist John Nielsen- Gammon said. More than half the wheat fields and pastures were
rated in poor or very poor  condition  on March 20.  Dry conditions  extending  to Oklahoma, Kansas and  Colorado 
may cut crop yields in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter,
as too much moisture threatens fields in  North Dakota  and in
 Canada . Wheat futures in Chicago are up 50 percent in the past
year, after drought in  Russia  and floods in  Australia  hurt
output and sent global food prices surging. Wholesale beef
reached a record this week, and the U.S. cattle herd in January
was the smallest since 1958.  “We’re probably already seeing some damage, but in the
next couple of weeks, we’ll surely go downhill major if we don’t
get some rain,” said David Cleavinger, who is irrigating 75
percent of his 1,000 acres (405 hectares) of wheat in Wildorado,
Texas. “With the prices we’re seeing, we’re trying to hold on,
but there’s nothing that takes the place of a rainstorm.”  Cleavinger, 53, has a 3,500-acre farm that includes corn
and cotton.  Below-Normal Rains  Parts of Texas,  Oklahoma , Kansas and Colorado had less than
25 percent of normal precipitation in the past 30 days,  National
Weather Service  data show. The region may get some help from
storms beginning March 26, which may drop about a half an inch
of rain, said Joel Widenor, a meteorologist at the Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “In a lot of places, there’s very little moisture in the
ground,” said Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist who also
is a professor of atmospheric sciences at  Texas A&M University 
in  College Station . Low subsoil moisture “will make us very
susceptible to drought this summer if we have extended patches
of dry weather,” he said.  Wheat prices on the  Kansas  City Board of Trade, which track
the hard-red  winter variety  grown in the southern Great Plains,
have surged 71 percent during the past year. Futures for May
delivery closed yesterday at $8.30 a bushel.  Prices may climb to $10 or $12 by August if the dry
conditions persist in the southern Great Plains and if other
growing areas of the world endure adverse weather the way they
did last year, said Kim Anderson, an agricultural economist at
Oklahoma State University in Stillwater.  Reduced Crop Yield  Crop yields in the U.S. this year may be comparable to
2007, when dry weather trimmed winter-wheat output to 41.7
bushels an acre, Anderson said. Since 2000, national yields have
averaged 43.8 bushels, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture data.  The USDA estimated last month that the nation’s production
may fall 5.8 percent from a year earlier to 2.08 billion
bushels, as dry weather spurs farmers to abandon some crops.  “Each day we don’t get rain, our potential yield goes
down,” Anderson said. “If things turn perfect, I think we
could have an average crop, but I’m talking about perfect from
here on out. The odds of that are pretty slim.”  Prices reached a record $13.495 on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade and $13.95 in  Kansas City  in February 2008, when food
shortages sparked riots from  Haiti  to  Egypt . Unrest this year
toppled leaders in Egypt, the world’s largest wheat importer,
and  Tunisia . Chicago futures advanced to a 29-month high on Feb.
14 as countries in the Middle East and  Africa  boosted
stockpiles.  Cattle Outlook  Texas, Kansas, Oklahoma and Colorado  produced  716.6 million
bushels of wheat last year, about 32 percent of the total U.S.
crop, USDA data show. Those four states had 27.35 million head
of beef and dairy cattle as of Jan. 1, or 30 percent of the
 total nationwide .  Ranchers are selling cattle to feedlots earlier than usual
because there’s little grass for them to eat, said Bill Hyman,
the executive director of the 8,000-member Independent
Cattlemen’s Association of Texas, based in Lockhart. The state
will have a smaller herd later this year, said Hyman, a rancher
in Gonzales, Texas.  The herd “is probably overall decreasing because of the
drought,” Hyman said. “The number of cattle will probably
continue to decrease until we see rain” and signs that there is
a sufficient profit incentive to expand herds, he said.  Meat Prices  Cattle futures jumped 23 percent in the past year to
$1.1335 a pound yesterday on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
after touching a record $1.18 on March 9. Wholesale-beef prices
are up 17 percent in the past year, touching $1.8905 a pound on
March 22, the highest since at least January 2004, when USDA
began its current price-tracking method. U.S. retail-beef prices
were 9.4 percent higher in February than a year earlier, the
USDA said last week.  The drought “is not allowing us to increase supplies when
the market’s asking us to,” said Brent Skaggs, a commodity
broker at Price Futures Group in Amarillo, Texas. “It’s been
dry for a number of years. We haven’t really had a wet year to
be able to increase our herd size.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 