-- 
WPP CEO Sorrell Recommends Relocation of Headquarters to U.K. From Ireland

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-03-24T12:08:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/wpp-s-sorrell-says-he-will-recommend-return-of-tax-base-to-u-k-.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Sorrell  said he’ll recommend the world’s largest
advertising company return its tax base to the U.K. from
Ireland, following proposed cuts in Britain’s corporate tax.  “We’ve looked at small print and releases,” Sorrell said
in an e-mail today. “Subject to draft legislation and enactment
we will recommend a return to U.K. to board and shareowners.”  WPP, the owner of ad agencies including Young & Rubicam
Inc., Ogilvy & Mather and the Grey Group, left the U.K. for
Ireland in 2008, citing the burden of taxation on foreign
earnings. Media company  United Business Media Ltd. (UBM)  and drugmaker
 Shire Plc (SHP)  also moved their tax bases to Ireland, while another
media company,  Informa Plc (INF) , moved to Switzerland.  Unveiling Britain’s 2011 budget yesterday, Chancellor
 George Osborne  indicated he would speed up a cut in corporate
tax and move forward with plans to amend tax on overseas profit
of U.K. companies. Osborne told BBC Radio 4 today that WPP was
planning to move back to the U.K.  “Other countries are quite deliberately making their tax
systems more competitive, and attracting multinational companies
away from the U.K.,” Osborne said in his budget speech
yesterday.  ‘Complex Rules’  He pledged to change “complex rules” for controlled
foreign companies and introduce a 5.75 percent rate on overseas
financing income.  WPP rose 2 percent to 759.5 pence as of 11:39 a.m. in
London trading.  About 90 percent of WPP revenue is generated outside
Britain and would have seen no tax relief when repatriated back
to the WPP U.K. holding company, according to media analyst Alex DeGroote at Panmure Gordon & Co.  A move back to the U.K. would be a “cosmetic thing” and
wouldn’t require large changes because WPP has kept most of its
offices and operations in London, he said.  Sorrell also serves on an committee created by Prime
Minister  David Cameron  last year to advise on business and
economic strategy.  “Symbolically and practically it looks brilliant if such a
high-profile FTSE 100 company re-domiciles in the U.K. again,”
DeGroote said. “You can hardly be an ambassador to business if
you’re a tax exile.”  UBM, the owner of PR Newswire, is also deciding whether to
relocate its tax base to the U.K., Chief Financial Officer
Robert Gray said in an e-mailed statement.  The company, which also moved its tax base from Britain in
2008, said it was “actively considering” a return to the U.K.
and is reviewing details of the proposed tax changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  