-- 
Yemenis Hold Rallies in Defiance of Emergency Law as Saleh Pressed to Quit

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-03-25T16:55:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/yemenis-plan-nationwide-demonstrations-in-defiance-of-saleh-emergency-rule.html
Yemenis gathered for competing
rallies in different parts of the capital, Sana’a, as the
opposition demanded President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s immediate
departure and tribesmen marched in his support.  Army defectors fired weapons into the air to prevent the
pro-Saleh crowd from reaching Taghyeer Square, where the
protesters were assembling. Loudspeakers broadcast appeals to
the tribesmen to disobey any orders to attack the opposition.  Saleh spoke to his supporters, who filled another square
near the presidential palace, telling them he is willing to quit
if he finds “safe hands” for a transfer of power. Until then,
“we will remain steadfast, with all the power that we have,”
he said.  The protest movement has gained momentum since March 18,
when police and snipers killed 46 protesters in the capital in
the worst violence since the unrest began two months ago. Sheikh
Sinan Abu Luhoom, leader of Yemen’s largest tribe, yesterday
endorsed the movement, which had already secured the support of
Saleh’s own tribal group, the Hashid, on March 20.  The Yemeni opposition today was distributing a draft of
eight demands that includes Saleh’s immediate resignation, a new
constitution based on a parliament chosen through a proportional
electoral system, and politically neutral security and military
institutions. They also seek the prosecution of those
responsible for the March 18 bloodshed.  Dozens Reported Dead  A total of 83 protesters have been killed since March 12,
Ezzedine el Asbahy, director of Yemen’s Human Rights Information
Training Center, said today in Paris. Another 500 people were
wounded in the same period, 200 of them seriously, he said.  Efforts to negotiate a compromise between Saleh and
opposition leaders have stalled over how soon he should step
down, said Mustapha Noman, Yemen’s ambassador to  Spain , who has
been in contact with both sides.  “The real difference is over the length of the
transitional period,” he said in a phone interview from  Madrid .
“Is it going to be immediate or in three months, six months or
the end of the year? This is the obstacle.” Saleh has already
agreed to other opposition demands, including that his family
members leave military and security posts, Noman said.  OMV AG (OMV) , central  Europe ’s biggest oil company, is
withdrawing all 60 of its expatriate staff in Yemen and has
implemented travel restrictions. The Safer Export Pipeline in
the country, which transports OMV oil, has yet to be repaired
after being damaged in an explosion last week,  Michaela Huber , a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail today.  State of Emergency  Under Yemen’s state of emergency, the first since a 1994
civil war between the north and south, public gatherings are
banned, the media is subject to restrictions, and the
constitution suspended.  The U.S. has backed Saleh, a key ally in the fight against
al-Qaeda, with $300 million a year of military and economic aid.
 Ben Rhodes , the U.S. deputy national security adviser for
strategic communications, said this week that the country needs
“a government that is more responsive” to its people.  Dozens of lawmakers abandoned Saleh’s ruling General
People’s Congress to protest last week’s violence, joining a
list of defectors that includes Cabinet ministers, diplomats,
tribal leaders and senior military officers such as Ali Muhsin
al-Ahmar, commander of the First Armored Division.  Districts Fall  Six districts in the southeastern Shabwa province have
fallen to tribes backing Saleh’s ouster, a security official at
the office of provincial Governor Ali Hasan al-Ahmadi said
yesterday. The districts are al-Saeed, Haban, Nisab, Maifaa,
Markhah and al-Rawdhah.  The tribesmen have taken control of the security forces in
the districts and their weapons, said the official, who
requested anonymity over fear of reprisal.  Yemen’s conflict with Shiite Muslim Houthis in the north of
the nation has in the past drawn in  Saudi Arabia , a Sunni
Muslim-led monarchy that last week sent troops to help suppress
a Shiite-led uprising in another neighbor, Bahrain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 