-- 
Zowie! Who Knew Tricked-Out Batmobile Was Really a Ford: Cars

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-24/zowie-who-knew-tricked-out-batmobile-was-really-a-ford-jason-h-harper.html
This is every kid’s dream. I’m
sitting in the Batmobile, a gonzo fantasy car with parachutes
and fins so big they look like wings.  I’ve arrived at a custom-car garage in  North Hollywood  to
meet two automotive legends -- the original car from the 1960s
Batman TV show (“Pow!” “Zap!” “Kaboom!”) and its creator,
85-year-old  George Barris .  I’ve even been promised a drive in the Caped Crusader’s
cruiser...if only it will stop raining.  Barris calls himself the “King of the Kustomizers.” He’s
behind innumerable TV and movie cars, including the “ Back to the
Future ” DeLorean, “The  A-Team ” van and KITT Trans Am. His most
famous car will always be the Batmobile, fashioned in 1966.  Most were built at Barris’s Riverside Drive garage, where I
arrive in a deluge -- hardly typical L.A. weather. The Batmobile
has no roof, which signals trouble.  In a car world populated with big kids who’ve simply
graduated to bigger toys, Barris is Peter Pan. A small man with
white hair haloing his skull and funky 1970s-style gold-rimmed
glasses, he’s a live wire who constantly tells stories about
former clients from Elvis and  Michael Jackson  to  Clint Eastwood .  Bat Wing Span  “I wasn’t really aware of Batman before making the car,”
he says. “I knew the comic books, I guess, but had no idea it
was going to turn into such a big thing.”  ABC  Studios gave him less than three weeks to conceptualize
and build it. “The only idea they had was to cut out a bat face
and stick it on the front of a Lincoln. Ridiculous!”  Barris had a long-standing relationship with Ford and owned
a concept car called the Lincoln Futura -- an outlandishly long,
bubble-windowed coupe handbuilt in  Italy . It became the base.  Almost 20 feet long, it’s too big to take in at a single
glance. Barris’s team fashioned wings that start from the middle
of the doors and rise over the beltline, coming to a sharp rake
in the rear.  There’s a fake jet exhaust in the back (actually a painted
10-gallon bucket), and two packed parachutes that actually work,
used to effect a “Bat turn.”  “I popped them once on the Hollywood Freeway and got
pulled over,” Barris says. “The officer asked, ‘What do you
think you’re doing?’ I told him, ‘Just checking the Bat chutes
out before you and me go out to catch the Riddler.’ ‘Now I’ve
heard it all!’ he said.”  Bat Phone  Fashioned from steel, the car doors are incredibly heavy. I
slip into the black-leather bucket seats where Adam West once
perched (“He’s a good driver,” says Barris). The large
steering wheel has a tachometer in the center (an original
concept-car detail), and controls for various James Bond-like
gadgets on the dash.  They include oil slicks, an ejector, rockets, nails and an
anti-theft system, all helpfully labeled -- and all very
imaginary. The oil-slick nozzles on the front of the car are
actually sprinkler heads.  There’s a radar screen and, rather inexplicably, a large
plastic bubble-encased compass mounted on top of the vinyl dash.  To my right is the Bat phone, a clunky hunk of red plastic
attached to a coiled phone cord. A pretty revolutionary idea for
its time. Instead of a roof, there’s just a Plexiglass half
bubble front and rear which make up the windscreens.  A Ford badge adorns each side. While the car runs and has a
500-horsepower engine, Barris prefers not to drive it often. “I
wouldn’t sell it for the world,” he says. “It’s for my kids.”  No Bat Turn  During the TV show, which ran from 1966 to 1968, molds were
made from the original and some half dozen fiberglass replicas
were created for stunt work and promotional events. In 2007, one
sold at auction for $233,000.  Car No. 2, the first reproduction, is also here and Barris
fires it up. It’s loud and rough-sounding. “As soon as it stops
raining...” he says pointedly. I look outside. Buckets of rain.  As we wait, Barris shows me around. “This is my Batcave,”
he says of a room brimming with Batman toys in their original
packages. I contemplate their worth on eBay.  Every inch of wall space is covered with movie posters and
promotional photos of shows Barris has worked on. He’s currently
a judge on Speed channel’s “ Car Warriors ,” where two teams
compete to customize cars. “It’s awesome what these guys do,”
he says breezily.  Still, he complains that cars used on retreads of TV shows
like “ Knight Rider ” and the movie “ Green Hornet ” aren’t as cool
as the versions he worked on. “They use computer effects. Our
cars actually had to do all that stuff.”  One last look outside. The rain has gotten even worse.
Foiled! No Bat turns today.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 