-- A Very Strange Way to Assess the Safety of Banks
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-09-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/a-very-strange-way-to-assess-the-safety-of-banks.html
Global regulators have a peculiar way
of assessing the soundness of big banks: Ask bankers how risky
their investments are, then figure out if they have enough
capital to absorb the potential losses.  This method, known as risk weighting, has failed repeatedly
-- most spectacularly during the 2008 financial crisis. The good
news is that some smart regulators understand and are
articulating the problem.  Like most firms, banks finance themselves with a
combination of debt, which they get by taking deposits and
issuing bonds, and equity, which they get from their
shareholders. The latter, also known as capital, is crucial to
the bank’s survival. If bad investments cause the value of a
bank’s assets to fall, its equity decreases by an equivalent
amount. If equity is depleted, the bank is insolvent. There will
be either bankruptcy or some form of government bailout. Hence
the need for  capital requirements .  In thinking about whether a financial institution has
enough equity, current practice -- for example, as seen in the
international banking regulations called  Basel II  and Basel III
-- is to compare it with a measure that places weights on the
bank’s assets according to their riskiness. A bond with a rating
of AAA and a face value of $1 million, for example, might not be
counted at all, based on the (often erroneous) assumption that
it would always pay out in full. So a bank with total assets of
$2 trillion might have risk-weighted assets of only $1 trillion.
With just $100 billion in equity, or 5 percent of assets, it
could have a risk-weighted capital ratio of 10 percent.  Big Difference  In reality, the difference between simple equity ratios and
risk-weighted  capital ratios  tends to be even larger. Consider
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which reported a  core Tier 1 capital ratio  of
10.2 percent as of June 30. At the same time, its shareholder
equity was slightly less than 2.5 percent of its total assets.
The discrepancy was  remarkably similar  for the top 10 U.S. banks
just before the financial crisis hit: The average headline
capital ratio was about 11 percent, and the true ratio of equity
to total assets was 2.8 percent.  So which measure is right? It’s not the risk-weighted one,
as  Andrew Haldane  from the  Bank of England  and Tom Hoenig of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (and formerly president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City ) have  pointed out  in
speeches.  One big problem is incentives. Bankers like to use as much
borrowed money as possible, relative to their equity. This
boosts the return to shareholders in good times, but also
presents a threat to the financial system and the broader
economy. If bankers are in charge of calculating their own risk
weights, they will try to understate the risks. This happened
with mortgage-backed securities and associated derivatives in
the U.S., with real-estate-related loans and assets in countries
such as Ireland and  Spain , and with sovereign debt in much of
the euro area.  Second, regulators are no better than bankers at figuring
out the right risk weights. For one, they are often heavily
influenced by the bankers -- a reality I have experienced
personally in my conversations with central bankers and other
officials, who meet with banking staff continually and even now
are convinced that top executives really know how to measure and
handle risk. Beyond that, they are out of their depth. The
system of risk weights has become  too complex, unwieldy and far
too easy to game .  Unknowable Data  Actually, no one can calculate proper risk weights. They
are unknowable. Analysts at credit-rating companies, even if one
sets aside all the conflicts of interest they face, are just as
prone to group think, fads and misconceptions as the rest of us.
Academics would do no better. And the “wisdom of crowds” -- as
reflected in the market for credit-default swaps -- suggested
that Citigroup Inc. was a low-risk investment until 2007.  The right approach, as articulated by Hoenig, is to choose
capital rules that are “simple, understandable, and
enforceable.” The best available measure is the ratio of
tangible equity to tangible assets. The term “tangible” excludes
ephemera such as deferred tax assets, which banks can use to
reduce their future tax bills only if they stay in business and
generate profits.  The Basel III rules would nudge the required tangible
equity ratio up to 3.25 percent, meaning that a 3.25 percent
drop in the value of a bank’s assets could wipe out its capital.
That is puny in a world that is becoming more risky. Look at the
 European debt crisis , think about  China ’s prospects, and reflect
on what has happened to the  U.S. economy  in the past decade.  We should abandon the notion of risk weights and move the
tangible-equity ratio back toward 20 percent. Investors in banks
might not reap the same returns, but they would also be taking
on less risk.  As argued  by Stanford University economist Anat Admati and her colleagues, the total funding cost of big banks
probably wouldn’t increase. The reduced likelihood of severe
financial crises would have a positive, not negative, impact on
our medium-term growth.  The sooner risk weighting is dead and buried, the better
off we will be.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is co-author of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  