-- Labour Calls On Cameron to Spend 4G-Spectrum Cash on Housing
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   M a n u s   C r a n n y
-- 2012-10-01T13:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/labour-calls-on-cameron-to-spend-4g-spectrum-cash-on-housing.html
Britain’s opposition Labour Party
called on Prime Minister  David Cameron  to spend as much as 4
billion pounds ($6.5 billion) from the sale of the fourth-
generation mobile-phone spectrum to fund housing.  The party’s top Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , said today
the government should build more than 100,000 affordable homes
for those on low incomes to help stimulate the U.K. economy,
stuck in its first double-dip recession since the 1970s. The
money should also be used to pay for a two-year exemption from
property-purchase tax for first-time buyers, he said.  “We badly need something to kick-start the recovery,”
Balls said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today
following his speech to the annual Labour Party Conference in
Manchester, northern  England . “We should get growth moving and
get the deficit down. Our growth has desperately undershot. Now
is the time to act.”  Midway through Britain’s five-year electoral cycle, Labour
is refraining from promising a looser fiscal policy as it seeks
to rebuild its reputation for economic competence. The call from
Balls mirrors efforts from the Conservative-Liberal Democrat
coalition to seek ways to spur growth without borrowing more
money.  ‘Radical Reform’  In his speech, Balls called for tougher action on banks,
reiterating the need for a public inquiry into banking culture
following the Libor-fixing scandal. He pledged “radical
reform” to split retail and investment banks and said Labour
would push for the global adoption of a financial-transactions
tax.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said yesterday that if he becomes
premier he’ll force through laws to break banks up unless they
change their behavior.  Labour has opened a double-digit lead over the
Conservatives in some opinion polls, enough to give it an
overall majority in 2015 if replicated in that year’s election.
A poll by  Opinium in yesterday’s Observer newspaper  put support
for Labour at 39 percent, compared with 29 percent for the
Tories and 10 percent for the Liberal Democrats. The polling
company questioned 1,969 voters on Sept. 25-28 and didn’t
specify a margin of error.  Balls said that Labour’s approach if it wins in May 2015
would be to “do things in a fairer and more balanced way” than
the coalition, softening previous rhetoric that called for
Osborne to ease off the pace of fiscal consolidation aimed at
closing the structural deficit by 2017.  No Promises  “We cannot make any commitments now that the next Labour
government will be able to reverse particular tax rises or
spending cuts,” Balls said. “We will not make promises we
cannot keep.”  For now, the fiscally neutral house-building plan would
create more than 150,000 construction jobs and as many as
600,000 in the supply chain, Labour said, citing research by the
National Housing Federation.  The program would cost about 2.5 billion pounds, while
funding the two-year stamp-duty holiday would cost about 500
million pounds, Labour said.  Ofcom, the telecommunications regulator, is preparing to
start auctioning the necessary spectrum for  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
and other British phone operators to roll out faster mobile
networks from the middle of 2013.  Mobile Broadband  Bidding for frequencies will start early next year and is
planned to be completed by March. Mobile broadband based on 4G
networks will be extended to at least 98 percent of villages,
towns and cities across the U.K.  The auction, delayed several times following threatened
legal challenges from the operators, will sell airwaves
equivalent to three-quarters of the spectrum currently being
used.  “That auction hasn’t happened and therefore we have not
put a figure on it,” Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in  London  today. “I don’t think it is for me to get
involved in a debate that is happening at the  Labour Party 
conference. Clearly the government has been taking action to
bring down the cost of home ownership and get people onto the
housing ladder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Manchester, England, or  gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Manus Cranny in London at 
 mcranny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  