-- China’s Wealthiest Discreetly Stay Away at Party Congress
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-01T05:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/absent-china-billionaires-show-wealth-limited-at-party-congress.html
Zong Qinghou , China’s richest man,
traveled to Beijing in March to represent his home province at
the annual meeting of the country’s legislature. He won’t be
going to next month’s Communist Party congress that will unveil
China’s new generation of leaders.  While Hurun Report data show that the number of China’s
richest among its lawmakers almost doubled in the past five
years, the advance of the most affluent within Communist Party
ranks has been more limited. The data from Hurun, publisher of a
luxury-goods magazine that tracks China’s affluent, show the
number of billionaire delegates at the Party Congress will rise
by at most one since 2007, when it last convened.  The contrast may reflect heightened sensitivity among
Communist leaders to the spreading influence of wealth in
policymaking, especially after the scandal surrounding Bo Xilai,
who was expelled on Sept. 28 from the party, drew global
attention to the privileges enjoyed by relatives of  China ’s top
leaders. Over the past decade, the opening of the party to
industry chiefs and entrepreneurs has coincided with an increase
in the country’s income divide and in incidents of social unrest
such as strikes and protests.  Resentment Fear  “A ruling party, grappling to stay on top, doesn’t want to
be resented,” said Perry Link, a professor at the University of
California, Riverside who helped to translate the “Tiananmen
Papers” -- insider party accounts of the events surrounding the
1989 crackdown on protesters in Beijing. “And there, I think,
is an explanation for why the Party puts a cap on billionaires
at the 18th Party Congress: fear of popular resentment.”  Dalian Wanda Group Chairman Wang Jianlin, with a net worth
of $8.9 billion, was a delegate to the party congress in 2007
and Zong, chairman of Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co., the world’s
29th richest person with $19.9 billion according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , is one of about 3,000 delegates to
the National People’s Congress, the country’s legislature.  Neither is on the delegate roster for the Party Congress
this year, which was released in August and is where Vice
President Xi Jinping is forecast to be named the Communist
Party’s general secretary, replacing Hu Jintao.  Billionaires on the list for the congress, which starts Nov.
8, include Liang Wengen, the chairman of Sany Heavy Industry Co.
and China’s seventh-richest man with a $5.2 billion net worth,
and Great Wall Motor Co. Chairman Wei Jianjun, with a $3 billion
fortune.  Getting In  Also picked to attend the Party Congress were Shandong
Denghai Seeds Co. Chairman Li Denghai, with a $600 million
fortune; Hongdou Group Co. Chairman Zhou Haijiang, with wealth
of $369 million; Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock Co. Chairman
Zhang Yubo with $809 million; Chen Xueli, chairman of Shandong
Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co., with $874 million; and Feng Yali, the chairman of Zhejiang Hailiang Co., whose family has
$462 million worth of shares and cash, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Executives who are members of the National People’s
Congress belong to what is notionally the supreme source of
power in China’s government. Even so, the Chinese Communist
Party controls the country, and its congress, held once every
five years, determines China’s power structure.  Party Make-up  “The CCP, more than a decade after former President Jiang Zemin tried to open it up to private businesspeople, remains
dominated by Party and government bureaucrats, military officers
and executives of state-owned corporations,” said Susan Shirk,
a professor at the University of  California , San Diego, who was
responsible for China affairs at the U.S. State Department from
1997 to 2000. “The CCP runs China and private business has
almost no voice in the organization.”  In the five years from 2007, the number of U.S. dollar
billionaires in the country has jumped to 251 from 106,
outpacing the growth of the broader  economy , according to
figures from the Shanghai-based Hurun Report, which uses
publicly available information such as corporate filings to
compile its annual list of the richest people in China. Its 2011
lineup listed six people as taking part in the 2007 party
congress.  In 2007, Hurun found 38 of the 800 richest people in China
were delegates to the legislature. This year, 75 of China’s
richest 1,000 people attended the NPC as representatives.  Wealth Climbs  While the party now may be limiting the number of
billionaire delegates to its congress, past participants have
seen a surge in wealth. Sany Heavy’s Liang became China’s
richest person last year, with Zong reclaiming the top spot
after he disclosed his stake in Hangzhou Wahaha.  Dalian Wanda’s Wang, whose company in May agreed to buy
Kansas City, Missouri-based AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. for
$2.6 billion, took part in the 2007 congress. That year, he was
ranked 146 on Hurun’s list. He’s now China’s second-richest
person, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yang Jian, a spokesman for Sany Heavy, said Liang doesn’t
accept media interviews, particularly on issues such as the
Party Congress. Shang Yugui, a spokesman for  Great Wall Motor (2333) 
Co., said Wei wasn’t available to discuss his participation in
the congress. Shan Qining, a Hangzhou-based spokesman for Wahaha,
declined to comment. Zhou, Chen, Li, Zhang and Feng weren’t
available for comment.  Deng Shengming, a spokesman at the Communist Party’s
Organization Department, didn’t return a phone call seeking
comment.  Jiang Initiative  Business people began joining the party in greater numbers
a decade ago, when Jiang Zemin sought to broaden the party’s
appeal beyond workers and peasants to include capitalist
entrepreneurs as well. Today, many of China’s richest people are
Communist Party members. Attending the NPC’s March gatherings
offers an opportunity to foster business ties for executives
including Zong and Wanda’s Wang.  “It was a conscious, deliberate, ideological decision of
the party” to open up, former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, who speaks fluent Chinese and has followed China’s
politics for three decades, said in a Sept. 21 interview.
“Let’s face it, the structure of the Chinese economy and
Chinese society is changing.”  Among the changes is a widening in the nation’s wealth
divide. In his last press conference on March 9, Bo revealed
China’s Gini coefficient, an index of the income gap, which he
said exceeded 0.46. The index ranges from 0 to 1 and the 0.4
mark is used as a predictor by analysts for social disturbances.
The reading for China was below 0.3 in 1981 and 0.39 in 1999,
according to the World Bank.  Social Unrest  Rising income disparities have gone hand-in-hand with
increasing social unrest. The number of so-called mass incidents
-- strikes, protests and riots -- doubled nationwide in the
period from 2006 to 2010 to 180,000 a year, Sun Liping, a
sociologist at Beijing’s Tsinghua University, wrote last year.  While hundreds of millions of Chinese people have been
lifted out of poverty by economic growth  averaging  10.1 percent
over the last 30 years, the nation’s expansion has moderated.
The administration of outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao targets 7.5
percent growth this year. A survey of purchasing managers
released today indicated the first back-to-back monthly
contraction in manufacturing since the 2009 global recession.  Bo Affair  This year’s leadership transition has been rocked by
reports of displays of wealth that don’t accord with the top
salaries for officials of around 10,000  yuan  ($1,591) a month.
Bo Xilai’s suspension from the Politburo a month after he
attended the National People’s Congress sharpened the focus on
the nexus between wealth and power in China.  In addition to being expelled from the party, Bo will face
criminal charges, the official Xinhua News Agency said Sept. 28.
Bo abused his power, bore “major responsibility” in the murder
of British businessman Neil Heywood and had improper sexual
relations with several women, Xinhua said. Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai,
was given a suspended death sentence Aug. 20 for poisoning
Heywood.  While he championed slogans from the Mao Zedong era, the
extended family of Bo and Gu had at least $136 million in share
holdings and real estate, Bloomberg News reported in April.  Capping the presence of billionaires at the congress may be
one way to offset the impression that the party has become
elitist, said Kerry Brown, a former British diplomat in Beijing
who is now a professor at the University of Sydney.  “I think it’s just a perception thing,” Brown said.
“Having them start to colonize the party congress would raise
all the hackles about the CCP being relaxed about inequality and
creating a Chinese style of oligarchs. Having some worthy ones
around is fine. Having too many raises lots of unwanted
questions.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  