-- All Blacks Rout Argentina to Secure Inaugural Rugby Championship
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-30T03:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/all-blacks-beat-argentina-54-15-to-seal-rugby-championship-title.html
New Zealand  routed Argentina 54-15
to secure the southern hemisphere’s inaugural Rugby Championship
with a game to spare as  South Africa  beat  Australia  31-8 for its
second win in the tournament.  The world champion All Blacks outscored the Pumas by seven
tries to two last night in  La Plata , all coming through the
backs. Cory Jane touched down three times, fellow winger Julian
Savea went over twice, with scrum-half  Aaron Smith  and inside
center Ma’a Nonu adding the others.  New Zealand tops the standings with 21 points after five
straight victories and has an unbeatable nine-point lead over
second-place South Africa heading into the final round on Oct.
6, when the All Blacks meet the Springboks in Soweto.  “I don’t think too many teams have gone unbeaten
previously,” All Blacks No. 8 Kieran Read said in a televised
interview. “If we could win the inaugural championship and do
that next week it would be a massive effort from us.”  New Zealand’s high-tempo game clicked last night even as
the visiting team had 47 percent of the possession and spent
about two-thirds of the match in its own half. The 39-point
winning margin was the All Blacks’ biggest victory in  Argentina 
and gave them a 15th straight Test triumph.  In front of a sellout crowd of 53,000 at the Estadio Ciudad
de La Plata, tournament newcomer Argentina took the lead with a
seventh-minute try by scrum-half Martin Landajo.  Smith replied nine minutes later and the All Blacks added
another three tries before the break as Read put Jane into space
on left wing, Savea scored off a kick-and-chase and then
finished off a flowing move.  Second Half  The Pumas got the first try of the second half when Gonzalo
Camacho came off his wing and slipped between two tacklers off a
ruck. Savea set up Jane’s second in the 51st minute with a
flicked pass and Nonu raced away to score after All Blacks coach
 Steve Hansen  made four substitutions.  Jane completed his hat trick in the final minute after
fending off his tackler three times. Replacement fly-half Aaron
Cruden, who also converted Nonu’s try and kicked a penalty,
added the extra points to close the scoring. Starting No. 10  Dan Carter  also kicked three conversions and two penalties.  “We were a bit jittery in the first five, ten minutes,”
Hansen said in a televised interview.  “Once we controlled our
composure we came straight back into the game and took control
of it.”  Habana Hat Trick  In  Pretoria , winger  Bryan Habana  scored three of South
Africa’s five tries against Australia, which was forced to play
the last eight minutes with 14 men because of injuries. Full-
back Zane Kirchner and flanker Francois Louw also touched down
as the Springboks ended their record run of five straight losses
to the Wallabies.  “Today was about execution,” Habana said in a televised
interview. “Everyone was switched on. We will have to be up for
the All Blacks next weekend.”  Scrum-half Ruan Pienaar, who took over kicking duties after
rookie fly-half Johan Goosen missed two early shots at goal,
added three conversions for South Africa.  Mike Harris  scored a
try and Kurtley Beale kicked a penalty for Australia.  Converted tries from Kirchner and Habana put South Africa
ahead before Beale’s kick made it 14-3 at halftime.  Wallabies prop James Slipper was sin-binned in the 53rd
minute and Louw went over moments later. Habana added his second
try on the hour, with Pienaar converting to increase the home
team’s lead to 26-3.  Harris, one of seven replacements used by Australia, went
over in the corner in the 65th minute to make it 26-8. Habana
then sealed his hat trick, extending his South African try-
scoring record to 46, with two minutes remaining.  Backs Berrick Barnes, Adam Ashley-Cooper and  Digby Ioane ,
and forwards Radike Samo and Tatafu Polota Nau, all failed to
complete the game for the Wallabies because of injuries.  Australia, which has eight points in third place, faces
last-place Argentina in the final round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  