-- Angola New Oil Law Taking Force May Boost Liquidity
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-10-01T08:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/angola-oil-law-taking-force-today-may-boost-liquidity.html
An oil law in Angola,  Africa ’s
second-biggest crude producer, that enters into force today may
increase domestic banks’ liquidity and strengthen the currency,
the Economist Intelligence Unit said.  The legislation, which requires foreign oil companies to
pay suppliers from accounts with local banks, may funnel $10
billion a year through Angola’s economy and support the value of
the kwanza while risking higher prices if lending increases,
according to the London-based EIU. It may also delay projects.  “There is also a risk that payment delays could lead to a
reduction in short-term oil production,” the EIU wrote in a
note to clients Sept. 24.  Oil producers such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP
Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA (FP)  operate in the southern African nation, which
pumped about 1.7 million barrels of oil a day in September,
second in Africa to  Nigeria , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its crude accounted for 2.9 percent of U.S. imports
in May and 16 percent of  China ’s in July, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  The total liquidity will be “a huge number” because the
law requires taxes on oil revenue to be paid through local
banks, a figure that amounted to $12.6 billion last year, Joao
Fonseca, executive director at Banco Angolano de Investimentos
in Luanda, said by phone on Sept 28. Payments to suppliers and
salaries would add to it, he said.  Companies’ Concern  “This is a concern from the oil sector companies as it
will be a big change for the banking system,” Fonseca said.
“It’s huge amounts of payments that will be processed and banks
must prepare for straight-through processing instead of manual,
otherwise  oil companies  will have difficulty working in the
local system.”  Oil companies have helped banks invest in the changes and
tests have been successful, he said. The Angolan central bank
has improved instruments that can absorb excess liquidity,
allowing it to adhere to its stated aim of maintaining the
kwanza’s strength while limiting inflation, Fonseca said.  These include requirements for foreign reserves to cover
import spending for a certain number of months and bank
regulations concerning weekly foreign currency auctions,  capital
ratios , and amounts of dollar holdings, he said.  “It is great news in terms of giving local banks a new
source of liquidity to fund private- and public-sector
investment,” Kim Polley,  executive director  for southern Africa
at consultants Africa Practice in Johannesburg, said in an e-
mailed response to questions on Sept. 28. “It makes Angolan
banks a much more attractive investment proposition.”  July Deadline  The measure could benefit Portuguese banks such as  Banco
Espirito Santo (BES) , Millennium BCP and Banco Portugues de
Investimento, which have units in Angola, Polley said.  Oil companies have until July 1 to pay all domestic
suppliers in the local currency, which isn’t tradable on foreign
exchange markets. The kwanza was valued at 95.64 a dollar on
Sept. 21 by the central bank, while traders on the street in
Luanda, the capital, where most residents change their money,
paid 100 to the dollar.  “Esso Angola supports the development of a domestic
banking market that fosters transparency and competition,”
David Eglington, a Houston-based spokesman for  Exxon Mobil , said
in an e-mailed response to questions on Sept. 28, referring to
the company’s Angolan unit. “It is our hope that the new
foreign exchange law will achieve this.”  Foreign Reserves  Jim Craig, a spokesman for  San Ramon , California-based
Chevron, said in a Sept. 28 e-mail that “Chevron complies with
the laws of the countries where the company operates.” Amilcar
Costa, a spokesman for BP, said by telephone from Huambo,
Angola, he couldn’t immediately comment.  Angola’s foreign currency reserves, which were $30 billion
in July, according to the central bank, will increase,
supporting the kwanza, the EIU said. The influx of liquidity may
lead to “excessive lending and inflationary pressures,” the
EIU said.  Inflation slowed to 9.9 percent in August from 10 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office said on Sept. 10.  Angola  is
targeting inflation of less than 10 percent this year.  Angola has 23 registered domestic banks and 10 units of
foreign financial companies, according to the  website  of the
central bank. E-mails sent Sept. 27 and 28 seeking comment from
Central Bank Governor Jose de Lima Massano were not returned by
his assistant, Katia Carvalho.  Angola’s economy may expand by 6.8 percent this year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , as the country
rebuilds from a civil war that ended in 2002. Petroleum accounts
for more than 60 percent of the economy, 97 percent of exports
and about 80 percent of state revenue, the EIU said.  LNG Project  Projects expected to start up in the next quarter include a
$9 billion liquefied natural gas plant that includes Chevron,
Total, BP and  Eni SpA (ENI)  as shareholders. BP is also expected to
start the PVSM field with eventual production of 150,000 barrels
a day.  Block operators have another year before the law requires
them to pay foreign suppliers via Angolan bank accounts in
either local or international currency. The change taking effect
today governs their payments to local suppliers.  Oil companies may want to ensure their contracts with
suppliers include provisions for exchange-rate fluctuations,
according to a May report prepared by Pieter van Welzen, a
lawyer with Clifford Chance LLP in Amsterdam, and Fonseca.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  