-- As Europe’s South Spirals, North Fiddles and Chaos Looms
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/as-europe-s-south-spirals-north-fiddles-and-chaos-looms.html
Anyone who thought the euro crisis
was coming under control might want to think again.  Only three weeks after the  European Central Bank  calmed
markets with its open-ended promise to support sovereign bonds
and hold down borrowing rates throughout the euro area, harsh
reality is reasserting itself:  Greece ,  Spain  and other
struggling governments are being compelled to stick to austerity
measures that are thwarting their economies, while Germany and
other core euro countries remain unwilling to do what’s needed
to prevent the euro area from breaking up.  Spain has taken the spotlight as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  pushes through the country’s fifth austerity budget in
nine months amid a new wave of protests in  Madrid  and
secessionist rumblings in Catalonia. It’s an impressive feat of
fiscal responsibility: Rajoy is trying to make sure ahead of
time that Spain’s finances will satisfy the European Stability
Mechanism, the European Union’s bailout fund, with which his
government must have an understanding before it can access the
promised ECB support.  Rajoy’s government, in office less than a year, is walking
a political tightrope. It needs to convince furious Spaniards
that it’s acting at its own initiative and isn’t merely
capitulating to the EU’s demands. Problem is, its belt-
tightening efforts could prove self-defeating. They will weigh
further on an economy that forecasters already expect to shrink
by 1.3 percent next year, narrowing the tax base and increasing
demands on  government spending .  Backing Away  Meanwhile, relatively well-off governments are backing away
from the bank recapitalizations needed to revive Spain’s deeply
troubled financial system. This summer, European leaders reached
what appeared to be a crucial agreement on a banking union,
which would allow the ESM to inject capital directly into
distressed banks, rather than making more loans that would only
add to governments’ debt burdens. For its part, Spain went ahead
and obtained an estimate of its banks’ capital needs: 59.3
billion euros (about $76 billion).  Now  Finland , Germany and the Netherlands are suggesting
that the recapitalization plan applies only to the future, and
that governments are responsible for all their banks’ current
problems. What’s more,  Germany  is saying that the plan, which
investors had hoped could go into effect by the end of this
year, won’t be fully operational until a new euro-area
supervisory system has been created and demonstrated its
effectiveness.  In short, the EU’s crisis management is a mess -- a failure
of coordination and a formula for uncertainty, political
instability and fiscal overkill. This has real repercussions.
The further the economies of strapped countries are allowed to
sink, the closer they get to the point where even the ECB’s
support won’t make their governments solvent.  European leaders need to get the banking union back on
track, and work toward finding a way out of the downward spiral
of budget cuts and shrinking output,  such as the fiscal
transfers  we have advocated. Financial markets have shown
extraordinary patience in recent months, perhaps believing that,
in the end,  Europe  will get its act together. The longer it
takes, the more damage will be done.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the Obama administration’s
transparency shortcomings  and on  the resurgent European debt
crisis ; William D. Cohan on the SEC’s persecution of  an honest
ratings firm ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme Court’s torture case ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s biggest liability  in debating Romney;
 Simon Johnson   on how to assess the soundness of banks ; Richard
Vedder asks  why colleges are too big to fail .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 