-- Havas Poised to Join Advertising Takeover Wave: Real M&A
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-10-01T13:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/havas-poised-to-join-advertising-takeover-wave-real-m-a.html
Havas SA (HAV) , the French advertising
company known for its Evian roller baby commercials, is poised
to join the industry’s biggest wave of deals on record.  French billionaire  Vincent Bollore , who owns 37 percent of
Havas, may be willing to sell after already agreeing to part
with his holding in London-based advertiser  Aegis (AGS)  Group Plc when
it was sold to  Dentsu (4324)  Inc. for almost $5 billion in July, Agilis
Gestion SA said. With the shares down 3.2 percent in five years,
the Puteaux Cedex, France-based agency trades at a lower
multiple to this year’s projected earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization than 91 percent of similar-
sized ad companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A takeover of Havas would add to the more than $16 billion
of acquisitions in the advertising industry already announced
this year, including Dentsu’s purchase of Aegis that left Havas
further behind its five larger rivals. The $2 billion firm with
clients in more than 100 countries may lure interest from No. 3
ad agency  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  or even Dentsu as the companies try
to boost their media buying power, Liberum Capital Ltd. said.  “If you look at consolidation in the space, then Havas is
a key firm to be acquired, despite its European weighting,” Ian Whittaker, a media analyst at Liberum in London, said in a
telephone interview. “It would fit someone looking for scale,
and there are very few mid-size agencies out there right now.”  ‘Strategic Asset’  “Havas is a strategic asset for the Bollore Group,”
Bollore said in an e-mailed statement when asked if he would
consider a sale.  Havas Chief Executive Officer  David Jones  said Bollore has
demonstrated his commitment to the company by increasing his
stake this year and naming his son as deputy CEO.  “Bollore has been very clear and public about the fact his
intentions are very long term,” Jones said in a phone
interview. Havas’s smaller size is an asset because it allows
the company to be more flexible and work closer with clients, he
said.  Shusaku Kannan, a spokeman for Tokyo-based Dentsu, said the
company’s policy is not to comment on speculation. Publicis
spokeswoman Peggy Nahmany also declined to comment when asked if
the company is interested in acquiring Havas.  Dentsu, the  111-year-old  Japanese advertising firm, agreed
to buy Aegis, which this year won a contract to manage a $3
billion annual ad budget for General Motors Co., to help expand
globally. The deal followed  WPP Plc (WPP) ’s $540 million purchase of
U.S. digital agency AKQA in June. Then, Paris-based Publicis
announced last month that it will acquire Dutch digital agency
LBi International NV, also for $540 million.  Record Deals  So far this year, $16.7 billion of deals have been
announced for advertising companies, already more than double
the total volume in 2011 and the biggest year for the industry
on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that dates
back to 2000.  “Companies have spent the last three or four years getting
debt down and generating cash and are now in extremely strong
financial positions with better balance sheets than 10 years
ago,”  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in
London, said in a phone interview. Healthier balance sheets have
helped jumpstart industry consolidation, he said.  Publicis, for instance, has reduced its total  debt  to about
1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion), the lowest level since 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lower Forecasts  Global marketing companies are coping with declines in
areas such as newspaper and magazine advertising, as well as
increased competition from technology companies such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. that offer their own digital ad services.
Clients are also cutting spending in  Europe  as the debt crisis
deepens.  Prior to the Dentsu deal, speculation that Bollore would
combine Havas and Aegis was so widespread that even  Martin Sorrell , CEO of the world’s largest advertising company WPP, had
said he expected such a union. Bollore also dropped hints over
the years, including in a 2009 interview when he said that “all
the doors are open” to a possible merger of the ad firms.  Bollore’s decision to instead sell Aegis could signal the
French entrepreneur is also ready to divest Havas, according to
Arnaud Scarpaci, a Paris-based  fund manager  at Agilis Gestion,
which owns Havas shares.  “Havas is still independent, but not for much longer,”
Scarpaci said in a phone interview. “An acquisition could
unlock value, and we’ll for sure see more consolidation in this
sector.”  Today, Havas shares rose 0.9 percent to 4.04 euros at 3:24
p.m. in Paris, on pace for the highest closing price in a month.  Undervalued Stock  Havas shares  had climbed 43 percent in the last year,
giving the company a market value of 1.53 billion euros on Sept.
28. The increase outpaces WPP’s gain of 34 percent and
Publicis’s 36 percent. Dentsu has fallen 20 percent, with
declines accelerating after the Aegis purchase was announced.  Even with the recent stock gain, Havas shares were down 3.2
percent in the last  five years  through last week, and the
company is trading for an  enterprise value  that’s only 5.4 times
projected 2012 Ebitda, based on analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s a cheaper multiple than 21 of the 23 other ad
companies in the world with market values higher than $500
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Havas, with  clients  including Hershey Co. and Pfizer Inc.,
is considered to be one of the last remaining sizeable targets
in the industry, and it’s undervalued, said Liberum’s Whittaker.  Publicis CEO  Maurice Levy  said in a July interview that he
passed on a bid for both AKQA and Aegis, and “considered the
price paid was too high.” He still predicted more industry
consolidation.  Publicis Combination  For a potential suitor such as Publicis, Havas would offer
scale in terms of media planning and buying, Whittaker said, as
well as opportunities to cut costs in staffing, operating
expenses and back-office activities.  Whittaker estimates that an acquisition of Havas could
fetch almost 2 billion euros, a 31 percent premium to the
company’s market value as of Sept. 28.  Havas’s most prominent  advertising agency , Euro RSCG, was
renamed Havas Worldwide last week and is known for memorable
advertising campaigns, including the 2009  commercials  for Evian
water that featured babies on roller skates. The ad has been
viewed almost 60 million times on YouTube, placing it among the
most watched in online advertising.  “The synergy opportunities between Publicis and Havas are
ideal and, secondly, you’d get a bigger client roster,” said
Panmure’s DeGroote.  Even more likely than Publicis may be a purchase by Dentsu,
DeGroote said, which would finally unite Aegis and Havas.  ‘Sleeping Lion’  Dentsu, which gets the majority of its revenue from its
 home market  of  Japan , is already expanding internationally with
the acquisition of Aegis. Buying Havas, which got about 32
percent of its 1.65 billion euros in  sales  last year from  North
America  and almost 53 percent from Europe, would further that
ambition, DeGroote said.  “Aegis could be just the start for Dentsu,” he said.
“With Havas they’d be a seriously credible and seriously large
combined entity. Dentsu is a sleeping lion, and with the Aegis
purchase, that lion has awakened.”  Dentsu and Aegis would have a combined market value of
about $11.5 billion, based on last week’s closing values.  According to Charles Bedouelle, a media analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas, any future deal with Dentsu would be at least
several years away as the Japanese advertiser awaits clearance
of -- and pays for -- its Aegis transaction.  Europe Dependence  Havas’s dependence on Europe -- where the economy is
projected to contract this year for the second time since 2008 -
- for more than half of its revenue could prove to be an
obstacle to a deal, said  Conor O’Shea , a media analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Paris. The French company also generates less
revenue from digital services than its competitors, and more
takeovers lately have been driven by digital, he said.  Unlike WPP and Publicis, which each derive more than a
third of revenue from digital, Havas only earns about 25 percent
from such services. At Aegis, the figure is about 40 percent,
O’Shea said.  Bedouelle, who is based in London, said he doesn’t think
that Bollore will sell. Bollore’s stake in Havas increased to
more than 37 percent from about 33 percent because of a company
share buyback announced in March.  “There is no way Bollore is going to sell Havas,”
Bedouelle said in a phone interview. “He’s put his love and
energy into the brand and he wants his kids to run the
company.”  His son, Yannick Bollore, was named deputy CEO of Havas in
August.  Bollore Bet  “In the world of business you can never be certain, but I
would bet you anything that Havas will be part of the Bollore
Group in a decade,” said Havas CEO Jones.  Bollore may instead buy another advertising company to
combine with Havas, said  Brian Wieser , a media analyst at
Pivotal Research Group in  New York . Bollore could choose to
partner with Publicis or  Interpublic Group of Cos. , the second-
largest U.S. ad agency, or even a private-equity firm, Wieser
said. Tom Cunningham, a spokesman for New York-based
Interpublic, and Nahmany from Publicis declined to comment on
whether the companies are exploring partnerships with Havas.  “There’s no question that Havas’s  margins  would improve as
part of a larger entity,” Wieser said in a phone interview.  While ad spending is still projected to increase, estimates
are being trimmed this year. WPP’s research unit, GroupM, in
July cut its forecast for worldwide advertising growth in 2012
to 5.1 percent from 6.3 percent.  With the advertising industry expected to post slower
growth, now may be the right time to strike a deal, Panmure’s
DeGroote said.  “If the market outlook is a bit soft, companies may get
busy doing some stuff corporately,” he said. “It’s a proven
idea to grow profit through acquisitions in a downturn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 