-- Taxpayers Lose When Colleges Are Too Big to Fail
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-09-30T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/taxpayers-lose-when-colleges-are-too-big-to-fail.html
Many Americans opposed federal
bailouts of financial institutions and large corporations. By
promoting a “too big to fail” policy, favored businesses can
engage in risky, undesirable behavior, while deriving unfair
 advantages  over competitors, all financed by the taxpayer.  Too-big-to-fail thinking saved huge financial institutions
such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) , American International Group Inc. and
 Fannie Mae , not to mention an industrial giant,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  Critics argue that market conditions should have led these
businesses to fail, sending a powerful lesson to others to act
more prudently.  Although those criticisms are at least somewhat valid, it
is surprising that no one has recognized that governments (state
as well as federal) have been following a too-big-to-fail policy
in higher education for decades. While I can name several large
businesses (Enron Corp., Bethlehem Steel Corp., Arthur Andersen
LLP, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., TWA Corp.,  Montgomery Ward ,
Borders Group Inc., WorldCom Inc.) that have failed over the
last decade or so, I cannot think of a single example of a large
American university that has failed or closed its doors.  Market forces that frequently topple private-sector
companies in acts of what economist  Joseph Schumpeter  called
“creative destruction” are suppressed in higher education by
huge government subsidies.  Government Subsidies  There are two reasons why universities never “fail” in
the sense that they cease to operate. First, of course, with
governments  paying  part of the bill, the probability that
revenue won’t cover expenses, leading to bankruptcy, is remote.
If a school can manage to cover even only, say, 75 percent of
its costs through tuition fees and other sources of revenue, it
is likely that government will cover the rest -- through
operating and federal research grants; indirectly through
federal student financial aid, which allows higher tuition fees;
or through private donations and investment income enhanced by
favorable tax status.  Universities don’t fail for another reason, as well: We
don’t meaningfully define “success” or “failure” in higher
education. Did  Wesleyan University  or Trinity College in
 Connecticut  have a good year in 2011? Who knows? Did their
students learn more than they did the year before, or develop
better critical-thinking skills? Does the “value added” from
an expensive education at those private schools exceed that at,
say, the state-supported  University of Connecticut , which is far
less pricey?  It may well be that some schools are “failures” in a
meaningful sense -- their seniors know no more than their
freshmen; their graduates are underemployed or have low-paying
jobs; and they provide less student satisfaction per dollar
spent than at comparable institutions -- but we really don’t
know that.  Yes, there are some decent performance  metrics , and what
they show is disconcerting. At schools such as  Idaho State
University ,  Chicago State University  or the  University of Texas
at San Antonio , fewer than 10 percent of full-time students
graduate in the customary four years. Isn’t that “failure,”
even though the schools continue to exist because of government
subsidies? At Chicago State, where several newspaper accounts
described dubious management practices in recent years, almost
half of entering full-time freshmen don’t even make it to their
sophomore year.  At the same time, many schools have four-year graduation
rates of 80 percent or higher -- iconic names such as Harvard
and Stanford, as well as lesser-known colleges such as  Centre ,
Colorado, Kenyon and Whitman.  Measuring Success  Yet these two classes of schools are treated exactly the
same by the government with respect to federal student financial
 assistance . Some educators will point out that the institutions
with low four-year graduation rates have a lot of students who
are poor and have to work while going to school. But doesn’t
this governmental disregard of academic performance in the
awarding of financial aid contribute to subpar performance and
only widen the inequality gap by increasing the number of
college dropouts with  low-paying  jobs and big college debts.  The accompanying graph shows, at least by the graduation
rate metric, the huge variation in success or failure rates
across American higher education. Success and failure are
relative concepts. Most schools are neither elite, where hardly
any students drop out, nor institutions where graduation in a
timely manner is a rarity. Yet the overall reality -- only 38
percent of American college students at four-year schools
graduate within four years -- is a disappointing statistic,
suggesting that many of them spend vast amounts for schooling
without achieving the expected result.  Probably the most important bottom line to those who do
graduate from colleges is success in obtaining employment.
Although actual unemployment is relatively low among college
graduates, they are increasingly underemployed, mostly in
relatively low-paid jobs requiring little skill, as a  survey 
released in April by the  Associated Press  found. In its latest
issue, Bloomberg Businessweek  cites  research showing that the
portion of college-educated 25- to 29-year-olds with jobs
outside the so-called college labor market rose to 31.5 percent
in January through May this year, compared with 26.1 percent in
2007.  Is that not failure?  Although the price of college rises rapidly, the gains from
this schooling may be falling, meaning the payoff on one’s
college “investment” is less than expected. What if kids start
saying no to college? Will this ultimately lead to an enrollment
decline? Will the too-big-to-fail subsidies of colleges lead to
a new phenomenon: too failed to be big?  (Richard Vedder is director of the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity and teaches economics at Ohio
University. The opinions expressed are his own. Read his article
on federal college loans  here .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the Obama administration’s
transparency shortcomings  and on  the resurgent European debt
crisis ; William D. Cohan on the SEC’s persecution of  an honest
ratings firm ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme Court’s torture case ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s biggest liability  in debating Romney;
 Simon Johnson   on how to assess the soundness of banks .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 