-- Beach Boys Bow Out With Backstage Feud, Pop Hits: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-09-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/beach-boys-bow-out-with-backstage-feud-pop-hits-review.html
The harmonies were golden, the pop as
frisky as a surfer’s body.  The surviving members of the Beach Boys played the final
gigs of a tour to mark the band’s 50th anniversary in  London  --
probably the last time they all perform together. Recent feuds
follow years of legal spats which cloud the sunny music.  Just before the gigs, the Internet was awash with reports
that  Brian Wilson , Al Jardine and  David Marks  had been fired:
Further tours would take place without their contributions. It
later transpired that Mike Love will continue to tour Beach
Boys’ music separately, as he’s done in the past.  Future reunions and recordings aren’t officially ruled out.
Still, the band’s volatility, the quality and the history of the
music ensured that the U.K. shows were special. The Boys (Beach
Men or Beach Pensioners seems more apt) are mostly in their 70s;
the music they make still radiates the essence of youth.  In public there was only bonhomie.  Love , attempting some
clunky dancing in a shiny gold jacket, took the boisterous lead.
 Jardine , a sober figure in a dark shirt and with thoroughly
brown hair, sang and played guitar.  At the edge of the stage,  Wilson  sat behind a white baby
grand piano. Occasionally he waved his arms around to the music
in delight. His voice tinged with frailty and he was by far the
most soulful singer. He consistently (and justifiably) received
the biggest applause.  Group’s Baby  The surviving original line-up was completed by Marks, at
64 the baby of the group, in sunglasses and baseball cap.  Bruce
Johnston , who joined in 1965, bounced around with glee as if he
still couldn’t quite believe he was playing in such a band.  The shows opened with straightforward pop, doo-wop and rock
‘n’ roll. A selection of surf tunes (“Catch a Wave,” “Surfer
Girl”) was followed by songs about girlfriends (“Kiss Me, Baby”
and a tingle-inducing cover of “Why Do Fools Fall in Love?”).  “When I Grow Up (To Be a Man)” was played with the
slightest twinkle of irony. After “Be True to Your School,” Love
dedicated “Ballad of Ole’ Betsy” to “anyone who has ever loved a
car.”  At times, the formula wore thin. While the famous harmonies
were still perfect, the tones of the voices had inevitably lost
the vibrancy of youth. Support was discreetly provided by the
nine-strong backing band.  The tumbling acapella harmonies of “Our Prayer” were as
transcendental as “Heroes and Villains” was exuberantly silly.  Reunion Album  “That’s Why God Made the Radio,” the title track from this
year’s reunion album, stood proud alongside a cover of
“California Dreaming.”  Respects were paid to original members, the late Carl and
Dennis Wilson, with the band playing along to audio and video
recordings of them singing “God Only Knows” and “Forever.”  The audience contained many older couples, rekindling the
musical romance. Some had brought grandchildren along with them.
All were swept up by a giddy sequence of “Sloop John B,”
“Wouldn’t It Be Nice” and a delirious “Good Vibrations.”  Finally, Brian Wilson took the lead on “Summer’s Gone,” a
ballad warm with melancholia and gentle tangs of regret. A
perfect send-off, it was also a reminder that the Beach Boys,
all of them together, are still too good to lose.  Rating: ****.  The Beach Boys played the  Royal Albert Hall  and Wembley
Arena on Sept. 27 and 28. “That’s Why God Made the Radio,” on
Capitol, is priced about $12 in the U.S. For a review of the
album, click here. There is a new “Greatest Hits” collection,
with a 50-song edition out this month for $24. Download fees
vary across services. Information:  http://www.thebeachboys.com .  (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater
and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 