-- Beatlemania, Syal’s Bollywood Shakespeare: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-09-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/beatlemania-syal-s-bollywood-shakespeare-london-stage.html
Vintage filmed scenes of teenage
girls gasping, crying and keeling over are screened during the
live Beatles show “Let It Be” in  London .  Then the cameras switch to us, the real-life theater
audience. We find ourselves sedately staring at our wrinkles and
bald patches. Funnily enough, nobody is fainting.  The unintentionally comic contrast is almost worth the
price of the ticket alone. If you have a barbed sense of humor,
that is.  “Let It Be” is billed as a “spectacular theatrical concert”
to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Beatles. It offers the
audience a proficient tribute band of moptop looky-likies who
deliver the famous numbers.  There’s no story, no script, nada. Just the songs, some
screened background information, and some synthetic wigs which
look about as flexible as permafrost.  If it were touring a circuit of provincial music clubs, it
would go down a storm. In a traditional proscenium theater in
the West End, it feels strangely out of joint.  When we’re invited to stand up, join in, or clap along,
memories of squirming uncomfortably as a child at audience
participation sequences are called to mind. How much better to
be standing hugger-mugger, crowded before the stage in a club.  That said, the music still works its magic. Classics like
“Twist and Shout,” “All You Need Is Love,” “Hey Jude” and the
rest provoke the usual admiration, and for many people that may
well be enough reason to go.  Costume Change  Another reason, albeit a slight one, is to see one of the
filmed inserts screened during costume changes.  Someone has put together a sequence of four or five
atrociously wonderful TV adverts from the 1960s, including one
for some synthetic shoes which look like they’d turn your feet
into rotting fungus in about two seconds.  It made me think of the performers’ scalps under their
oddly immobile plastic wigs.  Or perhaps the advert is really a sly comment on the
synthetic nature of the show itself, which is fundamentally a
vivified version of the waxworks in  Madame Tussauds .  There are two casts. I saw James Fox as Paul, Stephen Hill
as George, and Gordon Elsmore as Ringo. Michael Gagliano made a
particularly effective John, and even recycled a few of Lennon’s
gags.  They’re all able musicians, they work hard, and the songs
are great. It still wasn’t quite enough to Please Please Me.  Rating: ***.  Much Ado  In Shakespeare’s “Much Ado About Nothing,” there are
musical numbers, jokes and dances. There’s romance and a lavish
wedding. An “honor” killing is threatened.  It has the same ingredients, in fact, as most Bollywood
movies. So the Royal Shakespeare Company’s idea to give the play
an Indian makeover is an attractive one.  Its production, set in modern Delhi and played by a cast of
British-Indian actors, is now at the Noel Coward Theatre. The
principal attraction is the performance of actor and writer
Meera Syal as the quick-witted, spiky heroine Beatrice.  She’s a delight, for her comic timing and her subtlety. She
finishes some of her statements with a Hindustani rising “hyah”
-- somewhere between a question-sound and a put-down -- and on
Thursday it always got a big laugh from Indian members of the
audience.  Marriage Fear  “You were born in a merry hour,” says Don Pedro (Shiv
Grewal) to her.  “No, sure, my lord, my mother cried,” replies Beatrice, and
for a second tears tremble in Syal’s eyes. In a moment we learn
everything we need to about Beatrice’s fear of marriage, her
memories of her mother, and her vulnerability.  Nobody else in the cast paints their characters with such a
varied palette of gesture or emotion. Paul Bhattacharjee is
Beatrice’s sparring partner Benedick: Some of his jokes hit the
mark, others are mistimed. Madhav Sharma plays the authority
figure Leonato with an old-fashioned fruity delivery which is
enjoyable though not exactly subtle.  Tom Piper’s set creates the courtyard of a large Delhi
home, complete with attractive grilles and balconies. Director
Iqbal Khan keeps the narrative clear and the pace lively, even
if his sense of what makes for comedy is as variable as his
leading man’s. Sometimes it works, and sometimes not.  The one non-variable is Syal, who generates energy every
time she walks on stage. Rating: ***.  “Let It Be” is at the Prince of Wales Theatre, Coventry
Street, W1D 6AS. Information:  http://www.letitbelondon.com  or
+44-844-482-5110.  “Much Ado About Nothing” is at the Noel Coward Theatre,
85-88 St. Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4AU. Information:
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5136  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on rock music and
 John Mariani  on wine.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 