-- Bo’s Son Defends Father After China Party Expulsion Order
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-09-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/bo-xilai-s-son-defends-father-after-china-party-expulsion-order.html
Bo Guagua, the younger son of former
Politburo member  Bo Xilai , who was expelled from the Chinese
Communist Party last week, defended his father as being
“upright” and “devoted to duty.”  Bo Guagua said the allegations against Bo Xilai contradict
what he knows about his father, in a Sept. 29  statement  on his
Tumblr account.  “Personally, it is hard for me to believe the allegations
that were announced against my father, because they contradict
everything I have come to know about him throughout my life,”
Bo Guagua said. “Although the policies my father enacted are
open to debate, the father I know is upright in his beliefs and
devoted to duty.”  China ’s Communist Party expelled Bo Xilai on Sept. 28 and
said he will face criminal charges after reaching consensus on a
murder scandal that roiled the political elite, clearing the way
for a once-in-a-decade transition of power in November.  Bo Xilai abused his power, bore “major responsibility” in
the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood and had improper
sexual relations with several women, the official Xinhua News
Agency said in the announcement that day.  Support for Hu  The communist party committee in China’s southern Guangdong
province, headed by Wang Yang, published a statement in the
official Guangzhou Daily yesterday saying it will firmly support
the central committee’s decision on Bo.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at a Sept. 29 dinner that China
will stick to opening up and reform and will “unite around
General Secretary  Hu Jintao ,” Xinhua reported. The event,
celebrating the 63th anniversary of the People’s Republic of
China on Oct. 1, was attended by all nine members in the
Politburo’s elite Standing Committee, Xinhua reported.  Bo Xilai was the party chief of southwestern China’s
Chongqing Municipality until he was ousted in March. He was
suspended from the Politburo in April and accused of serious
disciplinary violations, as his wife, Gu Kailai, was detained
over the murder of Heywood.  Gu was convicted Aug. 20 and sentenced to death with a two-
year reprieve after she confessed in a one-day trial to
poisoning Heywood in a hotel room because she believed he posed
a threat to her son as a result of a financial dispute.  Bo Xilai’s wrongdoing dates back to his time as mayor of
Dalian, governor of Liaoning province and minister of commerce,
Xinhua said on Sept. 28. It said investigators had “found clues
to his suspected involvement in other crimes.”  In a separate Xinhua announcement that same day, the
Politburo said it will hold the 18th Communist Party Congress,
where China’s next generation of leaders will be anointed,
beginning on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  