-- Bull Wagers Tumble Most in 16 Weeks as Prices Slump: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-01T18:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/bull-wagers-tumble-most-in-16-weeks-as-prices-slump-commodities.html
Speculators cut wagers by the most in
16 weeks as commodities capped the first monthly loss since May
on mounting concern that central bank stimulus measures won’t be
enough to halt slowing economic growth.  Money managers reduced net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 5 percent to 1.24 million  contracts  in
the week ended Sept. 25, the biggest slump since June 5,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Crude-oil bets
fell the most since May, and cotton holdings reached a six-week
low. Bullish wagers on soybeans retreated for a third week, the
longest streak since June.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
fell 4.6 percent since reaching a five-month high Sept. 14, the
day after the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of debt
buying. U.S. consumer spending stalled in August, and confidence
among American shoppers climbed less than expected last month.
Demonstrators clashed with police in  Madrid  last week to protest
budget cuts, stoking concern that  Europe ’s leaders won’t be able
to do enough to curb budget deficits.  “The question is: will stimulus be enough, and will it fix
it?” said  John Kinsey , who helps manage about C$1 billion
($1.02 billion) at Caldwell Investment Management Ltd. in
Toronto. “Europe is still in a mess. In the U.S., the economic
numbers are still weak. We’re probably still cautious.”  Prices Drop  The S&P GSCI dropped 1.4 percent last month, while the MSCI
All-Country World Index of  equities  climbed 2.9 percent. The
dollar fell 1.6 percent against a basket of six major trading
partners. Treasuries slid 0.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows. The GSCI gauge gained 0.2 percent at 2:37 p.m. in
 New York .  The number of  contracts  outstanding across the 24
commodities tracked by S&P fell to a three-week low on Sept. 26.
Soybeans tumbled 8.9 percent in September, the biggest loss
among the gauge’s members and the first monthly drop since May.
Cotton fell 8.6 percent.  The U.S., the world’s biggest economy, grew at a 1.3
percent pace in the second quarter, down from a previously
estimated 1.7 percent, figures from the Commerce Department
showed Sept. 27. The Institute for Supply-Management-Chicago
Inc. said its business barometer fell to 49.7 this month from 53
in August. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  Stimulus Measures  Commodities jumped 11 percent in the third quarter, the
biggest gain since March 2011, as central banks and governments
announced plans to promote growth. The Fed said Sept. 13 it
would buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month, and the  European
Central Bank  announced plans on Sept. 6 to buy an unlimited
amount of sovereign debt.  China  last month approved road and
subway projects to boost investment.  The GSCI is heading for a fourth consecutive year of gains,
surging 91 percent since the end of 2008, after record stimulus
measures helped the global economy recover from the worst crisis
since the Great Depression. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt
in the first two rounds of quantitative easing.  Money managers added $1.56 billion to commodity funds in
the week ended Sept. 26, with $1.48 billion going to gold and
precious metals, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows.  “I see commodity prices rising,” said Jeffrey Sica, the
Morristown, New Jersey-based president of SICA Wealth
Management, who helps oversee more than $1 billion of assets.
“The amount of liquidity in central banks around the world that
is being added is significantly greater than anything we’ve seen
in history.”  ‘Topping Out’  Most raw-material prices “appear to be topping out now for
the rest of the year and quite possibly through 2013,” Edward L. Morse, Citigroup Inc.’s global head of commodities research
in New York, wrote in a Sept. 24 report. “A major factor is
China, where demand has led the commodity boom for the past
decade, but lower growth and structural change in the world’s
second-largest economy spell looser markets ahead.”  Chinese industrial companies’ profits dropped for a fifth
month in August, the National Bureau of Statistics said Sept.
27. International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said Sept. 24 that global growth may be “a bit weaker”
than the Washington-based group forecast in July.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s biggest construction and
mining equipment maker, cut its forecast for 2015 earnings on
Sept. 24. The company is expecting moderate and “anemic”
growth through 2015, Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman 
told an industry conference in  Las Vegas .  Oil Wagers  Investors reduced bets on a crude-oil rally by 17 percent
to 177,762 contracts, the biggest decline since May 8, the CFTC
 data  show. Prices declined 0.8 percent in New York last week,
the second straight drop and the longest slump since mid-June.  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods fell 6.3
percent to 725,687 contracts, the CFTC data show. That’s the
third weekly decrease and the longest slide since April.  Soybean holdings dropped 6.9 percent to 195,402, the lowest
since June 5. Cotton wagers fell 51 percent to 6,356. Prices in
New York fell for a fourth week, the longest losing streak since
June, amid concern that demand from China will slow.  “We’re going to see a move back down in the entire risk-
asset complex and the commodity complex,” said  Stanley Crouch ,
who helps oversee $2 billion as chief investment officer at New
York-based Aegis Capital Corp. “You’ve got clear signs of some
very fundamental issues with the macroeconomic situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  