-- Carlsberg Returns to Thailand After Heineken’s APB Deal
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-01T09:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/carlsberg-returns-to-thailand-after-heineken-bid-southeast-asia.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the world’s fourth-
biggest brewer, is returning to  Thailand  after a seven-year
hiatus, following Heineken NV’s successful bid to expand in
 Southeast Asia .  Carlsberg is teaming up with Singha Corp. to distribute,
market and sell its brands in the country, it said Sept. 28.
Thailand, with a population of about 67 million, is one of the
few Southeast Asian nations where the Copenhagen-based brewer
has a  negligible footprint . The joint venture with the maker of
Leo beer gives Carlsberg a partner that controls almost 60
percent of the country’s beer market.  Heineken got approval to take control of  Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. (APB)  on Sept. 28 after buying out its venture partner
for S$5.6 billion ($4.6 billion), giving it full ownership of
operations across Indonesia, Singapore and Thailand. It was the
culmination of a two-month tussle with Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , who offered to buy Singapore’s Fraser & Neave
Ltd., the owner of a 40 percent stake in APB.  “When you’re looking for high growth, Thailand and  China 
are two very crucial markets,”  Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam, said in a telephone interview.  Thailand and China, the biggest beer market by volume, will
be the leading areas for growth, Rijk said. Carlsberg operates
in China through a venture with Chongqing Brewery Co., of which
it owns about 30 percent. Retail beer sales in Thailand may
reach $3.52 billion, compared with $36 billion in China,
according to market researcher Mintel International.  Thai Settlement  Heineken said last week it wants to benefit from expansion
in the “international premium segment” in  Asia , which
encompasses higher-priced Carlsberg and Heineken brands.  The Danish brewer, which also sells brands including Tuborg
and Kronenbourg 1664, has stumbled in Thailand before. A joint
venture formed in 2000 with Chang Beverages Pte, owned by
Charoen, failed to develop as planned and led to Carlsberg
removing executives representing Charoen from the board of
Carlsberg Asia in 2003.  Carlsberg said at the time it was “not happy with the
value” of assets Chang wanted to add to the joint venture. The
dispute ended in 2005 with Carlsberg paying $120 million to
divide their assets and settle a legal dispute.  Charoen, 68, controls Singapore-traded  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) ,
one of the companies that spurred Heineken to offer to buy out
its partner F&N from APB.  Singha and Leo  Companies owned by Charoen began buying shares in F&N and
APB in July, threatening Heineken’s control over APB and
sparking a bidding war. Heineken finally increased its bid to
S$53 a share from S$50 to win backing for its APB bid. APB
traded at S$34.69 on July 16 before the process began.  With Singha, Carlsberg gets a partner with 59 percent of
the Thai beer market in 2011, compared with the 31 percent share
of Charoen’s ThaiBev, according to data from Euromonitor
International. Singha, founded by its parent company Boon Rawd
Brewery Co.  in 1933 , already has three breweries as well as
water and soft-drink production sites.  Singha and Carlsberg said the partnership will allow them
to “strengthen the premium portfolio in Thailand.” The Thai
brewer sells Singha beer as well as Leo, the biggest brand in
the country, and both brands have been gaining market share
compared with ThaiBev’s Chang since 2006.  Carlsberg, which also said it could expand Singha sales
outside Thailand, will compete with  Heineken (HEIA) , which had a 4.3
percent brand share in the country last year in the
international premium segment.  Seeking Growth  “The deal gives Carlsberg a good foothold in the Thai
market and fits with the company’s strategy to exploit growth
options in the Asian markets,” Mikkel Petersen, senior equity
adviser at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, wrote today. “If
Carlsberg plays its cards right in Asia, the shares may have
additional growth potential.”  Heineken rose 0.8 percent to 46.77 euros at 11:24 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading, extending this year’s gain to 31 percent.
Carlsberg advanced 1.5 percent to 521.5 kroner in Copenhagen,
bringing the year’s increase to 29 percent.  Competition could benefit both companies, Rijk said, as
more brewers in the market make it easier to promote a growing
genre of beer to consumers.  Heineken and Carlsberg, as well as beermakers such as
SABMiller Plc and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , are trying to offset
sluggish growth in  Europe  with emerging-market sales.  Thailand’s Finance Ministry forecasts economic growth will
reach 5.5 percent this year, while Europe continues to grapple
with a financial crisis.  ‘Key Platform’  Carlsberg reported  net revenue  of 63.6 billion kroner ($11
billion) in 2011, a 6 percent increase excluding acquisitions,
disposals and currency fluctuations. Revenue at its Asia unit
rose 15 percent on the same basis to 6.8 billion kroner, and it
said it would invest in capacity expansion as it sees the region
as a “key platform for growth.”  Carlsberg has trailed Kirin Holdings Co., Asahi Group
Holdings Co. and Heineken in deals in  emerging markets ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Singha partnership gives it access to a fast-
growing region, it doesn’t fully control the business,
increasing the risk, Rijk said.  “The Singha tie-up is a good move, but joint ventures
could be less successful if not executed well,” Rijk said.
“There’s a risk you lose attention from your partner on the
ground, perhaps when a bigger competitor comes in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  