-- Christie Says Romney Will Upend Presidential Race in Debate
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-09-30T16:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/christie-says-romney-will-upend-presidential-race-in-debate-2-.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  will turn
his race with President  Barack Obama  “upside down” with his
performance in their debate this week, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said, raising expectations for his party’s White House
contender after a “tough couple of weeks.”  Christie and Romney’s running mate, Wisconsin
Representative  Paul Ryan , called it a misstep for the former
 Massachusetts ’ governor to say at a fundraiser that 47 percent
of Americans “believe they are victims” and feel “entitled”
to government support. A secretly recorded video of the comments
surfaced this month.  “He’s had a tough couple of weeks, let’s be honest,”
Christie, a Republican, said of Romney on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” today. Yet the morning after the Oct. 3 debate in
Denver, “you are all going to be scratching your heads, saying,
‘Wow, we have a barn-burner now,’” Christie said.  Christie, who gave the keynote address at the Republican
convention last month, said the debates will give Romney a
chance to talk directly to voters nationwide, without “being
filtered by anybody.” He also said Romney, trailing Obama in
many recent polls of voters, performed well in the debates
during the Republican primaries.  Romney Missteps  “We’ve had some missteps,” Ryan said on “Fox News
Sunday,” agreeing that one of them was the 47 percent comment
Romney made at a private session in May with donors.  Romney “acknowledges himself that was an inarticulate way
of describing how we’re worried that in a stagnant Obama economy
more people have become dependent on government because they
have no economic opportunity,” said Ryan, chairman of the House
Budget Committee.  Ryan played down the importance of the first debate,
saying, “I don’t think any one event is going to make or break
this campaign.”  Obama travels today to the swing state of  Nevada , where
he’ll hold a rally in  Las Vegas  before settling down in nearby
Henderson for debate practice sessions before the first debate.
Romney is at his home outside of  Boston  today, with no public
events scheduled as he prepares for his encounter with Obama.  Other Debates  The two also will meet in debates on Oct. 16 and Oct. 22,
and Ryan will face Vice President  Joe Biden  on Oct. 11.  Romney must both make two separate pitches during the
debates,  Newt Gingrich , the former U.S. House speaker who sought
this year’s nomination, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” today.  “You first have to make sure people say Obama’s stagnation
is unacceptable,” and then make the case for what a Romney
approach would be, Gingrich said. Romney “doesn’t have to hit a
home run, but Romney has to be at the end of the debate
Wednesday night a clear alternative,” he said.  Some Democrats on today’s television talk programs said
they agreed that Obama’s lead in the polls will shrink after the
debate, as the former Massachusetts governor will get a boost
from being on the same stage as the president.  “This race is going to tighten,”  David Plouffe , a senior
advisor to Obama, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” On ABC’s
“This Week,” Plouffe said, “We believed all along that
Governor Romney probably has more benefit out of this debate
potentially than we do.”  Movement Needed  Former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, said
on “Meet the Press” that Romney needs a bump in the polls to
keep alive his presidential hopes.  “If there’s no movement, then this race is over.”  Ryan, during his Fox News interview, criticized Obama on
foreign policy, especially the administration’s efforts to
prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. Obama projects
‘‘weakness and equivocation in dealing with Iranian leaders,
Ryan said.  ‘‘The Ayatollahs, by virtue of their conduct, don’t believe
the president when he says his interest is to stop  Iran ’’ from
obtaining nuclear-weapons capacity, Ryan said.  Obama in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly
Sept. 25 said the U.S. ‘‘will do what we must to prevent Iran
from obtaining a nuclear weapon,’’ and that the time for a
diplomatic resolution to the issue ‘‘is not limited.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net  or
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story 