-- Cycling ‘Breakaway’ League Said to Plan Equity Offer to UCI
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-09-30T23:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/cycling-breakaway-league-said-to-plan-equity-offer-to-uci.html
The organizers of a proposed 10-race
series that  Union Cycliste Internationale  President Pat McQuaid
called a “breakaway” league are working on a plan that would
give the sport’s governing body an undisclosed stake, two people
familiar with the situation said.  The offer comes as sports marketing company Gifted Group
Ltd. tries to win UCI support for World Series Cycling after its
first proposal was rejected, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private and ongoing.
London-based Gifted Group didn’t offer any equity to UCI in the
first plan.  McQuaid said in an interview earlier this year that he
considered the series to be a “breakaway” league because it
would threaten events such as the Tour of  Switzerland . The UCI
also sees the plan to stage four-day races on four continents in
between events such as the  Tour de France  as too much of a
logistical challenge, one of the people said.  “The UCI doesn’t want to get involved in something unless
they are absolutely sure it will be a success,” Daniel
Malbranque, the former general secretary of the professional
riders’ union, said by telephone.  Malbranque, who is now a consultant for the UCI, said he
had no information about the discussions between Gifted Group
and the ruling body. Gifted Group Chairman Jonathan Price, a
former Manchester United sponsorship executive, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail seeking comment. UCI
spokesman Enrico Carpani said the organization had no comment.  Television Deal  Gifted Group has raised 20 million euros ($25.9 million)
from investors to start the series, and wooed as many as 10 of
the top 18 cycling teams with a promise they would split 64
percent of sales. Investors would have received 26 percent of
revenue, and Gifted Group 10 percent, according to a pitch to
investors last year drawn up by London-based bank N.M.
Rothschild & Sons Ltd. The series has projected earnings before
interest, taxes depreciation and amortization of 39 million
euros in 2017 according to the pitch. UCI would get an
undisclosed share, the people said.  Gifted Group has also reached an agreement with a
television company to buy the broadcast rights to the series,
one of the people said.  Teams currently don’t get a share of television revenue,
which goes to race organizers such as Tour de France owner
Amaury Sport Organisation.  Jonathan Vaughters , manager of the
Garmin team and president of the teams’ association, says
cycling’s competition model should be brought in line with
sports that spread the winnings around like the  National
Football League .  The Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI is seeking investors to
help develop cycling’s popularity in  China ,  Russia  and  South
America  through a subsidiary Global Cycling Promotion SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  