-- Dollar, Yen Gain as Global Slowdown Spurs Haven Bid
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-01T07:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/dollar-yen-gain-as-global-slowdown-spurs-haven-bid.html
The dollar and yen strengthened
versus most of their major counterparts as signs of an economic
slowdown in Asia and Europe boosted demand for haven assets.  The yen gained against the higher-yielding Australian and
New Zealand dollars after a Chinese gauge indicated that factory
output contracted for two consecutive months for the first time
since 2009.  Japan ’s Tankan report showed pessimism among the
nation’s large manufacturers deepened. The U.S. currency touched
the strongest level in three weeks versus the euro before data
today that may indicate the jobless rate in the 17-nation region
climbed to a record in August.  “The global economic outlook has become increasingly
uncertain, deteriorating market sentiment,” said Kengo Suzuki,
a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit
of Japan’s third-largest bank by market value. “Investors are
buying safe-haven currencies such as the yen and dollar.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.2857 per euro at 8:19
a.m. London time, after reaching $1.2804, the strongest since
Sept. 11. The yen advanced 0.1 percent to 77.91 against the
greenback. Japan’s currency traded 0.1 percent stronger at
100.12 per euro. It added 0.2 percent to 80.76 yen per
Australian dollar and gained 0.2 percent to 64.62 against the
New Zealand currency.  Chinese Manufacturing  A gauge of  China ’s  factory output  was 49.8 last month from
49.2 in August, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today in Beijing.
Separate data from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on
Sept. 29 showed manufacturing shrank for an 11th month.  Japan’s  Tankan index  was minus 3 in the three months ended
Sept. 30, compared with minus 1 in the previous quarter, the
nation’s central bank said today. A negative figure means
pessimists outnumber optimists.  In the euro area, the  jobless rate  climbed to 11.4 percent
in August, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the European Union’s statistics
office releases the report. The figure would be the highest in
data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1990.  The yen jumped 7.4 percent in the past six months, the most
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar added 0.2 percent and
the euro lost 3.9 percent, the biggest drop after the Swiss
franc.  Japan’s currency tends to strengthen during periods of
financial and economic turmoil because the nation’s current-
account surplus means it isn’t reliant on foreign capital. The
dollar benefits because it is the world’s reserve currency.  Dollar Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the U.S. Dollar Index
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
3,970 on Sept. 25 compared with a net long position of 4,896 a
week earlier, according to figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “The market was getting short U.S. dollar last week,”
Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore , wrote today in an e-mailed note
to clients. “They will be looking to square that up further to
start this week with fears rising over Europe rising and the
state of the global economy.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 79.896. The gauge
climbed earlier to 80.147, the highest since Sept. 11.  Year Low  Australia ’s dollar touched the lowest in more than a year
against its New Zealand counterpart before the larger nation’s
Reserve Bank holds a policy meeting tomorrow.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 87 percent chance that RBA policy makers will lower the
overnight cash-rate target by 25 basis points from 3.5 percent.
That contrasts with the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey that predicts officials will keep the benchmark
unchanged for a fourth-straight meeting.  The so-called Aussie dollar touched NZ$1.2469, the lowest
since September 2011, before trading little changed at
NZ$1.2500.  Sweden ’s krona is the best performer in a basket of
developed-market peers since June, with a 3.11 percent advance,
about twice that of the second-place Norwegian krone. The median
of economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg is for Sweden’s
economy to grow 1.2 percent this year even as the euro region
contracts.  Strategists raised their estimates for the currency against
the dollar by about 8 percent in less than three months as the
central bank signaled that it sees no need to curb the krona’s
advance. That’s in contrast to the dollar, which fell last
quarter as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s open-ended
stimulus plan debased the currency, and the euro, which weakened
amid a third year of debt turmoil.  “The krona can go a lot further,” John Taylor, the
founder and chief executive officer of New York-based hedge fund
FX Concepts LLC, which manages $3 billion, said in a Sept. 27
interview. “Sweden has the wind behind it because Bernanke is
making the dollar go down and  Europe  keeps having these
traumas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  