-- Melbourne Secures First NRL Title Since Losing Two Championships
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-30T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/melbourne-storm-beat-bulldogs-to-win-national-rugby-league-title.html
The  Melbourne  Storm beat the
Canterbury Bulldogs 14-4 to win Australia’s National Rugby
League title, securing the championship 2 1/2 years after losing
the 2007 and 2009 crowns for salary cap breaches.  The Storm, who were playing in their fifth grand final in
seven seasons, got first-half tries from Ryan Hoffman, Billy Slater and Justin O’Neill last night at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium and
held off their opponents in a scoreless second half.  Melbourne broke through for its first title in 1999 and won
again in 2007 and 2009. The NRL stripped the team of those two
championships in April 2010 for long-term breaches of the
competition’s salary cap, saying the Storm were found to have
made player payments outside the cap totaling A$1.7 million
($1.8 million) over five years.  “We were gutted a few years ago with our players and
morale wasn’t at its highest but we built this club back up,”
Storm captain  Cameron Smith  said in a televised interview with
 Channel Nine . “Last year we nearly got to the grand final. This
year we did and we made it count.”  Storm half-back Cooper Cronk was awarded the Clive
Churchill Medal as the game’s most valuable player after he
produced a deft pass to send full-back Slater over in the 32nd
minute and a pin-point kick for winger O’Neill to score in the
corner on the stroke of halftime. Sam Perrett got the Bulldogs’
only try in the 26th minute.  Melbourne’s winning margin in front of a crowd of 82,976
was limited by inaccurate goal-kicking from Smith, who was
successful with just one of his five attempts.  The Storm’s victory denied teams from  Australia ’s biggest
city a sweep of the nation’s premier sports championships after
the Sydney Swans beat the Hawthorn Hawks by 10 points two days
ago in the Australian Football League grand final.  The Bulldogs, who finished two points ahead of Melbourne
atop the 2012 regular-season standings, had been seeking their
first NRL title since 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  