-- EU Working to Resolve Difference on Bank Plan, Rehn Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-10-01T10:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/eu-working-to-resolve-difference-on-bank-plan-rehn-says.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said he’s working to resolve
disputes in how the bloc’s crisis fund can be used to
recapitalize struggling banks in the region.  “It seems there have been different interpretations about
the June decision,” he said in an interview yesterday in
Haemeenlinna, Finland. “Already this week the member states
have begun to discuss with the help of the European Commission
on what exact rules could be implemented in bank
recapitalization. This work proceeds in parallel to the work on
the banking supervisor.”  Disagreement erupted after finance chiefs from  Germany , the
Netherlands and Finland signaled a retreat from a June agreement
among European leaders allowing the euro area’s bailout fund to
recapitalize banks. The Sept. 25 statement by  Wolfgang Schaeuble , Jutta Urpilainen and Jan Kees de Jager excluded
“legacy assets” from the region’s rescue facility.  Finland wants to confine direct recapitalization by the
rescue fund to cover bank bailouts that occur after a single
financial supervisor is created, Urpilainen said. While it was
possible that some states had “differing expectations,” there
was “no conflict because the possibility of direct bank
recapitalization is explicitly tied to the existence of a single
bank supervisor,” she said.  Year-End Decision  The comments mark a blow to Ireland’s campaign to reduce
its debt load. Irish Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said on
Sept. 27 that the letter by the German, Dutch and Finnish
finance ministers won’t undermine the June agreement.  The difference between 10-year Irish and similar-maturity
German benchmark bond yields narrowed four basis points to 361
basis points. One basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  “What’s essential is that all member states commit to the
June decision on direct bank recapitalization, which may be
possible through a separate decision once the European banking
supervisor has been established and in operation,” Rehn said.  A decision should be “possible” by the end of the year if
all parties “work with the same pace as the commission,” Rehn
said of the bank recapitalization rules.  Rehn, who’s Finnish, also said that  Finland  should be
careful in not prolonging the crisis as it holds a “hard-line
stance on many crisis issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  