-- Ryder Cup Comeback Ends With Europe Joy Quelling U.S. Cheers
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-10-01T10:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/europe-ties-record-comeback-to-retain-trophy-in-ryder-cup-golf.html
Europe  sang last and loudest on the
final day of the Ryder Cup, matching the biggest comeback in
event history to retain the title.  The final rounds began with Bubba Watson encouraging fans
to cheer as he hit the opening drive for the U.S. team. It ended
with European players and fans singing and celebrating.  Europe entered day three at Medinah Golf Club outside
 Chicago  trailing 10-6, making them long shots to win golf’s
premier team event for a fourth time in five tries.  Europe turned it around by winning the singles matches 8
1/2 points to 3 1/2, their best final-day performance in the
U.S., to win the tournament by 14 1/2 to 13 1/2 points.  “When we got together at the team meeting, all I did was
just tell the boys that all we needed was just to be a little
bit more effective on the greens and to make a few more putts,
and that would change the tide for us,” Europe captain Jose Maria Olazabal told reporters yesterday. “The players believed,
and what happened today, I think it will go down in the history
books of the Ryder Cup.”  It was the second time a team recovered from a 10-6 deficit
to win. Justin Leonard sank the putt to give the U.S. victory at
Brookline,  Massachusetts , in 1999 after his team began the day
trailing by four points.  “We’re all kind of stunned,” U.S. captain Davis Love III
told reporters. “We know what it feels like now from the ’99
Ryder Cup. It’s a little bit shocking.”  The U.S. has lost seven of nine editions of the biennial
competition that pits 24 of the best players in the world
against each other in pairs and individual play.  The American team included five of the top 10 players in
the Official World Golf Ranking, while four of the European
golfers are ranked among the top five. The 40th Ryder Cup is
scheduled for Sept. 26-28, 2014, at Gleneagles,  Scotland .  European Wins  Needing to get off to a winning start, Olazabal top-loaded
his singles lineup. The strategy worked, with Luke Donald, Ian Poulter and Justin Rose of England, Rory McIlroy of Northern
Ireland, and Paul Lawrie of Scotland winning five of the first
six matches for Europe.  Love tried to mirror the tactic by putting Masters
Tournament winner Watson and U.S. Open champion  Webb Simpson  out
first, followed by 2011 PGA champion Keegan Bradley, four-time
Grand Slam titlist Phil Mickelson and Brandt Snedeker, who won
last week’s Tour Championship and the $10 million FedEx Cup.  “Everybody on our team was playing so well, we just
figured it didn’t matter how we sent them out,” Love said. “We
put who we thought were our hot players up front and we put who
we thought were our steady players in the back that would get us
points.”  Poulter -- who won all his matches for a tournament-best
four points -- won the last two holes against Simpson to erase
the U.S. team’s overnight lead.  ‘Little Chance’  “There was a buzz in the team room last night that didn’t
feel like we had a four point deficit,” Poulter said. “We just
felt we had that tiny little chance and, do you know what, the
boys have proved it and made history.”  After Dustin Johnson and Zach Johnson won for the U.S. and
 England ’s Lee Westwood beat Matt Kuchar to tie the score 12-12,
Sergio Garcia delivered a decisive blow.  In a match against Jim Furyk in which neither player could
muster more than a one-hole lead, Garcia came to the 17th tee
trailing by one. Furyk missed his par putt to leave the match
tied and the American had another bogey on the final green to
give the Spaniard the unexpected win and Europe a 13-12 lead.  “He missed some crucial putts,” Garcia said. “He missed
a couple shots coming in and I was able to make a couple of
solid pars and that was good enough.”  The result meant Olazabal’s team needed one point from the
final three matches to retain the cup.  Stricker Loses  Jason Dufner beat Peter Hanson of  Sweden  to tie the match
at 13 points before Steve Stricker, in the next-to-last match,
missed a 7-foot par putt at the 17th hole to fall one behind
 Martin Kaymer  with one hole to play.  After Stricker made par at the final hole, Kaymer sank his
putt for a four before being mobbed by teammates. Stricker lost
all four of his Ryder Cup matches at Medinah.  Kaymer’s success contrasted with the failure of his German
countryman Bernhard Langer to sink the decisive putt at the 1991
edition. The U.S. won by a point when Langer missed a five-foot
putt at the last hole in the final match against Hale Irwin at
Kiawah Island in South Carolina. Europe would have retained the
cup had he made it.  “On Friday I sat down with Bernhard and talked to him a
little bit about the Ryder Cup because my attitude wasn’t the
right one,” Kaymer said. “I know how important the Ryder Cup
is for Olazabal and Bernhard helped me so much.”  Winless Woods  As the Europeans celebrated yesterday, Tiger Woods missed a
putt of about three feet on the final green to tie the final
match with Francesco Molinari of  Italy .  “My putt was useless,” said Woods, who had lost his other
three matches teamed with Stricker. “It was inconsequential, so
I hit it too quick and gave him his putt.”  Olazabal invoked his countryman Severiano Ballesteros after
the win. Five-time major champion Ballesteros, who won 20 of his
37 Ryder Cup matches and captained the team to victory in 1997
in his native Spain, died in May 2011 from a brain tumor at the
age of 54.  The European players wore the blue and white favored by
Ballesteros yesterday and had an image of the player on their
bags and his silhouette on their shirts.  “Seve will always be present with this team,” Olazabal
said in a televised interview. “He was a big factor for this
event, for the European side, and last night when we were having
that meeting, I think the boys understood that believing was the
most important thing, and I think they did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 