-- Europe Gas Volatility to Surge on Wind-Power Backup, Poyry Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-09-30T23:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/europe-gas-volatility-to-surge-on-wind-power-backup-poyry-says.html
European natural gas prices will rise
most on cold, still days in future as the fuel becomes the
preferred backup for intermittent wind power toward 2030,
according to  Poyry Oyj. (POY1V)   There will be an increase in gas-price volatility across
Europe as markets with more wind capacity, such as the U.K.,
 Spain ,  France ,  Germany  and the Netherlands, are linked to those
with less,  James Cox  and Martin Winter, consultants at Poyry in
Oxford,  England , said in a research report published today. Wind
will be the main source of irregular supply, as output can still
fall to zero no matter how much capacity is installed, while
solar continues to produce even under cloud cover.  “If it’s cold and still, it’s much more extreme for the
gas network because you get the heating demand response to the
cold weather and the power response to the still weather,” Cox
said in a Sept. 18 telephone interview.  The European Union has reached 100 gigawatts of installed
wind-energy capacity, equivalent to the output of 62 coal-fired
power stations, the  European Wind Energy Association  said Sept.
27. In the EU, about 5 percent of electricity came from wind
last year, while more than half was from fossil fuels including
gas and coal, 28 percent from nuclear energy and 13 percent from
hydropower, Eurostat statistics show.  The winners in this scenario will be owners of so-called
fast-cycling gas  storage , which can respond rapidly to falling
wind generation, and traders who can take advantage of diverging
prices at Europe’s trading hubs as weather patterns vary by
geography, Cox said.  Spreads Diverge  “There will be key periods when spreads diverge heavily
and most of the rest of the time spreads being at relatively
small levels based on transportation costs and entry-exit
fees,” Cox said. “We see  gas prices  rising over the time
frame, driven by gas coming from further afield. That assumes
limited shale-gas deployment.”  Dutch month-ahead gas prices were 0.69 pence a therm higher
than the equivalent U.K. contract at 3:15 p.m. London time Sept.
28, the most since Aug. 17. The  spread  widened to 2.9 pence on
May 21, the highest since September 2011.  Poyry predicts that Germany will be able to meet 100
percent of its peak power demand through renewables during some
periods from 2030 with nearly 50 gigawatts generated by wind,
the report showed. There will be an increase in maximum within-
day peak gas demand for power generation caused by the
increasing number of combined cycle gas turbines needed to
absorb the intermittency from wind in Germany and across Europe,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  