-- Foxconn’s Sharp Deal May End as Banks Give Taiwanese an Exit
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-10-01T02:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/foxconn-s-sharp-deal-seen-ending-as-banks-give-taiwanese-an-exit.html
Foxconn Technology Group’s plan to
buy a stake in  Sharp (6753)  Corp. may end after the Japanese TV maker
signed loans from banks, giving the Taiwanese manufacturer a
reason to exit its commitment to help the unprofitable company.  Sharp’s talks with Foxconn may continue until the
expiration of a self-imposed, one-year deadline in March, an
executive for the Osaka-based company said Sept. 28. The two
probably would continue cooperating even without an investment,
both companies have said.  Foxconn Chairman Terry Gou has backed away from buying a
stake in Sharp after falling demand for TVs and display panels
prompted the company to widen its annual loss forecast
eightfold. Foxconn Group said it would renegotiate an earlier
deal to buy 9.9 percent of the company for 67 billion yen ($863
million) as shares have fallen 61 percent since that
announcement. Sharp said Sept. 28 it received 360 billion yen in
 financing  from two banks.  “Sharp and Foxconn kept up the charade until the point
there was an out for both of them, which the loan provides, and
neither of them seem too excited about the deal now,” said
Albert Moel, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.
“I think Terry Gou had every intention to do the deal, but even
he couldn’t have envisioned that the price would drop so much.”  Seeking Help  Sharp shares were up 0.5 percent to 194 yen as of 11:30
a.m. in  Tokyo  trading and are down 71 percent this year. The
stock is the  worst performer  on Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  Japan ’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal displays signed the
funding package with its lenders last week. Sharp earlier
presented its main banks with a revival plan that included
cutting more than 10,000 jobs, or 18 percent of its workforce,
and selling overseas plants as well as U.S. solar developer
Recurrent Energy LLC, people with knowledge of the proposal said
Sept. 26.  The 100-year-old inventor of mechanical pencils had turned
to Foxconn, whose flagship Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. is
listed in Taipei and makes Apple Inc. iPads, in an attempt to
restructure its unprofitable LCD business. Sharp also sold a
stake in its largest LCD factory to Gou, who funded the deal
from his own money, and renamed it Sakai Display Products Corp.  Apple Relationship  Sharp plans to continue collaboration with Foxconn even
without investment from the Taiwanese manufacturer, the Sharp
executive said. The two companies are considering joining forces
on smartphones and displays, he said.  “It matters for Sharp whether it can build a closer
relationship with Apple,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
the equivalent of about $600 million in assets at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  Hon Hai spokesman Simon Hsing said the companies are keen
to cooperate in many areas. He declined to comment on the status
of investment talks or whether it may buy Sharp factories around
the world. Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, didn’t
respond to a message left on her mobile phone.  In June, after Sharp’s shares had fallen 29 percent below
the deal price, Gou reiterated his commitment to the
transaction, saying it was based on a long-term strategic
partnership and not short-term share value.  Later the same month, the Taiwanese company, through its
Hon Hai and  Foxconn Technology Co. (2354)  units, said it would post a
loss of NT$6.4 billion ($218 million) for the second quarter on
the pending transaction because of the decline. The loss would
be reversed the following quarter, it said later.  While Foxconn had also seen Sharp’s share price decline as
an opportunity to increase its holding beyond the original 9.9
percent plan, Sharp management and board members resisted
because the Japanese feared it may be absorbed by the Taiwanese,
Hon Hai Chief Financial Officer Huang Chiu-lian told  Bloomberg
News  in June.  Sharp in August  predicted  a net loss of 250 billion yen for
the 12 months ending March 31, widening its earlier forecast for
a loss of 30 billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 