-- GE Capital Hires Betz as German LBO Finance Head in Growth Push
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-09-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/ge-capital-hires-betz-as-german-lbo-finance-head-in-growth-push.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s lending arm
hired Ralph Betz from Bank of Ireland Plc to head leveraged
finance in Germany as the company seeks to take market share
from rivals hamstrung by the sovereign debt crisis.  GE Capital ’s European leveraged-finance unit is pushing to
expand by arranging more leveraged financing for mid-sized
companies and buying assets from other banks, according to Paul Scott, chief investment officer and head of sponsor coverage for
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa . Frankfurt-based Betz will
report to Scott.  GE Capital has a 1.2 percent market share in arranging
European buyout loans this year, compared with 0.8 percent in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The European
leveraged-finance unit is also looking to add people for
transaction execution to support deal originators across the
region, Scott said.  “A number of European banks are retrenching from
acquisition finance and where they are still playing there is
more of a domestic focus which in turn has allowed us to take
meaningful market share on a pan-European basis,” London-based
Scott said in a telephone interview. “We can offer access to
capital markets liquidity in the U.S. for private-equity firms’
European and trans-Atlantic buyouts.”  The top 10 European banks for leveraged loans have a
combined 44 percent market share this year, compared with 51
percent in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  Deleveraging Pressure  The  Stamford , Connecticut-based lender acquired about $1
billion of leveraged loans from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
last year before the  European Central Bank  pumped 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 billion) into the financial system, taking pressure
off banks to sell assets at depressed prices.  “It is a bit frustrating from our point of view that the
liquidity injected into the system as a result of the Long Term
Refinancing Operations has removed some of the short-term
pressure for banks looking to delever,” Scott said. “We
believe LTRO doesn’t solve the fundamental problem of bank
balance sheets and the deleveraging trend, so we are still
actively looking for opportunities to grow the size of our
European leveraged finance book, currently at about 6 billion
euros.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  