-- Iran’s Rial Declines Days After Market Stabilization Initiative
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-09-30T11:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/iran-s-rial-declines-days-after-market-stabilization-initiative.html
Iran ’s currency, which has plunged
to about half its value against the dollar since last year,
reached 29,600 rials against the greenback in street trading
today, a week after the government opened an exchange center in
an effort to stabilize the market.  The rial’s value has dipped again in past days. It traded
at 27,200 to the dollar on unofficial markets on Sept. 27 from
26,500 two days earlier, according to state-run Mehr news
reports last week. Today’s street exchange rate is more than
twice the official rate set by the  Central Bank  at 12,260 rials
to the dollar, a rate that most Iranians don’t have access to.  Iran’s economy is suffering as a result of financial and
trade sanctions imposed by the U.S. and the European Union to
discourage what they say is the Persian Gulf country’s pursuit
of atomic weapons. Iranian officials reject the allegations and
say the nuclear program is solely civilian. The currency has
been declining since last year when it traded at about 13,200 on
Nov. 2.  As inflation accelerates and erodes the value of rial
savings, Iranians have turned to dollars, which they consider a
less volatile currency. Iran’s inflation rate rose to 23.5
percent in the month that ended on Aug. 20 from 22.9 percent the
previous month, according to the  central bank .  Iran opened a new currency exchange center, under the
supervision of the central bank, last week with the intention of
stabilizing the market. It enables importers of essential goods
including medicines, meat and grains to access dollars at the
reference rate of 12,260 rials. Importers of some basic goods,
such as raw material and essential industrial and agricultural
equipment, may purchase dollars at a rate 2 percent below street
trading levels.  Rate Offer  “Foreign currencies will be provided to buyers who fulfil
the requirements, at a lower rate than street rates,” Minou
Kianirad, the bank’s deputy governor for foreign-currency
affairs, was cited as saying in a Sept. 23 report published on
state television’s website. “This will no doubt have an impact
on market prices.”  Recent fluctuations in the  currency market  are due to the
“market’s resistance” but it will “soon give in,” Central
Bank governor Mahmoud Bahmani was cited as saying, the  Donya-e-
Eqtesad  newspaper reported today.  “The impact of the new currency exchange center will be
clear within 15 days,” Kianirad was cited as saying, the
Tehran-based newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  