-- Iraq to Pay Kurdish-Area Oil Companies Today, Hawrami Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h ,   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y
-- 2012-09-30T13:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/iraq-to-pay-oil-companies-in-kurdish-region-today-hawrami-says.html
Iraq  will pay money today that it
owes to international  oil companies  pumping crude in the
country’s northern Kurdish region, an official with the semi-
autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government said.  Ashti Hawrami, the Kurdish natural resources minister, told
reporters in Baghdad the central government informed him of the
decision to resume payments. He spoke today before meeting Iraqi
Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi for talks about drafting a
national energy law.  Iraq’s central government made two earlier payments to help
reimburse companies for their production costs in the Kurdish
area. Hawrami didn’t say whether the promised funds would settle
the full amount outstanding. He said Sept. 24 in Istanbul that
the government would pay 1 trillion dinars ($858 million), two-
thirds of it in an initial sum and the rest at an unspecified
future date.  Iraqi and Kurdish authorities have been at loggerheads over
oil sales and contract terms with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Total SA (FP) 
and other companies that have flouted warnings by officials in
Baghdad and struck separate deals with the semi-autonomous
Kurds. The two sides reached an accord earlier this month for
the resumption of crude exports from the Kurdish region. Their
failure to agree on a national energy law after six years of
effort is central to their dispute. Hawrami said Sept. 18 that
parliament may approve the law by the end of the year.  Second in OPEC  Iraq is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, after  Saudi Arabia , and holds the
world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves, according to  BP Plc (BP/)  data.  The Middle Eastern country has boosted crude production to
almost 3.4 million barrels a day from 2.4 million barrels a day
in 2010, Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for
energy affairs, said at a conference today in  Baghdad . Iraq
currently exports 2.6 million barrels a day, according to
separate comments by Shahristani and Luaibi.  The government wants to attract $500 billion in investment
in energy projects by 2030, including $80 billion from private
companies, Shahristani said. The outlays would help generate
about $6 trillion in revenue, mostly from oil exports, and
create 250,000 jobs, he said.  Electricity Target  As part of the plan, Iraq is targeting an increase in
electricity output to 22 gigawatts by 2016, enough to satisfy
local demand, he said. Some Iraqis experience power shortages
lasting 12 hours a day on average, Mussab Serri, a spokesman for
the Electricity Ministry, said by telephone today in Baghdad.  The outages, a result of inadequate investment in
generating plants and transmission networks, hamper economic
reconstruction. Protests over unreliable electricity supplies
have made the issue a major government concern.  The Oil Ministry also plans to sell licenses to explore for
natural gas in its next auction of energy rights, Shahristani
said, without specifying a date. Iraq has held four auctions of
energy rights, most recently in May, since the U.S.-led invasion
that ousted former President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  