-- Iraq to Inspect Iran’s Syria-Bound Planes, Minister Tells Paper
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-09-30T21:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/iraq-to-inspect-iran-s-syria-bound-planes-minister-tells-paper.html
Iraq plans to randomly inspect
Iranian airplanes flying to  Syria , the Iraqi foreign minister,
Hoshyar Zebari, told the al-Hayat newspaper in an interview.  “The government plans to bring planes down and conduct
random inspections,” he was quoted as saying in an interview
published yesterday by the London-based paper. “We have
informed the Iranian officials to stop these flights and to stop
arming the Syrian regime or fund any side in this crisis, we
have affirmed that Iraq doesn’t accept to be a path for this, or
its lands, skies and water to be used for arming or funding.”  International efforts to end the 18-month conflict in Syria
have failed to stop the violence as rebels continue the fight,
which began in March 2011, to overthrow President Bashar al- Assad. The conflict has killed 30,000 people, according to
estimates by the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , an
opposition group.  Syrian troops loyal to Assad killed 120 people across the
country yesterday including 57 in or around the capital,
Damascus, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in
an e-mailed statement.  Over the weekend, troops also fought with rebels in the
commercial hub of Aleppo in a deadly battle that set fire to
Aleppo’s historic market, the Souk al-Madina,  Al Jazeera 
reported. The medieval souk, with vaulted stone alleyways,
carved wooden doors and shops filled with silk, spices and other
 luxury goods , is part of Aleppo’s Old City, a Unesco World
Heritage Site.  Fighting has been deadlocked in Aleppo since rebels pushed
into the city in July. Government forces have resorted to heavy
weaponry, including attack aircraft, helicopter gunships and
artillery, to dislodge rebels from their positions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  