-- Japanese Stock Futures Decline Ahead of Tankan Sentiment Survey
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-30T23:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/japanese-stock-futures-decline-ahead-of-tankan-sentiment-survey.html
Japanese  stock   futures  fell before a
quarterly central bank business survey today forecast to show
the nation’s biggest manufacturers grew more pessimistic amid a
global economic slowdown.  American depositary receipts of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , Japan’s
largest construction machinery maker, declined 1.1 percent from
the closing share price in Tokyo. ADRs of  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s
No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics, slid 0.7 percent after
U.S. consumer spending stalled. Those of  Sharp Corp. (6753)  added 1
percent after the Japanese television maker signed bank loans,
giving Foxconn Technology Group a reason to exit its commitment
to help the unprofitable firm.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
December closed at 8,860 in Chicago on Sept. 28, compared with
8,880 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,850
in Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
slid 0.4 percent today. Australia’s stock exchange will operate
normal hours, while much of the country is closed for a public
holiday today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added 0.1 percent in
Wellington. Markets in China and  Hong Kong  are closed for a
public holiday.  “People still have to downgrade their assumptions for
economic growth, and that will probably flow through the next
quarter or next half in lower profit assumptions for
companies,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in
equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Given markets
are closed in many parts, I think we are probably in for a
relatively quiet, but soft start to the week.”  Tankan Survey  The Bank of Japan’s Tankan report will show today that its
measure of business confidence fell to -4, the fourth straight
quarter that pessimists outnumbered optimists, according to the
median of estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The survey is
due at 8:50 a.m. in Tokyo.  In China, a government-backed purchasing managers’ index
for manufacturing is due today. The gauge probably rose to 50.1
in September, just above the expansion-contraction dividing
level of 50, from a nine-month low of 49.2 in August, according
to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.2 percent on Sept. 28.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 7.6 percent this year
through last week as policy makers boosted stimulus measures to
counter a global economic slowdown and quell Europe’s debt
crisis. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.8 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.9 times for the
S&P 500 and 11.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  fell 0.3 percent
today. The index dropped 0.5 percent in New York on Sept. 28,
capping the biggest weekly loss since June, after reports showed
business activity unexpectedly contracted in September and
 consumer spending  stalled in August as the surge in gasoline
prices squeezed paychecks.  dced  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 