-- Jobless Rate Probably Climbed in September: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/jobless-rate-probably-climbed-in-september-u-s-economy-preview.html
The jobless rate probably rose in
September as employers kept a lid on hiring, showing why Federal
Reserve policy makers have zeroed in on shoring up the U.S.
labor market, economists said before a report this week.  The rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in August,
according to the median forecast of 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before Oct. 5 figures from the Labor Department.
Payrolls increased by 115,000 in September, less than the
139,000 average over the first eight months of the year, the
report may also show.  Persistent joblessness may curb wage gains and limit
 consumer spending , representing another impediment to an economy
facing a slowdown in manufacturing as global demand cools and
businesses curtail investments. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his colleagues at the central bank pledged this month to keep
pumping money into financial markets until employment picks up.  “We’re looking for pretty sluggish payroll growth,” said
Peter D’Antonio, an economist at Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
in  New York . “This will be more of the same, what Bernanke
called ‘worrisome.’ It may reflect weakness coming from abroad,
weakness in manufacturing, and the gains aren’t being helped by
risks from fiscal policy.”  September’s projected payroll increase would follow a
96,000 gain the prior month.  This week’s release marks the next-to-last employment
report before the November elections, in which economic issues
play a central role.  Obama Leads  In the latest Bloomberg National Poll, President  Barack Obama  leads Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  among likely
voters, 49 percent to 43 percent, even as 60 percent of
Americans say the nation is on the wrong track as the president
completes his first term. The telephone survey of 1,007 adults,
with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points,
was conducted Sept. 21-24.  Only one president,  Ronald Reagan , has been re-elected
since World War II with a jobless rate above 6 percent. On
Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having dropped
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest stretch in monthly records dating to back 1948. So
far, the economy has recovered about 4.1 million of the 8.8
million jobs lost in the wake of the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  To boost growth and stimulate more hiring, the Fed this
month said it would hold its target interest rate near zero
until at least mid-2015 as it began a third round of stimulus,
buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds a month. The  S&P 500  rose
to 1,465.77 the next day, the highest close since December 2007.  Stocks Slump  The  S&P 500 Index  last week had its biggest weekly slump
since June amid disappointing economic data, including a plunge
in orders for durable goods and stalled consumer spending.  “We’re looking for ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market,” Chairman Bernanke said in a Sept. 13 press
conference following the announcement. “What we’ve seen in the
last six months isn’t it.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  has
called for accommodation as long as unemployment exceeds 7
percent and the inflation outlook remains below 3 percent. On
Sept. 20, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank should hold rates near zero
until joblessness drops below 5.5 percent and inflation doesn’t
exceed 2.25 percent.  Recovery Pillar  Manufacturing, a pillar of the early stages of the
recovery, is now waning. The Institute for Supply Management
Inc.’s  factory index  for September was little changed at 49.8
compared with 49.6 the prior month, according to the Bloomberg
survey  median  before the group’s Oct. 1 release. A reading of 50
is the dividing line between expansion and contraction. It would
mark the fourth consecutive month without growth.  Manufacturing employment will probably suffer in turn.
 Siemens AG (SIE)  said it will cut 615 jobs at U.S. factories that
produce windmills after a “significant drop in new orders,”
according to a message to employees obtained by Bloomberg.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s  services index , which covers
almost 90 percent of the economy and is due on Oct. 3, fell to
53.4 this month from 53.7 in August, according to the survey
median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  