-- Justice Kennedy Is Back for More Torture
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-09-30T22:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/justice-kennedy-is-back-for-more-torture.html
Hard as it may be to believe, the new
U.S. Supreme Court term is already upon us. In the balance first
is the future of human rights litigation in U.S. courts -- and
whether torture committed by foreigners abroad is any of our
business.  Although the last term ended with the unexpected emergence
of Chief Justice  John Roberts  as the court’s wild card, this one
begins with fevered speculation about what is on the mind of
Associate Justice  Anthony Kennedy .  The case being heard Oct. 1,  Kiobel v. Royal Dutch
Petroleum , has been full of surprises from the start. It
concerns whether  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  aided the Nigerian
government in rapes and murders of people living in the oil-rich
Ogoni region. It came to the Supreme Court with the narrow
question of whether corporations could be held liable under a
1789 statute that says the federal courts have jurisdiction over
suits brought by a foreigner for torts “in violation of the law
of nations.”  The assumption going in was that private individuals who
tortured foreigners abroad could be sued under the law -- the
result of a carefully crafted  2004 decision  by Justice David Souter in Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain. The only issue was supposed
to be whether corporations, too, were liable under international
law.  Punted Case  But at oral argument in March, Roberts and Justice  Samuel Alito  speculated openly that the U.S. had no authority at all to
adjudicate events that took place between foreigners entirely
outside its territory. Instead of deciding the corporate
liability question that the case originally presented, the
justices punted. They announced they would revisit the much
larger question of whether such suits are ever allowed --
against companies or people -- and ordered the parties to
reargue the case this week.  The court’s choice to revisit the settled precedent took
human rights activists by surprise. Since the 1980s, the 1789
law, known as the Alien Tort Statute, has become a crucial tool
for taking gross human rights violations into U.S. courts. The
suits rarely yield any money for plaintiffs -- their real
purpose is to shed light on outrageous abuses in a trustworthy
venue. Even among activists and victims around the world who
hate the U.S. and wouldn’t trust a word a president says, our
courts retain prestige as honest brokers of the facts.  The original intent of the statute is obscure; deciphering
it has become a cottage industry of legal academia. Regardless,
its modern use has been inspiring and significant for the cause
of human rights. Human rights violators such as  Radovan Karadzic , the Serbian genocidaire, have been exposed by suits
under the statute long before international justice caught up
with them.  So why is the court now revisiting settled law? It started
with a single  amicus brief  supporting the defense filed on
behalf of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and several other U.S. companies.
Traditionally, critics had argued that the original meaning of
the statute didn’t bear out its extension to human rights
claims, or, more arcanely, that the statute authorized the
courts to hear cases but didn’t provide a body of law to decide
them. Yet this brief, written by Jack Goldsmith of  Harvard Law
School , took a totally different tack.  Goldsmith made the creative, counterintuitive argument that
it would in fact violate international law for a U.S. court to
reach judgments on matters that took place outside its territory
and involved no U.S. citizens. His argument relied on the
principle of extraterritoriality, which, roughly, says that each
sovereign is responsible for what takes place within its own
borders.  Perverse Brilliance  The perverse brilliance of this argument is that it turns
international law on its head. For human rights activists,
international law is a sword with which to pursue evildoers, and
the statute makes the U.S. courts the field of battle.
Goldsmith’s argument transformed that sword into a shield for
human rights violators, who could hide behind the sovereignty of
their own nation states.  In reality, international law is schizophrenic about
borders. Sometimes, in a grand tradition begun at the Nuremberg
trials of Nazi war criminals, international law looks beyond the
limits of sovereignty and punishes crimes against humanity that
would go unpunished in the torturers’ home courts. Much of the
time, however, international law serves the interests of the
sovereign states that make it. And states typically hate
interference from the outside, preferring to address or ignore
domestic human rights violations according to their own
interests.  So, who will win? Will the  Supreme Court  overturn an eight-
year-old precedent, removing the federal courts from the realm
of international human rights?  In the section of the 2004 Sosa opinion that affirmed a
cause of action under the Alien Tort Statute, Souter was joined
by Kennedy and Justice Sandra Day O’Connor in the 6-3 majority.
O’Connor has since been replaced by Alito, and it seems safe to
say he will vote to block future human rights use of the Alien
Tort Statute. Which leaves Justice Kennedy, once again, as the
likely swing vote. Will the precedent-loving justice who once
wrote that “liberty finds no refuge in a jurisprudence of
doubt” vote to reverse a decision that he himself joined?  Goldsmith, who was once Justice Kennedy’s law clerk, has
provided his old boss with a possible way out, precisely because
he introduced international law in his legal argument. Unlike
his conservative colleagues, Kennedy has been fairly friendly to
international law. So, while it would be hypocritical for them
to rely on international law to reach a conservative decision
here, he could do so without inconsistency.  Legal Imagination  At the oral argument in March, Kennedy referred to a 1980
appellate decision applying the Alien Tort Statute in human
rights case as  “a binding and important precedent.”  It would
take a feat of legal imagination to overturn the 2004 precedent
without appearing to violate the principle of stare decisis.  Having opened Pandora’s box by considering the viability of
human rights suits, the court could close it by affirming that
although individuals remain subject to the statute, corporations
are outside its purview. Kennedy, who wrote the much-reviled
opinion in the Citizens United campaign-finance case, would
perhaps need to explain why corporations are persons when it
comes to free speech but not when it comes to torture. But he
would at least maintain the status quo. At this point, with
their entire strategy in the balance, human rights advocates
might count even such a depressing result as a victory.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the Obama administration’s
transparency shortcomings  and on  the resurgent European debt
crisis ; William D. Cohan on the SEC’s persecution of  an honest
ratings firm ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s biggest liability  in
debating Romney;  Simon Johnson   on how to assess the soundness of
banks ; Richard Vedder asks  why colleges are too big to fail .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 