-- New Zealand Wants Security Council Veto Change Amid Syria Crisis
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-30T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/new-zealand-wants-security-council-veto-change-amid-syria-crisis.html
The five permanent members of the
United Nations  Security Council  should restrict the use of veto
powers when it comes to mass atrocities,  New Zealand ’s foreign
minister said as the Syrian crisis enters its 19th month.  “The case for reform of the Security Council has become
utterly compelling,” Murray McCully said in a speech to the UN
General Assembly in  New York  on Sept. 29. “If 25,000 deaths,
countless thousands injured and many more thousands displaced
and homeless is not enough to get the Security Council to act,
then what does it take?”  Russia , whose ties with  Syria  date to Soviet times, has
used its veto to shield the regime of President Bashar al-Assad.
 China  has also joined Russia in vetoing resolutions brought by
the U.S. and allies.  International efforts have failed to stop the violence as
rebels continue an uprising that began in March 2011 to
overthrow Assad. The Security Council is at risk of losing its
credibility through its inability to act, McCully said.  Syria is an arms customer and hosts Russia’s only military
base outside the former Soviet Union in the port of Tartus. The
U.S.,  France  and the U.K. are the other permanent members of the
 Security Council  with veto powers. The conflict has killed
30,000 people, according to estimates by the Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights , an opposition group.  Aleppo Fighting  Fighting in the country’s largest city continued in what
insurgents said would be a “decisive battle” to control Aleppo.
Syrian government troops killed 104 people on Sept. 29 across
the country, including 61 in or around the capital, Damascus,
the opposition Local Coordination Committees said.  The permanent Security Council members should “agree to
confine their use of the veto to those issues that clearly and
directly affect their vital national interests” and not use the
power “in situations involving mass atrocities,” McCully said,
according to a transcript of his speech.  New Zealand, with a  population  of 4.4 million, is seeking a
non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council in 2015 and 2016,
according to McCully. The nation is serving as chair of the
Pacific Islands Forum, which has 16 members including  Australia .  “We all need a Security Council that is more responsive to
the needs of the wider membership and more effective at dealing
with the significant challenges we all confront today,” McCully
said in his speech.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  was in New York
last week to attend the 193-member General Assembly meeting and
canvass support for her country winning election to the Security
Council. UN members will this month vote for non-permanent
members of the council, which will serve in 2013 and 2014.  Ten non-permanent members are elected for two-year terms
and Australia has been on the council four times, the last in
1985-86, according to the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  