-- NHL, Players’ Union Must Address Compensation Issue, Daly Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-30T06:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/nhl-players-union-must-address-compensation-issue-daly-says.html
The  National Hockey League  and the
players’ association need to address the main issue of players’
compensation in the dispute over a new collective bargaining
agreement, Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly said.  The two sides will meet today to discuss health and player
safety issues, Daly said. Yesterday’s session focused on hockey-
related revenue issues rather than the economic matters that
divide the two sides, he said.  “These meetings are necessary but they’ve been described,
I think, as the underbrush,” Daly said yesterday after the
second straight day of talks. “Certainly, they are not the main
issues that need to be tackled to get a deal.”  The league and the National Hockey League Players’
Association are trying to reach an agreement that will allow the
season to open Oct. 11. The preseason has been canceled.  Commissioner Gary Bettman and union Executive Director
Donald Fehr are having a private discussion today, the third in
three days.  “In general we’re trying to discuss how do we find a way
to make an agreement, how do we bridge the gaps on the major
issues that are between us -- the kind of things you would hope
we would be talking about,” Fehr said.  The NHL locked out its players two weeks ago when a new
collective bargaining agreement couldn’t be reached before the
Sept. 15 deadline.  It’s the second lockout in the past seven seasons and the
third since the 1994-95 campaign, which was shortened to 48
games. In the previous lockout, the 2004-05 season was canceled
and the  Stanley Cup  wasn’t awarded for the first time since
1919.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  