-- Nippon Steel & Sumitomo to Push Cost Cuts Amid Competition
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-10-01T05:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/nippon-steel-sumitomo-to-push-cost-savings-amid-competition.html
Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , which today
formally combines with Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., will push
to accelerate cost cuts in a bid to become more competitive with
steelmakers in  China  and  South Korea .  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp., as the new company is
known, will streamline production lines at domestic steelworks,
moving forward a plan to save 150 billion yen ($1.9 billion)
annually three years after integration, said Shoji Muneoka, who
was appointed chief executive officer of the Tokyo-based company
today. Closing blast furnaces will also be considered in the
longer term, he said.  “We will try to bring our cost levels lower to enable us
to compete with emerging steel mills,” Muneoka, president of
Nippon Steel before the merger, said Sept. 26 in an interview
with a group of reporters. “Our cost competitiveness is
relatively weak,” he said, citing more expensive Japanese
products because of the yen’s strength as one reason.  The combination of  Japan ’s biggest and third-biggest
steelmakers, announced in February 2011, was designed as a way
to gain leverage over raw material suppliers while trying to
fend off competition from South Korea’s Posco and Shanghai-based
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019)   “Unless the new company cuts costs, they won’t be able to
survive the competition.” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of
Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which manages 1.5 trillion yen
of assets. “Asian steelmakers will be locked in a fierce battle
if the global economy slumps in the next year or two.”  Yen’s Strength  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal traded at 157 yen as of 1:20
p.m. in the first day of trading in  Tokyo , 1.9 percent lower
than Nippon Steel’s closing price of 160 yen on Friday.  The two companies, battered by the yen’s appreciation and
falling steel prices, on Aug. 30 forecast losses in the six
months ended Sept. 30 on a combined 240 billion yen impairment
charge at three unprofitable steelworks. The Japanese currency
has gained about 8 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past
two years, the second-biggest gain among the Group of 10
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  It will be difficult to overcome “economic malaise,
deterioration of supply-demand balance for steel and a slump in
the market” in the short term, Muneoka said today in a speech
to 1,000 managers and executives at the Tokyo headquarters.  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal inherited 16 steelworks in
Japan with 14 blast furnaces, which use  iron ore  and coal as raw
materials to produce the alloy. The company will secure
employment by moving extra jobs to overseas facilities and
affiliates, Muneoka said Sept. 26.  Previous Merger  Nippon Steel was formed in 1970 through the merger of
Yahata Iron & Steel Co. and Fuji Iron & Steel Co. It reigned as
one of the world’s top three steel companies from 1970 to 2008
before Chinese mills and  Posco (005490)  overtook the Japanese steelmaker
in 2009, pushing it to sixth place globally.  Posco became the first non-Japanese steelmaker to join
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s closest suppliers this year, rivaling
automotive steel sheet producers in Japan.  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal should secure contracts from
local steel users in the targeted markets to broaden customers
as Asian rivals step up efforts to expand in growing economies,
said Jiro Iokibe, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Co.  “The new company should have a marketing strategy that
doesn’t stick too closely to historic ties with its domestic
customers,” Iokibe said.  R&D  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal will allocate 800 workers and
about 70 billion yen a year on research and development, more
than any of its competitors, Muneoka said in the interview.  “For a manufacturer, the basis is to hold the top level of
technologies related to steel in all fields, including
production, product development, R&D, energy conservation and
environment,” he said.  Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal together produced 46.1
million metric tons of crude steel in 2011, according to data
compiled by the World Steel Association. The two companies held
a 43 percent market share in Japan and 3 percent worldwide,
lagging behind only Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT)  in global
terms.  “On the first day for the new company, we’d like to begin
by sharing with you that we are in a very tough business
environment,” Muneoka told his staff today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  