-- Novartis Banks on Meningitis Shot to Justify ‘Oops’ Deal
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-01T14:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/novartis-banks-on-meningitis-shot-to-justify-oops-deal.html
Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  troubled acquisition of
Chiron Corp.’s vaccine business has one last hope -- approval of
a shot to protect against a meningitis-causing bacteria.  Winning European Union backing this year for Bexsero would
help salvage the company’s vaccine unit, which it created with
the $7.5 billion acquisition of Chiron. Failure, on the other
hand, may prompt Novartis to sell or scale back the unit into
which the company has poured billions of dollars in funding for
little return. And years of delays have raised concerns that
Bexsero may be the next to flop.  “If the division flunks, does that mean a restructuring?
Possibly,” said  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at Barclays Plc’s
investment-banking unit in  London . “Does it mean a disposal?
Possibly. Those are both scenarios that I’ve discussed with
people close to management.”  Novartis’s predicament is emblematic of a broader bind
afflicting the industry, one that’s existed for years but is now
coming to a head. Like other drugmakers, Novartis has embarked
on acquisitions in part because its own labs haven’t produced
enough new products to replace branded-drug sales that it’s
losing to generic competitors. Yet the recent track record of
some other pharmaceutical companies’ large bets on experimental
products shows how flawed that strategy can be.  In August, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. scrapped a hepatitis C
pill it bought for $2.5 billion in January after a patient died
while taking the drug and others were hospitalized. Merck KGaA
is closing the headquarters of its Serono drug unit after the
division it bought in 2007 for 16.6 billion Swiss francs ($17.6
billion) failed to deliver new products.  Vasella’s Strategy  Novartis bought Chiron in two chunks 11 years apart as part
of a strategy by former Chief Executive Officer Daniel Vasella
to diversify into areas outside of prescription pharmaceuticals.  The deal, completed in 2006, gave Novartis a set of blood
tests for viruses including HIV and hepatitis, and access to the
global vaccines market, which it said would double to more than
$20 billion by 2009. The market kept its end of the bargain,
reaching  $22.1 billion  in 2009 according to Rockville, Maryland-
based Kalorama Information.  The performance at Novartis’s vaccines and diagnostics
division has been another story. Sales peaked at $2.9 billion in
2010 on revenue from influenza vaccines sold during the H1N1 flu
pandemic. Last year the business had revenue of $2 billion and a
$249 million operating loss. Sales in Chiron’s vaccines and
diagnostics units were $1.25 billion in 2005. The company’s
drugs business was folded into Novartis pharmaceuticals.  R&D Investment  “Oops,” said Birgit Kulhoff, a money manager at Rahn &
Bodmer Co. in Zurich who owns Novartis shares, when asked how
she views the Chiron acquisition in hindsight. “I don’t really
see a big future for the vaccine business for Novartis,” she
said in a phone interview.  While the division’s sales have “done okay,” investments
in research and development have hurt profitability without
producing much in the way of new products, Leuchten said.
Menveo, a vaccine against four strains of bacteria that cause
meningitis, was introduced five years after  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Menactra.
The Paris-based drugmaker’s shot garnered sales of 427 million
euros ($549 million) last year, compared with $142 million for
Menveo.  If approved, Bexsero would be the first vaccine to protect
against the meningococcus B bacterium, a bug that’s the main
cause in Europe of meningococcal disease, a malady that mainly
affects children and can cause brain damage, hearing loss and
death.  Delayed Approval  Approval has been delayed on requests from the EU regulator
for more information. Late-stage trials haven’t started in the
U.S., where the company is discussing with the Food and Drug
Administration how the studies should be designed. In 2008,
Novartis said the shot might be available by 2010.  Even if Bexsero is approved in  Europe , Novartis may have
its work cut out convincing austerity-conscious governments to
pay for a vaccine against a disease that strikes fewer than one
person in every 100,000, Leuchten said. He’s forecasting sales
for the shot of $200 million in 2015.  Novartis declined to make Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez or Andrin Oswald, the head of vaccines, available for an
interview on the division. Jimenez told analysts in January he
was confident Bexsero would win regulatory backing and make the
division successful.  “Now if that doesn’t happen, then obviously, we have to
rethink that, because we’re not going to continue to accept
losses in the division,” Jimenez said on a conference call.  Novartis reiterated in a statement last week it expects to
start selling Bexsero next year, “which will represent a great
success for the division.”  Trigger for Profitability  “Since the Novartis acquisition of the vaccines business
in 2006, we have maintained a consistent position that it is a
long-term investment to develop the promising pipeline of new
vaccines, led by the meningococcal portfolio with Menveo and
Bexsero, as the trigger to take the division to profitability,”
the company said in the e-mailed statement.  Novartis may decide to sell the two pieces of the division
separately, with vaccines fetching about $6.3 billion and
diagnostics getting a price of $1.3 billion, Jeffrey Holford, an
analyst for Jefferies & Co., wrote in a Sept. 27 report.  Still, vaccines is an attractive and potentially lucrative
business because governments increasingly see them as a way to
save money by preventing diseases, and because the complexities
of making them mean there’s no threat from generics, said  Gbola Amusa , an analyst at UBS AG in London.  Growth Component  “It’s perhaps the most important therapeutic category in
modern health care,” Amusa said in a telephone interview. He
forecasts Novartis’s vaccines division reaching $4.2 billion in
sales by 2017. “It’s a bit premature to say Novartis should
sell this business when it could soon become a very important
component to growth.”  Some of Novartis’s deals, such as the $50 billion
acquisition of Alcon Inc. to create an eye-health division, have
paid off, Barclays’ Leuchten said. “It did give them what they
wanted, which is another leg to stand on and a sustainable
business,” he said.  The Chiron deal looked like a good idea at the time because
it lessened Novartis’s reliance on pharmaceuticals, said Eleanor Taylor Jolidon, who manages about 300 million francs, including
Novartis shares, at Union Bancaire Privee in Geneva. Now she’s
changed her mind.  “For what they paid and what they promised, it was a bad
deal,” she said. “To validate it, not as a good deal, but as a
justifiable move, then they need something to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  