-- Obama’s Penchant for Arrogance Is Bigger Debate Foe
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-09-30T15:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/obama-s-penchant-for-arrogance-is-bigger-debate-foe.html
There may be only one impediment to
President  Barack Obama  maintaining his small lead in the U.S.
election over the next week: arrogance.  For all the focus on the first debate between Obama and the
Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , in Denver on Oct.
3, history suggests these forums rarely are settled on
substance; Romney and the president both are smart and cautious,
not gaffe-prone. The very few game-changers in debates occur
when a candidate makes a mistake or exposes an unattractive
personality trait.  Obama and his top political advisers basically are
contemptuous of their opponent, according to people who’ve spent
time with the president in private. Four years ago, the Obama
camp viewed  John McCain  as wrong for the times, but had personal
respect for him.  It’s different today. The president’s campaign sees Romney
as an out-of-touch stiff without core beliefs, willing to say or
do anything for political advantage.  Fair or not, that’s a derisive characterization.  It is the expression of that viewpoint, not any substantive
shortcomings, that poses the greatest danger for the president
in the debate. Even with a seasoned veteran, Jim Lehrer, serving
as moderator, you can expect the two candidates to largely stick
to their programmed views and responses. More compelling and
revealing would be for the candidates to question each other in
freewheeling exchanges. That is off limits.  Kennedy/Nixon  The most seminal of the 10 presidential elections with
televised debates was the first,  John F. Kennedy  versus  Richard Nixon  in 1960.  Since then, few have changed the predisposition of voters.
In 2008, the Gallup polling organization examined surveys before
and after all the debates. The conclusion was that the forums
had “a substantive impact on election outcomes” only a few
times. The 2008 election wasn’t one of them.  One that did matter was the 1980 exchange between  Ronald Reagan  and President  Jimmy Carter  just before the election. It
was less because of the way Reagan framed the issues -- though
his line, “Are you better off than you were four years ago?”
remains a classic -- than it was his triumph on likeability.
Undecided voters saw him as sufficiently competent and they
warmed to the idea of seeing him on their television screens for
the next four years rather than the hectoring Carter.  The other was in 2000, when Vice President  Al Gore  had a
lead going into the first debate. Most people who watched it,
and those who heard it on the radio, gave the Democrat the clear
substantive advantage over Texas Governor  George W. Bush .  Yet, over the next few days, press coverage focused on the
vice president’s interruptions, audible sighs and disdainful
exasperation toward his rival, and largely ignored Bush’s
substantive mistakes. A downward slide in the polls began for
Gore, who lost the presidency even though he won the popular
vote.  In the debate this week and the ones to follow, it’s this
potential for showing Gore-type scorn for your opponent that is
the chief danger for Obama. In the heat of campaigns, almost all
politicians develop some hostility toward their foe. After the
hard-fought 1960 campaign,  Jack Kennedy  said, “If I’ve done
nothing for this country, I’ve saved them from Dick Nixon.”  Yet most good politicians also possess a healthy, if
begrudging, political respect for an opponent. Kennedy did in
1960. The president in this campaign doesn’t even bother with
begrudging. Look at the tape of an address he gave Sept. 21 in
Woodbridge,  Virginia , in which he sarcastically noted that “for
some reason,” Romney “got really excited” when he rewrote a
speech to include a new attack on the president. It wasn’t so
much what Obama said; it was the contempt that he conveyed in
his voice and expression.  ‘Likeable Enough’  Hubris caused him difficulty once before. In 2008, after a
stunning victory in the Iowa Democratic caucuses, he was
cruising to a win in the  New Hampshire  primary that might have
sealed the nomination. In a debate days before the contest,
while discussing the personal appeal of his opponent, Senator
 Hillary Clinton , Obama sniffed: “You’re likeable enough,
Hillary.” This condescension produced a backlash and a few days
later she scored an upset in New Hampshire, setting the stage
for a protracted nomination battle.  Team Obama is now in full spin mode, stressing how great a
debater Romney is and warning that the president is a little
rusty. Don’t take it seriously; it’s a game to lower
expectations.  There are many reasons the president is ahead, including
the marked deficiencies of his opponent and the deteriorating
Republican brand as the party ideologically moved right.  There are also positive explanations, including the sense
that Obama inherited an economic mess and made it better. And,
no small matter, the president easily wins the likeability
contest; by huge margins, voters say they would prefer seeing
him rather than Romney on their TV or computer screens for the
next four years.  Romney can’t change that; Obama could.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 