-- Tokyo Station Domes Cap $645 Million Refit of City’s Icon
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-10-01T08:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/tokyo-station-domes-cap-645-million-refit-of-city-s-icon.html
Tokyo  Station, the main hub for the
city’s business district, unveiled its new rooftop domes today,
marking the completion of a 50 billion yen ($645 million) refit
for the nearly 100-year-old building.  The two domes, which return the station to how it looked
before damage in World War II, were added during more than five
years of construction. The work also included expanding the
station’s hotel, adding a new department store annex, and
replacing 10,000 pine stakes used to secure foundations against
earthquakes.  “The station will be the face of Tokyo,” Station Manager
Yasuyoshi Umehara said last week during a press tour. “I hope
people can look at it for the next 100 years and be inspired.”  Train operator and station owner  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) 
refitted the red-brick building in Tokyo’s Marunouchi district
as part of a wider push to boost retail sales. The station, the
city’s main bullet-train hub, handles about  380,000  mainline
train passengers a day, including workers at the headquarters of
 Japan ’s biggest banks and tourists visiting the nearby Imperial
Palace. Trains also link the station with Narita airport.  “JR East knows they have a good location,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees the equivalent of $1.9 billion in assets at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. “They are making progress in their
goal of becoming a conglomerate in lifestyle, transportation and
finance.”  The operator canceled a ceremony for the unveiling of the
domes scheduled for today because of typhoon Jelawat.  Hotel Expansion  The number of rooms at the JR East-owned  Tokyo Station
Hotel , which reopens Oct. 3, has more than doubled to 150
following a refit that included rebuilding a third floor and the
construction of two new underground floors. There are 10
restaurants and cafes, serving Japanese, French, Italian and
Chinese food, along with three banquet rooms.  The property, an official hotel for an International
Monetary Fund  meeting  next week, charges from 30,030 yen a
night, according to its website. Its Royal Suite costs at least
 808,500 yen . The hotel already has several bookings for the most
expensive suite, Fuminori Kaneda, executive director of
operations, told reporters Sept. 24.  Daimaru Inc. will expand its department store at the
station with the opening of the annex on Oct. 5. It will be
housed in a 13-story building with 13,800 square meters (148,500
square feet) of retail space.  Station Refit  Work in the main station included the addition of dozens of
shops and restaurants, as well as new ticket and tourist
information counters. Passengers will have free Wi-Fi access.  The domes, at the northern and southern ends of the
building, were restored to their original 1914 design. On the
inside, they are painted egg-yolk yellow with reliefs of the 12
animals of the Chinese zodiac. The original structures were
replaced by angled roofs after World War II.  “The symmetry is beautiful,” said Noriko Kobayashi, 36, a
finance-industry worker, who was taking photos of the station
Sept. 28. “Its oldness among all these modern buildings lends a
certain weight to it.”  The 335-meter long station, designated as an important
cultural property, was designed by  Kingo Tatsuno , who also
designed the  Bank of Japan building , according to Japan’s
National Diet Library. The station withstood the Great Kanto
Earthquake in 1923, which destroyed about 293,000 structures.  Tourist Spot  JR East  will light up the station’s exterior at night to
help attract tourists. It’s also building an elevated walkway
that will link two skyscrapers it has built on the opposite side
of the station.  The railroad plans to increase the share of revenue it gets
from shops, hotels and office buildings to almost 40 percent by
the year ending March 2019 from 30 percent in the year ended
March 2011. Tobu Railway Co. also completed the world’s tallest
tower in Tokyo this year, while another train operator, Tokyu
Corp., has opened a 34-story entertainment complex.  JR East  rose  0.2 percent to 5,180 yen in Tokyo trading
today. The railway operator has gained 5.7 percent this year as
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average has risen 4 percent.  The company paid for the Tokyo Station reconstruction
through a deal with  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  By limiting the size of its
buildings, the rail company was able to sell air-space rights to
Mitsubishi. The developer used these licenses to build taller
office towers nearby, including  Shin-Marunouchi Building  and
 Marunouchi Park Building .  Other Redevelopments  The station’s refit follows other redevelopments in the
Marunouchi area, which is home to Japan’s three largest lenders,
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)   Japan Post Holdings Co. reopened the area’s main post
office earlier this year after a restoration. It also built the
adjoining 38-story  JP Tower  office, which is due to fully open
next year. The 290-room  Palace Hotel  also reopened earlier this
year after being rebuilt.  “The station is from a period in Japan’s history when
there was a heightened sense of purpose,” JR East President
Tetsuro Tomita told reporters in Tokyo last month. “We hope it
will lift Japan’s spirits and those of JR East.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  