-- Tommy Hilfiger’s Partner Seeks Brand Ventures: Corporate India
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-10-01T10:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/tommy-hilfiger-s-partner-seeks-brand-ventures-corporate-india.html
Arvind Ltd. (ARVND) , which sells Tommy
Hilfiger Corp.’s and Mossimo Inc.’s products in  India , is in
talks for more partnerships to revive sales growth that analysts
 forecast  may slow.  Revenue may rise 14 percent to 56 billion rupees ($1.06
billion) in the year that started April 1, Chairman and Managing
Director Sanjay Lalbhai said in an interview. That’s more than
the median 7 percent growth  estimated  by five analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. The company will spend as much as 5 billion rupees
this year to develop its brands, textiles and real estate
businesses, he said.  Arvind, which last week agreed to acquire the Indian
franchisee of  Debenhams Plc (DEB) ,  Next Plc (NXT)  and Nautica, is seeking
more licenses to tap demand that’s also attracted billionaires
 Mukesh Ambani  and Kumar Mangalam Birla into the industry.
Technopak Advisors Pvt. forecasts the apparel market in  Asia ’s
third-largest economy to more than double to $98 billion in the
10 years to 2021, exceeding the global pace of growth.  “We have a healthy pipeline of negotiations going on,”
Lalbhai said in Mumbai. “Most of the dialogues are with single
brand companies.”  Arvind, set up in 1931 following calls by India’s
independence leaders to boycott British clothing, paid about 550
million rupees for the acquisitions last week, according to
Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities. Arvind will invest 1.5
billion rupees in the three brands, the company said in a
statement on Sept. 27.  Cash Flow  The acquisitions may “exert pressure” on Arvind’s cash
flows as the brands are unprofitable, Jignesh Kamani, an analyst
at Nirmal Bang, said in a report. The purchase may affect the
company’s plan to purchase more licenses, he said. Arvind had
total debt of 19.7 billion rupees as of March 31.  “We are trying to grow out of our own internal accruals,
which is a bit of a limiting factor,” Lalbhai said. As earnings
before interest and taxes increase “and our cash flows rise we
will increase the expenditure in the coming years.”  Kamani cut his 12-month  target  on the company’s share price
by 5 percent to 92 rupees following the purchases. Arvind has
risen 22 percent this year compared with a 25 percent gain in
the  BSE500 index . The shares gained 2.9 percent to 82.2 rupees
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, their highest since May 8.  The company is targeting 50 billion rupees of revenue from
selling branded apparel in the next five years, according to the
statement on Sept. 27. It reported 13 billion rupees from
selling branded apparels in the year ended March 31.  Reliance Trends  Arvind group  sales  rose 21 percent to 49.25 billion rupees
in the year ended March 31. Earnings margin before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization narrowed to 12.7 percent.
That compares with an average margin of 13.6 percent for its
 rivals  in Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Competition is intensifying in the sector that Technopak
forecasts will expand at a compounded annual growth rate of 9
percent, compared with 6 percent globally. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  this year allowed overseas companies to own 100
percent of single-brand retailers.  Ambani’s Reliance Trends, that focuses on apparel, luggage
and accessories, had 90 stores as of March 31, according to
parent  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s  annual report . Reliance Trends
sells Hardy and London Fog brands in India. The company also
owns 51 percent of a venture with Marks & Spencer Group Plc.  The company’s recent “acquisitions strengthen Arvind’s
position in facing pressure from the likes of Reliance Retail,
the Birla group and others in the market,” said Nikhil Upadhyay, an analyst at Equirus Securities Pvt. “The
consumption pattern is evolving positively for rivals to grow in
the short to medium term.”  Cotton Prices  A drop in cotton prices will ease input costs for the
supplier of denim to  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and Levi Strauss & Co., and help
fund expansion, Lalbhai said. About 70 percent of Arvind’s
revenue is from making textiles.  “Prices will go down further,” he said. “ China  is not
buying cotton. So till December, cotton will remain bearish.”  Cotton futures have tumbled 22 percent this year and are
down 67 percent since reaching a record $2.197 a pound on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York  in March 2011. .  Arvind is also planning to expand its Arrow and French
fashion brand Elle in eastern  Africa  and the  Middle East ,
Lalbhai said.  “Arvind’s brand business is still in investment phase,”
Equirus’ Upadhyay said. “Better performance in the brand and
retail business are key for re-rating” of the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  