-- London Southend Airport Tempts TUI as Growth Push Gathers Pace
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-09-30T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/london-southend-airport-tempts-tui-as-growth-push-gathers-pace.html
Britain’s  Southend  airport signed up
its third airline customer and is close to recruiting a fourth
as the site 54 miles from London on the North Sea coast seeks to
establish itself as a new terminal for the U.K. capital.  German charter carrier  OLT Express  will fly to Dresden from
Oct. 15 and the Thomson unit of  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) ,  Europe ’s No. 1
tour operator, said it’s in final talks about operations to
Palma on the Spanish holiday island of Majorca next summer.  Stobart Group Ltd. (STOB) , the owner of Southend airport, has
spent 100 million pounds ($162 million) on upgrades including a
longer landing strip as it seeks to revive what 40 years ago was
Britain’s third-busiest airport. Reclassified as “London
Southend” by the  International Air Transport Association  on
Aug. 1, a switch that will aid Internet bookings, the terminal
added  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest discount airline, as
a client in April and aims to lure more carriers as major hubs
including Heathrow struggle with overcrowding.  “We have a strong local catchment area and capacity
available at peak hours, which is rare,” Managing Director
Alastair Welch said in a telephone interview. “It’s a simple,
straightforward operation and passengers appreciate that.”  A combination of the EasyJet  routes  and 2012 Olympics has
boosted flights to about 15 a day in recent months, versus only
a dozen each week a year ago, Welch said. Traffic peaked in 1967
before declining as aircraft grew too large to use the runway.  Fuel Advantage  Southend’s less crowded terminal means passengers with hand
luggage are able to reach the adjoining rail station 15 minutes
after leaving their plane, Welch said.  London  travel times can
match those of less distant airports, with trains reaching
Liverpool Street in the City financial district in 53 minutes,  In addition to Londoners, the terminal in the county of
Essex also draws people from nearby, which appeals to Thomson.  “We are working closely with Southend as part of our
strategy to allow customers to fly to holiday destinations from
their local airport,” spokeswoman Claire Borgeat said by e-
mail.  Airlines operating to and from countries further east, like
Bremen-based OLT Express, can also trim 15 minutes from flights
because of the airport’s location, reducing fuel costs.  Southend currently ranks sixth among airports serving the
U.K. capital, behind Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, Luton and
London City. It attracted about 298,000 passengers in the 12
months through July, according to the  Civil Aviation Authority .  While that’s a 12-fold increase from a year earlier, it’s
only one-tenth of the 3 million who use City, which is six miles
from the financial center but limited by a short runway. Welch
said the airport is seeking 2 million customers a year by 2020.  The first airline to add scheduled flights since Southend’s
purchase by Stobart for 21 million pounds in December 2008 was
Ireland’s  Aer Arran , which began services from Waterford in 2011
and added Dublin in May. Both routes are operated on behalf of
 Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , Ireland’s second-largest carrier. 