-- Oregon Rewards CMBS Manager Who Blew Up Fund in 2008: Mortgages
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-10-01T13:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/oregon-rewards-cmbs-manager-who-blew-up-fund-in-2008-mortgages.html
Edward Shugrue lost $100 million of
 Oregon ’s state pension fund during the credit crisis in 2008,
within three years of getting the money to invest in commercial
property debt. The retirement board took just 30 minutes last
month to hand him another $125 million.  For Oregon’s $57.9 billion retirement system, it’s a chance
to profit from the real-estate recovery with a manager who’s
overseen funds for the state since 2004 during the boom and
bust. The pension trustees are sticking with Shugrue, the 46-
year-old head of Talmage LLC, partly because a separate account
he invests on their behalf has returned enough to recoup the
loss, and also for his efforts in the depths of the crisis,
ultimately unsuccessful, to salvage their holdings.  “I would rather go with an experienced team that’s kind of
been through a horrible storm,” said Katherine Durant, one of
four council members who voted yes on the investment at the
pension’s Sept. 19 meeting in Tigard, Oregon. “Maybe there are
some dings. But I think he’s learned things from it,” said
Durant, co-founder of a commercial property investment firm in
 Portland  called Atlas Investments.  While Oregon’s decision to invest with a manager who lost
an entire $770 million fund in 2008 including the state’s
commitment raised an objection from the committee’s chairman,
investing in commercial real-estate debt was unanimous.  It’s joining pension funds including the Pennsylvania
Public School Employees’ Retirement System in picking investment
firms to wager on a recovery as Federal Reserve efforts to
jumpstart economic growth by keeping  interest rates  near
historic lows propel gains on higher-yielding debt that had
cratered in value during the financial crisis.  Brevan Buys  Bonds created by bundling commercial mortgages in the years
leading up to the property boom of 2007 have risen this year as
firms including Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP and Angelo
Gordon & Co. gather additional money for the investments.  Shugrue, whose New York-based Talmage oversees $1.7 billion
and is seeking to raise $500 million for its latest fund,
declined to comment.  An index tied to bonds that were originally given top
credit ratings during the market’s peak and have been cut to
junk trades at 63.2 cents on the dollar, even after gaining 12
percent since 2011. That’s making some of the securities
potentially more profitable than buying stakes in the buildings.  Consultant Endorsement  “It is not often that debt gives you a better return than
equity,” said Nori Gerardo Lietz, a real estate consultant to
Oregon who endorsed the new investment with Talmage last month.
“You cannot buy the kind of core assets that you would want to
have” at yields of more than 6 percent, she said. “They’re
buying yields north of 8 percent.”  Optimism for commercial property securities is far removed
from October 2008, when Shugrue had to address the Oregon
council in a special non-public meeting to ask for $100 million
to meet margin calls on a $770 million debt fund his team
managed through a joint venture with Guggenheim Partners LLC.  It approved the lifeline to help Shugrue save the fund,
which included the $100 million the state had invested in 2006.
Their relationship started in 2004 when the pension invested $50
million with the first Guggenheim fund and also included the
separate account set up in 2008, which didn’t use borrowed
money.  The injection wasn’t enough. The value of the assets
continued to decline in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. bankruptcy. That December, lenders including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  seized the collateral, terminating the
Guggenheim Structured Real Estate Fund II and wiping out
Oregon’s initial investment.  Larson Objects  Keith Larson, chairman of the Oregon Investment Council and
a managing director of  Intel Corp .’s venture capital unit,
voiced reluctance last month to approve more money for Talmage.  “Ed should be commended for being transparent,” Larson
said at the September meeting. “The concern I’ve got in the
back of my head is that Fund II was an unintended consequence of
the leverage there. For whatever reason, I mean, we can say it
was a black swan event and all of those things, but it still,
you know, was a complete loss.”  Shugrue told the Oregon trustees the new separate account
doesn’t use borrowed money, to avoid margin calls like the ones
that sank the prior fund.  “They’ve made back the money that they lost, which, given
how far underwater they were, I would consider that kind of a
huge home run,” said Gerardo Lietz, the pension consultant.
“There are many, many funds of those vintage years that will
not get a one-X multiple.”  Lenders Seize  The investment firm wasn’t alone in having lenders seize
collateral after values plummeted. The failure of two subprime
mortgage funds run by Bear Stearns Cos. in 2007 helped trigger
the financial crisis, which then brought down Peloton Partners
LLP, Carlyle Capital Corp., a credit fund overseen by  Carlyle
Group LP (CG) , and as the crisis deepened, a myriad of firms
investing in assets from  leveraged loans  to collateralized debt
obligations.  Debt-focused real-estate funds raised in 2006 to 2008 show
a median loss of 1.1 percent, based on the internal rate of
return performance measure used by private-equity firms,
according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based researcher of
alternative asset managers. The firm tracked 58 funds with a
combined $20 billion of capital raised.  Made Enhancements  The key question when hiring a  money manager  isn’t whether
he’s had a bad period or suffered losses, it’s whether he “has
learned from a past mistake and has made enhancements or changes
to the process to avoid that issue in the future,” said Mark Yusko, CEO of Morgan Creek Capital Management LLC in  Chapel
Hill ,  North Carolina , which has $8 billion in assets and
allocates to hedge funds.  Yusko also recommends finding “managers with great 10-year
track records that show consistency of process and philosophy
who have had a few tough years, as they are likely to revert to
the mean and outperform.”  Oregon, which was a pioneer in private equity investing,
having backed Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. when the firm began
raising buyout funds more than three decades ago, has also
proven one of the most successful real-estate investors among
pension funds.  Its 10-year return of 9.5 percent from the investments beat
the 7.6 percent return over that period for the benchmark NCREIF
Property Index. That surpassed the state pension real estate
average of 6.7 percent, according to a June 26 report by
Cliffwater LLC, a  Marina del Rey , California-based adviser and
manager for alternative investments.  Oregon Performs  Oregon’s pension turned in the third-best performance for
real estate investing nationwide during the 10 years ended June
2011, according to Cliffwater. The range of returns for the 23
state pensions surveyed ranged from 10.4 percent for the leader,
State Teachers Retirement System of  Ohio , to zero for the
lowest, Montana Public Employee Retirement Administration.  “The distribution of 10-year returns for real estate and
private equity is very wide for state systems, suggesting that
not only is implementation (manager selection) important, but
that states have varied in their practices,” Cliffwater CEO
Stephen Nesbitt wrote in the June 26 report.  That’s helped the Oregon fund return 6.9 percent year to
date through June 30, 13.3 percent during the past three years
and 1.8 percent during the past five, according to the Oregon
State Treasury. The returns are for the main $57.1 billion
public employees’ retirement fund. There is a separate $764
million account.  Latest Commitment  The latest commitment shows increasing confidence the
commercial  property market  is recovering. Building values have
recouped 42 percent of their decline since bottoming in January
2010, according to the Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price
index. They’re still 22.5 percent below the December 2007 peak.  New bond sales have surged to the most in almost five
years, with $7.9 billion of the debt linked to shopping malls,
skyscrapers and hotels issued last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  For Shugrue, it’s vindication for the efforts he made
during the crisis and the performance of the $300 million
separate account, after a more than 20-year career in real
estate that included serving as chief financial officer at
billionaire real-estate investor  Sam Zell ’s Capital Trust Inc.
in the 1990’s. Talmage is the successor to Shugrue’s management
company that worked inside of Guggenheim from 2003 to 2011.  “Our last visit here was not as pleasant as today’s,”
Shugrue told the council last month. “We’ve turned the corner
in a material way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  