-- Orioles, Yankees Near Season’s End Tied for American League East
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/orioles-win-share-american-league-east-lead-after-yankees-loss.html
The  Baltimore Orioles  and the  New
York Yankees  are taking the race for American League East
division title down to the final four games of the season.  The Orioles defeated the Boston Red Sox 4-3 yesterday to
share the AL East lead with the Yankees, who lost 3-2 to the
Toronto Blue Jays. Both teams are 91-67 going into today’s games.  At Oriole Park, Manny Machado, 20, hit his seventh home run
of the season in the seventh inning yesterday to break a 3-3 tie.
Machado’s single in the second inning sent home Chris Davis, who
hit a two-run homer in the fourth.  “It was a big win for us and we had a lot of fun out
there,” Machado said in a televised interview.  Tommy Hunter (7-8) allowed one hit in two innings after he
relieved starter  Steve Johnson  who gave up all three Red Sox
runs.  “It was a good win for us, a good baseball game,” Orioles
manager Buck Showalter said during a post-game news conference.
“Lot of contributors.”  Felix Doubront (11-10) surrendered four runs on seven hits
and struck out 10 in seven innings for the loss. Jim Johnson
struck out one batter in the ninth inning to claim his 49th save.  Baltimore can sweep the three-game series with a win today.
The Orioles then travel tomorrow to face the Tampa Bay Rays in
their final series of the regular season.  Wild-Card Race  The Orioles and Yankees also share the top AL wild-card
spot, one game ahead of the Oakland Athletics, who beat the
Seattle Mariners 7-4.  At Rogers Centre in Toronto, the Yankees led 2-1 after the
first.  New York  had run-scoring sacrifice flies from  Derek Jeter 
and  Curtis Granderson , while Rajai Davis responded for the Blue
Jays with a home run in the bottom of the inning.  Davis reached on an infield single in the fifth to tie it
and Adeiny Hechavarria drove in Yunel Escobar with a double in
the sixth to win it for Toronto (70-88).  “We had chances to blow that game open and we didn’t,”
manager  Joe Girardi  said. “You look at the opportunities that
you have and you say, ‘We could have a pretty big lead here,’
but we didn’t do it.”  The fourth and final game of that series is tomorrow, with
New York wrapping up the regular season with three home games
against the  Red Sox  from Oct. 1-3.  Tigers Win  In the AL Central, the Detroit Tigers (85-73) extended
their division lead with a 6-4 win over the Minnesota Twins. The
 Chicago White Sox , who fell 10-4 to the Tampa Bay Rays, trail by
two games.  In the AL West, the  Texas Rangers  (92-65), whose rained-out
game against the Los Angeles Angels will be played today during
a doubleheader, are in first place, 2 ½ games ahead of the
Athletics.  In the National League wild-card race, the Atlanta Braves
(92-66), who beat the New York Mets 2-0 yesterday, are in
contention with the St. Louis Cardinals (85-73), who lost 6-4 to
Washington in 10 innings.  The Nationals (96-62) regained sole possession of the best
record in the majors when the  Cincinnati Reds  fell 2-1 to the
Pittsburgh Pirates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  