-- Pfizer Lung Cancer Drug Doubles Benefit, Researchers Say
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-30T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/pfizer-lung-cancer-drug-doubles-benefit-researchers-say.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s  lung-cancer  medicine
Xalkori extended the lives of patients without their disease
worsening for twice as long as the standard therapies, according
to a study sponsored by the New York-based drugmaker.  In a trial of 347 previously treated patients whose non-
small lung cancer showed mutations in the gene known as ALK,
those given Pfizer’s Xalkori experienced progression-free
survival to 7.7 months, compared with 3 months for patients on
the other treatments, according to results presented today at
the  European Society for Medical Oncology  in Vienna.  The study is the first to compare Pfizer’s drug against the
standard of care, the chemotherapy drug docetaxel, made by
 Sanofi (SAN)  and now available in a generic version, and  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s Alimta, which  generated  $2.46 billion in sales last year.
The results suggest Xalkori should be the new standard as a
second-line therapy in patients whose non-small cell lung cancer
has mutations in the ALK gene, researchers said.  Xalkori’s results were “many months longer than what
chemotherapy might afford,” said  Alice Shaw , a doctor at
Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center in  Boston , and the
study’s lead author, in a telephone interview. The drug from
Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, also showed improved
quality of life compared with the current therapy, she said.  Shaw said the study hadn’t determined the survival benefit,
because patients on the other drugs had been allowed to switch
to the Pfizer medicine during the trial.  “This makes determination of overall survival benefit very
difficult,” she said in a statement. It may take as much as a
year before researchers on the study, which is continuing, can
report that data.  Top Killer  Lung cancer is the top killer among malignancies in the
U.S. and is expected to cause about 160,000 deaths this year,
according to the  National Cancer Institute . The  Food and Drug
Administration  approved Xalkori last August, along with a test
made by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  to determine whether patients carry
the mutation.  While the drug is approved as a first-line therapy for ALK-
positive patients in the U.S., European regulators want more
data on Xalkori as a first-line therapy and have ruled that it
should be used after patients fail other drugs first.  “Most of us who work in this area feel pretty strongly
that if a patient has a known, targetable target like ALK, that
they should get it as a first-line therapy,” Shaw said.  While the ALK mutation is present in just five percent of
non-small cell lung cancers, the most common form of the
malignancy, “it’s a large absolute number,” Shaw said in the
interview. Unlike other lung cancer patients, who are in their
mid-60s or 70s, ALK-positive patients are about 50 years old on
average and don’t have a history of smoking, she said.  Researchers still need to look at how to treat ALK-positive
patients who relapse after taking Pfizer’s drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  