-- Popular Said to Approve Share Sale of Up to $3.2 Billion
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-01T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/popular-said-to-approve-share-sale-of-as-much-as-eu2-5-billion.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  will seek to
raise as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) from a stock
sale and suspend its October dividend as the Spanish bank tries
to cover a shortfall found in stress tests. The shares plunged.  The bank expects to book a 2012 loss of 2.3 billion euros,
compared with a previous estimate for a profit of 400 million
euros, as it speeds up recognition of loan impairments and
relies less than it previously planned on capital gains, Chief
Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto said on a webcast for
analysts today. The lender  agreed  to the  capital  increase and
reaffirmed its commitment to remain independent at a board
meeting in Madrid yesterday, the bank said in a  filing .  The capital increase may be equivalent to 80 percent of the
bank’s current market value. Popular, founded in 1926, is aiming
to avoid taking state aid after a  stress test  of the Spanish
banking system by consultant Oliver Wyman published on Sept. 28
showed the country’s sixth-biggest lender by assets had a
capital shortfall of 3.22 billion euros in an adverse economic
scenario.  “Every man and his dog has known for a long time that
Popular would need to raise capital, but it seems the only ones
who didn’t were Popular’s management,”  Simon Maughan , a
financial industry strategist at Olivetree Securities in  London ,
said by phone today.  Gonzalez-Robatto had said in July that Popular would do
“whatever is in our hands not to ask for any penny” from the
government.  Shares Slide   Popular slid 10.5 cents, or 6.2 percent, to 1.60 euros at
the close in Madrid, paring earlier losses of as much as 14
percent. The company has a market value of about 3.3 billion
euros.  Before today, the stock had  plunged  52 percent this year,
compared with a 15 percent drop for Banco Sabadell SA, a
similar-sized lender that had no capital shortfall in the
Spanish stress test.  The share sale may go ahead at a discount of about 40
percent, Gonzalez-Robatto told reporters in Madrid today. If
Spain seeks a European bailout, that would help the sale because
it would remove some uncertainty for investors, he said.  “We are going to be generous in the rights issue, because
that money is from our shareholders,” Gonzalez-Robatto said on
a webcast. “We are going to invite our shareholders basically
to join us in an extremely bright future for Banco Popular.”  Biggest Shareholders  The bank’s biggest shareholders include  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
 Europe ’s biggest insurer, which holds a 6.3 percent stake, and
Portuguese billionaire  Americo Amorim , who owns 4.1 percent. The
board decision to approve the capital increase was unanimous,
Gonzalez-Robatto said.  Popular will set up a so-called internal bad bank to manage
soured real estate as it writes down 9.3 billion euros in 2012,
an increase from the 7.7 billion euros in its business plan
given in the second quarter of this year, Gonzalez-Robatto said.  The bank now estimates capital gains from asset sales
during 2012 and 2013 will be 545 million euros, down from the
2.3 billion-euro estimate in its business plan, because it
“doesn’t have time” to count on that income, Gonzalez-Robatto
said. The bank has also shelved any plans to buy other lenders
for now, he said.  Popular expects to earn 547 million euros in 2013 and 1.41
billion euros the following year, based on its ability to
generate 7.2 billion euros of operating profit from 2012 to
2014, Gonzalez-Robatto said. Popular aims to restore its
dividend policy in the first half of 2013 and will seek a
dividend payout of 50 percent next year, he told analysts.  Extreme Scenario  Gonzalez-Robatto said as many as 12 banks had come forward
to offer underwriting services for the share sale and the bank
had received underwriting commitments of 7.5 billion euros. He
said it would take about five weeks to prepare the transaction.  The stress tests reported a capital deficit for the
industry of 59.3 billion euros. By showing how banks would stand
up to an extreme scenario -- three years of economic contraction
in a row -- the tests are designed to highlight the strong and
weak links in Spain’s banking industry.  The tests of 14 lenders showed seven, including  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and  CaixaBank (CABK) 
SA, had no capital shortfall, while those with deficits included
the Bankia group, Catalunya Banc and Popular.  Banks that need to bolster  capital  by more than 2 percent
of their risk-weighted assets have to issue convertible bonds to
be bought by the government’s rescue fund as a precautionary
measure to cover the shortfall. The 3.22 billion-euro deficit
was equal to 3.9 percent of risk-weighted  assets , putting
pressure on Popular to raise funds quickly or face having to
take state aid.  Pushing Lenders  Investors must make clear their willingness to quickly
relax financing terms for Spain’s stronger banks to show that
the stress-test process is credible, Jose Manuel Campa, a former
deputy finance minister, said in an interview.  “If we don’t see over the next month or six weeks a
significant improvement in the ability to tap the markets by the
banks that are considered solvent, regardless of the capital
needs, I think that would be a major failure,” said Campa, who
is now a professor at the University of Navarra’s IESE business
school in  Madrid .  The stress-test process may also unleash a fresh bout of
banking consolidation by pushing lenders to shrink their
business or seek mergers if they’re short of capital, said
Campa. Santander Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said in a
Sept. 25 presentation that as many as 15,000 of about 40,000
bank branches in Spain would close in coming years and that
“subscale” banks would be absorbed by stronger ones.  “Although in the current context it’s understandable that
the big Spanish banks don’t have the appetite to increase their
market share in Spain, it’s not easy to imagine an effective
bank-restructuring process without the contribution of their
great financial capacity,” Francisco Uria, a partner
responsible for the banking industry at audit firm  KPMG ’s
Spanish unit, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  