-- Romney Remark That 47% Feel Entitled Was Misstep, Ryan Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2012-09-30T19:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/romney-s-remark-that-47-feel-entitled-was-a-misstep-ryan-says.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  made a misstep when he described 47 percent of
Americans as feeling entitled to government aid, his vice
presidential running mate,  Paul Ryan , said today.  “We’ve had some missteps,” Ryan said on “Fox News
Sunday,” adding that one of them was the comment Romney made at
a private session with donors about the attitude of almost half
of Americans.  Romney “acknowledges himself that was an inarticulate way
of describing how we’re worried that, in a stagnant Obama
economy, more people have become dependent on government because
they have no economic opportunity,” said Ryan, chairman of the
House Budget Committee.  Romney’s comment, made in May, surfaced in a secretly
recorded video first publicized Sept. 17 by Mother Jones
magazine.  Ryan also said that, in the Oct. 11 debate he will have
with Vice President  Joe Biden  and the three Romney will have
during the month with Obama, the Republican ticket will offer
voters “a very clear choice” on issues including the economy.  Asked by “Fox News Sunday” host  Chris Wallace  about
recent polls showing Romney trailing Obama, Ryan said the
Republican ticket is “running against an incumbent president
with incredible resources.”  Still, the Wisconsin Republican said, “We are going to win
this race.”  ‘Barn-Burner’  Romney will turn the race with Obama “upside down” with
his performance in their debate this week, New Jersey Governor
Chris Christie said on CBS’s “Face the Nation”  “He’s had a tough couple of weeks, let’s be honest,” said
Christie, who gave the keynote address at the Republican
convention. Yet the morning after the Oct. 3 debate in Denver,
“you are all going to be scratching your heads, saying, ‘Wow,
we have a barn-burner now,’” Christie said.  Christie said the debates will give Romney a chance to talk
directly to voters nationwide without “being filtered by
anybody.” He also said Romney performed well in the debates
during the Republican primaries.  First Debate’s Importance  Ryan played down the importance of the first debate in the
Fox interview, saying, “I don’t think any one event is going to
make or break this campaign.”  Obama travels today to the swing state of  Nevada , where
he’ll hold a rally in  Las Vegas  before settling down in nearby
Henderson for practice sessions before the first debate. Romney
is in  Boston  today, with no public events scheduled, as he
prepares for his encounter with Obama.  Ohio Senator  Rob Portman , a Republican, is playing the role
of Obama in Romney’s practice sessions, while Massachusetts
Senator  John Kerry , a former Democratic presidential candidate,
is playing Romney for Obama.  The two also will meet in debates on Oct. 16 and Oct. 22.  Romney must make two separate pitches during the debates,
 Newt Gingrich , the former U.S. House speaker who sought this
year’s Republican presidential nomination, said on CBS’s “Face
the Nation” today.  “You first have to make sure people say Obama’s stagnation
is unacceptable,” and then make the case for what a Romney
approach would be, Gingrich said. Romney “doesn’t have to hit a
home run, but Romney has to be at the end of the debate
Wednesday night a clear alternative,” he said.  Romney Boost  Some Democrats on today’s television talk programs said
Obama’s lead in the polls will shrink after the debate because
the former Massachusetts governor will get a boost from being on
the same stage as the president.  “This race is going to tighten,”  David Plouffe , a senior
adviser to Obama, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” On ABC’s
“This Week,” Plouffe said, “We believed all along that
Governor Romney probably has more benefit out of this debate
potentially than we do.”  Former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, said
on “Meet the Press” that Romney needs a bump in the polls to
keep alive his presidential hopes.  Ryan, during the Fox interview, criticized Obama on foreign
policy, especially the administration’s efforts to prevent  Iran 
from developing a nuclear weapon. Obama projects “weakness and
equivocation'' in dealing with Iranian leaders, Ryan said.  ‘‘The Ayatollahs, by virtue of their conduct, don’t believe
the president when he says his interest is to stop Iran’’ from
obtaining nuclear-weapons capacity, Ryan said.  Obama in a speech to the  United Nations General Assembly  on
Sept. 25 said the U.S. ‘‘will do what we must to prevent Iran
from obtaining a nuclear weapon,’’ and that the time for a
diplomatic resolution to the issue ‘‘is not limited.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  