-- Ryan Says Romney 47 Percent of Americans Remark a Misstep
-- B y   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2012-09-30T15:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/ryan-says-romney-47-percent-of-americans-remark-a-misstep-1-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  made a misstep when he described 47 percent of
Americans as feeling entitled to government aid, his vice
presidential running mate,  Paul Ryan , said today.  “We’ve had some missteps,” Ryan said on “Fox News
Sunday,” specifically mentioning as one of them the comment
Romney made at a private session with donors about the attitude
of almost half of Americans.  Romney “acknowledges himself that was an inarticulate way
of describing how we’re worried that in a stagnant Obama economy
more people have become dependent on government because they
have no economic opportunity,” Ryan, chairman of the House
Budget Committee, said.  Romney’s comment, made in May, surfaced earlier this month
in a secretly recorded video first publicized by Mother Jones
magazine.  Ryan also said that, in the October debate he will have
with Vice President  Joe Biden  and the three Romney will have
during the month with Obama, the Republican ticket will offer
voters “a very clear choice” on issues including the economy.  Asked by “Fox News Sunday’ host  Chris Wallace  about recent
polls showing Romney trailing Obama, Ryan said the Republican
ticket is ‘‘running against an incumbent president with
incredible resources.’’  Still, the Wisconsin Republican said, ‘‘We are going to win
this race.’’  Foreign Policy  Ryan criticized Obama on foreign policy, especially the
administration’s efforts to prevent  Iran  from developing a
nuclear weapon. Obama projects ‘‘weakness and equivocation in
dealing with Iranian leaders, Ryan said.  ‘‘The Ayatollahs, by virtue of their conduct, don’t believe
the president when he says his interest is to stop Iran’’ from
obtaining nuclear-weapons capacity, Ryan said.  Obama in a speech to the  United Nations General Assembly  on
Sept. 25 said the U.S. ‘‘will do what we must to prevent Iran
from obtaining a nuclear weapon,’’ and that the time for a
diplomatic resolution to the issue ‘‘is not limited.’’  Romney has denounced Obama’s response to the Sept. 11
assault on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , that led to
the deaths of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
Americans, and Ryan continued that criticism today.  Saying ‘‘we now know’’ that the assault ‘‘was a planned
terrorist attack,’’ Ryan said the administration’s handling of
the incident has been ‘‘slow,’’ ‘‘confused’’ and
‘‘inconsistent.’’  ‘‘If this was one tragic incident, that would be a tragedy
in and of itself,’’ Ryan said. ‘‘The problem is, it’s part of a
bigger picture of the fact that the Obama  foreign policy  is
unraveling literally before our eyes on our TV screens’’ as
anti-American protests and unrest continue in the  Middle East .  For Related News and Information:  Editors: Don Frederick, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Frederick in Washington at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  