-- Sany Vows Legal Battle as Obama Blocks Wind Farms, Xinhua Says
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-09-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/sany-vows-legal-battle-as-obama-blocks-wind-farms-xinhua-says.html
Sany Group Co., China’s biggest
machinery maker, will use all legal efforts to win compensation
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  barred the building of wind
farms near a navy base in Oregon, according to the official
Xinhua  News Agency .  The farms pose no threat to U.S. national security and
Obama’s move was probably made to serve his election campaign,
Xinhua reported Sept. 29, citing Zhou Qing, a legal official
with Sany. Zhou said his company will seek a “fair and square
result,” according to the news agency.  Obama on Sept. 28 ordered Delaware-based Ralls Corp., owned
by two Sany executives, to remove all property and installations
from its sites within two weeks and divest all of its interests
in the wind-farm project within 90 days. It was the first time
in 22 years a U.S. president had blocked a transaction as a
national security risk.  In the area around the sites, the Navy conducts training
for bombing, electronic combat maneuvers and develops drones,
according to the base’s website.  Closely held Sany Group is the owner of  China ’s biggest
machinery maker. Duan Dawei, Sany’s chief financial officer and
Wu Jialiang, a vice president of the group and general manager
of Sany Electric Co., a group unit, own Ralls, according to
court filings. Sany, based in Changsha city,  Hunan province , is
run by Chinese billionaire Liang Wengen.  Three calls made yesterday to Sany Vice Chairman Xiang Wenbo’s fixed line and mobile telephone seeking comment went
unanswered.  ’No Threat’  Ralls was seeking to place Sany-made  wind turbines  at the
Oregon installations after purchasing land and other rights
earlier this year. The assets consist of four locations, all of
which are near or within the restricted Navy airspace, the U.S.
Treasury Department said.  Zhou said that other wind farms with foreign investment had
been built near naval facilities in  Oregon  without being called
a threat to national security, according to Xinhua.  The block replaces an interim order in July by the
government’s Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or
CFIUS, which reviews acquisitions of domestic companies by non-
U.S. entities. CFIUS told the company to stop operations and
keep out of development sites it bought near the Naval Weapons
Systems Training Facility Boardman, according to a lawsuit Ralls
filed on Sept. 12 in federal court to overturn the order.  The Xinhua report didn’t elaborate on how Sany may seek
legal compensation. Ralls is already suing CFIUS in a U.S.
district court, alleging that the panel exceeded its authority.
The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment in
the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  ( Washington .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Western at 
 nwestern@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  