-- SEC Sues the One Rating Firm Not on Wall Street’s Take
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-09-30T22:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/sec-sues-the-one-rating-firm-not-on-wall-street-s-take.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission, it seems, has finally lost its mind.  In April, motivated by what I consider pure maliciousness,
the SEC initiated a “cease and desist” administrative proceeding
it deemed “necessary for the protection of investors and in the
public interest” against Egan-Jones Ratings Co., a privately
owned, 20-person firm based in Haverford,  Pennsylvania , and
against its principal owner,  Sean Egan .  Egan-Jones, founded in 1995, is one of nine ratings
companies that the SEC has accredited as “nationally
recognized,” allowing the firm to rate the debt of sovereign
nations, companies and asset-backed securities, among others.
Notably, it is the only one of the nine that gets paid by
investors instead of by the issuers of securities.  The bigger and better-known ratings companies --  Standard &
Poor’s  (owned by  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ),  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and Fitch
Ratings Ltd. -- are paid by the Wall Street banks that
underwrite the debt securities of corporate issuers. That is,
the companies are beholden to the sellers of the products they
are supposed to pass judgment on, not the buyers. That’s akin to
allowing the Hollywood studios to pay the nation’s film critics
for their opinions.  Shopping Around  We all saw the result in 2007 and 2008. A major cause of
the financial crisis was that S&P, Moody’s and Fitch, while
being paid hundreds of millions of dollars by  Wall Street , gave
AAA ratings to complicated, risky securities that turned out to
be anything but AAA. If a big bank didn’t like a proposed
rating, it just shopped the deal until it found a firm that
would provide something it liked better.  Who can forget this memorable April 2007  instant-message
exchange  between two S&P analysts, Rahul Dilip Shah and Shannon
Mooney?  “Btw, that deal is ridiculous,” Shah wrote to Mooney about
some mortgage securities they were asked to rate.  “I know, right . . . model def(initely) does not capture
half the risk,” she replied.  “We should not be rating it,” he answered.  “We rate every deal,” Mooney replied. “It could be
structured by cows and we would rate it.”  You would have thought that after the crisis exposed this
kind of abhorrent behavior -- to say nothing of the obvious
conflict of interest -- the SEC would have considered scrapping
the issuer-pays model on ratings. You might have even thought
the SEC would have sued S&P, Moody’s and Fitch for their
reckless conduct.  Alas, such obvious steps are out of the question at an SEC
headed by  Mary Schapiro , who previously led the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s self-financed,
self-serving watchdog organization. (When Schapiro left Finra,
it gave her a $9 million bonus).  True, for a while, the SEC put on a good show of wanting to
reform the ratings companies. It held round-table discussions
with interested parties to discuss rectifying the horrific
shortcomings of S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  Robert Khuzami , the
SEC’s chief enforcement officer, suggested in an  interview with
Reuters  a year ago that the SEC was considering a lawsuit
against S&P for its role in the financial collapse. But in the
end, nothing changed. The issuer-pays model is still the
dominant architecture for the ratings firms.  Debt Downgrade  Now, incredibly, Egan-Jones is the sole rater that the SEC
has decided to attack. The trouble for the firm started on July
16, 2011, when Egan-Jones downgraded the U.S.’s sovereign debt
by one notch, to AA+ from AAA. Egan-Jones cited “the relatively
high level of debt and the difficulty in significantly cutting
spending.” Two days later, the SEC’s Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations contacted the firm seeking
information about its rating decision. (The next month, S&P also
downgraded the U.S.’s sovereign debt, but neither Moody’s nor
Fitch did.)  Then, on Oct. 12, Egan-Jones received a call from the SEC
notifying the firm of a Wells Notice, an indication that it was
being investigated. On April 5 of this year, Egan-Jones again
downgraded the U.S. sovereign debt, to AA from AA+. On April 19,
leaks started emanating from the SEC that it had voted to start
an “administrative law proceeding” against the firm. And on
April 24, the SEC filed its complaint.  Just what does the SEC object to so vehemently about Egan-
Jones? The commission claims that on its 2008 supplemental
application to be a “nationally recognized” ratings firm, Egan-
Jones “falsely stated” that it had already rated the credit of
150 asset-backed securities and of 50 sovereign-debt issues. The
SEC claims Egan-Jones “willfully made these misstatements and
omissions to conceal the fact that it had no experience issuing
ratings on ABS or government issuers.” The SEC intends to fine
Egan-Jones and to possibly censure Sean Egan -- neither move
would be good for business.  Egan says the SEC is making a mountain out of a molehill.
He says the paperwork requirements to comply with the  Credit
Rating Agency Reform Act , which had been passed by Congress in
2006, was still being worked out, and that the SEC has had no
problem with his firm’s annual applications since then.  His lawyer, Alan S. Futerfas, told the Wall Street Journal
that the SEC knows that Egan did rate the securities in question
but it is “saying he didn’t disseminate it publicly.” Futerfas
continued: “It’s a very technical argument the SEC is using;
it’s not substantive. There’s nothing in this complaint that
suggests or alleges that any rating was without integrity or was
not accurate or was not predictive.”  If he is right, that raises a question: Is the SEC
retaliating against Egan and his firm for downgrading the U.S.
sovereign debt?  Principled Stand  Egan told me he is determined to fight the charges because
“the issuer-paid rating firms were identified as a significant
source” of the worst economic catastrophe since the Great
Depression, and yet the SEC’s “response has been to hobble, in
any way possible, the most vocal counterbalance to those
inflated ratings.”  Egan is standing on principle even though his legal fees
will probably far exceed a fine if he loses. “Anybody who looks
at this would realize that this is wrong,” he said. “It provides
an opportunity for a spotlight on what’s been going on over the
recent past, and hopefully it will change so that it’s a more
even playing field.”  Don’t get your hopes up for that, Mr. Egan.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the Obama administration’s
transparency shortcomings  and on  the resurgent European debt
crisis ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme Court’s torture case ;  Albert
R. Hunt  on  Obama’s biggest liability  in debating Romney;  Simon
Johnson   on how to assess the soundness of banks ; Richard Vedder
asks  why colleges are too big to fail .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 