-- Skype Founder Wants Startups to Show Him the Money
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-09-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/skype-founder-zennstrom-wants-startups-to-show-him-the-money.html
Skype and Kazaa founder Niklas Zennstrom became famous building free Web services with scores
of users and little revenue. As an investor, he shuns such
ventures to buy stakes in startups with clearer business plans.  Zennstrom, 46, started his venture-capital firm Atomico in
2006 and now travels the world searching for young companies
that tap into the rising popularity of smartphones and Internet
shopping. He focuses on profit potential after realizing with
his Kazaa video and music-sharing venture a decade ago that even
a product that has 60 million users can fail as a business idea.  “It’s extremely hard to build a company with a product
that everyone loves, is free and has no business model, and then
to innovate a business model,” Zennstrom said in an interview
in Istanbul where London-based Atomico was meeting local
entrepreneurs last month. “I did that with Kazaa, had half a
billion downloads but that wasn’t a sustainable business.”  Zennstrom’s investments, which include an online-payment
system and the maker of the Angry Birds game, reveal how a
former risk-taking entrepreneur has taken a more realistic
approach to online businesses during the decade that followed
the dot-com boom and bust. His method contrasts with many
Silicon Valley venture funds that are more willing to make
early-stage investments in popular services such as Instagram
even before user gains have translated into revenue streams.  “As an investor, what we’re not looking for is ’oh this is
a cool app,’ it’s ’is this something that can become a big
business,’” Zennstrom said. “You need to find those that can
become real businesses.”  Angry Birds  While Kazaa failed as a business -- it faced lawsuits, was
forced to pay compensation to record labels and later became
inactive -- Zennstrom’s Skype Web-calling venture was more
successful. Zennstrom and co-founder Janus Friis sold it in 2005
to online-auctions provider EBay Inc. for an eventual $3.1
billion. Later, a consortium that included Zennstrom bought
Skype back, and sold it to Microsoft Corp. in 2011 for $8.5
billion cash.  These days, Zennstrom hunts down technology startups on the
cusp of global success, seeking companies with a valuable brand,
market foothold and product that’s difficult to replicate.
Atomico has invested in Stockholm-based Internet-payment
provider Klarna, Rovio Entertainment Oy, the Finnish maker of
the Angry Birds mobile game, and Internet sales site  Fab.com .  Booming smartphone sales and surging growth in e-commerce
are the driving forces behind many of his investments. Zennstrom
has set up Atomico offices in  Sao Paulo , Beijing, Istanbul and
 Tokyo  to better sniff out up-and-comers.  Klarna, Wrapp  Klarna, the Swedish provider of e-commerce payment systems
backed by private-equity firms  Sequoia Capital , General Atlantic
and Atomico, was cash-flow positive from almost its start in
2005 and expects to handle more than 2.3 billion euros ($3
billion) in transactions through e-stores this year, co-founder
Sebastian Siemiatkowski said in an interview in Stockholm.  “We have doubled our turnover with profitability every
year,” Siemiatkowski said. “Next country for expansion is
 Austria , and we hope to expand our business into more new
countries in 2013.”  Atomico also has stakes in Wrapp, which allows friends to
give and redeem gift cards using a mobile device and whose
investors include LinkedIn Corp. co-founder  Reid Hoffman , and
Rdio, which allows users to download, play and share music on
mobile phones.  In February, Atomico invested in Brazil’s Restorando, an
online reservation platform that lists about 800 restaurants in
Brazil and  Argentina . In December, Atomico invested 350,000
euros in  Denmark ’s Ge.tt, a file-transfer service.  Battling Copycats  Zennstrom declined to disclose the rate of return Atomico
has made on its investments in its first six years. Last.fm,
backed by Atomico, was sold to CBS Corp. for $280 million in
2007, while gaming social-network Playfire was sold to Green Man
Gaming and  Canada ’s Hootsuite Media Inc. bought Seesmic, a
service that lets users manage multiple online accounts, this
year.  Zennstrom encourages his companies to reach global scale as
quickly as possible to fend off rivals stealing business ideas.  “As an entrepreneur, if you’re the originator, you need to
be faster than ever,” he said. “When we look at investing, we
always think about ’how defensible is this, how likely is it
that somebody is going to copy this’. E-commerce tends to be
something easy to copy because it’s execution.”  Six months after the debut of Fab.com, a flash-deal site
for designer goods, a similar site called Bamarang opened for
business in  Germany , the U.K.,  France , Australia and  Brazil ,
also offering discounts on designer goods. Bamarang’s founders,
German brothers Oliver, Marc and Alexander Samwer, have also
duplicated sites such as those of Airbnb Inc., EHarmony.com Inc.
and Pinterest.  Built-In Business  Still, in victory to Zennstrom’s judgment, Bamarang was
shut down a few months ago, while Fab.com has kept expanding.  Rovio, meanwhile, has moved beyond simply making one of the
most popular mobile games and now sells toys, clothing and even
has helped build Angry Birds-themed playgrounds. The merchandise
helps the company to boost its visibility, while also being a
major source of revenue.  “There are more and more great opportunities in the tech
sector,” Zennstrom said. “The type of companies we’re looking
for are those with a business model built in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm   at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  