-- Sony’s ‘Hotel Transylvania’ Opens With $43 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-10-01T03:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/sony-s-hotel-transylvania-is-top-movie-on-sales-of-43-million.html
(Corrects ‘Spider-Man’ sales in third paragraph.)  The animated film “Hotel
Transylvania,” about a resort for monsters and their families,
set a record for a September opening in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, bringing in $43 million for  Sony Corp. (6758)   The science-fiction thriller “Looper,” also from Sony,
was second in its debut with $21.2 million in ticket sales,
researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Hotel Transylvania” topped analysts’ estimates and
overtook the record set by “Sweet Home Alabama” with its
$35.7-million debut in 2002.  Sony’s one-two finish will keep the studio in first place
in domestic 2012 ticket revenue.  Culver City , California-based
Sony had $1.28 billion in sales as of Sept. 23, giving it a
narrow lead over  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s $1.26 billion, according to
Box Office Mojo. Sony’s biggest film this year was “The Amazing
Spider-Man,” which has generated $751.7 million in worldwide
sales, according to Mojo.  “Sony really helped the industry this weekend by getting
the momentum going,”  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com Box-Office, said in an interview. “This was great
news for the industry, which has been lacking good news for the
last month or so.”  Dracula Party  In “Hotel Transylvania,” Dracula hosts a gathering of
famous monsters, including Frankenstein, the Mummy and some
werewolves to celebrate his daughter’s birthday. The celebration
is complicated by the unexpected arrival of a human guest who
falls for the vampire’s daughter. The film features the voices
of  Adam Sandler ,  Kevin James  and Selena Gomez.  The film was expected to have $25.8 million in opening-
weekend sales, the estimate of Box Office Mojo.  The time-travel tale “Looper” stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt
as a hit man working for a mob that operates in the future, when
time travel has become possible. To avoid prosecution, the mob
sends victims back in time to be killed by a special team of
assassins. Gordon-Levitt’s character is tasked with killing his
future self.  Bruce Willis  plays the older version of Levitt’s
character. “Looper” was expected to take in $16.1 million,
according to Box Office Mojo.  Cops, Gangs  The police drama “End of Watch” fell to third from first
with $8 million. The film, from Open Road Pictures, stars  Jake Gyllenhaal  and Michael Pena as Los Angeles police officers who
run afoul of a vicious gang. The film has taken in $26.2 million
since it opened on Sept. 21.  Clint Eastwood’s “Trouble with the Curve” from  Warner
Bros ., was fourth with sales of $7.5 million. In the film,
Eastwood plays aging professional baseball scout Gus Lobel, who
tries to keep his job while battling failing eyesight and a
trend toward computer-based scouting. His daughter, played by
 Amy Adams , tries to help by accompanying Lobel on an important
scouting trip. Justin Timberlake co-stars as a washed-up pitcher
who is attracted to the young woman.  “House at the End of the Street,” a horror film from
Relativity Media LLC, collected $7.2 million to put it in fifth
place in its second weekend.  Jennifer Lawrence  stars as a teen
who learns too much about a double homicide committed years
earlier in the house next door. Elisabeth Shue is featured as
the girl’s mother.  “Pitch Perfect” from Universal opened in sixth place with
$5.2 million. Anna Kendrick stars in the musical comedy as Beca,
who upon arriving at college is persuaded to join an all-girls
singing group. Dergarabedian called it a “huge” debut given it
played in just 335 theaters.  “Finding Nemo 3D” placed seventh, with $4.1 million for
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  The re-release of the 2003 animated hit is the
fifth release in Disney’s plan to re-issue classic films in a
three-dimensional format.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 21 percent to
$108.3 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 2.6 percent to $8.1
billion, with attendance up 1.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Sept. 28 and Sept. 29 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  