-- South Africa’s Ruling ANC Opens Leadership Nominations
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-10-01T10:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-opens-leadership-nominations.html
South  Africa ’s ruling African
National Congress opened its nominations for a leadership vote
in December that may see President Jacob Zuma challenged by his
deputy.  The 100-year-old ANC said it limited the time for
nominations because discussions about the leadership were
proving divisive. The rebel former leader of the party’s youth
wing,  Julius Malema , has called Zuma, 70, a “dictator” and
swung his support behind Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe.  At the last conference in 2007, the ANC endured a
contentious leadership battle that saw Zuma, then backed by
Malema, 31, and the ANC youth wing, oust former President Thabo Mbeki. With its almost two-thirds majority in parliament, the
ANC can ensure the party leader becomes the president of
Africa’s biggest economy.  “At this point in time it looks like Zuma is in a better
position to win, unless something dramatic happens,” Somadoda
Fikeni, a political analyst at the Pretoria-based University of
South Africa, said today in a phone interview. Motlanthe “needs
to give an open signal soon otherwise his supporters will grow
impatient and he won’t be able to build up enough momentum
before December.”  Zuma’s reelection may depend on overwhelming support in his
native KwaZulu-Natal, which has the most ANC members, according
to William Gumede, the author of ‘Restless Nation: Making Sense
of Troubled Times.’  ‘Personal Affiliation’  “If you win it at a big margin, you’re close to winning
reelection,” Gumede said in an interview last month. “It’s not
based on policy, but on personal affiliation.”  Membership in KwaZulu-Natal swelled to 331,820 from 244,900
in January, ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe told reporters
in Johannesburg on Sept. 28, while the ANC’s second-biggest
province, Eastern Cape province, has fallen to 187,585 from
225,597 in January. The party has 1.2 million members
nationwide.  The ANC in Malema’s northern Limpopo home province issued a
statement  on Sept. 18 pledging support for Motlanthe, 63, as
party leader. It retracted the statement within hours, saying
provincial spokesman Makonde Mathivha had e-mailed it without
authorization.  The ANC’s labor ally, the 2.2-million member Congress of
South African Trade Unions, decided at its Sept. 17-20 national
congress not to debate whether to back Zuma again. Some
delegates sang pro-Zuma songs and others made hand signals used
in soccer matches to indicate a player substitution.  Labor Influence  Cosatu’s influence among South Africa’s workers has been
challenged by a series of illegal strikes it didn’t support that
have shut mines owned by  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Lonmin
Plc (LMI)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)   After police killed 34 striking miners at Lonmin’s Marikana
mine on Aug. 16, Malema described the government as a “pig that
is eating its own children.”  Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula, a former ANC Youth League
leader, criticized party restrictions on raising the leadership
issue.  “The people who are creating a problem are those who come
to you and tell you that to elect a leader is a taboo,”
Mbalula, who the Youth League is touting as the party’s next
secretary-general, said in comments broadcast on Johannesburg-
based SAFM on Sept. 26. “You must never do that. Speak about
your choices politically when you want change if you want it.
And nobody must make you to be fearful.”  Leadership Candidate  Only an ANC grouping from any of South Africa’s nine
provinces can nominate a leadership candidate before the
conference, according to the party  constitution . Additional
names will be accepted during the conference if they have the
backing of a quarter of the delegates, it says.  Ninety percent of the voting delegates are elected by
branches across the country of 50 million, according to the
constitution. The rest are allocated by the provincial executive
committees, the Youth League, the Women’s League and the
Veteran’s League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  