-- Stephen Frankfurt, One of ‘Real Mad Men’ of Ad World, Dies at 80
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-09-30T23:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/stephen-frankfurt-one-of-real-mad-men-of-ad-world-dies-at-80.html
Stephen  Frankfurt , a Madison Avenue
adman credited with bringing the creative revolution of the
1960s to television and movie screens, has died. He was 80.  He died on Sept. 28 in  New York , according to Riverside
Memorial Chapel’s  website . No cause was given.  As creative director at New York-based Young & Rubicam,
Frankfurt led some of the most distinctive advertising campaigns
in U.S. business history. The campaigns established Eastern
Airlines as “the wings of man,” introduced “the Excedrin
headache” for  Bristol-Meyers Co. (BMY)  and challenged consumers of
Lay’s potato chips, “Bet you can’t eat just one.”  Frankfurt “adopted Y&R’s early motto, ‘resist the usual,’
as his own, and feature-film directors from the  United States 
and abroad soon began saying that the best work in film could be
seen nightly on the American TV tube,” the Art Directors Club
wrote in 1983, inducting Frankfurt into its  Hall of Fame .  In “The Real Mad Men: The Renegades of Madison Avenue and
the Golden Age of Advertising” (2012), Andrew Cracknell wrote
that Frankfurt “saw his commercials with an imaginative
advertiser’s eye, asking for techniques and ideas that wouldn’t
have occurred to the hidebound directors who were normally
employed.”  “A spot with no words at all was unheard of then,”
Cracknell wrote, “but it didn’t stop Frankfurt; for Johnson &
Johnson he shot a baby in close-up from the mother’s point of
view rather than the conventional posed setup, making it
more personal and emotional. He used stop-motion and borrowed
from contemporary art -- he saw no barriers to where you could
go to make a commercial.”  President at 36  In January 1968, at 36, Frankfurt became  Young & Rubicam 
president. He stepped down in 1971 and later explained, “I
never had a frustrating day in that company -- until I became
president.”  He turned his attention to marketing and publicizing
movies, an early professional interest.  He had made a splash when given the chance to design the
opening titles for “To Kill a Mockingbird” (1962), which was
nominated for eight  Academy Awards  and won three.  His opener , a
tour of the contents of a cigar box, was the first “in which a
camera lovingly pans across details” that “grow in
significance later in the film,”  Peter Hall  wrote years later
in I.D., the International Design Magazine.  Frankfurt worked on more than 55 movies, according to a
death notice on New York-based Riverside Memorial’s website. He
created the marketing campaigns for, among other films,
“Rosemary’s Baby” (1968) -- “Pray for Rosemary’s Baby” --
and “Alien” (1979) -- “In space, no one can hear you
scream”).  Later Career  He went on to work as creative director at Bozell, Jacobs,
Kenyon & Eckhardt, chairman of Frankfurt Balkind Partners, and
vice chairman of Partners & Shevack.  Stephen Owen Frankfurt was born on Dec. 17, 1931, in
 Manhattan , according to a 1963 profile in Television, a magazine
of the broadcasting industry. He was the first of two children
of Milton Frankfurt, a lawyer who worked in middle-income
housing development during Robert Wagner’s mayoral
administration, and his wife, Blanche, according to Riverside
Memorial.  A graduate of New York’s Pratt Institute, in 1954 he joined
Young & Rubicam, now part of London-based  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s
biggest advertising agency.  Survivors include his wife, Kay Gadda Frankfurt; three
daughters, Abigail, Emily and Rebecca Nadler; and three sons,
Peter, Jaime and Nicholas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  