-- U.K.’s $16 Billion Bond Pledge for Builders to Lure Gilt Buyers
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-09-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/u-k-s-16-billion-bond-pledge-for-builders-to-lure-gilt-buyers.html
The British government’s plan to
underwrite as much as 10 billion pounds ($16 billion) of bonds
issued by nonprofit housing developers probably will draw U.K.
government-bond investors as they seek higher returns.  The proposal would lower the homebuilders’ financing costs
by guaranteeing debts and reducing the default risk for
bondholders. Government backing makes the bonds more attractive
than gilts, according to Alison Murdoch, a director at CCLA
Investment Management Ltd. in  London , which manages 4.1 billion
pounds of assets. The bonds are likely to yield as much as 50
basis points more than government bonds, according to Ignis
Asset Management.  “I don’t see how the investor can lose out in this,”
Murdoch said in an interview. “Managers of sovereign funds
would buy these because it’s cheaper than buying gilts and it’s
essentially the same risk.”  Prime Minister David Cameron has loosened regulation on
homebuilding and is underwriting some lending as he turns to
construction to pull Britain out of its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s. His Conservative-led government is
counting on nonprofit developers, known as housing associations,
to build as many as 70,000 homes and create 140,000 jobs.  New home sales have declined as the economy shrinks and the
euro-area debt crisis drags on, undermining confidence and
pushing up builders’ borrowing costs. Average rents surpassed
800 pounds a month for the first time in August, while the
nation’s ailing banks have scaled back mortgage lending,
increasing rental demand. Homebuilding fell to the lowest
peacetime level in nine decades last year.  Resistant Banks  A government-backed guarantee would help smaller housing
associations issue bonds to pay for new developments, Murdoch
said by telephone. Financing new projects has become
increasingly difficult as banks shun lending to housing
associations, she said.  “With the government guarantee, the smaller players can
approach the market when they wouldn’t be able to otherwise, or
would have had to go through a collective,” Murdoch said.  A bond issue of 1 billion pounds could create as many as
1,000 new homes, according to Stuart Ropke, head of investment
policy and strategy at the National Housing Federation. That
could amount to 10,000 homes under the government’s 10 billion-
pound proposal.  A housing association is an independent, nonprofit company
that was set up to provide homes for people in need. About 5
million people in  England  live in such developments, with many
paying rent at 80 percent of the market rate, according to the
 National Housing Federation .  ‘Win-Win Situation’  “It’s a win-win situation for the housing associations and
the government,” said Stuart Thomson, a fixed-income manager at
Ignis Asset Management. “The danger is you get a proliferation
of these government guarantees over a variety of sectors.”  Ten-year gilt  yields  approached the lowest level in two
weeks Sept. 28 after research group GfK NOP Ltd. said U.K.
 consumer confidence  improved in September, providing “grounds
for optimism” on the economic outlook. Gilts returned 1 percent
this quarter through Sept. 27, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  Yields have remained low since the Bank of England kept its
asset-purchase target at 375 billion pounds and maintained the
benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent on Sept. 6,
in a bid to spur the economy.  Chasing Yields  Low interest rates on governments bonds are prompting
investors to seek higher yields, according to Russel Matthews, a
fund manager at BlueBay Asset Management Ltd. The homebuilder
bonds would still need a full sovereign guarantee and be priced
wider than 40 to 50 basis points over gilts for Matthews to
contemplate buying them, he said.  The bonds are likely to trade within that basis-point
range, according to Thomson of Glasgow, Scotland-based, Ignis. A
basis point is the equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  “The likelihood is that you would see these housing-
association bonds trade at a premium to gilts,” Ignis said by
phone. “Taking into account risk, probably somewhere between 30
and 50 basis points over gilts. People will just take the extra
premium over gilts.”  Some people don’t think a government guarantee for housing
associations is essential. Public backing may not be necessary
because a housing association has never defaulted, Affinity
Sutton Group Finance Director Mark Washer said in an interview.
Affinity, a housing association with more than 57,000
properties, issued 250 million pounds of bonds to 17
institutional investors in September 2008.  Regulatory Action  “A lot of the investors I’ve heard have said if they want
gilts, they would buy gilts,” Washer said. “The regulator
would be likely to step in if there was a housing association in
distress.  “If you’re investing in one of the weaker housing
associations, there’s still a perception that the government is
de-facto standing behind it,” he said.  The opposition Labour Party has been supportive of the
government’s proposal, increasing the chances it will take
effect.  “If we had been in power, we would have done something
similar in terms of the use of balance-sheet guarantees,” said
Jack Dromey, Labour’s housing spokesman. “It’s a step in the
right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 