-- U.K. House Prices Extend Drop as Hometrack Sees Demand Weakening
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-09-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/u-k-house-prices-extend-drop-as-hometrack-sees-demand-weakening.html
U.K. house prices fell  for a third
month in September on weakening demand that may continue to
weigh on property values, Hometrack Ltd. said.  Prices declined 0.1 percent from August and 0.5 percent
from a year earlier, the London-based property research group
said in an e-mailed statement today. The number of new buyers
registering with real-estate agents fell 3.6 percent, the
biggest drop in eight months.  “The uncertain economic outlook, together with
affordability pressures, will continue to act as a drag on
housing-market activity,”  Richard Donnell , Hometrack’s
director of research, said in the statement. “Pricing will
remain under slow downward pressure, but the tightening of
supply will limit the scale of price falls in the short term.”  Donnell said that pressure bearing down on home values may
outweigh the effects of a boost to mortgage lending provided by
the  Bank of England ’s new credit-boosting program. The central
bank’s policy makers will this week probably commit to
completing their plan to raise bond holdings  to 375 billion
pounds  ($605 billion) as they assess the impact of their
initiatives to aid  economic growth .  Prices didn’t rise in any region of  England  and Wales.
Values remained unchanged in  London  and the southwest of
England, and declined everywhere else.  Prices fell “on the back of weakening demand, a fall in
sales agreed and a re-pricing of unsold stock,” Donnell said.  The Bank of England said last week that U.K. mortgage
availability increased the most in at least five years in the
latest quarter as wholesale funding markets eased. It said that
its new 61 billion-pound Funding for Lending Scheme is set to
spur a further expansion.  Mortgage Approvals  Mortgage approval figures due today  will show the extent of
the gain in the first month of the program’s operation. Banks
probably granted 49,200 loans to buy homes in August, the most
in three months, according to the median forecast of 22
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank will
release that data today at 9:30 a.m. in London.  Nationwide Building Society  will release its housing index
tomorrow at 7 a.m. in London. The customer-owned lender’s gauge
of values tends to be more volatile than that of Hometrack.
Nationwide will say if prices extended a rebound last month from
a 1.3 percent jump in August.  The Bank of England will announce the outcome of its
monthly policy decision on Oct. 4. Policy makers will commit to
completing their bond-buying program, said all 40 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. They will also hold the  benchmark
interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, a separate poll
showed.  A survey released today by Lloyds Bank showed more
U.K. companies were optimistic than pessimistic about the
economic outlook for a second month. The index of sentiment held
at 10 in September, the unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  said.
The bank surveyed 300 companies with sales exceeding 1 million
pounds from Sept. 3 to Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  