-- Unintended Consequences of FSA’s Martin Wheatley: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-10-01T15:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/unintended-consequences-of-fsa-s-martin-wheatley-euro-credit.html
Borrowing costs for consumers and
companies will rise as efforts to revive confidence in Libor
increase the number of banks involved in setting the rates,
which determine more than $300 trillion of securities.  A higher number of lenders will include smaller, weaker
institutions that pay more to borrow, according to James Edsberg
at  Gulland Padfield , a London-based financial services
consultancy. Euribor, the benchmark for interbank deposits in
euros, is set by 43 banks and has been fixed higher than  euro
Libor , determined by 15 lenders, by an average 5.7 basis points
since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you expand the panel by including banks beyond the
largest ones, you will boost borrowing costs,” said Edsberg.  Proposals for reforming the  London  interbank offered rate
were set out by Martin Wheatley, managing director of Britain’s
Financial Services Authority, last week as regulators probe
attempts to manipulate the benchmark by at least a dozen banks
around the world. The review was ordered by  George Osborne , the
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer, after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($470 million) for attempting to rig
the rate.  Unwilling ‘Forced’  As part of the revamp the FSA will encourage more banks to
submit quotes and will have powers to force the unwilling to
take part in the process, Wheatley said in his report. The banks
that will make up the pool will be selected by the new
administrator, said  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the FSA, who
declined to comment further.  Rising borrowing costs risk deepening Europe’s debt crisis,
making it harder for countries in the grips of austerity to
foster economic growth. In  Spain , where Prime Minister Mariano’s
government announced its fifth budget-cutting package last week,
economists expect a contraction of 1.3 percent next year,
according to the median of 21 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Pessimism about the ability of euro-area leaders to resolve
the crisis sent Spain’s  10-year yields  to a three-week high of
6.11 percent on Sept. 28 and they are at 5.86 percent today.
 Italy’s 10-year borrowing cost  is 5.07 percent, up from 4.92
percent on Sept. 19.  The Libor benchmark is calculated by a poll carried out
daily by Thomson Reuters Corp. on behalf of the  British Bankers
Association , a banking industry lobby group, that asks firms to
estimate how much it would cost to borrow from each other for
different periods and in different currencies. The top four and
bottom four quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged and
published for individual currencies.  Greek Submission  The panel setting Euribor, under the aegis of the European
Banking Federation, includes National  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA in
 Athens , which is awaiting recapitalization, and Bank of Ireland
Plc, that country’s biggest lender. There are also four Italian
lenders, including  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the
two largest, and four Spanish banks including  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , also the two
biggest.  The panel for the BBA’s euro Libor includes Santander unit
Abbey National Plc as the only lender connected to the
peripheral countries.  “On day one of the new rate being introduced it will jump
higher if you increase the number of participating banks beyond
the biggest ones that currently set it,” said  Ian Gordon , a
London-based analyst at  Investec Plc. (INVP)  “That obviously raises
questions about the viability of the contracts that reference
the old rate. It would seem to be a fundamental flaw in the new
proposals.”  Fixings Dropped  Wheatley’s proposals  include dropping fixings for more than
100 rates where trading data isn’t sufficient and introducing a
code of conduct backed by criminal penalties. Rate-setters will
be regulated by the FSA, and the day-to-day running of the rate
will be put out to tender.  “If you expand the panel to include a set of smaller
banks, all else being equal that would tend to push up the
average rate,” said Steve Hussey, a London-based financial-
institutions analyst at AllianceBernstein Ltd., which oversees
about $400 billion. “You could weight it by size or rating but
that would be complex and may not be effective.”  Wheatley proposes allowing banks to wait three months
before disclosing their Libor submissions, rather than publish
them daily as at present. While immediate publication of
individual submissions increases transparency, it makes
manipulation easier because contributors are able to estimate
the impact of the quote they put in.  Added to that, at times of stress, changes in submissions
may be viewed as reflecting the contributor’s credit strength,
offering an incentive to submit a lower rate than otherwise,
according to the report. To rectify the “reduction in immediate
transparency” the report recommends lenders publish a regular
bulletin that includes trading volumes.  “A three-month wait and then we find out that some of
these institutions are more wobbly that we thought,” said  James Ferguson , chief strategist at Westhouse Securities Ltd. in
London. “That’s a horrible legacy for us to leave for the next
crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  