-- West Brom Ties 1-1 at Aston Villa in Soccer’s Premier League
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/west-brom-ties-1-1-at-aston-villa-in-soccer-s-premier-league.html
West Bromwich Albion tied 1-1 at
local rival Aston Villa in soccer’s Premier League yesterday,
denied a first away win of the season by a Darren Bent goal
after 80 minutes.  Shane Long had put West Brom ahead after 51 minutes at
Villa Park with his fourth goal of the season. The Baggies
remain sixth in the standings, with Villa 15th.  “The response of the players to falling behind was
excellent, I cannot ask for any more,” Villa manager Paul
Lambert told Sky Sports. “Everybody is in it together, we need
every player to perform.”  Chelsea leads the Premier League with 16 points from six
matches and Everton has 13, with Manchester United and
Manchester City on 12. Tottenham and West Brom are one point
further back.  West Brom, which has won half of its league matches this
season, had an early chance to take the lead when Long headed
wide from close range on six minutes. He then fired high over
the bar a minute later.  Villa’s Brett Holman tested Ben Foster with a long-range
effort after 26 minutes, which the goalkeeper tipped over the
bar for a corner. Three minutes later, Villa striker Christian
Benteke curled a shot wide.  The Baggies suffered two injuries late in the first half,
Chris Brunt and Billy Jones replaced by Graham Dorrans and
Gabriel Tamas.  In between the two changes for West Brom, Foster saved a
deflected 20-yard shot from Holman and Benteke wasted an
opportunity after stealing the ball from Jonas Olsson.  Long Strikes  West Brom started positively in the second half and Long
headed into the net on 50 minutes, only for his effort to be
ruled out for offside. Less than a minute later the Ireland
striker did score from close range.  Benteke was denied a goal at the other end of the field
soon after by a block from Tamas, then Joe Bennett came close
for Villa from a free kick.  Villa started to push back the visitors, although
goalkeeper Brad Guzan was forced into a save from Tamas to stop
West Brom increasing its lead.  Bent earned Villa a point 12 minutes after being introduced
as a substitute. A shot from Ciaran Clark was blocked but West
Brom failed to clear and Bent fired into the far corner of the
net.  Both teams had chances to win, with Bent hitting a first-
time shot over the bar late on and West Brom’s Romelu Lukaku
having a shot deflected against the outside of a post.  Two days ago, Chelsea won 2-1 at Arsenal, Everton beat
Southampton 3-1, Manchester City defeated Fulham 2-1, and
Manchester United lost 3-2 at home to Tottenham.  Liverpool beat Norwich 5-2, Reading and Newcastle tied 2-2,
Sunderland defeated Wigan 1-0, and Stoke won 2-0 against
Swansea. Queens Park Rangers hosts West Ham in tonight’s game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 