-- Where Have All the FOIAs Gone? A Lament for Transparency.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-30T22:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/where-have-all-the-foias-gone-a-lament-for-transparency-.html
One way to judge a president’s record
is to assess the promises he made when he first took office.
That’s what  Bloomberg News  did with President  Barack Obama ’s vow
to create “an unprecedented level of openness in government” and
“act promptly” to make information public.  By that benchmark, Americans aren’t much better off than
they were four years ago.  In June, Bloomberg reporters filed Freedom of Information
Act requests with 57 federal agencies. The reporters sought data
in a narrow (and not particularly complicated) area: taxpayer-
supported travel by  Cabinet secretaries  and top officials. The
results were dismaying. Just eight of the agencies met the 20-
day window for disclosure required by law. Of 20 Cabinet-level
agencies, only the  Small Business Administration  responded
within the legal limit.  The records of five other Cabinet-level departments --
Commerce, Labor, Treasury, the Office of Budget and Management,
and the U.S. Trade Representative -- were turned over to
reporters past the deadline. Fourteen either haven’t fully
complied or haven’t responded at all, including the  Department
of Justice , whose mandate includes enforcing compliance of
disclosure laws. (To see a multimedia analysis,  click here .)  FOIA Overload  Critics of government opacity, including us, should
remember that even in the realm of information, freedom isn’t
free. Bringing records management up to 21st century snuff is
costly. The government processed 631,424  FOIA filings  last year,
with the number of backlogged requests growing 20 percent, from
2010 to 2011, to 83,490. Getting the process to run more
smoothly requires labor and technology, both of which, in turn,
require money.  But it was the president and his attorney general, Eric Holder, who publicly designated openness and transparency as the
guiding lights of this administration. The benchmark of timely
disclosure is their own. And unlike other inaugural promises --
world peace, say, or campaign finance reform -- this one seemed
within grasp.  As the  Bloomberg survey  makes clear, though, the
administration has a long way to go. The State Department, for
example, said it couldn’t compile travel records for  Susan Rice ,
the envoy to the  United Nations , until July 2013, more than a
year after the request was made.  The administration acknowledged some of its shortcomings in
August with a  memo  that directs agencies to store all
information electronically. That’s a start. Less inspiring is
the discreet footnote that agencies have until December 2019 --
almost three years after the end of a potential second Obama
term -- to comply.  The failures are particularly galling because the Obama
administration has a successful model of its own to draw from:
the process it created for  taxpayers  to track the $832 billion
of spending authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009, humbly known as “the stimulus.” The legislation
required detailed reporting on how much money had been spent,
where it went and how many jobs had been created with the funds.  This information is accessible to the public on a website,
 Recovery.gov . There’s good reason to believe that the dearth of
scandal surrounding this unprecedented federal spending owes
much to the deterrent powers of public disclosure. If the
administration can manage disclosure for something as complex as
the stimulus, it can manage it for the basic functions of the
rest of the federal bureaucracy.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the resurgent European debt
crisis ; William D. Cohan on the SEC’s persecution of  an honest
ratings firm ;  Noah Feldman  on  the Supreme Court’s torture case ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s biggest liability  in debating Romney;
 Simon Johnson   on how to assess the soundness of banks ; Richard
Vedder asks  why colleges are too big to fail .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 