-- Xstrata Seen Recommending Glencore’s $33 Billion Bid Today
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-10-01T02:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/xstrata-seen-recommending-glencore-s-33-billion-bid-today.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  will recommend
shareholders vote in favor of a 20.5 billion-pound ($33 billion)
takeover offer by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  after making
changes to the terms to satisfy investors’ demands, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Xstrata, the largest exporter of coal used by power
stations, will announce the proposal for what would be the
year’s largest takeover at 7 a.m. today in London, according to
the person, who asked not to be identified as the talks are
private. The offer will alter the voting structure for key
managerial pay packages, according to the person. Investors’s
demands range from scrapping the bonuses to making them
essential for the deal to proceed.  The recommendation will bring Glencore’s billionaire Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg one step closer to his goal of
creating the world’s fourth-largest mining company. The
combination, five years in the making, would couple Glencore’s
global trading operations with Xstrata’s coal, copper, and zinc
production, establishing a resources group with about 130,000
employees in more than 40 countries.  Glencore raised its offer to 3.05 of its shares for each
one in Xstrata on Sept. 7. The increase from 2.8 came after
investors said the original bid undervalued the Swiss mining
company. The Baar, Switzerland-based commodities trader asked
Xstrata to propose changes to the bonus package to ensure
shareholder backing for the deal, which if it goes ahead will be
the year’s biggest takeover.  “The deal has taken a long time, largely due to the
differential in valuations on both sides,” Peter Rudd,
resources and mining manager at Altitude Private Wealth in
 Melbourne , said by phone. A deal would put “them in a strong
position in a number of sectors, such as nickel and copper, and
on the commodity trading side.”  Xstrata Bonus  The retention payments total 144 million pounds, excluding
the 28.8 million-pound bonus for Xstrata Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis , who will not qualify to receive it, according to the
person close to the deal. Davis will receive a contractual
termination fee of about $13 million when he leaves, the person
said.  The person wouldn’t elaborate on the changes to the offer
before an official announcement due today. The revised bid
stipulates that Davis lead the merged company before handing
over to Glencore counterpart Glasenberg within six months.  Spokesmen from Xstrata and Glencore declined to comment
yesterday.  According to Glencore’s original bid on Feb. 7, Xstrata
shareholders are required to cast their votes on the merger and
on the corporate governance structure, which includes the
retention bonuses. The merger plan requires 75 percent approval
of the shareholders, while the retention package can be passed
with 50 percent in favor. Both votes must pass for the deal to
proceed, according to the original offer.  Takeover Vote  Investors, including  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , have asked the Xstrata
directors to name the executives who would receive the bonuses
and justify the payment to each individual, or make the vote
unconditional for the deal, according to the person close to the
deal and another person familiar with the talks, who also
declined to be named. Some major shareholders are threatening to
vote against the takeover if the vote to retain the key managers
doesn’t remain conditional, they said.  Xstrata has also received assurances from Glencore that one
of the miner’s executives will replace Davis on the combined
board, the first person close to the deal said. Xstrata will
hold six seats on the 11-member board.  The talks, which were extended last week, are one of the
final stages in an almost eight-month effort by Glencore to seal
the deal. Xstrata and Glencore will have to publish new merger
circulars after today’s statement to reflect the changes and set
new dates for shareholder votes, which could be in about a
month’s time, according to the person.  Higher Offer  The sweetened bid followed a threat by Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund, Xstrata’s largest holder after Glencore, to block
the deal in the absence of a higher offer. Qatar Holding LLC
said in June that a bid of 3.25 shares would be “more
appropriate.” As little as 16.5 percent of investors can
prevent the merger because Glencore can’t vote with its 34
percent stake.  A successful acquisition by Glencore at current share
prices would be the second-largest in the  mining industry ,
behind  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s $38 billion purchase of  Canada ’s Alcan
Inc. in 2007. The volume of announced takeovers of mining
companies rose to $80.2 billion last year, the highest since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as commodity
demand in developing nations and the deteriorating quality of
mineral reserves pushed producers to seek greater economies of
scale.  Glencore’s move to buy Xstrata, first announced in
February, hasn’t stopped the company from seeking  other
acquisitions , offering C$6.1 billion ($6.19 billion) for
Canadian grain handler  Viterra Inc. (VT)  in March and increasing its
stake in Kazakh zinc producer Kazzinc for $1.4 billion last
month.  “They’re always open to investment opportunities and maybe
at the bottom of the cycle they may do some acquisitions of
assets to complement those that they will have in the combined
group,” said Rudd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  