-- Yankees Join Orioles With Playoff Berths Tied in Division Race
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-01T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-30/yankees-beat-blue-jays-9-6-to-tie-orioles-for-al-east-lead.html
The  New York  Yankees overcame a 5-1
deficit to beat the Toronto Blue Jays 9-6 and remain tied with
the Baltimore Orioles atop the American League Eastern Division.  The Orioles defeated the Boston Red Sox 6-3 yesterday to
push their winning streak to four games. The Yankees, Orioles
and Texas Rangers all clinched AL playoff berths last night with
a loss by the Los Angeles Angels.  The Yankees scored three runs in the seventh inning to tie
yesterday’s game in Toronto and then scored two runs in both the
eighth and ninth innings to pull out the victory in what
outfielder Nick Swisher called a “season-defining” game.  “We could have gone down big like that and just packed it
in, but that’s not this team,” Swisher told reporters. “That’s
not how we approach it.”  The Yankees and Orioles are tied with records of 92-67 with
three games left in Major League Baseball’s regular season. The
Yankees finish with a three-game series at home against the Red
Sox, while the Orioles play three games on the road against the
Tampa Bay Rays.  “Every game is like it’s a playoff game right now,”
Yankees catcher Russell Martin said. “That’s our attitude.”  Both teams locked up a postseason berth last night when the
Angels lost 8-7 to the Rangers in the second game of a double-
header. The Angels scored two runs in the ninth inning to win
the first game 5-4 and temporarily keep on hold the Orioles’
first playoff trip since 1997.  Wild Card  The team that fails to win the AL East will claim one of
the league’s two wild card berths, though that would mean a one-
game playoff to start the postseason instead of making a best-
of-five division series.  If the Yankees and Orioles remain tied after 162 games,
they’ll have a one-game playoff Oct. 4 for the division title.  The Detroit Tigers (86-73) beat the Minnesota Twins 2-1
yesterday to move within a victory of winning the AL Central
title. The Tigers would claim the division by winning one of
their final three games in Kansas City or having the Chicago
White Sox lose one of their last three games in  Cleveland .  The White Sox (83-76) lost 6-2 yesterday to the Tampa Bay
Rays (88-71), who kept their slim playoff chances alive as
pitcher David Price picked up his 20th win of the season.  The Oakland Athletics, at 91-68, are in position for the
second AL wild card berth and beat the Seattle Mariners 5-2
yesterday. The Angels and Rays are both three games behind the
A’s, who trail the Rangers (93-66) by two games in the AL West.  NL Berths  Four of the five National League playoff berths have been
locked up and the St. Louis Cardinals moved a step closer to
gaining the last spot by beating the Washington Nationals 10-4
yesterday behind two home runs by Carlos Beltran.  The Cardinals (86-73) are two games ahead of the Los
Angeles Dodgers (84-75), who beat the Colorado Rockies 7-1 for
their fifth straight win. The Cardinals have three games
remaining at home against the NL Central-leading Cincinnati Reds
and the Dodgers host a three-game series against the NL West-
leading San Francisco Giants.  The Nationals, Reds, Giants and Atlanta Braves have
clinched playoff berths in the NL. The Milwaukee Brewers were
eliminated from playoff contention yesterday with a 7-0 loss to
the Houston Astros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 