-- 
Wi-Fi Privacy Focus of U.S. Senator’s Query to Apple, Google

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-18T20:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/apple-google-microsoft-queried-by-u-s-senator-over-privacy.html
Senator  Richard Blumenthal  asked
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for information
about the companies’ collection of data from private wireless
networks to create maps of Wi-Fi service, saying the practice
raises privacy concerns.  Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat who serves on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, made the request in a letter to the
companies that was released today by his office in Washington.
The letter also was sent to BlackBerry maker  Research in Motion
Ltd. (RIM) , handset manufacturer  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  and Skyhook Wireless Inc.,
a provider of wireless phone location services.  “Attempting to document the locations of personal wireless
networks in individuals’ homes without their knowledge or
consent raises issues regarding what constitutes a reasonable
expectation of privacy for an ordinary citizen,” Blumenthal
said in the letter.  Blumenthal’s letter coincides with broader inquiries by
U.S. lawmakers into the privacy of customer location data
gathered from smartphones and other mobile devices. Apple,
Google and Facebook Inc. are due to face questions on mobile
privacy tomorrow in a Senate Commerce subcommittee hearing.  Apple and Google, the makers of software used in millions
of smartphones, also may face tougher European Union
restrictions on the way they handle user-location data after an
opinion by European Union privacy officials published today.  Companies Respond  “We have received Senator Blumenthal’s letter and look
forward to answering his questions,” Jay Nancarrow, a Google
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Microsoft spokeswoman Christina Pearson said the company
has received the letter and “will be working toward a
response.”  Apple had no immediate comment, spokeswoman  Kristin Huguet 
said. Research in Motion and Nokia did not immediately respond
to requests for comment.  Skyhook makes software that uses the location of wireless
routers and telecommunications towers to pinpoint the location
of a mobile phone.  “We think it’s an important set of questions and we’ll be
happy to talk about the data we collect and how,” Ted Morgan,
Skyhook founder and chief executive officer, said in an
interview at a conference today in Washington. “There are a lot
of answers already on our  website .”  Street View Inquiry  As Connecticut attorney general, Blumenthal led a 40-state
inquiry into Google’s gathering of data as part of its Street
View project to map neighborhoods worldwide.  Google had vehicles drive through streets to take pictures
of buildings for its Street View product, which lets users click
on maps to see photographs of roadsides. Names and signal
strengths of nearby wireless routers also were collected for a
database that would help locate phones based on their proximity
to cell-phone towers and the wireless access points.  Google said it was unaware that the software gathering
information on the routers also was collecting data that
unsecured Wi-Fi networks were sending out. The company said that
it stopped the practice and notified authorities as soon as it
learned that the information was being collected.  In some instances, that data has been destroyed, while in
others it’s been preserved at the behest of investigative
authorities, Google has said.  ‘Honestly Embarrassed’  “We have tried to be very clear it was not our policy to
collect this information,” Alan Davidson, director of public
policy for Google, said in response to questions from Blumenthal
at a May 10 Senate hearing. “We never used that information.
People at the company were quite surprised and honestly
embarrassed to find out that we had been collecting it.”  The senator highlighted Street View in his letter, saying
the “scandal may represent the most visible example in recent
years of a large technology company unequivocally violating the
privacy of third parties, but is surely not the first or last
such example.”  Blumenthal’s letter asked the technology companies a series
of questions, including whether they’ve “contemplated,
implemented or purchased” information gathered from wireless
data transmissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  