-- 
Pfizer, Lilly Antidepressants Linked to Narrowed Arteries in Older Men

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-02T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/antidepressants-linked-to-narrowed-arteries-in-middle-aged-men.html
Antidepressants may  narrow  the
arteries of middle-aged men, potentially putting them at risk
for heart attacks and stroke, researchers said.  A study involving 513 male twins, with an average age of
55, found those who took medications like  Forest Laboratories
Inc. (FRX) ’s Lexapro,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cymbalta or  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Zoloft had thicker blood vessel walls. The increase, a measure
of fatty-plaque buildup linked to atherosclerosis, was seen
regardless of what  type  of antidepressant the men were taking.  Arteries naturally thicken with age, and each 10-micron
increase is linked to a 1.8 percent higher risk of heart attack
and stroke. Men taking antidepressants had a 41-micron thicker
lining than their twin brothers who weren’t on medication,
making their arteries appear about four years older. The
difference was greatest in men who were depressed while taking
the drugs, according to the study presented today at the
 American College of Cardiology  meeting in  New Orleans .  “Because we didn’t see an association between depression
itself and a thickening of the carotid artery, it strengthens
the argument that it is more likely the antidepressants than the
actual depression that could be behind the association,” said
lead researcher  Amit Shah , a cardiology fellow at Emory
University in Atlanta, in a statement.  The U.S.  National Institutes of Health  funded the study.  Antidepressants increase levels of brain chemicals
including serotonin and norepinephrine, which may cause blood
vessels to constrict, Shah said. The narrower opening may limit
blood flow and boost hypertension, triggering atherosclerosis
and heart disease, he said. Additional studies are needed to
confirm whether the  medications , the condition or other factors
are responsible for the changes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  