-- 
Asian Stocks Rise a Second Week on Japan's Quake Recovery, China Profits

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h o n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-04-02T03:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/asian-stocks-rise-a-second-week-on-japan-s-quake-recovery-china-profits.html
Asian stocks rose for the second
straight week as Japanese companies began resuming production
after the nation’s worst earthquake, and Chinese firms posted
profits that beat analyst estimates.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , the Japanese maker of products from home
appliances to nuclear reactors, jumped 3.9 percent in Tokyo
after the Nikkei newspaper reported its main factory in Japan
will resume full production next month.  HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese
mobile-phone maker that gets about half its sales from America,
rose 7.6 percent after a report showed U.S. companies added more
workers in March. Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd.
gained 3 percent in  Hong Kong  this week after 2010 earnings
surpassed analyst estimates.  “There’s been solid earnings from Chinese companies and
U.S. data has also been encouraging,” said Ng Soo Nam, the
Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $126 billion. “The worst
of the nuclear crisis in  Japan  could be behind us.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.8 percent to 135.32 this
week. The gauge last week recorded its biggest gain since
November as Japan made progress stabilizing reactors at a
nuclear plant crippled after the earthquake and a tsunami. The
previous week, the index dropped the most since the height of
 Europe ’s debt crisis in May, as Japan fought to avert a nuclear
disaster and tensions escalated in  Libya .  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has advanced 1.8 percent
since March 25. South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 3.7 percent,
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 2.5 percent and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index was 2.8 percent higher.  Japanese Companies  “Even as Japan faces the unexpected effects of the huge
earthquake, the U.S. economic recovery is looking clearer,”
said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in  Tokyo  at Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. “Companies are working hard at
restoring their operations.”  Hitachi surged 3.9 percent to 426 yen in Tokyo after
spokesman Tadashi Hisanaga said on March 29 that the company
will resume shipments of motors and turbines from April 3. Full
production at its main factory complex in Japan will return next
month, the Nikkei newspaper reported on March 30, citing the
plant’s general manager Tatsuro Ishizuka.  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest automaker by market
value, gained 7.1 percent to 729 yen after saying it expects
factories to return to normal by the end of June. IHI Corp., a
maker of heavy machinery, rose 4.7 percent to 202 yen after the
company resumed partial operations at its No. 1 and No. 2
factories in Soma, Fukushima prefecture, where it produces
aircraft parts and turbines.  Quake Aftermath  Japanese stocks gained even as a report showed the nation’s
manufacturing deteriorated at the fastest pace in at least nine
years in March, underscoring forecasts the economy will shrink
in the aftermath of the earthquake.  “It’ll take more time for the impact of the earthquake on
the economy to be clear,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees
about $450 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co.  HTC, which counts America as its biggest market, climbed
7.6 percent to NT$1,140 in Taipei as a report from ADP Employer
Services showed U.S. companies hired 201,000 workers in March,
marking the third time in four months that the nation added more
than 200,000 jobs. A Labor Department report yesterday showed
the U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped to a two-year
low in March as employers created more jobs than forecast.  Bank Profit  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the nation’s biggest
lender, rose 3 percent to HK$6.56 in Hong Kong. The company said
full-year net income increased 28 percent from a year earlier to
165.2 billion yuan ($25.2 billion). That exceeded the 163.8
billion yuan average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , Hong Kong’s No. 2 developer,
jumped 3.9 percent to HK$127.20 in Hong Kong after posting full-
year earnings that exceeded analyst estimates. The company said
full-year net income rose 35 percent to HK$26.5 billion ($3.4
billion), compared with the average HK$20.2 billion estimate of
12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , the owner of ports and phone
companies, gained 0.9 percent to HK$91.90. The company said
full-year net income climbed 47 percent to HK$20 billion,
beating the HK$16.4 billion average of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 