-- 
Cap Gemini Eyes Energy, Growth Markets to Ride Urbanization

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-18T19:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/cap-gemini-looks-to-mexico-turkey-to-profit-from-urbanization.html
Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  will weigh acquisitions
in countries such as Mexico, Turkey, and Russia as it aims to
gain from urbanization in the world’s fastest-growing economies.  Those countries may follow current priority China in
efforts by Europe’s largest computer-services company to expand
in emerging markets, Deputy General Manager Paul Spence said in
an interview. Paris-based Cap Gemini is also expanding in fields
such as energy and water management that will be important to
fast-urbanizing regions, he said.  “Mexico is very interesting for us, everybody thinks that
Turkey will be an important role for us going forward and we
don’t have any presence at all, and our energy- and consumer-
product clients absolutely want us in  Russia ,” Spence said.
“If we could do one major geography and make it material per
year, I’d be quite happy with that.”  Information technology suppliers are looking to new markets
and technologies as competition intensifies in  North America  and
Europe, partly from Indian companies such as  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) 
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest
computer-services provider, is planning to open 10 new offices
in Africa by 2015 to exploit growth in the banking and
telecommunications sectors, the company said this month.  Brazilian Deal  For IT companies, “organic growth in Europe is looking
extremely unexciting,” said Jonathan Crozier, an analyst at
WestLB in London. Still, deals in countries such as Russia --
where Finland’s  Tieto Oyj (TIE1V)  recently canceled a joint venture with
a local IT provider -- carry significant risk, he said.  Cap Gemini spent 233 million euros ($332 million) last year
for a majority stake in CPM Braxis, a Brazilian information-
technology provider, making it the market leader in the Latin
American country. Future acquisitions will be concentrated among
companies with between 50 million euros and 350 million euros in
annual revenue, Spence said.  Cap Gemini rose 57 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 39.89 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris today. The shares have
jumped 15 percent this year, giving the company a market value
of 6.2 billion euros.  Most of Cap Gemini’s sales are in the developed world.
France, the U.K., Ireland, and the Benelux countries accounted
for about 60 percent of  2010 revenue , or 5.16 billion euros,
compared with 21 percent, or 1.88 billion euros, from Asia
Pacific,  Latin America , and the rest of Europe. The company made
10 acquisitions last year, of which CPM Braxis was the largest.  ‘Smart Grid’  Energy- and water-management services are attracting
technology companies as utilities and governments look for ways
to increase efficiency.  Atos Origin SA (ATO) , the French provider
merging with  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s computer-services unit, last year set
up a separate subsidiary, Atos WorldGrid, to specialize in
“smart grid” energy networks that monitor and adjust electric
output. Utilities may spend as much as $46 billion on smart
grids by 2015, according to  ABI Research .  The logic of expanding energy and water services businesses
“applies into the transportation area, because as the migration
occurs from rural to urban there’s a tremendous opportunity” in
emerging markets, Spence said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  