-- 
Smurfit Investors Ask Judge to Block $3.5 Billion Buyout Bid bby Rock-Tenn

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-18T20:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/smurfit-shareholders-ask-delaware-judge-to-block-3-5-billion-buyout-offer.html
Smurfit-Stone Container Corp.
investors urged a judge to block a $3.5 billion buyout of the
packaging maker by  Rock-Tenn Co. (RKT)  because it doesn’t provide
enough for the company’s shares.  Smurfit-Stone directors didn’t properly shop around to get
the highest bid for the Chicago-based company and allowed Rock-
Tenn executives to include language in the deal to scare off
other potential suitors,  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for disgruntled
Smurfit-Stone shareholders, argued today.  “This company is worth a heck of a lot more” than Rock-
Tenn’s $35-a-share offer, Grant told  Delaware  Chancery Court
Judge Donald Parsons at a hearing. Parsons said he would rule on
the investors’ request to block the buyout by May 20.  Rock-Tenn, based in Norcross,  Georgia , agreed earlier this
year to buy Smurfit-Stone for about $35 a share, half in cash
and half in Rock-Tenn stock, according to court papers. The
combination would create North America’s second-biggest
containerboard producer after Memphis, Tennessee-based
 International Paper Co. (IP)   Third Point LLC,  Royal Capital Management LLC  and  Monarch
Alternative Capital LP , which collectively own about 9 percent
of Smurfit-Stone’s shares, have vowed to vote against the deal,
which the funds contend undervalues Smurfit-Stone. A shareholder
vote on the offer is set for May 27.  Smurfit-Stone’s lawyer countered today that the company’s
directors weighed at least one other buyout bid for the
container company and forced Rock-Tenn officials to bump up
their offer several times.  ‘Fell Down’  “There’s no evidence that these directors fell down on the
job,” William Savitt, a New York-based lawyer for the company,
told Parsons at a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware.  The  company , which makes paper-based packaging and
corrugated containers, has 12 paper mills, 110 container plants
and 29 reclamation plants, according to court documents. It has
operations in Canada, Mexico, China,  Puerto Rico  and the U.S.  Smurfit-Stone sought  bankruptcy protection  from creditors
in 2009 as a result of the economic decline in the U.S.,
officials said. The company emerged from Chapter 11 a year later
with a new board selected by its creditors’ committee, according
to court papers.  As part of its bankruptcy case, Smurfit-Stone wiped out
more than $3 billion in debt by giving shareholders 4.5 percent
of the reorganized company.  Takeover Target  Smurfit-Stone officials contend the company was a takeover
target while in Chapter 11 and took no steps to ward off offers
when it emerged from court protection.  “Smurfit-Stone erected no barriers to potential
acquisition, no staggered board, no poison pill” takeover
defenses, its lawyers noted in court filings.  Investors question whether financial incentives prompted
Smurfit-Stone managers and the company’s advisers to back Rock-
Tenn’s bid, Grant said today.  He noted that that retiring Chief Executive Officer Patrick J. Moore and other Smurfit-Stone managers stood to receive as
much as $38 million by backing Rock-Tenn’s offer. He also said
that New York-based  Lazard Freres & Co.  stood to gain as much as
$23 million in fees as the company’s financial adviser on the
deal.  “We contend that $23 million is still a lot of money to
Lazard,” said Grant, who is based in Wilmington. He
characterized the Rock-Tenn deal as a “quick fire sale.”  November Offer  Smurfit-Stone’s lawyers countered that company directors
turned down a $29-a-share offer from an unnamed private-equity
firm in November and didn’t publicly shop around for other
bidders for fear of damaging the container company.  Making a public inquiry for other offers could have
prompted executives to flee and created the impression in the
marketplace that Smurfit-Stone was “a wounded bird,” Savitt
said.  Smurfit-Stone officials acknowledged in a May 16 filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that some of
its financial advisers said in July 2010 that the company could
be worth as much as $52 a share.  Smurfit-Stone rose 77 cents, or almost 2 percent, to $39.52
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
risen more than 54 percent this year. Rock-Tenn rose $2.23, or
3.2 percent, to $72.01 on the same exchange.  The Chancery case is Marks v. Smurfit-Stone, CA-6164,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The bankruptcy case was
 Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. (SSCC) , 09-10235,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  