-- 
Bali Bomb Suspect Held in Pakistan May Reveal Terrorist Links, Jones Says

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 
2011-04-02T01:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/bali-bomb-suspect-held-in-pakistan-may-reveal-terrorist-links-jones-says.html
Pakistan ’s arrest two days ago of a
suspect in the October 2002 bombings in Bali, Indonesia, may
shed light on terrorist networks in the region, according to an
 International Crisis Group  adviser.  Pakistan notified Indonesian officials that it arrested a
man believed to be Umar Patek, who is accused of helping carry
out nightclub bombings that killed 202 people on the resort
island, Pakistani  Foreign Ministry  spokeswoman Tehmina Janjua
told reporters in Islamabad on March 31.  Patak’s arrest “does not mean an end to terrorist attacks,
only that his information may lead to better understanding of
networks and therefore more scope for preventive programs,”
Sidney Jones, a Jakarta-based senior adviser with Crisis Group,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Indonesia , a secular state with the world’s biggest
population of Muslims, has stepped up raids against terror
suspects since 2009 bombings at Jakarta’s JW Marriott and Ritz-
Carlton hotels killed nine people, including the two attackers.
Authorities have blamed Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda-linked
group, for bombings at hotels, nightclubs and embassies over the
past decade that have claimed more than 200 lives.  Authorities sent a team to Pakistan to examine Patek, who
was arrested along with his wife, Sutanto, head of the Indonesia
Intelligence Agency, told reporters in Jakarta two days ago. The
officers will verify his identity through comparing his DNA and
fingerprint records, Indonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa said.  Terrorist Links  Patek “will have information that everyone wants on the
nature of terrorist links between Pakistan and  Southeast Asia ,
between Indonesia and Mindanao, and perhaps between Mindanao and
the Middle East,” Jones wrote in the e-mail.  More than 500 U.S. Special Operations troops are in
Mindanao assisting Philippine troops in fighting terrorist
groups, according to an army  website . The U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation has  offered  a $1 million reward for Patek. Seven
U.S. citizens died in the 2002 Bali attacks.  If Patek is deported to Indonesia, he’ll need to be charged
for either murder or for illegal possession and use of
explosives because the country’s anti-terrorism law can’t be
applied retroactively, Jones said.  Police in 2002 described Patek as a Javanese Arab who lived
in Indonesian towns such as Solo, Yogyakarta and Pemalang. He
was accused of placing a getaway bike at a mosque to divert the
attention of police, Chief Investigator I Made Mangku Pastika
said at the time.  In September 2009, police killed militant leader Noordin Mohammad Top, who was suspected of involvement in every major
anti-Western attack in Indonesia since 2002. In March of the
same year they killed terrorist leader and suspected Bali bomber
Dulmatin and two others.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  