-- 
Commodities Rally on Demand Outlook as U.S. Stocks Advance, Bonds Retreat

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-05-18T20:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/asian-stocks-gain-on-earnings-growth-yen-slide-commodities-oil-advance.html
Commodities rose for the first time
this week amid signs of increasing demand, helping energy and
raw-material producers lead U.S. stocks to their first gain in
four days. Oil rallied following an unexpected drop in supplies,
while 10-year Treasury yields climbed from their 2011 low.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of commodities climbed 2.7
percent, led by wheat and lead, at 4 p.m. in New York. The  S&P
500 Index  rose 0.9 percent, extending gains after minutes from
the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting signaled policy makers were
in no hurry to raise interest rates. The pound weakened versus
all 16 major peers amid signs the Bank of England may refrain
from interest-rate increases in the near term. Ten-year yields
rose six basis points to 3.18 percent.  Raw materials will extend their rebound from the record
plunge in 2008 as an advance in oil and gold helps to compensate
for a retreat in base metal prices, said Ray Eyles, chief
executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s commodities business
in  Asia . U.S. crude supplies fell by 15,000 barrels last week,
the Energy Department reported today, defying analysts’ average
forecast of an increase of 1.7 million barrels.  “Commodity markets look bullish in the face of growing
demand in most of the world,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “Demand will pick up during the second half of this
year and next year. Buyers are waiting in the wings, and will be
for some time, waiting for dips.”  Commodity Rebound  The GSCI commodities index rebounded after falling 1.6
percent over the previous two days. Oil rose 3.3 percent to
$100.10 a barrel and gasoline climbed 1.2 percent to $2.9555 a
gallon. Gasoline inventories rose 119,000 barrels to 205.9
million in the week ended May 13. Supplies were forecast to
increase 950,000 barrels, according to the median of 16 analyst
responses in the Bloomberg News survey.  Wheat rallied 6.9 percent, corn advanced 4.1 percent and
cotton increased 3.1 percent as U.S. dry weather may curb
supplies. Lead climbed 6.1 percent.  Exxon Mobil Corp. rallied 1.7 percent to pace gains in all
41 energy companies in the  S&P 500 , while CF Industries Holdings
Inc. surged 4.4 percent to help lead raw-material shares higher.  The S&P 500 yesterday fell to a one-month low as a reduced
sales forecast at Hewlett-Packard Co. and an unexpected decline
in housing starts damped optimism about the economic recovery.
The measure slid 2.5 percent through yesterday since climbing to
an almost three-year high on April 29, as economic data began to
trail estimates and investors awaited the end of the Federal
Reserve’s $600 billion in Treasury purchases at the end of June.  Fed Minutes  Fed policy makers began to coalesce last month on a
strategy to reverse record monetary stimulus by first ending
their reinvestment policy and later raising  interest rates  and
selling assets. Almost all officials agreed that the “first
step toward normalization” should be ceasing reinvestment of
principal payments on mortgage debt that began in August, the
Federal Open Market Committee said in records of its April 26-27
session, released today in  Washington .  A majority preferred to sell the Fed’s securities after
raising short-term interest rates, and most wanted to put asset
sales on a preannounced schedule while using federal-funds rate
increases as an “active tool.”  ‘Party Has to End’  “They know the party has to end at some point soon but
there is no time yet on when,” said  Peter Boockvar , equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, in a note to
clients.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.3 percent, ending a
four-day slide. Rio Tinto Group advanced 1.5 percent, helping
lead gains among mining companies.  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) ,
the U.K.’s largest real-estate investment trust, surged 6.4
percent, the most in almost two years, as profit topped
estimates. Rivals British Land Co. and Hammerson Plc jumped at
least 3.2 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.9 percent, its best
gain in a month, after yesterday closing at the lowest level
since March 23. Russia’s Micex Index jumped 1.1 percent, buoyed
by higher oil and metals prices. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
jumped 1.6 percent as carmakers surged on speculation of higher
sales.  Declines in the pound were led by the South African rand
and  New Zealand dollar , which gained more than 1 percent each
versus the British currency. Minutes from the  Bank of England 
meeting this month showed policy makers voted 6-3 to keep
interest rates on hold this month as the majority warned that
tightening policy now could damp  consumer spending .  Kiwi, Krona  The New Zealand dollar strengthened 0.5 percent against the
U.S. currency as reports showed producer prices and  consumer
confidence  in the nation increased. Sweden’s krona appreciated
versus most of its most-traded counterparts after the National
Debt Office said that the country will have a larger budget
surplus than previously forecast this year because of state-
asset sales and as the economy continues to recover.  Credit-default swaps on  U.S. Treasuries  rose by the most in
a month as the government struggles to agree on a long-range
deficit-cutting plan as part of efforts to raise the $14.3
trillion national debt limit. Contracts rose from a six-week
low, climbing 5.2 basis points to 46.2, according to CMA prices
at 4 p.m. in  New York . That compares with 51.5 basis points Jan.
27 and a record 100 basis points in 2009.  Chances of a bipartisan accord on cutting the deficit
diminished after Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma
abandoned the talks yesterday. The parties are at an impasse,
with Republicans balking at increasing tax revenue and many
Democrats rejecting significant changes to entitlement programs.  European CDS  Swaps insuring European sovereign debt also rose, reversing
an earlier decline, after European Union politicians stopped
short of banning some of the derivatives. Swaps protecting Greek
 government bonds  jumped 173.7 basis points to 1,448.7, according
to CMA. Contracts on Ireland climbed 24.1 basis points to 635.3,
Italy increased 1.1 basis points to 148.3 and  Spain  was 2.1
higher at 237.9.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
securities instead of benchmark German bunds, the region’s
benchmark government securities, increased 15 basis points to
6.06 percentage points. Portugal sold 1 billion euros ($1.43
billion) of two-month bills at an average yield of 4.657
percent, the country’s debt management agency said. The auction
attracted bids for 2.1 times the amount offered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  