-- 
Bristol-Myers Interferon-Free Combo Cured Hepatitis Patients

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-04-02T16:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/bristol-myers-interferon-free-combo-cured-hepatitis-c-patients.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s cocktail
of two experimental drugs cured four hepatitis C patients in the
first success for a therapy that excludes often-toxic existing
drugs.  The combination had a higher rate of success when paired
with the current standard treatment in the 21-person trial,
curing nine of 10 patients, researchers said today at the Berlin
meeting of the  European Association for the Study of the Liver .
The  study  points to the next generation of drugs for the evasive
virus, said Mark Thursz, a professor of hepatology at  Imperial
College London  and vice-secretary of EASL.  Bristol-Myers, based in  New York , is among about a dozen
companies trying to make better drug combinations that either
include interferon, a decades-old shot that causes flu-like
symptoms and only works in half of patients, or that replace
interferon entirely. At stake is leadership in a market that
Jefferies International Ltd. estimates may total $15 billion a
year by 2019.  “This is perhaps one of the most exciting developments
this year,” Thursz said in an interview. “For some patients
who are not going to tolerate interferon, this is the light at
the end of the tunnel.”  Bristol-Myers plans to begin the last trials required for
regulatory approval this year, Douglas Manion, the drugmaker’s
head of neuroscience and virology research, said in an
interview.  Toughest-to-Treat  Today’s trial studied the Bristol-Myers drugs, BMS-790052
and BMS-650032, in patients for whom existing therapies hadn’t
been successful, “the toughest-to-treat population,” Manion
said.  Ten patients got the two drugs together with interferon and
generic ribavirin. All showed no sign of the virus 12 weeks
after the treatment was over. One patient had signs of virus at
24 weeks and was again virus-free in another follow-up test 35
days later.  Of 11 patients who took the Bristol-Myers combination
alone, five had cleared the virus from their bodies at the end
of treatment. Four remained virus-free after 24 weeks.  Patients may start treatment earlier if they aren’t faced
with the toxic side effects of traditional hepatitis C drugs,
said  Howard Liang , a Boston-based analyst for Leerink Swann &
Co., in an interview.  “If you have an interferon-free regimen, the market
expands fairly dramatically,” Liang said.  Side Effects  Side effects of the existing interferon regimen are often
severe enough to force patients to take time off work, said
Charles Gore, president of the Geneva-based patient advocacy
group  World Hepatitis Alliance .  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  of Basel,  Switzerland , sells a version of
interferon under the brand name Pegasys, while Merck & Co. of
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey markets a form called PegIntron.  Merck,  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  and Johnson & Johnson
are expected to bring the first new hepatitis C drugs in a
decade to the market this year. About 90 percent of patients who
responded quickly to treatment with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
Vertex’s telaprevir were cured, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Vertex said in two studies last year. Three-quarters of all
patients were cured. Patients who responded quickly to Merck’s
boceprevir showed similarly high cure rates in studies last
year, with about two-thirds of all patients being cured.  The Vertex and Merck trials included people who hadn’t yet
been treated, an easier-to-cure group than those in today’s
smaller study. By comparison, about 30 percent of those who
hadn’t responded to previous treatment were cured after trying
telaprevir plus standard therapy, researchers said.  Seeking Partners  Merck is seeking partnerships to gain its own hepatitis C
drug combinations, Patrick Bergstedt, general manager of the
infectious diseases franchise, said in an interview.  “We’re behind the others,” Bergstedt said. “We need to
partner to fill the gap.”  Bristol-Myers expects an “element of consolidation” as
companies use acquisitions, partnerships and research and
development collaborations to gain their own hepatitis C drug
combinations, Manion said. After signing a development deal with
Princeton, New Jersey-based  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS)  in January, Bristol-
Myers is “talking to pretty much every company out there,” he
said.  “This is like trying to redesign a car as you’re rolling
down the road at 100 miles per hour, because the data are coming
so fast,” he said. “What an exciting time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Frankfurt at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  