-- 
Brazil Mantega Seeks ‘Realistic’ Petrobras Plan, BNDES Says

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-05-18T20:43:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/petrobras-cuts-may-mean-more-realistic-growth-coutinho-says.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  asked  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s management to set a "more
realistic" investment plan and focus on efficiency, said  Luciano Coutinho , president of  Brazil ’s state development bank.  The state-controlled  oil company  is “trimming excess”
from its five-year investment plan as it continues to expand,
said Coutinho, who’s a board member at Rio de Janeiro-based
Petrobras. Any reduction in spending would be a “realistic
adjustment” and would allow the company to grow in a “less
aggressive” way, Coutinho told journalists in London today.
Mantega is also the chairman of the Petrobras board.  Petrobras Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said
yesterday the company may reduce spending as it revises a $224
billion investment plan. The company invested 15.9 billion reais
($9.8 billion) in the first quarter, down 11 percent from 17.8
billion reais in the year-earlier period.  “The capex of Petrobras is so large, it has such a number
of large projects simultaneously,” Coutinho said. “We put
pressure for the management to be very efficient, because if
you’re not efficient in operating your capex, your rate of
return in many of the projects will diminish.”  Petrobras’s board asked the company on May 13 to cut
investments by $35 billion after it presented a $260 billion
2011-2015 business plan, Rio de Janeiro-based O Globo newspaper
reported, citing officials at the company it didn’t identify.  Supply Bottlenecks  Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, and Petrobras face bottlenecks in terms of equipment
supply and labor shortages, Coutinho said. An increase in supply
is necessary for the mining and oil and gas industries, he said.  “Both Petrobras and Vale have very ambitious capex
programs,” Coutinho said. “It’s difficult to implement these
programs. Maybe they trim an excessive and not very realistic
investment plan. Moderation is good also in this area.”  Petrobras fell 1.2 percent to 24.10 reais. The shares have
fallen 12 percent this year, compared with the benchmark Bovespa
index’s 9.3 percent decline.  BNDES expects to lend about 145 billion reais this year,
compared with about 170 billion reais in 2010, Coutinho said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  London  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  