-- 
Audit Finds IRS Lacks Adequate Control on Energy Tax Credits

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-18T20:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/audit-finds-irs-lacks-effective-controls-on-energy-tax-credits.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  hasn’t
put in place effective procedures to prevent ineligible
taxpayers from claiming tax credits for energy-efficient
windows, doors and geothermal heat pumps, said a  government
audit  released today.  Auditors sampled 150 tax returns and found no record of
homeownership associated with 30 percent of that group. The
auditors also found instances in which prisoners or people too
young to purchase a house were claiming the credits.  For tax year 2009, taxpayers claimed more than $5.8 billion
of the energy credits, which were included in the 2009 economic
stimulus law, according to the audit.  “I am troubled by the IRS’s continued failure to develop
appropriate verification methods for distributing Recovery Act
credits,” said J. Russell George, the Treasury Department’s
inspector general for tax administration, or TIGTA.  In its written responses to the audit, the IRS said it
would change tax forms to require more information about credit
eligibility and would review a sample of the returns filed by
prisoners and underage people.  “Upon further review, many of the potentially erroneous
claims that TIGTA identified in this report were actually
legitimate claims by taxpayers that were entitled to the
credit,” Michelle Eldridge, chief of IRS media relations, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The IRS continues to audit claims as
warranted.”  Tax Incentives  The audit covered two types of credits. One was a 30
percent credit, capped at $1,500 for energy-efficient products
such as insulation, windows and doors. The other was an uncapped
credit for alternative energy equipment such as a geothermal
heat pump or solar hot water heater.  Lawmakers included the provisions to achieve the dual
purposes of injecting money into the economy and encouraging
taxpayers to invest in energy-efficient products.  “What we want to do is create incentives that stimulate
 consumer spending , because folks buy materials from home-
improvement stores like this one, which then buys them from
manufacturers,” President  Barack Obama  said in a 2009 speech at
a  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  store in Alexandria, Virginia.  “It spurs hiring because local contractors and
construction workers do the installation,” he said. “It saves
consumers money -- perhaps hundreds of dollars off their utility
bills each year -- and it reduces our energy consumption in the
process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  