-- 
Republican Plan to Expand U.S. Offshore Oil Blocked in Senate

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-18T20:06:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/senate-democrats-fault-pointless-republican-oil-drilling-plans.html
A Republican proposal to expand
offshore drilling was blocked in the  U.S. Senate , a day after
Democrats failed to advance legislation that would repeal $21
billion in tax breaks for five multinational oil companies.  Supporters of the legislation fell  18 votes  short today of
the 60 needed to advance, with five Republicans joining
Democrats in opposition. The tax repeal measure was  eight votes 
short of the required threshold yesterday.  Democrats said the Republican-backed offshore bill, which
sought to expand lease sales and speed approval of drilling
permits, ignored lessons from the 2010  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico and wouldn’t provide drivers relief at the pump.
The Republican-led House passed similar bills this month.  “You would think the BP spill never happened,” said
Senator Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat. “This bill is
pointless and dangerous.”  The blow out of BP’s well triggered an explosion that
killed 11 rig workers and unleashed about 4.9 million barrels of
oil into the Gulf, the largest spill in U.S. waters.  Republican Senators Jim DeMint of  South Carolina ,  Mike Lee 
of Utah, Richard Shelby of Alabama, Olympia Snowe of Maine and
David Vitter of Louisiana opposed the bill. Some party members
said the measure didn’t do enough to expand drilling.  No Democrats supported the bill. Senator Max Baucus, a
Montana Democrat, didn’t vote.  The failure of the two bills leaves Democrats and
Republicans divided on energy policy as drivers face gasoline
prices that nationally average about $4 a gallon.  Modest Effort  Republicans, who criticized Democrats yesterday for
singling out oil companies for tax increases, said their
legislation was a modest effort to raise oil production as
gasoline prices climb.  The measure sought to require lease sales in the  Gulf of
Mexico  and off the coasts of Virginia and Alaska, and set a
permit deadline with applications automatically approved if no
action was taken within 60 days.  Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said
the measure would “put downward pressure” on gas prices, help
alleviate dependence on foreign oil and create jobs.  The legislation promoted safety by requiring third parties
to verify response plans in the event of a spill and creating an
Energy Department task force to improve drilling practices,
McConnell said.  The measure would have extended leases for one year to
compensate for delays from the deep-water drilling moratorium
imposed by President Barack Obama after BP’s spill. That ban was
lifted in October. The Interior Department on May 17 said 10 oil
leases in the Gulf were extended to make up for delays.  ‘Notoriously Slow’  Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican, said she
wanted the legislation to do more, such as opening the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil and gas production.  The bill’s provisions would streamline a “notoriously
slow” bureaucracy and expand drilling, she said.  Democrats failed yesterday to advance the tax bill that
backers said would take away benefits oil companies don’t need
after posting first-quarter profits that exceed $30 billion.  The tax legislation targeted about $2 billion in annual tax
breaks for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving,  Texas ,  London ’s BP,
Houston’s  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,
 California , and The Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Democrats said they wanted to use the money for deficit
reduction. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid plans to try to
revive the measure in budget talks with Republicans, who are
trying to cut more than $6 trillion in spending.  Gasoline prices  averaged about $3.926 a gallon yesterday,
compared with $2.859 a gallon a year ago, the AAA reported
today.  The bill is S. 953.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  