-- 
Apple, Google, Smartphone Firms Risk EU Location-Data Curbs

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-18T19:57:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/apple-google-smartphone-firms-may-face-eu-location-data-curbs.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and other
smartphone technology companies may face tougher European Union
restrictions on the way they handle user-location data after
data privacy watchdogs said the information is private.  Information that could betray the location of devices such
as Apple’s iPhones and phones running Google’s Android software
must be treated as personal, requiring companies to comply with
European Union data protection law, EU privacy officials said in
a nonbinding opinion published today.  Users must be given “clear, comprehensive” and
understandable information about how, why and for how long their
data is processed, the so-called Article 29 Data Protection
Working Party said in the  opinion . Technology firms can use
location data to deliver targeted advertising and help customers
find nearby businesses.  Data protection officials in  Europe , including Germany and
 France , are investigating recent reports on the collection and
storage of location data on Apple’s iPhones. Apple and Google
last week defended their handling of user location before U.S.
lawmakers.  The opinion, dated May 16, said information collected
through the combination of a WiFi access point with a mobile
device’s location is also personal data, and subject to EU
privacy rules.  ‘Secret Monitoring’  Users of mapping and navigation programs running on their
phones and tablets should be protected from possible “secret
monitoring,” the group said. To do so it is “essential that
the device continuously warns that geolocation is ‘On’, for
example through a permanently visible icon.”  “We have seen the Working Party’s paper and we are
reviewing it closely,” Al Verney, a spokesman for  Mountain
View , California-based Google, said by telephone. “It’s worth
remembering that Google can’t identify anyone using WiFi header
information, nor would we want to,” Verney said.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call and an e-mail seeking comment. Apple has said in
statements it is “not tracking the location of your iPhone”
and “has no plans to ever do so.”  The Cupertino, California-based company said the iPhone
saves information on WiFi hotspots and cellular towers near a
handset’s current location, which helps the phone determine its
location when needed by the user.  Non-binding Opinion  The data officials use a “very black and white
interpretation of the law to something that is very gray,” said
Eduardo Ustaran, the head of the privacy and information group
at law firm Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP in  London .  While the opinion is nonbinding, it “confirms the position
of the regulators that are going to be policing compliance,”
Ustaran said. “It could potentially lead to sanctions
particularly if any infringements are seen to have an impact on
people’s privacy.”  Separately, a report published by researchers at a German
university said that it’s possible for hackers to intercept data
and information when Android users synchronize their phones with
Google’s calendar, Picasa photo-sharing and contacts services.
Bastian Koenings, Jens Nickels and Florian Schaub, the
researchers at the University of Ulm, posted the findings in a
report on the university’s Website today.  Google has fixed the problem in its latest Android 2.3.4
version, the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  