-- 
American Couples Get ‘More Selective’

-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-18T20:11:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/it-s-now-an-8-year-itch-as-divorce-takes-a-year.html
U.S. couples living together and
getting choosier about their prospective spouses is leading more
people to delay marriage.  Almost 47 percent of women from 25 to 29 had never been
married in 2009, almost double the 26 percent reported in 1986,
according to a  Census Bureau  report released today.  Based on a survey taken since 1986, the increase in the age
of couples at their first marriage is “one of the most
noticeable changes in marital patterns,” according to the
report.  “As marriage rates have decreased and cohabitation has
become more common, marriage has become more selective of adults
who are better off socioeconomically and have more education,”
the report said.  The  youngest brides  were most likely to be Hispanic, with
only 36.8 percent from 25 to 29 reporting that they’d never been
married. On the other end of the scale, 70.5 percent of black
women from 25 to 29 hadn’t been married.  Wedding consultants also have noticed that the father of
the bride isn’t as generous as he used to be, and daughters are
taking note.  “Getting married is a cost,” said Dena Davey, director of
marketing for the  Association of Bridal Consultants . “The
bride’s father used to pay that cost, but now we’re seeing it
split among families, or the couples are paying it themselves.”  Living Together  The New Milford, Connecticut-based group’s 4,000 wedding
planners are seeing fewer brides in their late 20s, Davey said
in a telephone interview. Couples are waiting longer to get
married because they’re living together first, she said, and
often must save money to pay for their wedding.  About 27 percent of women from 30 to 34 reported never
having been married in 2009, almost doubling the 14 percent who
hadn’t been married in 1986. The percentage of women older than
55 who had never married rose to 5.8 from 4.8 percent in that
period.  The median age at first marriage in 1950 was 23 for men and
20 for women. It’s now 28 for men and 26 for women, the Census
Bureau said.  The report showed marriages appear to be lasting longer,
with 55 percent of married couples together for 15 years or
longer. More than a third of those have reached their 25th
anniversary, and 6 percent have been married 50 years or more.  Seven-Year Itch  The length of time for marriages to unravel appears to have
stayed constant, around the classic seven-year itch. Couples who
divorce in their first marriage separate after a median period
of seven years, the  Census Bureau  said. The median time to the
official end of the marriage is eight years.  “I think it’s getting better,” said Lisa Beth Older, a
New York divorce lawyer. “For a garden-variety divorce, a year
is not really out of the question. But it’s still a slow-moving
process.”  Almost three of four couples are still in their first
marriage, the  Census Bureau  reported. Eight percent of married
couples consist of people in their second marriage, and 1
percent of married couples include a husband and wife who each
have been married three or more times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  