-- 
Lexus Trails German Rivals in U.S. Luxury Sales in First Quarter

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-02T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/lexus-trails-german-rivals-in-u-s-luxury-sales-in-first-quarter.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz topped
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus in the U.S. in March, marking a third
straight month the Japanese brand has failed to come out on top
after winning the annual luxury race for 11 years.  Mercedes U.S. deliveries, boosted by sales of its E-Class
and C-Class sedans, rose 9.4 percent to 21,484 compared to the
same month last year, the Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker
said yesterday in a statement. Lexus sales rose 2.3 percent to
20,682 from a year ago while  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
namesake brand reported a 12 percent gain to 20,295.  March’s results combined with January and February make
Mercedes the leader for the year so far by 729 sales over BMW
and 5,990 over  Lexus . Mercedes in the first quarter sold 53,346
vehicles. BMW, which is based in Munich, sold 52,617 and Lexus
47,356.  The results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars
and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  The ongoing disruption on factory operations in Japan
following last month’s earthquake means the Lexus brand may not
be able to retain its rank as the top-selling U.S. luxury brand,
 Mark Templin , head of U.S. Lexus sales, said yesterday.  “That may not happen as a result of production issues in
Japan,” he said in a conference call.  He declined to say whether he expected competitors such as
BMW and Mercedes-Benz to capitalize on the  Lexus  inventory
situation. “You’ll have to ask them,” Templin said.  Made In  Japan   All Lexus models, except for RX sport-utility vehicles, are
produced only in Japan. Templin said he’s getting daily updates
on what to expect in terms of inventory, without elaborating.  While Lexus has been the annual luxury leader in the U.S.
since 2000, the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker’s lead over
BMW shrank to 9,216 in 2010 as Toyota felt the effects of record
recalls last year.  Even before the earthquake, the brand had been hurt by a
lack of new vehicles while the German automakers have been
helped by aggressive leasing deals, said  Jesse Toprak , an
industry analyst with TrueCar.com, a website that tracks auto
sales.  “I don’t know if they care as much this year,” he said.
Toyota’s focus this year is “to make sure their supply-chain
issues -- due to what’s happening in Japan -- do not cost them
more than what it may have already.”  Cadillac Help  The situation might also help domestic brands, such as
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac, he said.  “By all means, whether it’s Mercedes or BMW or us, is that
an opportunity? Sure it is,” Kurt McNeil, Cadillac’s vice
president of sales, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Sales for GM’s Cadillac luxury division rose 4.5 percent to
12,164 last month, as CTS sales rose 36 percent aided by the new
coupe version.  Mercedes, which sets its production plans 60 to 90 days in
advance, has limited ability to take advantage of any Lexus
shortage, Ernst Lieb, head of Mercedes’s U.S. unit, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  “We can’t flip a switch quick enough to get more
production,” he said. “There might be a bit of shift in terms
share in these months but it’s limited.”  Nissan Motor Co.’s Infiniti sold 11,287 vehicles, a
14 percent increase from a year earlier, said Ben Poore, head of
U.S. sales for the brand.  Honda Motor Co., based in  Tokyo , said in a statement that
sales for its Acura brand rose 7.6 percent to 12,611 last month.  Lincoln, Europeans  U.S. deliveries of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand rose
14 percent to 9,818 vehicles, a record for March, the company
said in an e-mail.  Porsche SE, the Stuttgart-based automaker merging with
Volkswagen, sold 2,588, a 36 percent gain, the company said in a
statement.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold 8,501 Lincoln luxury vehicles in March,
a 2.2 percent decrease from a year earlier, according to a
statement from the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker.  Land Rover deliveries rose 26 percent to 3,441, while
Jaguar sales slipped 11 percent to 874, Mumbai-based  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT)  said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  