-- 
India Charges Reliance Telecom, Unitech, Swan Executives on Spectrum Sale

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 
2011-04-03T03:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/india-charges-ex-telecommunications-minister-raja-over-2g-spectrum-auction.html
(Corrects foreign exchange conversion in ninth paragraph of
story published April 2.)  Indian investigators charged
executives of three companies, including billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Telecom Ltd., and a former telecommunications
minister over a sale of second-generation mobile phone spectrum.  The charges will pave the way for trials in what may be
 India ’s biggest case of political corruption. In February, Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  agreed to a parliamentary probe into the
sale of the licenses after opposition protests paralyzed
legislation.  “It’s a step in the right direction,” said Kamlesh Bhatia,
principal research analyst at Gartner Inc. in Mumbai. “Industry
in India needs some level of regulation to be enforced.”  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , his
personal secretary R.K. Chandolia, former telecommunications
department secretary Siddhartha Behura, former DB Realty Ltd.
Managing Director Shahid Balwa, DB Realty Managing Director
Vinod Goenka and  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  Managing Director Sanjay Chandra,
were among those charged by the Central Bureau of Investigation
today, as well as Reliance ADA Group Managing Director Gautam Doshi and Senior Vice Presidents Hari Nair and Surendra Pipara.  The companies charged were Reliance Telecom Ltd., Unitech
Wireless and Swan Telecom Pvt., said A.K. Singh, a government
lawyer, outside a court in  New Delhi .  A Reliance ADA Group e-mailed statement said its three
employees deny the charges and have a legal presumption of
innocence pending the completion of a trial.  Resignation  Unitech spokeswoman Tanuja Kehar and DB Realty’s Goenka said
they couldn’t immediately comment on the charges.  Balwa hasn’t done anything “inappropriate or illegal,” DB
Realty said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange on March
29. Raja has previously denied any wrongdoing.  Raja resigned in November, two days before the nation’s
chief auditor said in a report that the second-generation
airwaves were sold in 2008 for an “unbelievably low” $2.7
billion, causing a loss of as much as 1.4 trillion rupees ($31.4
billion) to the nation. Raja, his personal secretary and an ex-
bureaucrat were arrested in February.  Raja and the other the former government officials were
charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The company
officials and companies were charged with “lesser offenses”
under statutes relating to conspiracy, cheating and forgery.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  has argued in court
that Raja conspired to benefit companies including the then Swan
Telecom, now known as Etisalat DB Telecom India Pvt., and
Unitech by violating guidelines in the license sale.  License Applications  The Comptroller and Auditor General of India said in a
report submitted to parliament on Nov. 16 that applications from
companies including Swan and Unitech should have been rejected
because they were ineligible.  Swan Telecom suppressed information and submitted false
documents in its license application, the auditor said, while
six companies belonging to the Unitech Group also fraudulently
suppressed facts in their license applications, “misleading”
the Department of Telecommunications in order to win licenses in
20 service areas, the report said.  Department of Telecommunications rules stipulate that an
operator can’t own 10 percent or more in another operator that
provides services in the same telecom zone.  Reliance Telecom “held only 9.9 percent of the equity
share capital of Swan Telecom at the time of filing the relevant
license application in March 2007,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement Feb. 13.  The company said “as per the provisions of the Companies
Act 1956, the preference share capital held by Reliance Telecom
in Swan Telecom is not to be included for purposes of
determining shareholding levels.”  The next hearing in the case will occur April 13.  Reliance Telecom is a wholly owned unit of  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the main company in Anil Ambani’s Reliance
ADA Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in Delhi at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  