-- 
Kazakhstan's Nazarbayev to Extend Rule in Election, Delay Succession Issue

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-03T12:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/kazakhstan-s-nazarbayev-to-extend-rule-delays-succession-issue.html
Kazakhs voted today in an election
that is set to extend President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s two-
decade rule in central  Asia 's biggest energy producer.   Nazarbayev, 70, who has been in power since 1989, called
 snap elections  two months ago after scrapping a referendum to
extend his term until 2020. Presidential elections were
originally scheduled for 2012.  The Kazakh leader, who is seeking a new five-year term, has
called for stability in the central Asian country after the
Middle East was gripped by turmoil that ousted the leaders of
Tunisia and  Egypt . Nazarbayev’s continued dominance and the lack
of an annointed successor increases risks for investors because 
it may complicate an orderly transfer of power when he eventually 
retires.   “I don’t see any inclination that he’s prepared to give up
power and part of the reason for that is that he doesn’t know
what will happen to him after he has left the presidency,” Anna
Walker, a Central Asia analyst at London-based Control Risks,
said in a phone interview.  Kazakhstan  was ranked as the 105th most-corrupt country out
of 178 surveyed, alongside Moldova and  Algeria , on Transparency
International’s 2010  Corruption Perceptions Index . The economy
may expand as much as 6 percent this year after growing 7
percent in 2010, the central bank said in January.  The president was named “leader of the nation” last year,
granting him immunity from prosecution for life and the power to
dictate policy after retirement.  Oil Rich  The nation holds about 3 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, according to BP Plc. Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, Eni SpA, OAO Lukoil and China National Petroleum
Corp. have a part of  $120 billion in investments  in the country,
which is also the world’s largest uranium producer.  Nazarbayev faces three other candidates in the presidential
contest, including Zhambyl Akhmetbekov of the Communist party,
Senator Gani Kasymov and Mels Eleusizov, head of the Tabigat
Ecological Union. All three have said they want Nazarbayev to
win, the 56-member Organization for Security and Cooperation in
 Europe , said in a March 25  report  that criticized “the lack of
participation of opposition parties” in the vote.  Eleusizov said today he had voted for Nazarbayev, the news
service Novosti-Kazakhstan reported from a polling station in
the commercial capital Almaty.  Balloting among the 9.1 million-strong electorate started
at 7 a.m. at 9,725 polling stations and was to end at 8 p.m.
Provisional results are due tomorrow.  ‘Pyramid Structure’  In Kazakhstan, where the opposition failed to win a single
seat in 2007 parliamentary elections, Nazarbayev retains
absolute control at the top of “a pyramid structure of vested
interests and patronage networks,” said Kate Mallinson, a
senior analyst at London-based political risk evaluator GPW.  Nazarbayev has plans to take part in the presidential poll
in  2016 , Yermukhambet Yertysbayev, the president’s adviser, said
in February. Two months earlier, the aide had said the president
might remain in power through 2022 because of his “excellent
intellectual and physical  shape .”  “There was no way to have a worthy opponent to Nazarbayev,
as there was no real presidential election race,” said Olzhas
Smailov, a 21-year-old student in Almaty, who said he put in a
blank ballot in protest.  Nuken Mukhamediyev, 59, who receives sickness benefits,
said he had voted for the president because of the lack of a
real alternative.  ‘Not Very Good’  “Nazarbayev isn’t young already, but other Kazakh
politicians aren’t worth his little finger,” Mukhamediyev said.
“It’s not very good that there is only one strong politician in
Kazakhstan.”  The  Development Bank  of Kazakhstan, a state-owned lender
that promotes industry, in December cited the lack of a clear
successor to Nazarbayev as a risk factor in a $2 billion bond
prospectus.  “The main question that worries everyone in Kazakhstan --
elites, citizens and investors -- is what will happen in terms
of the power succession,” Dosym Satpayev, director of the
Kazakhstan Risks Assessment Group, said by phone. “The issue of
succession must be solved in the next five years. Otherwise he
won’t be able to keep what he built in the last 20 years, all
that will fall to pieces.”  ‘Has to Move On’  While Nazarbayev deliberately hasn’t chosen any successor
to avoid weakening his authority, the time will come when the
president is going to have to step aside at some point in the
next few years because of either ill health or old age, said
GPW’s Mallinson.  “Investors are having to weigh up the reputational and
financial advantages of doing business in Kazakhstan because the
current regime eventually has to move on,” she said. “Until
the day he is actually prepared to leave the stage, no one is
going to know exactly who is actually going to succeed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  