-- 
Netanyahu Urges UN to Cancel Goldstone Report on Gaza

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-02T18:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/netanyahu-urges-un-to-cancel-goldstone-report-on-gaza-1-.html
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
urged the  United Nations  to “immediately cancel” a report on
Israel’s 2008-2009 conflict with Hamas after the panel’s head,
 Richard Goldstone , wrote he was reconsidering the findings.  “Everything we said has proven to be true: Israel did not
intentionally harm civilians, its institutions and investigative
bodies are worthy, while Hamas intentionally fired upon innocent
civilians and did not examine anything,” Netanyahu said today.  The Gaza Strip conflict began in late December 2008 as
Israel said it sought to stop rocket attacks from Hamas on
southern Israeli communities. The Islamic militant Hamas group,
which rules Gaza, is designated as a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Israel declined to cooperate with the panel led by
Goldstone, a former UN prosecutor and South African judge. The
commission, appointed by the Geneva-based  UN Human Rights
Council , accused Israel and Hamas of  war crimes  and called on
them to investigate the charges.  An Israeli probe rejected the allegations that the Jewish
state committed war crimes.  “We know a lot more today about what happened in the Gaza
war of 2008-09 than we did when I chaired the fact-finding
mission appointed by the UN Human Rights Council that produced
what has come to be known as the Goldstone Report,” Goldstone
wrote in an article published by the Washington Post yesterday.
“If I had known then what I know now, the Goldstone Report
would have been a different document.”  He said Israel’s investigations of incidents “indicate
that civilians were not intentionally targeted as a matter of
policy.”  The Islamic Hamas movement said 1,450 Gaza residents were
killed in the 22-day conflict.  Israel  put the number of
Palestinian deaths at 1,166 and said 13 Israelis were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 