-- 
Nigerian Legislative Elections Delayed Two Days After Ballots Arrive Late

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-04-02T16:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/nigerian-legislative-elections-delayed-two-days-after-ballots-arrive-late.html
Nigeria , Africa’s top oil producer,
delayed legislative elections scheduled to start today until
April 4 due to the late arrival of voting materials, the head of
the electoral commission said.  “There’s insufficient time for voting materials to reach
all the polling centers,” Attahiru Jega, head of the
 Independent National Electoral Commission , told reporters today
in Abuja, the capital. Because the ballot stations that had
opened were still accrediting voters, “the stoppage hasn’t
affected voting.”  At stake in the national legislative vote in Africa’s top
oil producer are 109 senate seats and 360 seats in the  House of
Representatives . The main opposition parties, Action Congress of
Nigeria and the Congress for Progressive Change, aim to cut the
majority the People’s  Democratic Party  won in both houses four
years ago by saying it failed to reduce poverty, corruption and
violence.  “In the circumstances it was best to postpone,” Clement Nwankwo, executive director of the Abuja-based  Policy and Legal
Advocacy Centre , which is monitoring the electoral process, said
in a phone interview today from Abuja. “It would’ve been more
grievous if the elections had gone on because it would’ve been
inconclusive.”  Oil Exporter  More than 50 people have died in election-related violence
since July, according to  Amnesty International , while sectarian
clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at least 200
since Dec. 24. In a March 3 attack, at least 10 people died when
explosives were hurled at a rally of President Goodluck Jonathan’s PDP in the town of Suleja.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of
 France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Since Nigeria’s return to civilian government in 1999 after
15 years of military rule, the PDP has presided over the
spending of more than $300 billion in oil export revenue. During
that time income disparities have widened, with 54 percent of
the population living on less than a dollar a day, about 22
million citizens, illiterate, and maternal mortality of 800 per
100,000 live births, a rate among the highest in the world,
according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  Presidential Vote  The vote is a prelude to the presidential contest next week
that pits Jonathan against 18 rivals, including former military
ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the ex-head of the anti-graft agency,
 Nuhu Ribadu , who is the candidate of the Action Congress of
Nigeria. A week after that, voters choose the governors and
legislatures of Nigeria’s 36 states.  “There’s massive disappointment all around,” Jibrin
Ibrahim, director of the Center for Democracy and Development,
an Abuja-based group that campaigns for good governance, said
today of the election cancellation by phone.  “Yet I hear
people say they prefer to be told the truth than be deceived
that things are going well.”  The delay challenged the electoral commission to preserve
the “integrity of the ballot” in parts of the country where
voting had already started, Governor Tunde Fashola of Lagos
state, which includes the country’s commercial capital, said
today on Lagos TV. “Some people have voted, I voted.”  Violence  The concern about sectarian and election-related violence
has sparked domestic demand for foreign currency, central bank
Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a March 15 interview in Abuja.
That has weakened the naira, which reached an 18-month low
against the dollar on March 17.  “People want to see a smooth transition, a free and fair
election before they bring back the money,” he said.  While an armed insurgency in the Niger River delta that cut
more than 28 percent of the nation’s oil output from 2006 to
2009 remains relatively quiet, parts of the north have been hit
by a mounting campaign of violence by Islamic militants inspired
by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement.  Elections in 2003 and 2007 were marred by violence, voter
intimidation and the stuffing of ballot boxes.  Jonathan pledged a more transparent vote this year and won
plaudits by appointing Jega, a respected academic, to head the
electoral commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 