-- 
NYSE Owners Reaping Bidding War Benefits After Trailing S&P 500 Since 2006

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-02T00:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/nyse-owners-reaping-bidding-war-benefits-after-trailing-s-p-500-since-2006.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  has become one of the
stock market’s biggest winners in 2011, helped by speculation of
a bidding war for the 219-year-old bourse.  NYSE Euronext shares have posted the 13th-biggest gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year, rising 32 percent,
after  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s $9.26 billion takeover agreement was
countered with an $11.3 billion bid from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
The stock is up 155 percent since the market bottomed on March
9, 2009, compared with a 97 percent advance in the  S&P 500 ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors and analysts say the gains may not be over
because Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse, seeking to create the
world’s largest exchange operator, has room to boost its all-
stock proposal and rivals such as  CME Group Inc. (CME)  may be lured
in. NYSE Euronext shares have trailed the S&P 500 by more than
45 percentage points since its first trading session as a public
company in March 2006.  “Having people fight over you is obviously a good thing,”
said Stephan Petersen, a Minneapolis-based senior equity analyst
at Thrivent Asset Management, which oversees $70 billion. “I
would not be surprised if Deutsche Boerse comes back with a
modestly better offer and tries to shoot down the Nasdaq-ICE bid
based on what they may call optimistic assumptions in terms of
the cost savings.”  Best Combination  Deutsche Boerse’s bid for NYSE Euronext is “the best
possible combination for both shareholder groups and the
stakeholders of the companies,” Deutsche Boerse said in a
statement. Richard Adamonis, a NYSE Euronext spokesman, declined
to comment.  Michael Shore , a spokesman for CME, said the company
is focusing on its “core business.”  Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s unsolicited bid pushed NYSE Euronext
up 13 percent to $39.60 in  New York , while Nasdaq OMX rose 9.3
percent to $28.23 for the biggest gain since March 2009.
Atlanta-based ICE slumped 3.1 percent to $119.75, and Deutsche
Boerse slipped 1.4 percent to 52.81 euros.  The owner of the New York Stock Exchange has climbed 19
percent since Feb. 8, the day before the New York-based company
and Deutsche Boerse said they were in merger talks. Deutsche
Boerse has slid 8.1 percent.  Nasdaq OMX of New York and ICE offered about $42.50 in cash
and stock for each NYSE Euronext share, according to a statement
yesterday, topping Deutsche Boerse’s February all-stock
agreement to purchase NYSE Euronext that valued the company at
$35.44 a share as of 8:13 p.m. in New York yesterday.
Yesterday’s bid from Nasdaq OMX and ICE is now worth $42.92.  World’s Largest  As part of the deal, ICE would purchase NYSE Euronext’s
Liffe futures markets, while Nasdaq OMX would keep its U.S.
options markets. The Deutsche Boerse deal, valued at $9.53
billion when announced in February and now worth $9.26 billion,
would create the world’s largest exchange operator with venues
in the U.S. and  Europe .  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. bourse operator, and
ICE said they will eliminate about $740 million in expenses in
three years. That’s 74 percent more than Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Boerse predicted in its all-stock agreement with NYSE
Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer in February.  The combination would give Nasdaq OMX a monopoly on listing
corporations in the U.S., world’s largest capital market. That
is likely to raise  Justice Department  concerns that the deal
would be anticompetitive, said Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at
the University of Iowa College of Law in Iowa City.  ‘Threshold of Illegality’  If antitrust regulators limit their analysis of a combined
exchange to the U.S. market, the merger would be “way over the
threshold of illegality,” Hovenkamp said in a phone interview.
The proposed acquisition poses less of a problem should the
Justice Department view the deal in the context of the worldwide
market for listed stocks, he said.  NYSE Euronext is studying the proposal, according to a
letter from Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  to
employees contained in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “NYSE Euronext has always been committed to our
shareholders, and board will consider the new proposal and do
the right thing for our shareholders and other stakeholders,”
he wrote. “In the meantime, we remain fully committed to our
previously announced deal with Deutsche Boerse.”  Jeff Sprecher, ICE’s chief executive officer, has been
involved in bidding wars before. His unsolicited bid for the
Chicago Board of Trade in 2007 forced the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange to raise its stock offer three times, eventually
boosting it by 25 percent, from the original bid in October 2006
to July 2007 when shareholders approved the deal.  Adding Value  The Merc originally offered 0.3006 shares for each CBOT
share, and ended with offering 0.375 shares. The value the Merc
paid increased by about $3.2 billion to $11.2 billion from the
originally offered $8 billion.  “The Board of Trade shareholders have to thank Jeff
Sprecher and ICE for stepping in when they did, and to thank the
many people who said they wouldn’t vote for the CME bid unless
it was higher,” Nickolas Neubauer, a former chairman of the
Board of Trade and a shareholder, said on the day the deal was
approved.  The derivatives business of NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche
Boerse  alone would have been worth $24.7 billion, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg during the February merger talks. That’s
more than the companies’ combined capitalizations before the
discussions were announced. By creating the world’s largest
futures exchange controlling 40 percent of U.S. options, the new
entity would have offset revenue declines in equities.  ‘Global Battle’  “This is a global battle with derivatives being the key
factor,” said Donald Ross, the Cleveland-based global
strategist for Titanium Asset Management Corp., which manages
$9.5 billion. “The bidding war has just begun. Deutsche Boerse
has to come back with something if they want play a role in this
new world.”  NYSE Euronext has fallen 63 percent from a record peak of
$108.96 in November 2006. Losses in market share and pricing
spurred by competition in equities trading weighed on the price,
according to Michael Wong, a Chicago-based analyst at
Morningstar Inc.  “Besides volumes being under pressure from competitors,
you also had pricing decreasing,” Wong said. “It was the loss
of market share to trades going off of the exchanges and the
newly anointed exchanges,” such as Bats Global Markets and
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, that cut into profits.  Issuing Shares  Christopher Harris, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., wrote
in a report yesterday that Deutsche Boerse could pay up to $48 a
share for NYSE Euronext “before diluting the deal.” Deutsche
Boerse may add cash to the offer instead of issuing shares that
would lower its 60 percent stake in the combined company,
according to Peter Lobravico, vice president of merger arbitrage
trading and sales at Wall Street Access in New York.  “Putting cash in instead of bumping the ratio seems more
likely,” Lobravico said. “That alternative would make sense
because Deutsche Boerse’s share has come off and you’re more
inclined to use your shares as currency when they’re trading at
higher levels, not lower levels.”  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext’s share of futures
trading would top the proportion at CME, according to exchange
data compiled by Bloomberg. The merger would combine three of
the nine U.S. options exchanges.  While CME may want to buy the European futures business of
NYSE Euronext, that deal would hinge on whether it could get
approval from European antitrust authorities, according to James Angel, a professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington . CME
may want to bid to increase costs for competitors, similar to
the way Greifeld may be trying to force Deutsche Boerse to raise
its offer, he said.  “From a raw bidding perspective, if I were an NYSE
shareholder, I would say, ‘Give me more,’” Angel said. “It
looks like NYSE shareholders are going to get a better deal than
they were a couple days ago. It’s a win-win situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 Ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 