-- 
Obama Tells Lawmakers Time Is ‘Running Short’ to Avoid Government Shutdown

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-02T21:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/obama-tells-lawmakers-time-is-running-short-on-budget-deal.html
President  Barack Obama  called the
top two congressional leaders today, saying that time is
“running short” in reaching a deal on the U.S. budget and
avert a government shutdown after April 8.  The president conferred with Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  and Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  to
review the progress on budget negotiations, the White House said
in a statement. Obama also directed White House negotiators to
work with Congress over the weekend.  “The president highlighted the progress that has been made
but made clear that this process is running short on time, and
he urged both sides to reach a final solution and avoid a
government shutdown that would be harmful to our economic
recovery,” the statement said.  Lawmakers have passed $10 billion in cuts thus far for the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30. House and Senate negotiators,
joined by the White House, are considering plans to raise that
total to about $33 billion.  “The president made clear that we all understand the need
to cut spending,” the statement said. He remains opposed  to
spending cuts that would harm programs in education, energy
innovation and infrastructure, according to the White House.  Obama also reiterated opposition to inserting policy goals
into the budget talks, such as a ban on funding for Planned
Parenthood, which helps provide abortions, or money for  National
Public Radio , which are being supported by Tea Party activists
and some House Republicans.  Obama said those are ideological goals “that have nothing
at all to do with reducing spending or reducing the deficit,”
according to the statement.  Boehner said in the Republican radio and Internet address
earlier today that the federal government needs to do more to
cut spending as a way to encourage job growth.  “To support  job creation  in America, we need to keep the
cuts coming,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at   or
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 