-- 
Qaddafi's Regime Seeks Talks With U.K., U.S. as Rebels Fight for Oil City

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   W a l i d   e l - G a b r y
-- 
2011-04-02T20:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/qaddafi-s-regime-seeks-talks-with-u-k-u-s-as-rebels-fight-for-oil-city.html
Western officials are continuing
military strikes and diplomatic pressure in Libya in an effort
to oust dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  while avoiding a stalemate that
might draw NATO allies further into the six-week-old conflict.  Qaddafi’s regime is open to talks to find an end to the
conflict, according to a former Libyan prime minister, and
British officials reportedly met with a senior aide to one of
Qadaffi’s sons. The British foreign office declined to confirm
the meeting.  “We’re not going to give a running commentary on every
contact we have with Libyan officials and any contact we have we
send very strong messages about the need for Colonel Qaddafi to
step down and our views of the Qaddafi regime,” a foreign
office spokesman said today in a telephone interview from
 London .  Mohammed Ismail, a senior aide to one of Qaddafi’s sons,
has held talks with British authorities in recent days, the New
York Times reported, citing an unidentified friend of the aide,
and the U.K’s Guardian newspaper.  “We are trying to talk to the British, the French and the
Americans to stop the killing of people,” Abdul Ati al-Obeidi,
the former prime minister, told Britain’s Channel 4 News from
Tripoli. “We are trying to find a mutual solution.”  Risk of Stalemate  Libyan rebels struggled to take and hold the country’s
central cities and oil installations. They have battled
Qaddafi’s troops for more than a month for control of Brega and
other strategic cities in the center of  Libya  including Ajdabiya
and the oil port of Ras Lanuf. Two weeks after the U.S. and its
allies intervened to enforce a United Nations mandate for a no-
fly zone, the risk of a protracted conflict has increased.  “We have considered the possibility of this being a
stalemate and being a drawn out affair,” U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  said at a congressional hearing this week. “It’s
hard for me to imagine circumstances in which we would be
content to deal with or tolerate a government that still had
Qaddafi at its head.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization stepped up its
enforcement of the no-fly zone, conducting 74 strike missions in
the past 24 hours. NATO said it was “looking into” reports
that at least 13 rebels were killed when their convoy was
mistakenly hit by allied bombing early today near the oil town
of Brega.  No Exact Details  NATO said in an e-mailed statement that “we take every
care to protect civilians” and “exact details are hard to
verify because we have no reliable source on the ground.
Clearly, if someone fires at one of our aircraft, they have the
right to defend themselves.”  “Unfortunately, the rebels were not organized, and there
were some individuals from Qaddafi’s troops among them,” Abdel
Fatah Younis, head of the rebellion’s military efforts and
former Libyan interior minister, according to  Al Jazeera . “One
of them opened fire at one of the coalition’s jets and escaped.
The coalition thought that was from an enemy so five minutes
they bombed the rebels.”  U.S. and U.K. officials have pledged they won’t send ground
troops into Libya to help the rebel forces.  Special Forces  U.S. and Egyptian special forces are training rebels in
eastern Libya, Al Jazeera said, citing a rebel fighter.  Egypt  is
supplying the rebels with heat-seeking Katyusha rockets, al-
Jazeera reported today. U.S. State Department Spokesman Noel Clay declined to comment on the report.  “We don’t comment on special forces,” a U.K. Ministry of
Defence spokesman said by telephone today from London. “There
are no plans at the moment to put ground troops in and that
would take a lot of discussion before that happens.”  Crude oil fluctuated after climbing to a 30-month high in
 New York  yesterday. Futures rose above $107 a barrel for the
first time since 2008. Crude oil for May delivery rose $1.22
cents to $107.94 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Oil is up 26 percent from a year ago.  The conflict in Libya, which began as a wave of anti-
government protests similar to those in Egypt and  Tunisia ,
escalated into armed conflict as the country’s army split and
some soldiers joined the rebels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 Afitzgerald1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  