-- 
Rooney Hat-Trick Gives Manchester Utd. 4-2 Win Over West Ham; Arsenal Ties

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-02T18:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/rooney-hat-trick-gives-manchester-utd-4-2-win-over-west-ham-chelsea-ties.html
Wayne Rooney ’s second-half hat trick
led Manchester United to a 4-2 come-from-behind victory over
West Ham in English soccer’s Premier League.  Javier Hernandez  also scored as United overcame a 2-0
halftime deficit at Upton Park in east  London . The victory
increases the Red Devils’ lead at the top of the standings to
seven points over Arsenal, which drew 0-0 at home with Blackburn.  “We played like champions today; we kept our heads up and
didn’t lose faith in our ability,” United manager  Alex Ferguson 
told  Sky Sports . “We dominated that second half and it was a
real championship performance.”  Birmingham beat Bolton to move out of the three relegation
places at the bottom of the standings, West Brom beat Liverpool
2-1, and Newcastle defeated Wolverhampton 4-1. Chelsea drew 1-1
at Stoke, Everton and  Aston Villa  tied 2-2, while Wigan and
Tottenham finished goalless.  Mark Noble scored twice with penalty kicks for West Ham,
which drops back into the relegation spots. The first came in
the 11th minute after  Patrice Evra  handled the ball, and the
second followed 14 minutes later after Nemanja Vidic tripped
Carlton Cole at the edge of the area.  Rooney started the rally in the 65th minute when he curled
in a free kick from about 25 yards. The England striker tied the
game eight minutes later by firing a low shot past goalkeeper
Robert Green and completed his hat trick six minutes later from
the penalty spot after Matthew Upson was judged to have handled
the ball.  Winless Run  Hernandez, who came on as a substitute to start the second
half, closed the scoring with a goal in the 84th minute.  Arsenal’s title hopes were dealt a blow by the draw with
Blackburn, which played the 14 minutes with 10 men after Steven
Nzonzi received a red card.  It was the third consecutive tie against a team in the
bottom half of the league for Arsenal, which had a 15-7
advantage in shot attempts. Blackburn’s Michel Salgado cleared
Nicklas Bendtner’s header off the goal line in the 88th minute to
keep the game scoreless.  Kevin Phillips and Craig Gardner scored as Birmingham moved
out of relegation, two points above West Ham, by beating Bolton.
The victory ended a fourth-match winless run for the Blues.  Chris Brunt scored twice from the penalty spot, the second
with two minutes remaining, as West Brom beat Liverpool. The
Baggies are unbeaten in five games under manager  Roy Hodgson ,
who left Liverpool in January after just six months in charge.  Kevin Nolan, Shola Ameobi, Peter Lovenkrands and Jonas Gutierrez scored in Newcastle’s rout of Wolves, which remains in
the relegation zone. Third-place Chelsea fell 11 points behind
 Manchester United  after its draw at Stoke, while Leighton Baines’s 82nd-minute penalty gave Everton the home draw with
Aston Villa. Wigan earned a point with its home draw against
Tottenham but still remains in last place.  Fulham hosts Blackpool and Sunderland visits  Manchester
City  in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  