-- 
Target Sales Miss Estimates as Gas Prices Pare Shoppers’ Budgets

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-18T20:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/target-first-quarter-profit-rises-2-7-.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S.
discount retailer, posted first-quarter revenue that missed
analysts’ projections as rising gas prices curbed shopping
trips.  Total revenue rose 2.2 percent to $15.9 billion, the
Minneapolis-based company said today. That compared with the
$16.1 billion average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income climbed 2.7 percent, bolstered by the credit-card
business.  Retail gasoline prices have climbed 28 percent this year,
prompting some customers to pare budgets as economic growth
ebbs. While Chief Executive Officer Gregg Steinhafel squeezed
profit growth from the credit-card business, the division could
be sold as soon as this year.  “If you operate from a standpoint that the credit card
business is going to be sold later this year, what are you left
with?” said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst for Wall Street Strategies
Inc. in  New York . “You are left with a retail business with a
gross margin that isn’t stabilizing.” Sozzi recommends buying
the shares.  The credit-card unit, which the company decided to sell in
January, generated 28 percent of Target’s net income. Profit
rose to $689 million, or 99 cents a share, in the period ended
April 30.  Target fell 82 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $49.96 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have dropped 17 percent this year compared with a 2.3 percent
gain for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer.  Bad Debt Expenses  The credit-card business performed better than expected,
helping to counter softer-than-anticipated sales, Steinhafel
said today on a conference call.  Expenses for bad debt declined to $12 million from $197
million a year ago, helping boost profit in the credit card unit
75 percent to $194 million. Revenue in the unit declined 18
percent to $355 million.  Target has boosted sales through its REDCard, which offers
a 5 percent discount off purchases, and adding PFresh food
departments to stores. The two initiatives added more than a
percentage point to same-store sales, which rose 2 percent last
quarter.  “In the retail segment, driving sales continues to be our
biggest challenge and number one priority,” Steinhafel said.
Health-care products and food sold well during the quarter while
electronics and home products struggled, he said.  Price Increases  Same-store sales are likely to improve throughout this
year, Chief Financial Officer Douglas Scovanner said on the
conference call. Those gains may come as Target raises prices in
apparel and home goods to make up for higher fabric and oil
prices, the company said.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , said yesterday
that sales at U.S. locations open at least a year dropped for an
eighth straight quarter. Customers are making fewer trips to
stores because of the increase in fuel prices, U.S. stores chief
 Bill Simon  said.  Target is vying with dollar stores, as well as Wal-Mart,
for cash-strapped customers. Confidence sank to a six-week low
last week, again because of escalating fuel costs, according to
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  Steinhafel is looking beyond Target’s home turf to spur
sales growth, with plans to open 150 sites in Canada by 2014.
The expansion, the retailer’s first outside the U.S., may
eventually help push sales past $100 billion, Target said in
February. The company separately reported its Canadian segment
for the first time today, citing $11 million in start-up
expenses. Wal-Mart entered  Canada  in 1994 and has more than 300
stores there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  