-- 
Portable Wi-Fi Drive Turns IPad Into Cineplex: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-05-18T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/portable-wi-fi-drive-turns-ipad-into-cineplex-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Smartphones and tablets excel at
playing movies and other media on the go, but suffer from one
big drawback: They don’t hold all that much.  While the flash memory chips they use for storage take up
much less space and power than traditional hard drives, they are
also much more expensive on a per-byte basis.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s 64-
gigabyte iPad 2, for example, costs $200 more than the 16
gigabyte model.  But what if you weren’t limited to 16 or even 64 gigabytes?
What if, for that same $200, you had access to, say, 500
gigabytes? That would be enough to store not just a part of your
media library, but the whole thing -- as many as 300 full-length
movies, for example. And what if you could share all this
content with others nearby?  That’s the idea behind the GoFlex Satellite, a new mobile-
storage device from hard-disk maker  Seagate Technology Plc. (STX)  The
Satellite is a battery-powered drive that wirelessly streams
videos, music and photos to phones, tablets and even laptops.
I’ve been using it for a week or so now and generally like it,
despite some shortcomings and glitches.  The  Satellite  looks like a conventional external hard
drive, the kind you might toss into your computer bag. It’s the
size of a paperback book and weighs about nine ounces. And it
comes with a variety of cords and connectors, including power
adapters to recharge it from a wall outlet or car’s cigarette
lighter.  Speeding the Process  To copy your movies, music and photos, you’ll first attach
the Satellite to your Windows PC or Mac using the included
cable. The Satellite uses the new  USB 3.0  standard, which will
speed up the process if your computer supports it; if not, it’s
also compatible with the older USB 2.0.  In my tests, the copy process turned out to be the most
problematic part. When I listed the drive’s contents, it showed,
erroneously, that each file had been written hundreds of times.
The company concluded that the unit was defective and sent me a
second one, which worked fine. Still, it took the better part of
an hour to copy my not-very-extensive library from my Mac using
a USB 2.0 connection. The process isn’t difficult, but it isn’t
fast either.  One you get all your files onto the Satellite, though,
actually using it is a snap. The drive shows up in the settings
of your tablet or mobile phone as a wireless network, and you
simply select and log into it as you would a Wi-Fi router or
mobile hotspot. You can require a password, just as you would on
a Wi-Fi network, or leave it open, and your content wirelessly
streams from the hard disk straight to your mobile device.  Long Range  The only caveat is that your media has to be in a format
your device can play; the Satellite won’t convert it for you.
While Seagate claims a wireless range of about 150 feet, I was
actually able to do even better.  The Satellite allows up to three simultaneous users, and
they don’t have to be doing the same thing. I was able to watch
different videos on an iPad and mobile phone at the same time,
with no stuttering or loss of picture quality, while smoothly
scrolling through photos on a second phone.  Seagate offers free apps for iPhones, iPads and, this
summer, phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system,
but you don’t actually need them. Almost any Wi-Fi-equipped
device with a browser will do. Once you connect to the
Satellite, your browser automatically takes you to a homepage
that displays the drive’s contents.  No Internet  That brings up one of the Satellite’s tradeoffs: When
you’re connected, you lose  Internet access . Voice calls and
texting still work on a phone, but if you’re streaming a video
and want to, for example, check your e-mail, you’ll first have
to go back into your device’s settings and log off the
Satellite, or turn it off.  Another limitation is battery life. Seagate claims the
Satellite can provide up to five hours of continuous streaming;
in my tests, running a high-definition movie, I got closer to
four. You’ll find that car adapter indispensible, particularly
if you’re trying to keep a couple of kids amused in the back
seat.  The apps provide additional functionality, including tools
to help organize and search your videos, photos and music. Most
important, they allow you to copy a media file onto your phone
or tablet for later viewing even when you’re no longer connected
to the Satellite.  Overall, the GoFlex Satellite is a useful concept with a
few rough edges. If you’re the type with a limited number of
songs and a few flicks from the iTunes store, a gadget like this
probably isn’t worth the $199.99. But if you’ve got a huge
collection and want it accessible wherever you are, the
Satellite means you can take it with you after all.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 