-- 
Securities Corp. Seeks to Join Madoff Trustee JPMorgan Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-02T21:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-02/securities-group-seeks-to-join-madoff-trustee-s-6-4-billion-jpmorgan-suit.html
The Securities Investor Protection
Corp., which initiated the liquidation of Bernard Madoff’s money
management firm, told a judge it has a “right to be heard” in
trustee Irving Picard’s $6.4 billion suit against  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)   SIPC lawyer  Kevin Bell  made the assertion in a letter to
U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , according to a filing
yesterday in Manhattan federal court. Picard has alleged
JPMorgan aided in Madoff’s $20 billion Ponzi scheme. The New
York-based bank, which is trying to move the case to U.S.
district court from U.S. bankruptcy court, has said it may
object to SIPC’s participation in the case.  Picard’s suit raises “unsettled” questions of common and
commercial banking law that are beyond the expertise of a
bankruptcy court, JPMorgan said in court papers.  The trustee and SIPC disagreed with the bank, saying in
court filings the bankruptcy court is well-versed in the case.
They noted that the court presides over more than 1,000 lawsuits
filed by Picard that seek to return money to Madoff investors.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment made after regular
business hours.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He’s serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  A note on the court docket said the clerk doesn’t accept
letters for filing and instructed SIPC lawyer Bell to write
directly to the judge.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  