-- 
South Africa’s Opposition Ahead of ANC in Early Municipal Vote Counting

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-18T20:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/anc-wins-57-1-in-first-voting-station-result-opposition-da-gets-42-9-.html
South Africa ’s opposition Democratic
Alliance took an early lead in votes counted from today’s
municipal elections that may see the ruling  African National
Congress  lose control of some towns and cities.  With 10,796 votes tallied from 95 polling stations, mostly
in areas where the opposition has had strong support in recent
elections, the DA has 49.2 percent of the vote while the ANC has
42 percent, according to data posted by the  Independent
Electoral Commission  in  Pretoria , the nation’s capital. There
were 23.7 million registered voters and almost 29,000 polling
stations across the country.  “These are very early results,” DA leader,  Helen Zille ,
60, said in an interview in Pretoria. This share of the vote is
“not realistic across the country. At the last election we had
16.6 percent. I’ll be very pleased if we can make progress from
there.”  The ANC’s leading role in ending white rule helped it
secure more than 60 percent support across the country in every
election held since the first all-race vote in 1994. Now
opposition parties are capitalizing on discontent over a 25
percent jobless rate and the fact that about a quarter of the
nation’s households lack proper sanitation.  The DA, which has been wooing black voters by campaigning
in poor townships across the country, aims to win municipalities
governing the cities of Pretoria, Johannesburg and  Port
Elizabeth  for the first time, and retain control of  Cape Town .
The ANC runs seven of the country’s eight biggest urban areas.
Port Elizabeth is run by the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality, an
authority named after South Africa’s first black president.  Attracting Black Voters  “For the DA the imperative is to increase its share of the
popular vote,” Aubrey Matshiqi, a political analyst at the
Center for Policy Studies, said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg today. “They need to maintain their momentum. If
they go anywhere near 20 percent that would show they are able
to attract new black voters.”  The ANC, led by former party intelligence chief  Jacob Zuma ,
69, is backed by 59 percent of voters, down from 66 percent in
2009, according to a survey of 2,050 likely voters interviewed
by survey company Ipsos Markinor since mid-April. The DA is
supported by 19 percent.  The ANC won outright control of 200 of South Africa’s 283
municipalities in 2006, while the DA won seven and formed ruling
coalitions in 11 others. Last year, the Independent Democrats,
which won 0.9 of the national vote in 2009’s parliamentary
elections, agreed to disband and merge with the DA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  