-- 
Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Futures Soar as U.S. Planting Delays Threaten Yields

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-18T19:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/corn-soybeans-wheat-futures-soar-as-u-s-planting-delays-threaten-yields.html
Corn futures rose the most in six
weeks, wheat had the biggest gain in two months, and soybean and
rice prices surged as adverse weather from  North Dakota  to
 Louisiana  to Europe threatened to erode crop production.  In the U.S., corn  planting  was 63 percent complete as of
May 15, down from the 75 percent average in the past five years,
as soggy fields hindered fieldwork, mostly east of the
Mississippi River and in northern states, government data show.
Spring-wheat, soybean and rice sowing also were behind the pace
of recent years. The Ohio Valley and North Dakota will see more
rain this week, AccuWeather Inc. said.  “The weather looks to be a little more threatening on
planting progress,” said  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst at
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in  Minneapolis . “Western
Minnesota,  South Dakota  and North Dakota could start seeing
clouding conditions today, and rain starting as early as tonight
and into tomorrow.”  Corn futures for July delivery climbed 29.5 cents, or 4.1
percent, to settle at $7.4975 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade. Earlier, the price rose by the exchange
limit of 30 cents. The grain has more than doubled in the past
year on tightening global supplies and increasing demand from
ethanol producers and livestock farmers.  The U.S. is the world’s leading exporter of corn, soybeans
and wheat and the third-largest rice shipper.  Adverse Weather  Wheat futures for July delivery surged 53 cents, or 6.9
percent, to $8.17 a bushel in Chicago, the biggest jump since
March 17. The price has climbed 75 percent in the past year as
drought slashed crops in  Russia  and threatened production in the
U.S. Great Plains.  Wheat futures in Minneapolis rose 6.4 percent, and prices
in Paris gained 4.6 percent.  Europe ’s crop, making up a fifth of global output, is under
threat in the U.K.,  France  and  Germany  from the driest growing
conditions in at least 36 years. France, the world’s second-
largest exporter, may produce 12 percent less this year than a
year earlier, Agritel, a Paris-based farm adviser, said.  “There’s fear of what the actual world situation of wheat
is going to be, and what the actual supply is,” said Dennis Delaughter, the owner of Progressive Farm Marketing Inc. in
Edna,  Texas . “Everyone has been talking about the dry situation
on the EU side.”  In the U.S., 36 percent of  spring-wheat  crops had been
planted as of May 15, compared with the average of 76 percent
for the previous five years, according to the Department of
Agriculture. Wet weather is delaying fieldwork in Manitoba and
Saskatchewan, the Canadian Wheat Board said today.  Soybean futures for July delivery rose 38.5 cents, or 2.9
percent, to $13.795 a bushel on the CBOT, the biggest gain this
month. The oilseed has climbed 47 percent in the past 12 months.  Mississippi Floods  Rice futures for July delivery jumped by the exchange limit
of 50 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $14.89 per 100 pounds, the
largest increase since April 25. The price has gained 6.7
percent in the past week.  Flooding along the  Mississippi River  may cut planting in
Mississippi and  Arkansas , the biggest U.S. grower, by 100,000 to
300,000 acres, Delaughter said. The USDA already has forecast
that the nation’s output will decline 10 percent this year to
6.77 million metric tons from a year earlier.  “No doubt we’ll see a lower supply than what the USDA had
on its last supply-and-demand report,” Delaughter said. “We
obviously have a serious problem.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  