-- 
‘Transformers’ Sequel Sets July 4 Box Office Record With $116.4 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-07-05T23:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/-transformers-is-weekend-s-top-movie-with-97-4-million-in-ticket-sales.html
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon”
collected $115.9 million in ticket sales in U.S. and Canadian
theaters during the four-day July 4th weekend, the largest-ever
opening for a movie during the U.S. holiday.  The romantic comedy “Larry Crowne,” starring  Tom Hanks 
and  Julia Roberts , finished fourth in its debut, taking in $16.1
million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  “Dark of the Moon,” the third film in the series from
 Paramount Pictures , was helped by 3-D tickets, which command
higher prices. Three-dimensional screenings accounted for 60
percent of revenue for “Dark of the Moon,” Hollywood.com said.
The latest “Pirates of the Caribbean” and “Kung Fu Panda”
movies sold a smaller proportion, raising concerns consumers
were growing tired of the format.  “It marks a bounce back for 3-D,” said Gitesh Pandya, an
editor at BoxOfficeGuru.com. “In the last few months we’ve seen
3-D get rejected.” Positive word of mouth for “Transformers”
helped build sales through the weekend, according to  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com Box-Office.  The movie tallied $88.2 million over three days to squeak
past the $115.8 million four-day July 4 weekend record set by
“Spider-man 2” in 2004. It also set a record in the  Imax Corp. (IMAX) 
widescreen format, generating $23.1 million worldwide, according
to a company statement.  3-D  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger
Tides” and  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s “Kung Fu Panda 2”
both generated less than half of domestic sales from 3-D
showings, Merriman Capital analyst Eric Wold said in a June 29
note. 3-D tickets cost about $3 extra per seat.  For the first night in theaters on June 28, Paramount
Pictures decided to show “Transformers” only in 3-D to
convince audiences the format was worth the extra price, Don Harris, executive vice president and general sales manager for
the studio, said in an interview.  Viewers will pay the increased cost “if you make a movie
that should be in 3-D and you do it well, which happened here,”
Harris said.  “Dark of the Moon,” which opened officially on June 29,
has generated $180.7 million in domestic sales, Hollywood.com
said. The film was projected to earn about $180 million through
July 4, according to Pandya. It cost $195 million to make,
according to Box Office Mojo.  In “Dark of the Moon,” evil Decepticon robots renew their
war against the benevolent Autobots and their human allies.  Shia
LaBeouf  returns as Sam Witwicky, a young man befriended by the
Autobots. English model Rosie Huntington-Whiteley replaced Megan Fox, co-star in the first two films, as Sam’s love interest.  ‘Cars 2’  The first “Transformers” in 2007 and 2009’s
“Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,” were shown in 2-D only.
Combined, they took in $1.55 billion in worldwide ticket sales
for Paramount, a unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIA) , according to Box Office
Mojo.  Among returning films, “Cars 2,” from Walt Disney’s
Pixar, fell to second from first with sales of $31.6 million
over four days.  In “Cars 2,” racer Lightning McQueen and tow truck Mater
head overseas so that McQueen can compete in the World Grand
Prix auto race.  Owen Wilson  and Larry the Cable Guy (Daniel
Lawrence Whitney) provide the voices of McQueen and Mater.  The film, a sequel to the 2006 hit, has taken in $122.6
million since its June 24 release.  “Bad Teacher,” the R-rated  Sony Corp. (6758)  comedy featuring
 Cameron Diaz  as a foul-mouthed educator, dropped to third from
second with sales of $17.3 million.  Justin Timberlake , Jason
Segel and Lucy Punch co-star.  ‘Larry Crowne’  “Larry Crowne” is from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal
Pictures, and stars Hanks as a middle-aged man who goes to
college after being laid off from his job at a giant retail
outlet. Roberts plays the burned-out teacher with whom he forges
an unlikely friendship.  Hanks and Roberts don’t have the same bankability they had
in the 1990s, Pandya said. Bad reviews and a weak premise also
hurt the movie.  “I’ve seen the film, and it is, in fact, boring,” he said.  “Super 8,” the Steven Spielberg-J.J. Abrams collaboration
in its fourth weekend, came in fifth with $9.5 million over four
days. It has generated $110.1 million to date.  The weekend’s other new film, the  News Corp. (NWSA)  comedy “ Monte
Carlo ,” opened in sixth place with sales of $8.6 million in
four days, Hollywood.com said. The story follows three young
American women who find adventure on a trip to  Europe . They are
invited to a chic ball after one is mistaken for a British
socialite. The film stars Selena Gomez and Leighton Meester.  Weekend Totals  Revenue for the top 12 films rose 6.2 percent for the
three-day weekend to $191.8 million from a year earlier,
Hollywood.com said. Over four days, sales slid 4.7 percent to
$228.8 million.  Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 8.2
percent to $5.27 billion. Attendance is down 9.6 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
1-4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  