-- 
Thailand’s Baht Rises, Stocks May Gain as Pro-Thaksin Party Wins Election

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-03T22:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/thailand-s-stocks-baht-may-rise-as-pro-thaksin-party-claims-election-win.html
The  Thai baht  rose after allies of
exiled former premier  Thaksin Shinawatra  won a majority in
yesterday’s election. Thailand’s stocks may climb, according to
UOB Asset Management (Thailand) Co. and BBL Asset Management Co.  Pheu Thai, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, was
expected to win 264 seats in the 500-member parliament with more
than 98 percent of the vote counted, defeating the Democrat
party of Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  with 160 seats,
according to Election Commission data. After Abhisit
congratulated Yingluck on “becoming the next prime minister,”
the defense minister said the army accepted the result.  Investors have sold Thai stocks and the baht over the past
month on concern a disputed result would spark violence. The
decisive win by Thaksin’s allies may bring stability to a nation
beset by clashes between his supporters and opponents that
claimed more than 100 lives since the last vote in 2007.  “The stability of the new government is very important for
both local and foreign investors,” said Voravan Taraphum, chief
executive officer of BBL Asset, a unit of  Thailand ’s biggest
lender, which oversees about $4.9 billion of assets. “The
return of overseas investment into Thai stocks will help the
baht appreciate.”  Thailand’s baht rose 0.4 percent to 30.68 per dollar as of
7:41 a.m. in Sydney.  Global funds sold $884 million more Thai equities than they
bought in June, the second month of net sales and the biggest
monthly sell-off since January, according to stock exchange
data. The benchmark SET Index fell to a three-month low on June
27.  Pre-Election Slide  “Pheu Thai’s majority victory is positive for the
economy,” Vana Bulbon, chief executive officer of UOB Asset
Management (Thailand) Co., which oversees the equivalent of $1.8
billion of assets, said by phone yesterday. “It will let them
control key economic ministries, allowing better coordination
and implementation of policies. Politics has been the key risk
discouraging overseas investors from putting more money into
Thailand.”  The SET may gain as much as 3 percent today, said Jitra Amornthum, head of research at Finansia Syrus Securities Pcl.  The stock measure traded at 11.7 times estimated 2011
earnings, compared with 13.6 times for the MSCI  Asia  Pacific
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Thai index
dropped 3 percent in June, the third-worst performance in Asia,
while the baht fell 1.4 percent against the dollar during the
period, the worst performance. The baht reached a five-month low
of 31.01 on June 28, according to Bloomberg data.  Assessing Risk  A military crackdown on protests by Thaksin’s supporters
last May sparked arson attacks and violent clashes, claiming
about 90 lives. The supporters occupied Bangkok’s commercial
district, forcing a closure of some shopping malls and offices.
In 2008, a seizure of Bangkok’s airports during a protest by
Thaksin’s opponents disrupted trade and stranded thousands of
tourists.  Some overseas investors may be more cautious about buying
Thai assets because of concern that Pheu Thai’s election victory
may not bring an end to political instability, said Takahide Irimura, head of emerging-market research at Tokyo-based Kokusai
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $57 billion of assets
including Asia’s biggest debt fund.  “Investors are worried if there will be any repetition of
protests, violence or other kinds of political problems that may
hinder the nation’s economy or financial markets,” Irimura
said. “So, they want to reduce their positions on Thailand and
see a direction of where it’s going or a degree of such risks.”  Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power in 2008.
Abhisit told his supporters that Pheu Thai plans an amnesty for
Thaksin, allowing him to return to the Southeast Asian country
and reclaim more than $1 billion in seized wealth.  Court Rulings, Coup  “I hope that we will accept the decision by the majority
of Thais in this election,” Thaksin told Thai PBS television
station late yesterday by phone from Dubai. “If you don’t
respect the decision of most people, the country can’t have
peace.”  The Election Commission will certify winning candidates
within 30 days, after which Parliament will meet to pick a prime
minister, according to spokesman Paiboon Lekprom.  Thaksin-backed parties have won as much as 49 percent of
seats in four previous elections dating back to 2001, only to
see the last three results overturned through court rulings and
a coup.  Pheu Thai pledged to provide guaranteed prices for farmers,
increase minimum wages, maintain policies to encourage foreign
direct investment and take measures to curb accelerating
inflation. Consumer prices held near a 32-month high in June,
gaining 4.06 percent from a year earlier, government data show.  Higher  Interest Rates   The Bank of Thailand has raised the benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate four times this year to 3 percent to contain
price gains and signaled further increases are likely as rising
food and energy costs add to inflation pressure. The  finance
ministry  said last week it expects gross domestic product to
expand by a maximum 5 percent this year.  Even after the worst political violence in almost two
decades, both Thailand’s key stock index and the currency were
the second-best performers in the region last year, with a 41
percent gain and 11 percent appreciation, respectively, as the
economy grew at the fastest pace since 1995.  The SET Index fell 0.6 percent in the second quarter, the
gauge’s first quarterly loss since March 2009, while the baht
posted its second quarterly decline, losing 1.6 percent. The SET
Transportation & Logistics Index dropped 12 percent last
quarter, the most among industry groups traded on the Thai
bourse.  “I don’t expect overseas investors will react negatively
in the short term because they already factored this in by
selling Thai equities in the past month,” said Jitra, from
Finansia Syrus in Bangkok. “The election delivers a clear
picture that Pheu Thai will head the new government with a
strong mandate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  