-- 
Taiwan Jobs Sucked to China by Failure to Mimic Singapore Economic Model

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-07-04T05:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/taiwan-jobs-sucked-to-china-by-failure-to-mimic-singapore-economic-model.html
A decade ago, Wu Wen-nan earned $726
a month at a  Taiwan  factory run by Foxconn Technology Group,
maker of Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads. Today, he peddles
magazines and takes handouts from a charity.  “I lost my job after the company moved production lines to
China,” said Wu, 47, as he sold copies of “Big Issue”
magazine by a Taipei subway stop. Homeless for much of the past
year, he’s been unemployed since losing his Foxconn job 10 years
ago. “I don’t have the skills needed for the big change.”  Wu belongs to a generation of Taiwanese who relied on the
island’s success as a manufacturing center, from clothing and
Mattel Inc.’s Barbie dolls in the 1960s to computers and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  mobile phones in the past three decades. Policy makers’
slowness in easing investment rules and boosting finance,
transport and tourism has hampered the creation of new jobs and
restrained income growth.  As warmer ties with former civil-war foe China encourage an
exodus of factories to the lower-cost mainland, Taiwan’s failure
to develop new growth industries has caused it to fall behind
Singapore and Hong Kong. That has bolstered opposition claims
that the economic embrace with China championed by President Ma Ying-jeou has hurt workers. He is running neck-and-neck with
opposition leader Tsai Ing-wen ahead of the January election.  “Taiwan has done too little, too late,” said Chu Wan-wen,
a research fellow in Taipei at government-funded institute
Academia Sinica and author of “Globalization and the Taiwan
Economy.” “Taiwan’s competence in the service sector is quite
limited because it opened up the sector too late.”  Winners, Losers  The risks have partly been masked by a rebound in exports
since the 2009 global recession, including a surge in shipments
to the mainland that helped stimulate one of the world’s fastest
expansions last year. Overseas sales are equal to more than two-
thirds of the economy of Taiwan, home to the world’s biggest
contract makers of semiconductors and laptop computers.  While electronics manufacturers including HTC and Foxconn
benefit from producing at a lower cost on the mainland and
reaching the Chinese market, Taiwanese companies tied to the
domestic market, such as retailer  Uni-President Enterprises
Corp. (1216) , have reported smaller sales gains.  Uni-President, Taiwan’s biggest food supplier based in
Tainan, posted 18 percent revenue growth in 2010. By contrast,
Foxconn’s flagship company, Taipei-based Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., had a 53 percent sales increase.  Job Market  HTC, which overtook  Finland ’s Nokia Oyj this year as the
world’s third-largest phone maker by value, reported record
profit and sales for the three months ended March 31. The
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based smartphone maker said today it posted
second-quarter revenue of NT$124.4 billion ($4.3 billion),
beating the NT$118.9 billion average of 20 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The island ended a mainland-investment ban in 1991. Since
then, officials have approved 38,685 projects, creating an
estimated total of at least 7.7 million jobs in China, data
compiled by the Economy Ministry’s Investment Commission show.
Foxconn alone employs more than 1 million people in China. By
comparison, Taiwan had 2.9 million manufacturing jobs as of May.  Taiwan’s unemployment rate of 4.4 percent, while less than
half that of the U.S., compares unfavorably to competitor
economies. It’s more than twice as high as  Singapore ’s and
exceeds levels in Hong Kong and  South Korea , which along with
Taiwan form the International Monetary Fund’s group of newly
industrialized economies.  Joblessness is about four times higher than a low reached
three decades ago, while  household income  adjusted for inflation
was lower in 2010 than in 2000.  ‘Structural Problem’  “It’s not a cyclical problem, it’s a structural problem,”
said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London  and a former adviser on China to the U.K. Treasury. “A
lot of big employers have moved across the  Taiwan Strait , and
there have not been enough new job creations to offset that.”  Manufacturing’s share of gross domestic product fell to
26.3 percent last year from 30.4 percent in 1991. Factory jobs
accounted for 27 percent of total employment last year, from 35
percent in 1987. Fixed-asset investment growth on the island
averaged 0.06 percent annually in the 10 years through 2010,
versus 7.5 percent in the previous decade.  While Singapore and  Hong Kong  have also seen a decline in
the importance of manufacturing to their economies, Singapore
has lured pharmaceutical and biotechnology investments, and
opened two casinos, to spur growth. Hong Kong has attracted
China’s biggest companies to list on its stock exchange.  English Lacking  “The government needs to speed up to shift its economy
from low-margin, low-value manufacturing services to high-margin,
high-value services,” said Wu Chung-Shu, chief economist at
Taipei-based Chinatrust Commercial Bank and a former consultant
at the  Asian Development Bank .  Another competitiveness hurdle is a relative lack of
English compared with Hong Kong and Singapore, which were
British colonies.  Wu, the former Foxconn worker, said “I don’t have a good
education, I don’t know English.”  “Taiwan isn’t a very internationalized place,” said Scott Chen, an economist at Bank SinoPac in Taipei. “Its English
proficiency trails behind that in Hong Kong and Singapore, and
when multinationals want to set up their Asia centers, Taiwan is
always a low priority.”  Stocks to Buy  Ma, 60, is trying to stoke growth by allowing more Chinese
tourists to visit as he aims for re-election on a platform of
improved economic ties with  China . Taiwan allowed organized
Chinese tour groups to start coming in 2008 and on June 28 let
individual travelers from the mainland visit for the first time
in more than six decades. The tourism bureau expects visitors
from its neighbor to increase about 29 percent this year to as
many as 2.1 million.  The Taiex Tourist Index, which tracks eight companies, has
surged 30 percent in the past year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The benchmark Taiex stock index has climbed 20
percent, while the 33-member Other Electronic Industry Index has
gained 2.2 percent.  “We are expecting the contribution of mainland visitors to
Taiwan’s service sector to pick up exponentially,” said Donna Kwok, an economist in Hong Kong at HSBC Holdings Plc.,  Europe ’s
biggest bank. “Not only do we expect them to spend more on
retail, but increasingly a future avenue of growth could include
mainland visitors spending more in terms of medical services,
education services, and other services inside the economy.”  Big Neighbor  Ma’s opening to the mainland includes reductions in
barriers to commerce, with a trade deal signed in June 2010 that
will cut tariffs on more than 800 products this year and boost
access to services including banking, securities and insurance.  China, which views Taiwan as part of its territory, is the
island’s closest market. Its population of 1.3 billion dwarfs
Taiwan’s 23 million. Relations between the two have historically
been strained since the Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the
island after being defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communists in 1949.  The deepening in ties with the mainland hasn’t been
universally welcomed. The opposition rallied tens of thousands
of people in the capital in June 2010 to protest the Taiwan-
China trade accord that took effect this year, saying it will
damage the local economy and undermine the island’s autonomy.  DPP presidential candidate Tsai, 54, has benefited from the
growing dissatisfaction among Taiwanese voters, with the most
recent polls showing a statistical dead heat. Ma would get 44
percent of votes to Tsai’s 39 percent, the TVBS survey of 1,158
adults conducted June 16 to 20 showed. It had a 2.9 percentage
point margin of error.  Fallen Behind  A former student at the  London School  of Economics, where
she earned a doctorate in law, Tsai has yet to specify her own
economic program or outline how she would boost jobs.  “My main concern with Taiwan is that the world has totally
changed and their mindset has not changed yet,” said investor
 Jim Rogers , chairman of Rogers Holdings, adding that he hasn’t
invested in Taiwan “in a while.”  “Other Asian countries like Singapore have opened up so
much more,” he said. “Taiwan, because of its history, while
it’s changing dramatically, unbelievably has still not opened
its economy fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  