-- 
Yingluck Forms Five-Party Coalition to Widen Mandate After Voting Success

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-04T13:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/thaksin-party-wins-thai-election-in-defeat-of-bangkok-elite-.html
Yingluck Shinawatra, set to become
 Thailand ’s first female prime minister, announced the formation
of a five-party coalition to broaden the mandate she won in
elections and head off concerns that violence might erupt over
the fate of her exiled brother, ex-premier  Thaksin Shinawatra .  Yingluck called for “unity and reconciliation” at a press
conference in Bangkok, where she announced the 299-seat
coalition. Thaksin, who was ousted in a 2006 coup, earlier told
reporters in Dubai that he had no immediate plans to return.  Yingluck’s clear victory -- her Pheu Thai party won 265
seats in the 500-seat parliament -- may ease concern about
political strife after Thaksin’s opponents overturned the last
three election results. Key to sustaining a rebound in investor
confidence, after the nation’s stocks and currency surged today,
will be how Yingluck approaches addressing historical conflicts
surrounding her brother.  “This is the next step that needed to be taken to get
Thailand on the right track,” said  Michael Montesano , visiting
research fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asia Studies in
 Singapore , referring to respecting the results of the election.
“There are many steps ahead and the country is bitterly
divided.”  The baht rose 1 percent to 30.49 per dollar at 2:52 p.m. in
Bangkok, the biggest gain since February 2008. The currency
retreated the past two months in the run-up to the election,
when global funds were also net sellers of Thai equities.  Baht, Stocks Jump  The benchmark SET Index rose 3.5 percent to 1,077.77 in
Bangkok trading, the most since May 2010. Companies linked to
Thaksin, including SC Asset Pcl and M Link Asia Corp., surged
more than 12 percent. Shin Corp. Pcl,  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) 
and Thaicom Pcl, telecommunication companies formerly controlled
by Yingluck’s family, also jumped.  “We should see some stability for a while and that should
be good for the market,” said Kongkiat Opaswongkarn, chief
executive officer of  Asia Plus Securities Pcl (ASP) , Thailand’s third-
biggest brokerage. “This is a landslide victory.”  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  resigned today as party
leader and the defense minister said the army accepted the
result. His Democrat party had 159 seats, Election Commission
spokesman Paiboon Lekprom said. The commission will certify
winning candidates within 30 days, after which Parliament will
meet to pick a prime minister.  Red Shirt Blockade  The election marks a repudiation of the country’s ruling
elite, which views Thaksin as a threat to the monarchy, and an
endorsement of the man at the center of a feud that has divided
Thailand for the past decade.  Thaksin supporters, known as  Red Shirts , blockaded parts of
Bangkok in the past two years to push for an election after
smaller parties in 2008 switched sides in a parliamentary vote
to give the premiership to Abhisit. The protests last year
killed 91 people.  “It’s not as much a vote for Thaksin as a vote against the
manipulation, coercion and suppression that we’ve seen since
2006,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute
for Strategic and International Studies at Chulalongkorn
University in Bangkok. His opponents “can’t just take them down
like they did last time. If they do, the backlash from Pheu Thai
voters will be severe, it will be just cataclysmic this time.”  Defense Minister Prawit Wongsuwan last night reiterated a
pre-election pledge by the army that it wouldn’t stage a coup,
like it did against Thaksin in 2006. Yingluck said she would
“definitely hold discussions with the army” after becoming
prime minister.  Military Advice  Prior to yesterday’s vote, army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha had
urged voters not to pick the “same thing” in elections, the
last four of which have been won by Thaksin loyalists. Speaking
after exit polls forecast victory for Pheu Thai, Thaksin told
Thai PBS television that if the results weren’t respected then
“the country can’t have peace.”  Pheu Thai’s victory may raise the prospect of a return by
Thaksin, 61, who fled a 2008 jail sentence for abuse of power
and has shaped Pheu Thai’s strategy from exile in Dubai.
Thaksin, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest mobile-phone
company, remains popular among poorer Thais in the north and
northeast of the country who recall his decision to provide them
with affordable health care and cheap loans.  Pheu Thai won 153 of 195 seats in the north and northeast
yesterday, while the Democrat party won 73 of 86 seats in
Bangkok and the south, according to unofficial results from the
Election Commission.  ‘Too Old’ to Return  Thaksin told reporters in Dubai that he was “too old” to
return as prime minister.  “Going back is not a main concern, not a top priority,”
he said. “I should be part of the solution, not the problem”  Thaksin’s opponents, located largely in the better-off
urban areas, view him as a corrupt billionaire who shifted power
away from the traditional elites and poses a threat to  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , who ascended the throne in 1946. Abhisit
told his supporters before the election that Pheu Thai plans an
amnesty for Thaksin that would allow him to return home and
reclaim more than $1 billion in seized wealth.  Thaksin’s opponents, who wear yellow shirts as a symbol of
their allegiance to the king, blockaded parliament and shut down
Bangkok’s airports in 2008, disrupting trade and stranding
thousands of tourists. The army refused to disperse them as they
pushed for the Thaksin-allied government to resign. Courts have
disbanded two parties tied to Thaksin and disqualified two prime
ministers allied to him since his ouster.  Minimum Wage  Yingluck, 44, pledged last night to implement the party’s
campaign policies, which include almost doubling the  minimum
wage  in some parts of the country to 300 baht ($10) per day, and
distributing tablet computers to students.  The “big-ticket spending” may boost the economy while
increasing concerns about inflation and fiscal discipline, said
 Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-based economist at Standard Chartered
Plc. The Bank of Thailand “is still likely to continue its
tightening cycle in the upcoming policy meeting in order to curb
inflation expectations, barring any deterioration in the
political situation,” she said by phone.  Thai inflation held near a 32-month high in June after food
prices increased, the Ministry of Commerce said July 1. The Bank
of Thailand last month raised the nation’s benchmark interest
rate for the fourth straight time to 3 percent, and signaled
further increases may be needed to curb rising prices.  Corporate Veteran  Yingluck, who has one son, earned a master’s degree in
public administration in 1990 from Kentucky State University in
the U.S. While she has little political experience, having been
drafted into the campaign seven weeks before the election, she
is a veteran corporate executive in the Shinawatra family’s
business group. She has served as president of Advanced Info,
Thailand’s largest mobile-phone company, and has run SC Asset, a
property developer owned by Thaksin’s children.  In the run-up to the election, Yingluck deflected questions
on whether Pheu Thai would orchestrate Thaksin’s return if it
won. Last night, she did the same, saying only that there was a
“lot of work” to be done to “maintain unity.”  There have been nine coups in Thailand since King Bhumibol
ascended the throne in 1946. Twelve of Thailand’s 27 prime
ministers since absolute monarchy ended in 1932 have been
military leaders.  “You couldn’t ask for a clearer message from Thailand,”
said  Jim Walker , managing director at Hong Kong-based Asianomics
Ltd. and former chief economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.
“It’s time to just say the Bangkok elite have lost. The old
guard has lost and it’s a new Thailand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  