-- 
Hana May Seek Lower Price for KEB Takeover After Lone Star Dividend Payout

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-07-03T04:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/hana-may-seek-lower-price-for-keb-takeover-after-lone-star-dividend-payout.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  may seek a
lower price for its acquisition of Korea Exchange Bank from  Lone
Star Funds  after the takeover target decided last week to make a
record dividend payment to the U.S. fund.  Korea Exchange Bank’s plan to pay 973.8 billion won ($912
million) in interim dividends “reduces the company’s value,”
Lee Jung Dae, a spokesman for Seoul-based Hana Financial, said
today by telephone. The price may be adjusted as Hana negotiates
with Lone Star on extending the 4.7 trillion won agreement
struck seven months ago, he said.  Korea Exchange shares have slumped 23 percent since the
deal’s announcement on Nov. 25 amid Korean regulators’
reluctance to approve the transaction while  Lone Star  remains
mired in a legal dispute. Seoul-based KEB’s board on July 1
approved the record dividend payment, helping Lone Star recoup
all of the 2.15 trillion won investment it paid for the 51
percent stake in the bank in 2003.  Dallas-based Lone Star, which has recouped 2.1 trillion won
on an after-tax basis, will receive about 497 billion won in the
latest dividend payment. Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star,
declined to comment in an e-mailed response to inquiries after
Seoul-based Edaily reported Hana’s plan earlier today.  Hana Financial,  South Korea ’s fourth-biggest financial
company, and Lone Star planned to complete the deal by May 24.
Hana remains in talks with Lone Star over an extension, Lee said
today.  The Seoul High Court on June 16 opened a retrial of Lone
Star, its former local head Paul Yoo and  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  on
stock price manipulation charges after the nation’s top court in
March overturned a 2008 acquittal. Prosecutors are accusing them
of intentionally driving down the share price of the bank’s
credit card unit to buy it cheaply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  