-- 
Asahi Group to Purchase Charlie’s, P&N Water, Juice Units

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-04T07:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/asahi-offers-107m-for-n-z-juice-company.html
Asahi Group Holdings Ltd., Japan’s
biggest beermaker by sales volume, agreed to buy water and juice
businesses in  Australia  and New Zealand for $309 million to
expand overseas as sales decline at home.  Asahi plans to complete the A$188 million ($202 million)
purchase of P&N Beverages Australia Pty Ltd.’s water and juice
divisions in September, it said in a  statement  today. The Tokyo-
based company also agreed to pay NZ$129 million ($107 million)
for  Charlie’s Group Ltd. (CHA) , a New Zealand-based fruit juice
producer, Asahi said in a separate statement.  P&N’s mineral water and Charlie’s premium drinks will
complement products offered by Asahi’s Schweppes brand in
Australia, said Takayuki Tanaka, spokesman for Asahi. The
brewer, also in talks to buy PepsiCo Inc.’s bottler in Malaysia,
is seeking growth overseas as  Japan ’s beer market has declined
by 20 percent from its 1994 peak.  “They are acquiring abroad, as that’s where growth is,”
said  Koichi Ogawa , chief portfolio manager at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd. in  Tokyo , which manages $28 billion. Asahi is
“taking a chance,” that soft drink demand will continue to
increase in New Zealand and Australia, he said.  $5 Billion for Acquisitions  Asahi, which said in February it may spend 400 billion yen
($5 billion) on acquisitions by 2012, rose 0.4 percent to 1,622
yen at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The stock has gained 3.1
percent this year, compared with a 2.6 percent decline in the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The bid values Charlie’s at 44  New Zealand  cents a share, a
57 percent premium to its closing price on July 1, the Auckland-
based company said in a statement. The shares soared 54 percent
to NZ$0.43 at 5 p.m. close in Wellington.  Charlie’s largest holders, including founders with about 52
percent of the company, agreed to accept the offer and the board
is recommending shareholder consent. Asahi’s bid requires
approvals under New Zealand foreign investment regulations.  The beverage maker’s brands, including Juicy Lucy and
Phoenix Organics, will benefit from Asahi’s resources, Stefan
Leponika, chief executive officer and co-founder, said in a
statement.  Competition Concerns  The offer price is 1.5 times the company’s forecast
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for
the year ending June 30, 2012, the company said.  P&N will sell its carbonated soft drinks and cordial
businesses
to Tru Blu Beverages Pty Ltd., according to the Asahi statement.  The Japanese brewer had offered A$364 million for closely
held P&N in August to add labels including Frantelle Spring
Water to the Pepsi and Schweppes brands it bottles in Australia.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission raised
concerns in March that the deal would diminish competition and
increase the Japanese company’s ability to raise prices.  Asahi is offering about $200 million for Permanis,
PepsiCo’s  Malaysia  bottler, competing with another company for
the acquisition from Kuala Lumpur-based C.I. Holdings, a person
with knowledge of the matter said. The person declined to be
identified as discussions are private. A deal may be concluded
within four to six weeks, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net ;
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  