-- 
Aussie Declines From Seven-Week High After Retail Sales, Building Reports

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-04T06:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/australian-dollar-trades-near-eight-week-high-before-retail-sales-data.html
The Australian dollar declined from
an seven-week high against the U.S. currency after government
reports showed retail sales and building approvals slid in May,
damping demand for the nation’s assets.  The so-called Aussie slid the most in a week against New
Zealand’s dollar after a gauge of  Australia ’s annual inflation
slid below the top of the central bank’s target range for the
first time in 11 months.  Reserve Bank  of Australia policy makers
will leave  interest rates  unchanged tomorrow, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The reports reflect the weak spots in the economy and add
to our view that the RBA will delay any rate hike till later
this year,” said  Besa Deda , chief economist at St. George Bank
Ltd. in Sydney. “Retail sales is one of the critical economic
releases and will add to the story that the economy is going
through a soft patch, so you might see the Australian dollar
sell off further.”  Australia’s dollar dropped to $1.0742 as of 4:35 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0770 in  New York  on July 1, when it climbed to
$1.0790, the strongest since May 11. The currency declined 0.4
percent to 86.75 yen, and fell 0.5 percent to NZ$1.2942, the
biggest drop since June 22.  New Zealand ’s dollar appreciated 0.3 percent to 82.96 U.S.
cents, and traded at 66.99 yen from 66.87 yen.  Retail Sales  Australian retail sales dropped 0.6 percent from the prior
month, the Bureau of Statistics said, compared with a forecast
for an 0.3 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey. Home-building
approvals fell 7.9 percent, a separate statistics bureau report
showed. Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in the 12 months
through June after a 3.3 percent gain for May, according to an
index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute.  “As far as the RBA is concerned there is clearly nothing
here that would suggest any ‘urgency’ is required on the
monetary policy front,” Adam Boyton, chief economist for
Australia at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney, wrote in a research
note to clients.  Futures traders reduced bets last week that the Australian
dollar will gain against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared
with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 46,897 on
June 28, the least since Jan. 25.  Not Attractive  Australia’s dollar isn’t attractive after the currency
climbed more against the greenback than any major counterpart in
the past year, BlackRock Inc. said.  “You need to have a very strong bullish view of the global
economy to want to stay in Aussie longs,”  Stephen Miller , a
managing director in Sydney at BlackRock, which oversees $3.7
trillion globally, said on July 1. “My view isn’t optimistic
enough for me to want to get involved in the Aussie dollar.”  Gains in New Zealand’s dollar were tempered after an
industry report showed the value of the country’s commodity
exports fell in June for the first time in 10 months. The nation
is relying on exports, which make up 30 percent of gross
domestic product, to buoy the economic recovery.  The ANZ Commodity Price Index slipped 1.2 percent from May,
when it increased 0.4 percent,  ANZ National bank Ltd.  said.
After adjusting for currency movements, prices fell 3.3 percent.  “The lift in the value of the  New Zealand dollar 
compounded the drop in commodity prices,” ANZ National
economist Steve Edwards said in the report.  Australian  government bonds  rose for the first time in five
days. The 10-year yield fell six basis points to 5.22 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  