-- 
Gillard Exempts Gasoline From Carbon Tax in Bid to Win Support

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-03T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/australian-carbon-tax-plan-exempts-gasoline.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said she will exempt gasoline from a proposed carbon tax
as she battles to reverse record-low public support for her
climate change legislation.  “Petrol prices will not be touched by carbon pricing,”
Gillard said in an interview with Australian Broadcasting Corp.
television yesterday. The government is seeking to “do the
right thing by Australian families struggling with cost-of-
living pressures.”  Gillard is seeking to garner support for an emissions
trading system in the world’s biggest coal exporter, where the
number of Australians who say the nation should take action to
fight climate change has slipped to a record low 41 percent,
according to a Lowy Institute poll published on June 27.  Gillard needs the agreement of the Greens Party and three
independent lawmakers to pass the plan through parliament. The
Multiparty  Climate Change  Committee of lawmakers is deciding how
to compensate Australian households and companies, including
coal miners, and on investing in clean energy.  Opposition Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott ,
who has said he will repeal the plan if he becomes prime
minister, pledged on June 25 to deliver tax cuts without a levy
on carbon.  “The carbon tax is the biggest single institutional change
outside of wartime that this country has ever contemplated,”
Abbott said July 2. “This prime minister is hell-bent on
foisting this bad and unnecessary tax on our country.”  ‘Scare Campaign’  The announcement of the gasoline exemption “debunked a
major part of the scare campaign,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Introducing a major reform is
never easy.”  The exemption won’t apply to large businesses that may pay
extra through a fuel-credit system, the Sunday Telegraph
newspaper reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  Each liter of gasoline used in a  motor vehicle  releases 2.3
kilograms (5.1 pounds) of carbon dioxide, according to
information on the government’s  website . The Australian
transport industry accounts for about 13.5 percent of
Australia’s total net greenhouse gas emissions, the website
states.  “The Greens believe that fuel should have been in a carbon
price mechanism,” Christine Milne, deputy leader of the Greens
party, said at a press conference yesterday. “However, that was
not the view” of the multiparty committee.  There were 721.1 motor vehicles per 1,000 residents in
Australia as of March 31 last year, according to the statistics
bureau.  Permanent Exemption  The gasoline exemption will be permanent, Gillard told ABC
yesterday. “The design of this scheme is that petrol will be
out now and out for the future.”  The government will offset entirely for nine out of 10
households the cost of a carbon price through tax cuts, extra
payments to couples with children, and increased pensions,
Gillard said on June 27. The assistance will go to about 7
million Australians, she said.  Australia ’s trading system would be the world’s third after
the European Union and  New Zealand . Without a price on carbon,
Australia’s emissions are forecast to reach more than 1 billion
metric tons by 2050 from about 580 million tons last year,
according to Swan’s statement.  Nuclear Power Unpopular  Some 39 percent of Australians polled by the Lowy Institute
between March 30 and April 14 said they aren’t prepared to pay
anything extra on their electricity bills to help solve climate
change. The poll also showed 62 percent were against Australia
building nuclear-power plants to cut emissions. The poll of
1,002 people had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  Opponents of the carbon plan include the  Minerals Council
of Australia , which says it would destroy 126,000 jobs and
threaten company investment. The Australian Coal Association
says 18 coal mines may close in the next decade if the system is
introduced and that it will be harder to attract investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  