-- 
Lautrec’s Lady Gaga Gyrates, Vorticists Explode: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-07-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/lautrec-s-lady-gaga-gyrates-british-vorticists-blast-out-martin-gayford.html
When it comes to popular culture,
decadence is almost always in fashion.  That’s why, perhaps, there’s an oddly contemporary
undercurrent to the exhibition, “Toulouse-Lautrec and Jane
Avril: Beyond the Moulin Rouge” (through Sept. 18), at the
 Courtauld Gallery  in London.  Writing about Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec’s poster for a
nightspot of the time, the “Divan Japonais,” in which Avril
was prominently featured, a contemporary critic named Frantz
Jourdain described her “sharp stare, provocative lips, and
long, thin adorable vicious body.”  “How stylish she is,” he went on, “this exquisite
creature, nervous and neurotic, the captivating flower of
artistic corruption and sickly grace.” He almost could have
been talking about Lady Gaga. Descriptions of Avril’s
unconventional dancing, reputedly derived from her experiences
as a patient in a Parisian psychiatric hospital, bring  Michael Jackson  to mind.  The most contemporary thing about Avril (1868-1943) is that
she was made famous by image-making -- literally -- and
publicity. She was a star of Parisian night life in the 1890s,
just before the age of cinema and recording. Her strange
personality and waif-like allure live on in representations of
her by Toulouse-Lautrec (1864-1901). Indeed, to the extent that
she was not self-invented, she was the creation of the artist.  At any rate, Avril credited one of his posters, possibly
the “Divan Japonais,” as the key to her success. This little
exhibition, one of the tightly focused mini-shows the Courtauld
does so well, brings together many of Toulouse-Lautrec’s
paintings, drawings and advertisements featuring her, including
one of his finest works, “At the Moulin Rouge” (c. 1892-95)
from the  Art Institute of Chicago .  You leave thinking that if Avril was partly his invention,
Toulouse-Lautrec also depended on her or her milieu. It’s hard
to imagine his art apart from the subject matter, the sleazy
glamour of Montmartre in its heyday.  Vorticist Blast  “Blast First (from politeness)  England !” the Vorticists
inveighed in their magazine, which was titled “Blast.” Their
movement was launched on the eve of World War I and sadly their
metaphorical blasting soon was replaced by genuine explosives.
Some were killed, the rest traumatized into stepping back from
the cutting edge. Vorticism was over long before the armistice.  An exhibition at  Tate Britain , “The Vorticists” (until
Sept. 4) takes a fresh look at this tragically short-lived
movement, the first true manifestation of modernism in Britain.
It’s nicely presented, medium-sized and not too packed with
exhibits. But then there actually isn’t all that much Vorticism.
Indeed, by some counts, there’s less than is on show here.  Bomberg’s Mud  The greatest avant-garde painting done in Britain in the
early 20th century was “The Mud Bath” (1914) by David Bomberg.
It sings off the wall here, as it did two years ago in the
Tate’s Futurism show. Bomberg, a superb painter in any idiom,
thought he was a Cubist, not a Vorticist.  The other star is the sculptor Henri Gaudier-Brzeska (1891-
1915). After he was killed in the war, a friend denied Gaudier-
Brzeska was a Vorticist.  In practice, Vorticism was driven by the pugnacious
personality of Percy Wyndham Lewis (1882-1957).  Sadly, much of his early dynamic almost abstract work has
been destroyed. What remains suggests that he had talent yet
lacked one vital ingredient: humanity. These fledgling
modernists didn’t know what the modern world had in store for
them.  Information:  http://www.courtauld.ac.uk/gallery ;
 http://www.tate.org.uk/britain   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 