-- 
Bugatti Outfits $2.4 Million Roadster With a Berlin Porcelain Caviar Tray

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-03T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/bugatti-outfits-2-4-million-roadster-with-porcelain-caviar-tray.html
Bugatti, the maker of the world’s
fastest production car, developed a 1.65 million-euro ($2.4
million) special edition of the Veyron Grand Sport model with
porcelain accents, including a caviar tray.  The L’Or Blanc, the first vehicle equipped with porcelain,
according to Bugatti, is a joint effort between  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
supercar brand and Berlin-based  KPM , a 248-year-old porcelain
maker that traces its roots back to King Frederick the Great of
Prussia. The roadster, which will be shown at the Frankfurt
Motor Show in September, was unveiled last week in Berlin.  “Installing porcelain in the world’s fastest convertible
car seems like a pretty odd idea,” Stefan Brungs, the brand’s
sales chief, said at the June 30 event. “But Bugatti has made a
name for itself by not shying away from extravagant ideas.”  VW purchased Bugatti in 1998 along with the Lamborghini and
 Bentley  ultra-luxury nameplates to compete with  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-Royce. Under VW’s reign, the brand,
which was founded by Italian-born car designer Ettore Bugatti,
started production of the two-door Veyron 16.4 in 2005. The last
of 300 models of the limited series was sold last week to a
European-based customer, spokeswoman Emanuela Wilm said.  Bugatti, which makes about 50 cars a year from its
headquarters in Molsheim,  France , may build the four-door 16C
Galibier model after getting the go-head from Wolfsburg,
Germany-based VW, two people familiar with the matter said in
April. The model has a 1,000-horsepower engine and may cost
about 1 million euros.  Picnic Set  The L’Or Blanc, which is painted in vibrant white with
royal blue lines curving along the exterior, was developed as a
one-of-a-kind model for an unidentified businessman from the
 United Arab Emirates , who has a collection of about 800 cars,
Bugatti’s Wilm said.  The vehicle features 12 porcelain elements, including wheel
badges and fuel and oil caps. A panel depicting an elephant
standing on its hind legs, a Bugatti symbol, is mounted between
the seats. A scepter, the logo of KPM given to the company in
1763, is inlaid at the top of the windshield.  A highlight of the car is a porcelain dish in the center
console. The dish can serve as a caviar tray, when used together
with an ice bucket that’s part of a specially designed picnic
set, said Achim Anscheidt, Bugatti’s design chief.  “It’s all arranged in a way that allows for maximum
comfort during the drive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  