-- 
Bullying Germany’s Economic Whip Endangers European Union Survival: Books

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-07-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/bullying-germany-s-economic-whip-endangers-european-union-survival-books.html
Success is making  Germany  preachy and
bullying, and the rest of  Europe  should take action to prevent
Teutonic ideologies from taking over, argues Detlef Guertler,
the author of “Sorry! I Am German.”  His slim polemic, published today in seven languages, half-
seriously and half-humorously creates an alarming picture of an
over-confident Germany zealously foisting its efficient economic
model on the rest of Europe. It could all end in a war over air
traffic controls in Majorca, he warns outrageously.  National confidence returned with the 2006 soccer  World Cup 
and a steady decline in unemployment, Guertler says. Then the
“new normality transformed into the demand for a new
superiority.” Under  Chancellor Angela Merkel , Europe’s economic
powerhouse has a “newly awakened sense of mission,” he argues.  A German journalist and consultant who divides his time
between Germany, Spain and  Switzerland , Guertler provokes and
hyperbolizes for effect. With glib, amusing allusions to Faust,
Richard Wagner and  Friedrich Nietzsche , he frames his argument
as a warning to other Europeans about what they can do to
prevent Germany from “destroying the European Union.”  Guertler implausibly calls Merkel “Wilhelmina,” a
reincarnation of Kaiser Wilhelm II, for her attempts to put
Germany on the world stage with a seat on the  United Nations
Security Council , and exporting “Social Market Economy”
policies and stringent regulation to the rest of Europe.  Productivity Whip  She is wielding a “productivity whip” over the rest of
Europe, he argues. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , Guertler
maintains, would “like to punish weaklings in the euro concert
with thumbscrews and expulsion.”  Germany’s strength, he argues with some self-mockery, is in
being sleekly competitive and maintaining a disciplined grip on
inflation, wages and public spending. Major reforms are possible
“without ending up in fierce strikes and street battles,” he
says, citing the cuts in unemployment benefit that took place
under Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder.  Are Germans living up to Nietzsche’s vision -- becoming, in
Guertler’s words, “as tough as leather, as agile as greyhounds,
as hard as the D-Mark?” The trouble starts, says Guertler, when
Germany thinks it has the solutions for everyone else as well.  “We don’t have a clue about how to make a Spanish, Greek,
Estonian or Irish economy more competitive,” he cautions.
“Okay, neither do they know how to do that. Simply adopting
German recipes won’t work.”  Siesta Lovers  From the Southern European perspective, Guertler says, it
is Germany that is the problem. If it were a bit slacker, the
competition divide would be narrower.  “There are those who appreciate the value of a siesta more
than that of an extra working hour,” he reminds compatriots.  Thankfully, even the alarmist Guertler doesn’t envisage
German jackboots marching into  Greece  or any other euro-
quitting, defaulting European nation any time soon. Yet he does
imagine a military scenario farfetched enough to raise a smile.  What, he asks, if air traffic controllers suddenly stopped
working on Majorca in the summer? How long before the Bundeswehr
would send in planes to bring back tens of thousands of German
vacationers?  “Or perhaps even a couple of fighter jets as escorts as
well?” he speculates.  Guertler forgets to dwell on one of the best German
national characteristics -- even though he demonstrates it
himself just by writing his book, with its mix of self-
knowledge, self-criticism and outside perspective.  The capacity for self-examination and angst about
nationalism -- even a fear of German power -- are as present as
they ever have been since World War II.  That fear, and the need to feel cozily cocooned among
friendly if frustratingly inefficient, spendthrift neighbors, is
why Germany is still shelling out for Greece. And why it will
likely continue to do so.  “Sorry! I Am German” is from  Murmann Verlag  and is
published simultaneously in e-format and in pamphlet form in
German, English, French, Italian, Spanish, Turkish and Dutch (48
pages, 3.99 euros.)  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 