-- 
McDonald’s UAE in Venture to Make Biodiesel From Cooking Oil

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-07-03T11:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/mcdonald-s-uae-forms-venture-to-make-biodiesel-from-recycled-vegetable-oil.html
McDonald’s UAE and privately held
Neutral Fuels LLC formed a venture to produce biodiesel using
recycled vegetable oil from the fast-food retailer’s outlets in
the  United Arab Emirates , the companies said.  The venture involves the Gulf nation’s first plant licensed
to make biodiesel, the partners said today at a news conference
in Dubai. The facility will have an annual output capacity of 1
million liters (264,000 gallons), said Karl Feilder, chairman of
 Neutral Group , the Dubai-based parent of Neutral Fuels.  “We are taking away the need to import diesel,” he said.
Biodiesel from the factory in Dubai, the second-largest emirate
in the U.A.E., will supply a limited number of companies at
first and won’t be available for wider sale, Feilder said.  McDonald’s UAE, a unit of  Oak Brook , Illinois-based
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , uses more than 20,000 liters of vegetable oil
at 90 restaurants in the Arab country, Managing Director Rafic
Fakih said. It will convert all its delivery trucks to biodiesel
as part of the program. Fakih and Feilder declined to estimate
the venture’s cost or the savings they expected it to generate.  The U.A.E., home to about 7 percent of the world’s oil
supply, has invested heavily in clean-energy technology as it
seeks to diversify its economy away from crude hydrocarbons.  Risk analysts Maplecroft rated the U.A.E. last year as the
country most likely to face pressure to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, ahead of nations with larger populations including
the U.S. and  Australia . The nation’s overall emissions from the
burning of fossil fuels rose by a quarter from 2006 to 2008, the
analysts, with headquarters in Bath, U.K., said on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 