-- 
China Metal Acquisition Binge Led by Rhodes Scholar

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-07-04T10:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/china-metal-acquisition-binge-led-by-australian-rhodes-scholar.html
Andrew Michelmore, the Rhodes Scholar
who plotted China’s biggest metals takeover bid, said Beijing
isn’t calling the shots when it comes to buying commodities for
the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Michelmore, a 58-year-old Australian, joined China’s
commodity drive in June 2009 after he sold most of the mines he
ran at Melbourne-based  OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL)  to China Minmetals Group,
the nation’s biggest state-owned metals trader. He’s now the
most senior foreigner working at a state-owned listed mining
company after joining Hong Kong-based  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) ,
following almost three decades in mining with former employers
including Russian billionaire  Oleg Deripaska .  “The myth is that the government goes to company X and
says, ‘Company X I want you to go and buy that asset over there
and pay whatever you want for it because we want it,’” said
Michelmore, who won a  gold medal  at the 1974 World  Rowing 
Championships. “Not at all,” he said in an interview in  Hong
Kong . “There is this incredible competition in China, they are
businesspeople competing against each other.”  Michelmore’s version of China Inc. contrasts with that of
some global regulators and foreign politicians who’ve helped
stymie at least $40 billion of planned overseas resources deals
on concern the government’s control raises national security
issues. Undeterred, the former president of the Oxford
University Boat Club said he’s planning further takeovers after
his C$6.04 billion ($6.3 billion) offer in April for  Equinox
Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  was trumped by  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)   Minmetals Resources rose 0.7 percent to HK$5.78 at the end
of trading in Hong Kong. The shares have gained 7.2 percent this
year, compared with a 1.2 percent decline in the Hang Seng index.  Three Prime Ministers  “With Equinox, we identified that we were interested early
last year, so we actually went and bought a stake,” said
Michelmore, who attended the 150-year old  Melbourne Grammar
School , which has produced three Australian Prime Ministers.
“We want to grow out there and we want to invest in assets
outside China, but it’s not a grab for resources. It’s not a
creeping takeover of the international arena.”  Equinox is contracted to sell most of its copper
concentrate from its Lumwana mine in Zambia to Indian and
Chinese smelters, and Michelmore, a trained chemical engineer,
has said Minmetals Resources, which owns the world’s second-
biggest zinc mine, would have honored those contracts. “In fact,
90 percent of what we produce at the moment doesn’t go for sale
in  China ,” he said. “Anything we do sell in China is done on
arm’s length contracts.”  PetroChina Deal  In another sign of China’s growing mergers and acquisitions
maturity, state-controlled PetroChina Co.,  Asia ’s largest energy
producer, walked away last month from what would have been its
biggest overseas acquisition, the C$5.4 billion purchase of
natural-gas assets in  Canada , after failing to agree on price.  Five years ago, China’s leadership decreed that certain
“pillar” industries, including automaking, telecommunications,
mines, energy production and steel manufacturing, should be
dominated by companies under government control. The policy has
helped inspire a school of thought called the Beijing Consensus,
which holds that state-directed capitalism can help developing
nations avoid the financial upheavals associated with free
markets.  While companies in China will identify a possible
acquisition, final approval rests with the  National Development
and Reform Commission , the nation’s top economic planning agency,
Michelmore said. The agency said in June 2009 that China will
strengthen oversight of overseas investments as it encourages
companies to step up ventures abroad.  “Most decisions by companies are probably free of
government interference, but those that involve national welfare,
defined very broadly, will be subject to oversight by government
and intervention if necessary,” said Shanghai-born Vic Edwards,
senior lecturer in banking and finance at the Australian School
of Business, in Sydney.  Concrete Blocks  Michelmore, who sold WMC Resources Ltd. to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
for $9.2 billion in 2005, named  North America  and  Africa  as
potential target areas for possible bids. After the BHP takeover,
he worked as CEO of En+ Group Ltd., the holding company of the
energy, power and aluminum assets of Deripaska until 2007. He
took most of his executive team with him when he sold most of
the OZ Minerals assets to Minmetals.  The Chinese and Russians do business differently,
Michelmore said. With Minmetals “for me it’s working with
building blocks of concrete, whereas when I worked in  Russia  it
was built on sand,” he said.  Chinese companies have been forced to reset their global
acquisition agenda after a series of takeover failures in the
past decade, including SAIC Motor Corp.’s decision to acquire
control of  South Korea ’s Sangyong Motor Co., Peter Williamson
and Anand Raman said in April in the Harvard Business Review.
They have shifted to buying physical assets and technology
instead of global brands or sales networks, they said.  No Grand Plan  China Inc. is like a large, diversified corporation with
divisions and subsidiaries competing for capital and resources,
Williamson, a professor at the University of Cambridge’s Judge
Business School, said in an e-mail. “There is no ‘grand
plan,’” he said. “Rather each individual company is driven by
its own strategy for competitiveness and agenda. The central
government then encourages each company to look at deals quite
autonomously.”  China Inc. didn’t deliver when the nation failed to
dominate talks for annual iron ore contracts after taking the
reins from Japanese mills last decade, said Philip Kirchlechner,
a director at the University of Western  Australia ’s Confucius
Institute, who headed Rio Tinto Group’s Hamersley Iron office in
 Shanghai  from 1996 to 2001. “It’s a perfect example where China
Inc. didn’t work at all” and led to the demise of the benchmark
pricing system, he said.  “People treat it as China Inc.,” Michelmore said. “I’ve
worked in the 80s and dealt with Japan Inc. Japan Inc. is Japan
Inc. You’d have a meeting with one large corporation and by the
end of the week every one of the large corporations has the
minutes of those meetings. That doesn’t happen in China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  