-- 
China Non-Manufacturing Index Slumps in June, Adding to Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T06:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/china-non-manufacturing-industries-slow.html
China ’s non-manufacturing industries
expanded at the slowest pace in four months in June, sending
stocks higher on speculation the government may ease monetary
tightening policies aimed at taming inflation.  A purchasing managers’ index dropped to 57 from 61.9 in May,
the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on its
website yesterday. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.7 percent, extending a
two-week rally, as expectations climbed that the government will
refrain from raising interest rates and ease some lending
restrictions due to slowing growth in manufacturing and services.
Vice Premier Wang Qishan urged banks to increase financing to
small companies that are having problems raising funds,
according to a statement yesterday from the State Council.  The rise in stock prices today “may be due to increased
expectation for policy relaxation”, said Mingchun Sun, Hong
Kong-based head of China Research of Daiwa Capital Markets. Even
so, “China may still need to raise  interest rates  before it
halts on any further tightening” because inflation will remain
high and is unlikely to drop below the government’s 4 percent
target before November, he said.  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.7 percent to 2,805.5
at 1:46 p.m. in Beijing.  The domestic and global situation is “extremely complicated
and uncertain”, making it more difficult for the government to
strike a good balance between economic development and curbing
inflation, Vice Premier Wang said.  Micro-Financing  Wang said micro-financing institutions should be developed
to help small companies raise funds.  “The survival and development of small companies are
directly linked to employment growth, economic transition, and
social stability,” Wang said during a trip to the northern
province of Hebei, according to the State Council.  The government is also boosting investment in affordable
housing to help sustain demand for steel and cement amid a
slowdown in manufacturing growth. The government aims to start
building 10 million low-income housing units this year, as part
of the target set by Premier  Wen Jiabao  to construct 36 million
units during the next five years.  Slowing manufacturing “caused a reaction in producer
services,” Cai Jin, the Federation’s president, said in
yesterday’s statement. “The index level still shows China’s non-
manufacturing industries are maintaining quite quick growth.
Affordable housing construction has accelerated,” he said.  Easing Home Prices  The non-manufacturing PMI is based on data from 20
industries including real estate, transport, retailing, catering
and software. China’s home prices eased in eight of the
country’s 10 biggest cities in June as the government expanded
efforts to curb the risk of asset bubbles in its housing market,
SouFun Holdings Ltd. said July 1.  “The slowdown is a result of the Chinese government’s
tightening measures to curb inflation,” said  Shen Minggao , Hong
Kong-based head of China research at Citigroup Inc. “The
government is expected to continue the current measures at least
in July as inflation is still high.”  The central bank has raised  reserve requirements  12 times
and interest rates four times since the start of last year to
tame inflation that reached a 34-month high of 5.5 percent in
May. The People’s Bank of China has paused for 13 weeks in
raising benchmark interest rates, the longest gap since
increases began in October.  Stocks ‘Oversold’  Chinese stocks are “oversold” as concerns such as bank
loans to local government financing vehicles and the slowdown in
the real estate industry are being factored in by investors,
Shen said in a phone interview yesterday.  Inflation may climb to 6.5 percent in June because of
surging pork prices, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.
The People’s Bank of China may increase borrowing costs around
the time of the release of June economic data, scheduled for
July 15, Shenyin & Wanguo, ranked China’s most influential
research provider by New Fortune magazine last year, said in a
June 30 report.  As the tightening continues, “we may see more of a
slowdown in consumption in industries including real estate and
auto,” Citigroup’s Shen said.  --Victoria Ruan, Jing Jin,  Henry Sanderson . With assistance from
Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery, Huang Zhe and Penny Peng. Editors:
Ken McCallum, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Jing Jin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3039 or
 jjin32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  