-- 
Novak Djokovic Uses Newly Gained Confidence to End Nadal’s Wimbledon Reign

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-03T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/djokovic-uses-newly-gained-confidence-to-end-nadal-s-reign-at-wimbledon.html
After five years of losing to  Rafael Nadal  in major tennis tournaments, Novak Djokovic got under the
Spaniard’s skin to win his first Wimbledon title.  Ten-time Grand Slam champion Nadal said his four prior
defeats to Djokovic this year undermined his confidence in
yesterday’s final, which the Serb won 6-4, 6-1, 1-6, 6-3.  “I have won four times, consecutive times, in the finals
against him this year,” Djokovic told reporters. “I had that
in the back of my mind. I was trying to take myself back to
those matches and really perform the same way that I performed
those days in those matches: aggressive, taking my chances, not
giving him opportunity to take over the control.”  Djokovic, 24, sunk to his knees and ate some of the grass
on Centre Court after Nadal’s reign as Wimbledon champion ended
on a backhand that sailed long.  Djokovic, who has a 48-1 record this year, will take over
the top ranking from Nadal on the ATP World Tour today. He
secured the No. 1 spot by beating  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in
the semifinals.  Djokovic is the first player other than Nadal or record 16-
time Grand Slam champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland to hold
the top ranking since  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. in February 2004.  Before yesterday, Nadal hadn’t lost at Wimbledon since 2007,
when Federer beat him in the final to capture the fifth of six
championships. Nadal won the title in 2008 over Federer and
skipped the 2009 tournament because of a knee injury. He won
last year’s title by beating Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic .  Dangerous  Losses to Djokovic in the finals of  Indian Wells , Miami,
 Rome  and  Madrid  this year played on Nadal’s mind yesterday.  “Probably the mental part is little bit dangerous for
me,” Nadal said.  Nadal made 15 unforced errors, more than twice as many as
during his semifinal against Britain’s  Andy Murray . Djokovic
made 12 mistakes. The Serb struck 27 winners, six more than the
Spaniard.  Until Wimbledon, Nadal had beaten Djokovic in five Grand
Slam matches. The run started when the Serb retired with an
injury at the 2006 French Open and ended in the final of last
year’s  U.S. Open .  Djokovic said he knew he’d come out on top against Nadal
and former world No. 1 Federer one day.  “I always believed that I have quality to beat those two
guys,” he said.  Djokovic defeated the now third-ranked Federer in the
semifinals of the U.S. Open after facing two match points and
also beat him at the same stage of this year’s Australian Open.  ‘Full of Life’  Djokovic began a run of 43 straight wins and seven
tournament titles when leading  Serbia  to its first Davis Cup
title in December.  “After the Davis Cup win I was full of life, full of
energy, eager to come back to the tennis court, eager to play
some more, win some other tournaments,” he said. “I lost my
fear. I believed in my abilities more than ever.  Australia  was
one of the best tournaments I played in my life.”  After beating Murray to win a second Australian Open,
Djokovic didn’t lose again until the French Open semifinals,
when Federer ended his run of 41 straight wins since the start
of the year.  The Serb can’t expect to be so dominant for long, Nadal
said.  “My experience says this level is not forever,” the
Spaniard said. “Even for me, when I was last year winning three
Grand Slams, my level of last year is not forever. Probably the
level of Novak of today is not forever. I am going to be here
fighting all the time, waiting for my moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 