-- 
Euro Rises on ECB Interest Rate Speculation

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-07-04T06:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/euro-reaches-3-week-high-on-bets-ecb-to-raise-interest-rates.html
The euro erased gains versus the yen
and the dollar after Standard & Poor’s Rating Services said the
debt rollover plan for Greece may put the country in “selective
default.”  The 17-nation currency had advanced 0.4 percent earlier
against the dollar on speculation the  European Central Bank  will
increase  interest rates  this week. Thailand’s baht rose after an
election victory by allies of former premier Thaksin Shinawatra
spurred optimism foreign investors will return. Australia’s
dollar weakened after reports showed retail sales and building
approvals fell.  “The euro is being sold as the market reacted to the S&P
headline,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst in Tokyo at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s largest
online currency margin-trading company. “Whenever rating
companies say that Greece is going to default, the euro is
likely to be sold.”  The shared currency fell to 117.26 yen as of 6:49 a.m. in
 London  from 117.42 yen in  New York  on July 1, after appreciating
to 117.74 yen, the highest level since June 8. The euro was at
$1.4523 from $1.4526, after advancing to $1.4578, the strongest
since June 9. The dollar traded at 80.74 yen from 80.83 yen.  Options Equal Default  Europe  is inching toward a goal of getting banks to roll
over 30 billion euros ($44 billion) of Greek bonds, instead of
opening a hole for the official lenders to fill. French banks,
with the biggest exposure to  Greece , worked out a rollover
formula that is serving as an example elsewhere.  “It is our view that each of the two financing options
described in the Federation Bancaire Francaise proposal would
likely amount to a default under our criteria,” S&P said in the
statement today.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, fell 0.1 percent
to 74.290 after sliding to 74.111, the lowest since June 10.
U.S. financial markets are shut today for Independence Day.
default.’’  European finance ministers on July 2 authorized an 8.7
billion-euro ($12.6 billion) loan payout to Greece by mid-July
after the nation’s parliament passed austerity measures. Finance
chiefs gather next week to discuss a long-term lifeline for
Greece.  ECB Rate Increase  The ECB on July 7 will increase its benchmark rate to 1.5
percent from 1.25 percent, according to all 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “With further rate hikes this year not fully priced in, if
this occurs, the euro may push higher following the rate hike,”
Sara Yates, a London-based foreign-exchange strategist at
Barclays Plc, wrote today in a note to clients. “We prefer
taking a long euro position at the start of the week, but
recommend that investors switch to selling rallies in the latter
half of the week.”  The baht strengthened against all of its major counterparts
on speculation the decisive election win by Thaksin’s allies
will bring stability to the nation. Clashes between his
supporters and opponents have claimed more than 100 lives since
the previous poll in 2007.  “The majority victory is a very welcome outcome and
foreign investors will come back very quickly,” said  Frances Cheung , senior strategist at  Credit Agricole  CIB in  Hong Kong .  The baht rose 0.8 percent to 30.47 per dollar, after
climbing to 30.40, the strongest level since June 22. Credit
Agricole predicts the baht will advance to 29.20 by year-end.  Aussie Weakens  Australia ’s dollar snapped a four-day gain after the Bureau
of Statistics said retail sales fell 0.6 percent and building
approvals declined 7.9 percent in May.  Reserve Bank  of Australia
policy makers will leave the benchmark rate unchanged at 4.75
percent tomorrow, according to all 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “The reports reflect the weak spots in the economy and add
to our view that the RBA will delay any rate hike till later
this year,” said  Besa Deda , chief economist at St. George Bank
Ltd. in Sydney. “Retail sales is one of the critical economic
releases and will add to the story that the economy is going
through a soft patch, so you might see the Australian dollar
sell-off further.”  Australia’s currency fell 0.4 percent to $1.0723, and
dropped 0.5 percent to 86.58 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  