-- 
Mexico State Vote May Help PRI in Bid to Retake Presidency

-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-04T00:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/mexico-state-vote-may-help-old-ruling-party-take-back-presidency.html
Mexicans headed to the polls today to
elect governors in three states as the country’s once-dominant
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  aims to shore up support ahead
of next year’s presidential ballot.  The party, known as the PRI, is set to retain power in all
three states, including the central state of  Mexico , the
nation’s most populous and richest by gross domestic product.
Eruviel Avila, the PRI candidate who ran on pledges to improve
public education and increase training for the police force, won
the state of Mexico vote with 64 percent support, according to
an exit poll conducted for TV Azteca.  Milenio television also declared Avila the winner, citing
an exit poll conducted by Gabinete de Comunicacion Estrategica.  The state of Mexico election marks the biggest referendum
before the presidential elections, when the PRI will try to
break 12 years of rule by President Felipe Calderon’s  National
Action Party , known as the PAN. The state’s current PRI Governor
Enrique Pena Nieto, who isn’t eligible for re-election, is the
favorite in polls to be Mexico’s next president and his
popularity boosted his would-be successor.  “A victory like the one we expect this weekend is a
resounding victory more for Pena Nieto than for Eruviel,” said
Alejandro Schtulmann, research director of Emerging Markets
Political Risk Analysis, a Mexico City consulting firm.  The PRI held Mexico’s presidency and dominated the nation’s
politics for 71 years until 2000.  Alejandro Encinas from the Revolutionary Democratic Party,
or PRD, was supported by 23 percent of voters while 13 percent
favored PAN candidate Luis Felipe Bravo, according to the TV
Azteca poll.  Lawyer  Avila, 42, is a lawyer and former mayor of Ecatepec, the
state’s most populous municipality. Encinas, 57, served as the
mayor of Mexico City and head of his party in the lower house of
congress.  Voters also chose governors in the northern state of
Coahuila and the western state of Nayarit in balloting today.  The PRI already had an advantage in national elections
before the gubernatorial contests. Pena Nieto, the favorite for
president, has 34 percent of support ahead of next year’s vote,
according to a May survey of 3,000 voters by pollster Consulta
Mitofsky.  Next was populist  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who staged
protests that shut down one of the capital’s main avenues after
losing the 2006 elections to Calderon by less than a percentage
point. He had 12 percent support. The poll has a margin of error
of 3.1 percentage points.  Campaigning Now  With an eye on next year’s elections, the PRI has increased
criticism of Mexico’s economic performance under the PAN
governments of Calderon and his predecessor, Vicente Fox.  Mexico’s economy has expanded an average of 2.1 percent per
year from 2000 to 2010, compared with 3.7 percent growth in
 Brazil  for the same period. Gross domestic product grew 5.4
percent in 2010, the most since 2000, after contracting 6.1
percent in 2009, the most since 1995.  The peso has risen 6.3 percent this year, the third-best
performance against the dollar among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Calderon is the big loser in this whole election,”
Schtulmann said. “He had years to prepare the ideal candidate
in Mexico state and he couldn’t do it. The same thing could
happen in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Toluca at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  