-- 
Venezuelans Rally as Chavez Fights Cancer

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-03T20:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/foe-says-he-won-t-push-chavez-to-cede-power.html
Supporters of President  Hugo Chavez 
filled downtown Caracas in a rally for the 56-year-old
socialist, who’s receiving treatment for cancer in Cuba.  Red-shirted marchers waved Venezuelan and Cuban flags and
carried signs reading “Onward commander,” a popular government
slogan of support. The demonstration was part of bicentennial
celebrations culminating July 5. Chavez, who’s recovering from
surgery to remove a cancerous tumor in his pelvis, hailed
backers on his  Twitter account  from Havana.  “I see you, hear you and live through you,” Chavez wrote
on Twitter today. “Here I am doing my daily exercises and
receiving this shower of love from the grand youth march. It’s
the best medicine.”  Venezuela’s opposition has shown restraint since Chavez
announced June 30 his cancer treatment in Cuba and has wished
him a fast recovery even while questioning how long he can
legally rule the country from abroad. Vice President Elias Jaua,
who would replace Chavez were he to resign or be stripped of
presidential powers due to his health or sustained absence, said
no succession plans are being discussed.  Chavez told Venezuelans in a nationally broadcast speech on
June 30 he was operated on twice in Cuba and won’t hurry his
return during treatment. The self-professed anti-imperialist,
who has run South America’s largest oil producer since 1999, has
vowed to keep ruling from Cuba for as long as it takes.  Trips to Cuba  Cabinet members have been shuttling back and forth to Cuba
for meetings with Chavez to discuss social programs and
bilateral agreements in an attempt to show that he’s still in
charge of daily activities.  Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro, who recently returned from
a visit with Chavez, said in an interview with the Televen
television network the president continues to recover well and
that the cancerous tumor in his pelvic region was completely
removed and hasn’t spread.  Venezuela’s state news service published photos of Chavez
walking in a track suit in  Havana  on July 1 with Maduro and two
of his daughters. Chavez looks thinner and pale in the  pictures .  Maduro denied a  report  by the Barcelona-based newspaper El
Periodico that said Chavez has  colon cancer  which has infected
his abdomen and may have metastasized.  “The doctors removed the tumor completely and checked his
organs, which are in perfect shape,” Maduro said. “It was a
serious operation of more than six hours. I can say that as of
today he’s recovering well.”  No Succession Talks  Chavez doesn’t need to provide all the details of his
illness, and there has been no succession plan discussed because
the president hasn’t been close to dying, Jaua said today in an
 interview  in the newspaper El Universal. Chavez will run for a
third term in next year’s elections, as the continuity of his
socialist revolution depends on it, Jaua said.  The leading opposition candidate for president said he
won’t press for Chavez to relinquish power during his recovery,
and will continue with plans to defeat him at the ballot box
next year.  Henrique Capriles Radonski, the governor of Miranda state,
is favored in polls to win a February primary to select a
coalition candidate to run against Chavez. Capriles said
yesterday Venezuelan law allows Chavez to remain in Cuba for as
long as he wishes, and that he hopes Chavez overcomes his
illness. There’s no need for him to cede power to Jaua in the
meantime, he said.  National Assembly Decides  “The president has the right to be absent for six months
and can even do so for longer because, according to the
constitution, it’s the National Assembly that decides,”
Capriles said in an interview in Caracas. “I’m not making
calculations based on Chavez’s illness. I hope he comes out of
it and that my rival is able to compete.”  While criticizing the secrecy surrounding Chavez’s illness,
Capriles and others are holding back from calling on the
socialist leader to step down, fearing it may generate a
backlash among voters and lead to divisions in the opposition
coalition after it won a majority of votes in last year’s
congressional elections.  Capriles, 38, said the government should release
information about how long Chavez’s treatment will last and when
he is likely to return to  Venezuela .  The opposition politician spoke in an interview at a school
in his constituency. He said the rumors that have swept the
country in the time Chavez has been gone were the result of the
government not releasing enough information about the
president’s condition.  ‘Lack of Clarity’  “The way in which the situation has been handled with
disinformation and a lack of clarity opens up spaces for
imagining lots of scenarios,” Capriles said. “Chavez has a
right to get sick, but the country also has a right to know what
his health condition is.”  In contrast to Capriles, a group of opposition academics,
journalists and politicians led by Miguel Enrique Otero, editor-
in-chief of the Caracas-based  El Nacional  newspaper, published
an editorial today calling on Chavez to relinquish power.  “If we accept that the recovery will be slow and require
specific conditions, it’s obvious that there will be a temporary
absence which should be resolved as stipulated in the
constitution, that the vice president takes over
provisionally,” the statement said. “It’s the legal, political
and human thing to do.”  Capriles had a 55 percent approval rating in a survey of
2,000 people taken by Consultores 21 from March 11 to March 25.
His closest rival, Leopoldo Lopez, a former mayor of the Caracas
municipality of Chacao, had 49 percent, while Chavez had 45
percent, according to the poll, which had a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.24 percentage points.  Vice President Jaua told Chavez’s flag-waving young
followers today amid politically charged salsa music blaring
from speakers that their support is the key to the continuation
of their leader’s revolution.  “Only you can assure that the revolution never dies,”
Jaua said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  