-- 
Foster’s Focused on Business Not SABMiller Takeover Offer, Pollaers Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-03T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/foster-s-focused-on-business-not-sabmiller-takeover-offer-pollaers-says.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  Chief Executive
 John Pollaers  said the company is focusing on its business
rather than talking to  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  after rejecting a A$9.5
billion ($10.2 billion) takeover bid from the maker of Peroni
and Grolsch.  The Melbourne-based company is concentrating on improving
growth amid a tough retail environment in  Australia , Pollaers
said in a television interview aired on Australian Broadcasting
Corp. yesterday.  “Our focus is let SABMiller do what they need to do, our
focus is on this business,” Pollaers said. “The best way to
maximize value is to have a well-run company that is unlocking
the growth potential and that is relevant to consumers.”  Foster’s shares closed 5.9 percent above the A$4.90 a share
offer on July 1 as investors bet on a higher bid. SABMiller has
said it can improve sales at Foster’s, which has endured years
of market-share decline while still controlling about half of
the country’s beer market.  London-based SABMiller, the world’s second-largest brewer
by volume, said June 21 it would “seek engagement” after
Foster’s rejected the cash offer as too low.  Australian retail sales advanced 1.3 percent in the 12
months ending June 30, the worst fiscal-year performance in two
decades, according to a Deloitte Access Economics report. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia said in May that “significant
divergences between different sectors of the economy presented
challenges for policy making,” as the biggest mining boom in a
century clashes with weaker  consumer spending .  ‘Tough Year’  “We’ve had a very tough year,” Pollaers said. “I think
most Australians are feeling it tough, and most beer consumers
are feeling it tough.”  Buying a business that already has among the highest
margins of all the major brewers means it may be difficult for
SABMiller to make major improvements.  Foster’s beer business had a margin, which measures
earnings before interest and taxes as a proportion of revenue,
of 37 percent in the 12 months ended June 2010, the highest of
any independent brewer in the world.  In May, Foster’s spun off its wine unit Treasury Wine
Estates Ltd. to focus on the beer business. Bright Food Group
Co.,  Shanghai ’s biggest food and dairy producer, is considering
making an offer for Treasury Wine Estates, two people familiar
with the matter said July 1.  Stemming Losses  Pollaers is concentrating on stemming beer market-share
losses and cutting production costs to free up cash and boost
promotion of brands. He’s also developing new brews to win back
consumers who switched to sweeter pre-mixed drinks and craft
beers.  The size of Foster’s portfolio of beer brands likely won’t
increase, Pollaers told ABC.  “Some brands will go stronger and some brands we will be
replacing with new brands as we create them,” he said.  The brewer isn’t seeking to expand overseas through
acquisitions, Pollaers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 