-- 
Greece Buys Time as Euro Ministers Press Investor Talks to Wrap Up Bailout

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-04T06:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/greece-buys-time-as-euro-ministers-press-investor-talks-to-wrap-up-bailout.html
Europe pulled  Greece  back from the
brink of default, gaining time to hammer out a formula for
ending the debt crisis.  European finance ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-
euro ($12.6 billion) loan payout to Greece by mid-July,
basing a second three-year bailout package on talks to corral
banks into maintaining their Greek debt holdings. A proposed
debt rollover plan for Greece may still put the country in
“effective default,”  Standard & Poor’s  said today.  “For markets, what matters is that Greece has got the
money to navigate through the summer,” said  Silvio Peruzzo ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .
“For the private-sector involvement, there is clearly a lot
to discuss, but I think they will deliver before September.”  Europe ’s agreement on July 2 to make the payout climaxed
a pivotal week for Greece and the euro, providing a respite
from the political tensions, clashes with central bankers and
jousting with investors that have dogged the crisis-fighting
effort. The finance chiefs gather next week to tackle
Greece’s long-term lifeline.  Bonds, Stocks  Financial markets offered breathing space as well, with
Greece’s escape from imminent default triggering gains last
week in the euro, European stocks and the bonds of fiscally
stretched countries such as Spain and Italy.  The euro pared gains after the S&P comments today,
trading little changed at $1.4535 as of 3:27 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
after rising as much as 0.4 percent earlier.  Greek parliamentary passage of new budget cuts last week
gave euro-area governments political cover to release the
funds, part of the 110 billion-euro bailout offered when
Greece became the first victim of the crisis in May 2010.  Prospects for turning the savings legislation into
reality are clouded by a lack of opposition support and
public hostility that boiled over into pitched battles
between teargas-spraying police and rioters outside the
Athens parliament last week.  Responding to his counterparts’ decision, Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said that it is critical for
Greece to deliver “prompt and effective implementation” of
the 78 billion-euro of austerity measures.  IMF Contribution  In the meantime, the  International Monetary Fund 
indicated that it is moving toward putting up its promised
3.3 billion-euro contribution to the next installment,
responding to the European pledge by saying that it is
prepared to “consider” doling out its share.  “We look forward to continue working with the Greek
authorities and the European partners in support of the
economic program that will contribute to restoring fiscal
sustainability,” the IMF said in a July 2 statement.  The twin disbursements will help Greece roll over about
4 billion euros of bills maturing between July 15 and July 22,
plus about 3 billion euros of coupon payments in the month,
according to Bloomberg calculations. A bigger test looms Aug.
20 when 6.6 billion euros of bonds fall due.  Contingency plans are being drawn up for the
“unlikely” event of the euro area’s first default, said
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  of  Germany , which as
Europe’s biggest economy is the principal underwriter of the
bailout.  Preparing for Default  “As a responsible government, of course we are
preparing for the unlikely event that there will be, against
all expectations, a Greek default,” Schaeuble told Spiegel
magazine in an interview released yesterday. He vowed to
prevent “uncontrollable” repercussions.  Greece, said by the IMF to be “on track” in February,
veered off course in April with the disclosure of a higher-
than-planned deficit for 2010, forcing Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government to wring extra savings out of this
year’s budget.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
chairs meetings of euro-area finance ministers, voiced
confidence that Greece’s woes won’t spread to the rest of
Europe.  ‘Way Back’  Ireland and  Portugal , beneficiaries of 146 billion euros
in aid, are “on their way back to the capital markets,”
Juncker said in a  Focus magazine interview  published
yesterday. He saw “no danger” for  Italy  and  Belgium .  Finance ministers from the 17 euro countries next meet
July 11 to work on Greece’s next rescue, which  Austria  last
week said may add as much as 85 billion euros to the bill for
keeping the country financially sound.  Officials played down expectations of a final package
next week, citing discussions with banks and insurers to
reinvest in maturing Greek bonds in a way that doesn’t lead
credit-rating companies to declare Greece in default.  “Consultations with Greece’s creditors are under way in
order to define the modalities for voluntary private-sector
involvement with a view to achieving a substantial reduction
in Greece’s year-by-year financing needs, while avoiding
selective default,” euro-area finance chiefs said in a
statement after their July 2 conference call.  Bank Lending  Europe is inching toward a goal of getting banks to roll
over 30 billion euros of Greek bonds, instead of opening a
hole for the official lenders to fill. French banks, with the
biggest exposure to Greece, worked out a rollover formula
that is serving as an example elsewhere.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer , a member of the
European Central Bank council, said the proposal is “very
good” and may make Greece’s program more credible, according
to an interview in yesterday’s Athens-based Proto Thema
newspaper.  S&P said in its statement that the debt rollover plan
may put Greece in “effective default” and the country’s
“uncertain ability” to implement the revised EU-IMF program
is a “key risk weighing on its credit standing.”  S&P Rating  The rating company’s downgrade of Greek debt to CCC from
B last month “reflected our view of the rising risk that an
enhanced official financing package addressing the Greek
government’s 2011-2014 financing needs could require private
sector debt restructuring in a form that we would view as an
effective default of its debt obligations under our ratings
criteria,” it said.  German banks, insurers and so-called bad banks pledged
last week to buy 3.2 billion euros of maturing Greek bonds.
Allianz SE, Europe’s largest insurer, puts its share at 300
million euros, spokesman Christian Kroos said yesterday.  Other obstacles to a new official loan package include
demands by  Finland  that Greece put up collateral and
rejection by one of the four parties in Slovakia’s ruling
coalition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  