-- 
Greece Offers to Send Flotilla Aid to Gaza

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-03T16:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/greece-offers-to-send-flotilla-aid-to-gaza.html
Greece  told organizers of a flotilla
being detained at its ports it was willing to transfer any aid
on the ships to the Palestinians rather than having activists
try to break Israel’s naval embargo of the  Gaza Strip .  “Greece declares anew its willingness, and proposes to
undertake itself, with Greek ships or other appropriate manner,
the transport of humanitarian aid through existing channels, as
requested by the UN Secretary General,” the country’s Foreign
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  Israel said it won’t allow the vessels to violate its naval
embargo of Hamas-controlled Gaza. A previous flotilla’s attempt
to arrive in Gaza by sea ended in violence on May 31 last year
when Israeli naval commandos dropped from helicopters onto the
deck of the Mavi Marmara, part of the six-boat convoy, and
opened fire after the ship refused to stop. Nine Turks were
killed.  Israel  says people on board shot first and attacked with
iron bars, an allegation the passengers denied.  Greece says seven of the flotilla’s ships are being
detained because they have not met the requisite security
standards. The Greek coast guard yesterday intercepted one of
the ships after it sailed from  Athens ’s Piraeus port without
permission, and arrested the crew.  “It is very obvious to us that Israel has outsourced the
occupation of Gaza to the Greek authorities, who have bowed to
political and economic pressure to prevent the flotilla from
leaving,” said Akram Bader, a Jerusalem-based spokesman for the
activists. Two boats in the flotilla have already set sail from
other European locations.  ‘Positive’ Developments  “We’re seeing developments at this time regarding the
flotilla that seem very positive, with the governments of
Greece,  Turkey , Cyprus and others working to restrain it,”
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said before the Cabinet met
in Jerusalem today, in comments broadcast on  Army Radio . “As a
result, there is a chance to minimize the impact of this
flotilla, although we still have to prepare for the possibility
that these boats will arrive.”  The flotilla organizers have said Israel’s blockade is
illegal under international law and causing unnecessary hardship
for Gaza’s Palestinian population.  Israel says sufficient goods reach Gaza through its border
crossings and that it needs the naval blockade to prevent arms
smuggling to Hamas, the Islamic movement that is classified as a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union.  Quartet Statement  The Middle East Quartet, consisting of the U.S.,  United
Nations , European Union and  Russia , issued a statement yesterday
urging “all those wishing to deliver goods to the people of
Gaza to do so through established channels so that their cargo
can be inspected and transferred via established land
crossings.”  Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat criticized the
Quartet’s stance. “The situation in Gaza is not about border
crossings, it is the illegally denied and internationally
recognized rights of the Palestinian people to dignity, freedom
and self-determination,” Erakat said in an e-mailed statement.  Erakat belongs to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah faction, which controls the  West Bank . Fatah and
Hamas, whose unity government fell apart after clashes in Gaza
in 2007, signed an agreement in May to form a new Palestinian
coalition.  A group of international activists announced today that on
July 8 they intend to disembark at Israel’s Ben-Gurion Airport
to take part in a “week of activities in  Palestine ,” despite
the “draconian and discriminating procedures at the borders of
Israel,” according to an e-mailed statement.  Israel’s Foreign Ministry said it is aware of reports about
a possible protest action at the airport. “No international
airport can accept disturbances in its area, and if indeed that
should happen, it will be dealt with by  law enforcement  and
security forces, as it would in any other airport,” said Yigal Palmor, a ministry spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 