-- 
Middle East Turmoil Beaten by Argentine Inflation in Yields: Arab Credit

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-07-03T20:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/middle-east-turmoil-beaten-by-argentine-inflation-arab-credit.html
Middle Eastern bonds have been
offering a lower yield premium than Latin American debt for the
longest stretch in six years, as Argentine and Venezuelan
inflation concerns investors more than Arab uprisings.  The spread over U.S. Treasury bonds has been narrower for
 Middle East  debt than for securities issued in Latin America
since Nov. 12, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show. Corporate bonds
in the Middle East are also returning more this year.  While many Latin American economies are transparent and
well managed, “growth is the next hurdle for some countries
there because of inflation,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief
economist at Exotix Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone
interview. Middle Eastern borrowers, meanwhile, have enjoyed
renewed investor confidence after Dubai last year avoided
default by renegotiating almost $25 billion in debt, he said.  Governments in the Persian Gulf, which holds more than half
the world’s oil reserves, are also benefitting from crude prices
averaging almost $100 a barrel in  New York  this year, almost 60
percent higher than 2009. The region’s biggest energy producers,
including Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, have mostly been
spared the popular uprisings that have toppled two leaders and
threaten others in Yemen, Syria and  Libya .  The yield gap between Middle Eastern debt and U.S.
Treasuries was 328 basis points on July 1, against 349 basis
points for Latin American issuers, JPMorgan data show. The
average gap is 46 basis points this year compared with 18 last
year, and it peaked at 69 points in April.  The Washington-based Institute of International Finance
forecasts 6.9 percent inflation for the Middle East and  Africa 
this year, compared with 8.4 percent in  Latin America .  Highest Rate  Venezuela ’s May inflation rate of 22.8 percent was the
highest among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg. Opposition
lawmakers in  Argentina  last month charged the government with
distorting inflation figures and said the real rate is more than
double the 9.7 percent reported for May.  The extra yield investors demand to buy  government bonds 
from Venezuela, the holder of Latin America’s largest oil
reserves, instead of U.S. Treasuries was 1,086 basis points on
July 1, the most of any developing nation in JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI index.  Saudi Arabia , the largest Arab economy, and Qatar, the top
exporter of liquefied natural gas, are set to grow faster and
with slower inflation than the biggest Latin American economies,
forecasts by  Standard Chartered  Plc show. Both have remained
mostly isolated from the turmoil in the Middle East.  Oil Reserves  “The situation leads one to be constructive on the Middle
East in general, and then to differentiate further within the
region for value,” said Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, an economist
at Standard Chartered, in a phone interview from Paris June 27.  The Saudi economy is forecast to expand 7.5 percent this
year, almost double last year’s pace, the Washington-based IMF
said. Qatar may expand 20 percent this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in April. Together with the U.A.E., the
countries hold 28 percent of the world’s oil reserves and 21
percent of its natural gas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on Qatar’s 4 percent dollar bonds maturing
January 2015 declined 800 basis points to 2.471 percent on July
1 from its high for the year on March 2.  Dubai, rebounding from a 2009 debt crisis sparked by a
slump in property prices, is among the Middle East’s top
performers this year. Support from  Abu Dhabi , which holds about
7 percent of the world’s oil and lent money to its neighbor,
helped speed the recovery.  ‘Rock Solid’  “Dubai has gone from being a source of global disruption
to a situation of confidence that the backstop is rock solid,”
said Gabriel Sterne, a fixed income economist at Exotix.  Government-run utility Dubai Electricity and Water
Authority’s 7.375 percent bond due in Oct. 2020 has returned
more than twice as much as Centrais Electricas Brasileiras
S.A.’s 6 7/8 percent bond due in 2019. The $1.5 billion Dubai
issue has returned 10.08 percent compared with 4.07 percent on
the $1 billion Brazilian utility bond, according to Bloomberg
data. Both companies are rated BBB-, the lowest investment
grade, by  Standard & Poor’s .  Regional yields fell to 5.092 percent on July 1, from a
nine-month high of 5.97 percent on March 18, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional Total Return Index.
The average yield on emerging market debt fell 303 basis points
in the period to 5.978 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Index. One hundred basis points equal one percentage
point.  Capital Inflows  Net private capital inflows to emerging economies may reach
$1 trillion in 2011 and rise to $1.1 trillion next year,
according to a June 1 report by the  Institute of International
Finance .  Yields on Middle Eastern borrowing widened last week on
investor concern that a default in  Greece  may hurt economic
growth. The Greek government won a vote in parliament June 29 on
an austerity plan that will help it meet conditions for further
aid from its European Union partners.  Another problem for Middle East investors is a lack of
transparency in governance, Exotix’s Culverhouse said. Other
risks may include renewed debt trouble in Dubai, or higher
inflation as Gulf oil producers ramp up spending to stave off
political unrest. The Saudi government has pledged about $130
billion for housing subsidies, new jobs and pensions. That’s a
stimulus so big it will overflow into other Gulf countries,
London-based  Capital Economics  said in a March report.  “There is a  risk premium  here,” said Dauba-Pantanacce of
Standard Chartered. “For the investor who knows where to look,
there tend to be very healthy yields and returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  