-- 
Tiger Air Plunges After Australia Unit Grounded by Regulator; Qantas Jumps

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-04T13:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/tiger-airways-may-face-longer-grounding.html
Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  tumbled a
record 16 percent in Singapore trading after Australia’s
aviation regulator forced the carrier’s local unit to suspend
services because of safety concerns.  The carrier, part-owned by Singapore Airlines Ltd., plunged
to S$1.00 at the close, after dropping the most since it began
trading in January 2010.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  jumped 6.5 percent,
while  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  surged 11 percent, the most
since September.  Tiger Australia’s fleet of 10 Airbus SAS A320s was grounded
by the nation’s Civil Aviation Safety Authority on July 1 until
at least July 9 because of a “serious and imminent risk to air
safety,” the regulator said. The suspension of services will
cost Tiger about S$2 million ($1.6 million) a week, the
Singapore-based carrier said.  “We continue to question the longevity of Tiger in
 Australia ,” Anthony Moulder, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in Sydney, said in a note to clients today. “Tiger’s pricing
has been disruptive to the wider leisure market, and therefore
we expect a less disruptive pricing environment is positive for
all competitors.”  The carrier’s rating was cut by at least four brokers, with
Credit Suisse and DMG & Partners Securities recommending
investors sell their stock.  New Director  Tiger’s management has begun meeting with the regulator to
try and resolve the safety issues, the airline said. The carrier
also named Chin Yau Seng as an additional executive director
effective today to support Chief Executive Officer Tony Davis.  “Our goal is to resume our services as quickly as possible
whilst restoring the confidence of both CASA and the Australian
public at large,” Tiger said in a statement.  Tiger Airways Singapore services are not affected and
continue to operate normally. The carrier is 33 percent owned by
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Australian safety agency has been monitoring Tiger’s
operations in the country this year and earlier imposed
conditions, including improving pilot proficiency and
maintenance control, it said. To extend Tiger’s grounding, the
agency would need to make an application by July 8, said Peter Gibson, a spokesman.  “There’s a process that we’re working our way through,”
Gibson said.  Ash Cloud  The grounding affects 35,000 passengers and comes as much
of the country starts school holidays, according to Transport
Minister Anthony Albanese. It is a further disruption for
Australian travelers who have grappled with flight cancellations
since the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex in Southern
Chile erupted June 4, sending an  ash cloud  billowing around the
globe.  Qantas, its budget unit Jetstar, and Virgin are helping
Tiger passengers affected by the grounding.  “The safety of the travelling public must come first,”
Albanese said in a statement. “CASA has not taken this action
lightly but formed the view that there was a serious and
imminent risk to passengers.”  Tiger began domestic Australian flights in November 2007
and has kept costs and fares down since entering the market
through steps including charging extra for food, airport check-
in and reserved seating.  The  carrier  is the smallest of the three airline groups
flying domestic routes. Virgin Blue’s Virgin Australia operates
86 aircraft while Qantas and its budget carrier Jetstar had 252
planes and about 5,600 domestic flights a week as of September,
their websites show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  