-- 
Israel ‘Positive’ as Gaza Flotilla Delayed

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-07-03T11:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/israel-sees-positive-developments-as-gaza-flotilla-delayed.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
said efforts to stop a flotilla intending to break his country’s
naval embargo of the Gaza Strip had taken a positive turn after
 Greece  prevented most of the ships from sailing.  “We’re seeing developments at this time regarding the
flotilla that seem very positive, with the governments of
Greece,  Turkey , Cyprus and others working to restrain it,”
Barak said before the Cabinet met in Jerusalem today, in
comments broadcast on  Army Radio . “As a result, there is a
chance to minimize the impact of this flotilla, although we
still have to prepare for the possibility that these boats will
arrive.”  Greek authorities have forbidden seven vessels from
sailing, saying they lack proper safety equipment, and yesterday
arrested the crew of one ship after it left the port of Piraeus
without permission. The remaining two boats in the flotilla have
already sailed from other European locations.  Israel  said it won’t allow the vessels to reach the Hamas-
controlled  Gaza Strip . A previous flotilla’s attempt to arrive
in Gaza by sea ended in violence on May 31 last year when
Israeli naval commandos dropped from helicopters onto the deck
of the Mavi Marmara, part of the six-boat convoy, and opened
fire after the ship refused to stop. Nine Turks were killed.  Israel says people on board shot first and attacked with
iron bars, an allegation the passengers denied.  ‘Economic Pressure’  “It is very obvious to us that Israel has outsourced the
occupation of Gaza to the Greek authorities, who have bowed to
political and economic pressure to prevent the flotilla from
leaving,” said Akram Bader, a Jerusalem-based spokesman for the
activists.  The organizers have said Israel’s blockade is illegal under
international law and causing unnecessary hardship for Gaza’s
Palestinian population.  Israel says sufficient goods reach Gaza through its border
crossings and that it needs the naval blockade to prevent arms
smuggling to Hamas, the Islamic movement that is classified as a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 