-- 
Blue Jays’ Bautista Sets All-Star Voting Record; Six Yankees Make AL Team

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-07-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/jose-bautista-of-toronto-blue-jays-tops-fan-voting-for-mlb-all-star-game.html
Jose Bautista of the  Toronto Blue
Jays  received a record number of fan votes to this year’s Major
League Baseball All-Star Game, which will feature six players
from the  New York Yankees .  Bautista, who leads the majors with 27 home runs this
season, was named on 7.45 million ballots to top the previous
record of 6.07 million votes for Ken Griffey Jr. of the Seattle
Mariners in 1994. Three other American League starters surpassed
the previous record, including Yankees’ second baseman Robinson Cano and centerfielder Curtis Granderson.  Cano and Granderson were selected yesterday as starters,
along with Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  and third baseman  Alex Rodriguez . It’s the first time one team has had three All-Star
infield starters since 2004, when the Yankees’ Jeter, Rodriguez
and  Jason Giambi  made the AL squad.  Yankees catcher Russell Martin and reliever Mariano Rivera
were selected as American League reserves. The Yankees’ six All-
Stars are the most of any team.  Shortstop Jose Reyes was the only player from the  New York
Mets  to make the National League’s starting line-up.  At stake in the July 12 game is home-field advantage in the
World Series. Since 2003, the team from the winning league has
earned the right to host as many as four games in the best-of-
seven championship matchup. The NL last year ended its 13-year
winless streak with a 3-1 victory.  The 82nd All-Star Game will be at Chase Field in Phoenix.
Bruce Bochy of the  World Series  champion  San Francisco  Giants
will manage the NL team, while Ron Washington of the  Texas
Rangers  leads the AL squad.  Braun Leads NL  Ryan Braun of the Milwaukee Brewers set an NL record with
5.93 million votes to earn a fourth straight starting spot. The
previous NL mark of 5.4 million votes was set by Albert Pujols
of the  St. Louis Cardinals  in 2009.  Braun will be joined on the NL’s starting roster by
Milwaukee teammates Prince Fielder and Rickie Weeks, who will
play first and second base respectively.  Bautista is the first Blue Jay voted onto the All-Star
roster since Carlos Delgado in 2003 and the ninth player in the
team’s 34-year history to make the team. He’ll start in the
outfield, even though he switched to third base late last month.
Bautista is the only Toronto outfielder elected by fans since
Joe Carter in 1994 and the first outfielder to lead the voting
since  Seattle ’s Ichiro Suzuki in 2003, MLB said.  Granderson will make his first appearance in the game,
while Jeter will make his sixth consecutive start and 12th
appearance overall. Cano was chosen for the second time and
Rodriguez ties  Ivan Rodriguez  for the lead among active players
with 14 All-Star Game appearances.  All-Star Pitchers  San Francisco’s  Tim Lincecum , Ryan Vogelsong, Brian Wilson
and Matt Cain are among the NL’s 13 pitchers. The lineup also
features  Roy Halladay , Cliff Lee and Cole Hamels from the
Phillies, who have the best record in the majors.  David Price and James Shields of the Tampa Bay Rays lead
the AL pitching staff, which also features Josh Beckett of the
 Boston Red Sox , Felix Hernandez of the  Seattle Mariners  and
Justin Verlander of the  Detroit Tigers .  Reyes was selected for his fourth appearance and second as
a starter. The only other Mets player to make the NL roster was
Carlos Beltran, who was selected as a reserve.  The final player on each team will be decided by a public
vote that ends July 7.  The AL candidates are Kansas City Royals left fielder Alex Gordon, Baltimore Orioles center fielder Adam Jones, Chicago
White Sox first baseman Paul Konerko, Detroit Tigers designated
hitter Victor Martinez and Tampa Bay Rays second baseman Ben Zobrist.  NL nominees are right fielder Andre Ethier of the  Los
Angeles Dodgers , first baseman Todd Helton of the  Colorado
Rockies , pitcher Ian Kennedy of the Arizona Diamondbacks, left
fielder Michael Morse of the Washington Nationals and center
fielder Shane Victorino of the  Philadelphia Phillies . 