-- 
Watney Wins AT&T National at Aronimink for 2nd PGA Golf Tour Title of 2011

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-07-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/nick-watney-wins-golf-s-at-t-national-for-2nd-pga-tour-title-of-2011.html
Nick Watney  won the AT&T National,
his second title on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour this year, to climb
into the top 10 in the world for the first time.  “That was one of my goals at the beginning of the year, to
try to get into the top 10,” Watney told reporters at  Aronimink
Golf Club  in  Newtown Square , Pennsylvania. “That’s really,
really cool, but at the same time I can’t rest on that. I feel
there’s still work to be done.”  Watney shot a 4-under-par 66 during yesterday’s final round
to finish the tournament at 13-under-par 267, two shots ahead of
runner-up K.J. Choi of South Korea.  In addition to climbing five places in the  Official World
Golf Ranking , Watney moved atop the season-long FedEx Cup
playoff standings. The victory is worth $1.12 million to the 30-
year-old Watney, who also won the Cadillac Championship in
March, a World Golf Championships event. The American, who had a
course-record 62 in the third round, now has four titles on the
world’s richest golf circuit.  “It’s a very addictive feeling to be out there and under
the gun and to be able to hit good shots and putts,” Watney
said. “That’s why I play.”  The winning score tied the record set by  Tiger Woods  in
2007 at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland, where
the tournament will return next year.  Final-Round Slump  Rickie Fowler , who went into the final round tied for a
one-stroke lead with Watney, shot a 74 to slump to a share of
13th place at 5-under par. The 22-year-old Fowler, who began the
tournament ranked 52nd in the world, was chasing his first win
in 47 starts on the tour.  “I just couldn’t get anything going,” Fowler said.  Adam Scott ,  Jeff Overton  and Charles Howell III tied for
third at 9-under par at the tournament, where final-day play
began early because of the threat of thunderstorms in the area.  Woods wasn’t in the field, though he attended the
tournament, which benefits his  foundation . Woods said during a
June 28 news conference at Aronimink that he doesn’t know if
he’ll be able to play in the British Open and has no timetable
for a return to tournament golf.  Woods has spent the past six weeks recovering from left
knee and Achilles’ tendon injuries sustained at the  Masters
Tournament  in April and aggravated at the  Players Championship 
in May.  The tour now moves to Silvis, Illinois, for the John Deere
Classic, the last event before the British Open. The third of
golf’s four annual major championships is scheduled for July
14-17 at Royal St. Georges Golf Club in Sandwich, Kent, about 77
miles (124 kilometers) southeast of  London  on England’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  