-- 
New No. 1 Novak Djokovic Defeats Rafael Nadal to Get First Wimbledon Title

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-03T23:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/novak-djokovic-upsets-nadal-3-1-to-win-his-first-wimbledon-men-s-title.html
Novak Djokovic yesterday defeated
defending champion  Rafael Nadal  for the Wimbledon title, days
after taking the Spaniard’s spot at the top of men’s tennis.  Djokovic won 6-4, 6-1, 1-6, 6-3 on Centre Court of the All
England Club in London to push his record for the year to 48-1.  The Serb will become No. 1 on the ATP World Tour today.
Djokovic was assured of the top ranking after beating  France ’s
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the semifinals. Nadal, a 10-time major
champion, held the spot since beating  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland  for last year’s  French Open  title.  “I managed to achieve a lifetime goal and I managed to
make my dream come true, all in three days’ time,” Djokovic
said in a press conference. “It’s just an incredible feeling
that I’m never going to forget. This is the best day of my
tennis career.”  The 24-year-old Djokovic is the first player other than
Nadal or Federer to hold the top ranking since  Andy Roddick  of
the U.S. in February 2004.  Yesterday, Nadal made 15 unforced errors, more than twice
as many as in his semifinal against Britain’s  Andy Murray .
Djokovic made 12 mistakes. The Serb struck 27 winners, six more
than the Spaniard.  Nadal hadn’t lost at Wimbledon since 2007, when Federer
beat him in the final to capture the fifth of his sixth
championships. Nadal won the title in 2008 over Federer and
skipped the 2009 tournament because of a knee injury.  “My game didn’t bother him a lot,” Nadal told
journalists. “He’s playing better than my level. I have to try
to find solutions.”  First Set  Watched by Serbian president Boris Tadic from the royal
box, Djokovic pulled back a 0-30 deficit on the Nadal serve at
4-5 with two forehand winners. Nadal handed the Serb a set point
as he netted a forehand. Another forehand error by Nadal, this
time out wide, gave Djokovic the first set.  In the second set, Djokovic came back from 0-30 on his own
serve to hold the opening game. Nadal continued to struggle with
his serve in the next game, as a backhand error gave Djokovic a
breakpoint. Djokovic screamed at his box and thumped his chest
as he broke the Spaniard for a second straight time with a
backhand pickup off a Nadal drop shot. Djokovic forced a double
break for a 5-1 lead as the defending champion missed a backhand
as he slid across the baseline. Another backhand error handed
the Serb the second set.  Statistics  Nadal, who had made only seven unforced errors in his
semifinal, made nine mistakes in the first two sets, while
Djokovic had four. The Serb struck 24 winners, compared with 13
for Nadal.  The momentum shifted in the third set, as Nadal reduced his
error count to one while Djokovic had four mistakes. The
Spaniard got a double break as the Serb produced his first
double fault of the match. Serving at 5-1, he won his first set
in the final with a forehand winner.  In the fourth set, Djokovic saved a breakpoint in the
opening game with a smash. The Serb rushed to the net on Nadal’s
serve in the next game, setting up a breakpoint with a forehand
volley. He took a 2-0 lead as Nadal netted another forehand. The
Spaniard broke straight back, as a slice forehand return hit the
top of the net and then rolled over to his opponent’s side.
 Serving at 3-4, Nadal dropped serve for the fifth time in the
match as he made several unforced errors.  Serving for his first Wimbledon title leading 5-3, Djokovic
won as Nadal hit a backhand long.  French Loss  Djokovic also had a shot at taking the No. 1 ranking at
this year’s  French Open . Federer ended that chance and
Djokovic’s perfect start to the season in the semifinals at 41-
0, one fewer than  John McEnroe ’s record set in 1984. Nadal, 25,
won his sixth championship at  Roland Garros  in Paris last month
by beating Federer, who has won a men’s record 16 major
tournaments.  Nadal had been trying to match  Bjorn Borg ’s record of
winning the French Open and Wimbledon in the same year three
times. Borg did it 1978, 1979 and 1980.  Djokovic started this season with his second major singles
title at the Australian Open, beating Britain’s Andy Murray in
straight sets, then won six more tournaments. He has beaten
Nadal in five finals this season -- on hard courts in Miami and
 Indian Wells , on Nadal’s favorite clay surface in Madrid and
 Rome , and now on the grass at Wimbledon.  First Time  This is the first time Djokovic has beaten Nadal in a Grand
Slam event in six tries. He lost the only championship match
they played before yesterday, at last year’s  U.S. Open , and quit
with injuries at the French Open in 2006 and Wimbledon in 2007.  Djokovic skipped a grass-court warm-up event at Queen’s
Club in  London  because of fatigue. Until Paris, Djokovic had
been on a 43-match win streak since December, when he won the
Davis Cup for  Serbia  at home in Belgrade. That victory, and
changes to his diet and fitness regime, boosted his confidence
this season, he’s frequently told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 