-- 
Obama’s Afghanistan Plan Creates ‘Risk,’ Two U.S. Senators Say

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-03T15:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/obama-s-afghanistan-plan-creates-risk-two-u-s-senators-say.html
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to pull
33,000 troops from  Afghanistan  by September 2012 is causing
needless danger and confusion on the ground there, two U.S.
Republican senators said.  “It creates unnecessary risk and it has created risk,”
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  told “Fox News
Sunday” today. “It has changed the momentum. People wondering
what we’re up to.”  Obama announced last month plans to remove 33,000 extra
troops he ordered to Afghanistan in 2009 because the military
force has largely met its goals. Polls show declining public
support for the almost 10-year-old war. Critics say the
withdrawal strategy puts American objectives in jeopardy.  “The fact is that there was no recommendation by any
military person to have this early withdrawal and it’s an
unnecessary risk,” Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican,
told  CNN ’s “State of the Union” today.  “Afghans are now wondering if we are leaving or not and
that can undermine the whole effort and sacrifice that has been
made ever since this important surge began,” McCain said.  Graham said he’s confident that the decision to withdraw
the troops wasn’t made by U.S. military commanders.  Obama, in a June 22 speech outlining the plan, said scaling
back in Afghanistan will allow time to “focus on nation-
building here at home.”  A survey released June 21 by the Pew Research Center found
for the first time a majority of Americans, 56 percent, want to
bring U.S. troops home as soon as possible rather than wait
until the Afghan situation has stabilized.  The survey reflects an 8-point increase in support for a
withdrawal since May and a 16-point increase from a year ago.
The survey of 1,502 adults was conducted June 15-19 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  