-- 
U.S. Home Prices Poised to Climb as Foreclosures Wane, HUD’s Donovan Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/home-prices-very-unlikely-to-fall-further-u-s-s-donovan-says.html
Prices for U.S. homes may climb as
soon as the third quarter, ending declines as foreclosures
decline make more home available for sale, Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan said.  “It’s very unlikely that we will see a significant further
decline,” Donovan said yesterday on  CNN . “The real question is
when will we start to see sustainable increases. Some think it
will be as early as the end of this summer or this fall.”  Home sales have increased in six out of the past nine
months and the number of property owners in default is
declining, Donovan said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.
Housing prices will begin rising as the number of foreclosures
declines, he said.  “In the long run, it’s a good time to buy,” Donovan said.
“It’s so affordable today compared to where it’s been for
generations.”  Contracts to buy previously owned U.S. homes rose 8.2
percent in May, following a revised 11 percent drop in the
previous month, the National Association of Realtors said on
June 29. A separate report by the Chicago-based group on June 21
showed sales of existing houses, which make up about 96 percent
of the market, declined in May to a six-month low.  Home prices  fell 4 percent in April from a year earlier,
the biggest drop in 17 months for the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
values in 20 cities.  An estimated 1.7 million U.S. homes were in the foreclosure
process and expected to be put on the market as of April, down
18 percent from the peak, as fewer loans entered delinquency and
more distressed homes were sold, CoreLogic Inc. said in a report
on June 22.  Shadow Inventory  The so-called shadow inventory represented a five-month
supply at the current sales pace, the  Santa Ana , California-
based real-estate information company reported. The inventory’s
size is a barometer of housing-market health because foreclosed
homes sell for lower prices and falling values discourage
buying, said Sam Khater, CoreLogic’s chief economist.  Donovan said lenders are adding requirements “that don’t
make sense” for risky borrowers after the government, through
the  Federal Housing Administration , raised the minimum down
payments for a house purchase.  “We can’t over correct,” Donovan said. “We can’t go so
far in the other direction that we cut off homeownership for
people who really can be successful homeowners.”  Encouraging home ownership should avoid giving buyers an
expectation of making $1 million overnight, Donovan said.  “We
can get back to the place where it’s a good investment and we
will be able to make money over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  