-- 
Palestinian Authority Facing Financial Crisis

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-07-03T14:09:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/palestinian-authority-facing-financial-crisis.html
Palestinian Authority  Prime Minister
Salam Fayyad said his government has only enough money to pay
half of salaries this month and appealed to “donors and our
Arab brothers” to fulfill their pledges for funding.  “Today is a day of crisis,” Fayyad said at a press
conference today in the West Bank city of Ramallah. He said the
Palestinian Authority had a deficit of $585 million and had
reached the limit of its bank borrowing.  Fayyad said the financial crisis “shouldn’t mean anything
for the readiness for a Palestinian state.” Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has said he plans to ask the
 United Nations  to recognize a Palestinian state in September.  The  World Bank  said in an April report that the Palestinian
Authority had increased bank borrowing to fund development
projects for which designated aid hadn’t been received and that
arrears were accumulating at an unsustainable rate. At the end
of 2010 total domestic debt was about $840 million, “which may
be close to the PA’s borrowing limits,” the report said.  Donor countries have paid only $330 million of the $971
million pledged this year, Fayyad said. Roughly one-quarter of
the authority’s $3.7 billion budget comes from foreign aid.  Oman, Algeria and the  United Arab Emirates  are the only
Arab countries that have so far paid funds that they pledged for
this year, Fayyad said, adding that the U.S. and European Union
have been making regular contributions.  Donor Appeal  “I appeal to the donors -- and our Arab brothers
especially -- to fulfill their financial commitment,” Fayyad
said. “The drop-off has been in contributions from the
region.”  Fayyad said he expects the budget situation to improve if
the  West Bank  and  Gaza Strip  are united again under one
administration supported by both Abbas’s Fatah organization and
the Hamas movement.  Fatah, which rules the West Bank, and Hamas, which runs
Gaza, agreed in May to form a joint transitional government and
hold elections within a year. The two sides have been unable to
agree on a Cabinet, however, in part because Hamas objects to
Abbas’s demand that Fayyad remain as prime minister.  Reconciliation would restore $120 million in monthly
revenue that the authority received from Gaza before the schism
of the two territories in 2007, Fayyad said. Hamas is considered
a terrorist organization by the U.S., European Union and  Israel .  Fayyad, 59, underwent a procedure to unblock a coronary
artery in May at a hospital in  Texas . He said doctors in the
West Bank city of Hebron performed tests on his heart yesterday
and said he was in good health. “I'm feeling fine, much better,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Ramallah  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  