-- 
Payrolls in U.S. Probably Rose at Pace That Failed to Reduce Jobless Rate

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-03T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/payrolls-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-pace-that-failed-to-reduce-jobless-rate.html
Employers in the U.S. probably
expanded payrolls at a pace that failed to reduce the
unemployment rate in June as companies sought to contain costs
amid slower growth, economists said a report may show this week.  Payrolls climbed by 100,000 workers after a 54,000 increase
in May that was the smallest in eight months, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead
of Labor Department data due July 8. The jobless rate held at
9.1 percent. Another report may show growth in services cooled.  A recovery that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said is “frustratingly slow” explains why employers such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Gannett Co. are cutting positions or
becoming reluctant to add as many workers. Faster payroll growth
is needed to spur  consumer spending  that accounts for 70 percent
of the economy.  “We’re going through a slow patch in hiring,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “June payrolls will be better than May but
still far short of what is needed to bring down unemployment.
That’s not good for demand.”  The projected gain would be less than the 166,000 monthly
average in the first quarter of the year. Payroll increases of
around 200,000 a month are needed for a sustained decline in the
 unemployment rate , Brown said.  While the economic recovery started in June 2009, the labor
market has been slow to improve, taking a toll on President
Barack Obama’s approval ratings. Since he took office in January
2009, unemployment has increased by about a percentage point and
the economy has lost 2.5 million jobs.  By a 44 percent to 34 percent margin, Americans say they
believe they are worse off than when Obama took office,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20.  Private Payrolls  The Labor Department employment report will also show
private payrolls, which exclude government agencies, increased
by 125,000 after rising 83,000 in May, according to the survey
median.  “Recent labor market indicators have been weaker than
anticipated,” Fed policy makers said in a statement after their
June 21-22 meeting. “The economic recovery is continuing at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly” than anticipated,
partly reflecting “temporary” factors, they said.  Bernanke said at a news conference after the meeting that
policy makers “expect the unemployment rate to continue to
decline but the pace of progress remains frustrating slow.”  Cuts at Newspapers  Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defense contractor, on
June 30 said it plans to cut about 1,500 employees from its
Aeronautics business unit that makes F-35 jet fighters. The
reductions will be spread across several states including Texas,
Georgia and  California , the Bethesda, Maryland-based company
said.  McLean, Virginia-based Gannett, the publisher of 82
newspapers including  USA Today , said in June it is eliminating
about 700 jobs at its community-newspaper unit amid weakness in
local and national advertising.  The economic recovery is not happening “as quickly or
favorably as we had hoped,” Bob Dickey, president of Gannett’s
U.S. community publishing division, said in a memo. “While we
are seeing improved circulation results and audience growth,
weakness in the real estate sector, slow  job creation  and now
softer auto ad demand continue to challenge revenue growth.”  The economy may be starting to rebound from a first-half
slowdown, according to reports last week. Manufacturing picked
up in June as components supply disruptions related to the
earthquake in  Japan  eased. The Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index rose to 55.3 from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said July 1.  Factory Orders  A Commerce Department report on July 5 is projected to show
orders placed with factories rebounded 1 percent in May after
falling in April by the most in almost a year.  Investors are counting on manufacturing, which has led the
recovery, to keep bolstering growth. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has climbed 5.6 percent from the
beginning of June through July 1, outpacing the broader  S&P 500 ,
which gained 1.9 percent.  Services industries, which cover about 90 percent of the
economy, expanded at a slower pace in June, a report may show on
July 6. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses eased to 53.6 from 54.6 in May,
according to the Bloomberg News survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  