-- 
Politicians Lag U.S. Voters on Gay Marriage: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-07-03T15:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/politicians-lag-u-s-voters-on-same-sex-marriage-albert-hunt.html
Almost 30 years ago, I flew around
 New York  State with its new governor,  Mario Cuomo . He told me
that at a gay and lesbian advocacy dinner that week he and Bella Abzug, a firebrand left-wing former congresswoman, were the only
straight people in attendance.  I offhandedly remarked that the issue made me a little
uncomfortable. Cuomo pounced. Every time you think about that,
he said, assume that your young son is gay and ask yourself how
you would want him to be treated.  That conversation flashed back vividly last month when
Cuomo’s son, Andrew, now himself the governor of New York,
signed legislation making gay marriage legal in the state.
America has come a long way on this issue, and many people now
believe the government has no business prohibiting them or their
sons or daughters or friends or colleagues or anyone else from
getting married because of their sexual orientation.  Only seven years ago, in the aftermath of the legalization
of same-sex marriages in Massachusetts, President  George W. Bush ’s strategist, Karl Rove, used the issue to scare voters in
Ohio and elsewhere. It worked.  About that time, the most respected Republican pollster,
Bob Teeter, noted that while the U.S. was becoming much more
tolerant generally, it would probably remain divided on gay
marriage for a long time. The late Mr. Teeter, like many of us,
would be surprised at how rapidly attitudes are changing. Today,
many surveys show majority support for gay marriage; less than a
decade ago it was almost 2-to-l against. Then, the public was
divided on civil unions for gays and lesbians; there are strong
majorities in favor now.  Massachusetts Precedent  The politics around the issue have evolved, too. When a
 Massachusetts  court legalized gay marriage there, many
politicians expressed outrage. By contrast, there mainly was
support or silence after the action by the New York State
Legislature.  Most American politicians still express opposition to gay
marriage. Among them is President  Barack Obama , who says his
views are evolving.  Among leading Republicans, with their social-conservative
base, opposition is almost mandatory. Yet the party’s top
presidential candidates -- former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  and former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty  -- dodged the issue, and made no
statements. Nor was there any mention on their campaign websites.  It was the same with the party’s congressional leaders such
as House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate minority leader,
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  ‘Burden of Discrimination’  Perhaps they watched the contortions of some who did
comment. Former New York City Mayor  Rudy Giuliani  said he still
believes marriage is defined as “between a man and a woman.”
He went on to praise the state legislature for lifting the
“burden of discrimination against gays and lesbians” and
credited the “leadership” of Governor  Andrew Cuomo .  Even the blunt-talking Minnesota Congresswoman  Michele Bachmann , a favorite presidential candidate of many in the
religious right, equivocated. It is appropriate that this is a
matter of state law, she said. Then she added that she would
support a federal initiative to overturn the decisions of the
states.  Count on Senator Rick Santorum, who argues that there is no
right to privacy in sexual matters, to go against the grain. On
one of his presidential campaign treks to Iowa, the former
Pennsylvania senator said actions such as New York’s are part of
a left-wing plot to “cheapen” heterosexual marriage and
“devastate kids.”  Traditional Marriage  The change in attitude reflects the public’s growing
rejection of critics’ claims that gay marriage threatens
traditional marriage, are destabilizing to society, and are
antithetical to the central purpose of marriage, to have
children.  In those few states where  same-sex marriages  have been
allowed, none of these dire consequences came to pass. An aide
to Massachusetts Republican Senator  Scott Brown  said the
lawmaker still supports the Defense of Marriage Act, which bans
federal recognition of gay marriage. At the same time, he
suggested the debate over the issue is so yesterday: “It’s time
to move on,” the aide said. “Senator Brown’s focus is on
jobs.”  Still, there remain difficult issues.  State Law  Clearly, the  gay marriage movement  is about state law.
Religions are and should be largely free to set their own
standards. The New York measure specifically forbids forcing any
religion to recognize gay marriages.  Nevertheless, there are thorny issues such as public
funding for religious-affiliated groups that discriminate
against gays on the marriage question.  There would be an outcry if public funds were provided to a
group that practiced racial discrimination as there was not too
long ago about Bob Jones University. The shrill and demagogic
attack on same-sex marriage from some Catholic bishops has been
counterproductive.  Still, recognizing the rights of gays and lesbians to  marry 
should minimally impede the work of important faith-based groups
such as the Catholic charities that often work in partnership
with government.  Most every study suggests it’s better for parentless
children to be adopted by gay or lesbian couples than to be
stuck in a frightful foster-care system. The Catholic Church is
an invaluable adoption agency, and probably would leave the
field if forced to approve gay adoption.  Further, the matter isn’t settled politically.  Obama, a progressive Democrat, still tries to straddle the
line. He’s for civil unions, and in favor of granting health
insurance and inheritance rights to same-sex couples, and says
the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional. But he hasn’t
embraced same-sex marriage.  That’s an illogical position: Same-sex couples can act
exactly like those in traditional marriages; they just can’t
call their relationship a marriage.  The president’s evolving views are rooted in politics. He
will endorse gay marriage; the only question is whether he will
do so before (probably) or after the 2012 election.  Moreover, referendums to allow gay marriage were rejected,
though narrowly, in recent years in California and Maine, two of
the more socially progressive states. There are likely to be
similar initiatives soon in  Minnesota ,  North Carolina  and
elsewhere.  If so, some will succeed, others won’t. There will be,
however, a continuum toward more tolerance.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 