-- 
Pritzker Winner Zumthor’s Serpentine Pavilion Is Quiet Retreat

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/pritzker-winner-zumthor-s-serpentine-pavilion-is-quiet-cloister-interview.html
A monastic cloister with a garden at
its core has sprouted in  London ’s Hyde Park.  It’s designed by Peter Zumthor, winner of the 2009  Pritzker
Architecture Prize . He has been chosen to design the  Serpentine
Gallery  pavilion: a temporary summer structure commissioned
every year that gets dismantled in October.  The Swiss architect, who lives and works in Haldenstein in
the Alps, hopes his rectangular enclosure will send visitors
into a state of quiet contemplation. During the media preview,
he tries to hush up the scrum of photographers, and smilingly
points to a tree where a bird is tweeting loudly.  I ask the blue-eyed, white-bearded Zumthor, 68, how he
feels about the pavilion’s original purpose: as the venue for a
chic fundraiser full of glitzy celebrities.  Zumthor: I do what I think would be beautiful.  A building where the center is not given to the people, but
to the plants, and you gather around it.  Everything in the world at the moment has to do with
economy, money, how do we perform, how do we put up a front and
so on. This is meant to be the opposite: an island where we can
be ourselves. Let’s see whether this works, huh?  Nayeri: Why does everything you do have to convey a sense
of peace?  Zumthor: My buildings should have an emotional core -- a
space which, in itself, has an emotional nice feeling.  I think space, architectural space, is my thing. It’s not
about facade, elevation, making image, making money. My passion
is creating space. This is, of course, a beautiful space, where
you come in and see the space opens again, up to the sky. What
more do you want?  Star Outsider  Nayeri: You’re one of the “starchitects” of today, and
you’re in a city, London, where towers are going up with names
like the Shard and the Cheese Grater. How do you feel being a
part of that global community of architects?  Zumthor: I’m not. I’m not part of it.  I work in a completely different way. I’m not part of this
economic system. My children would like it if I were much more
part of this economic system, so we would have more money. No,
I’m joking. It’s not about money at all.  Nayeri: What moved you to make a memorial in Vardo,  Norway ,
for the victims of 17th-century witch trials?  Zumthor: The place, the task. If you go there, you find out
that 91 people have been murdered for nothing, and this has been
done by men and their attitude of trial and justice. You get so
angry.  Nayeri: Are you a feminist?  Zumthor: No.  If I look at history, it seems that most wars and most
cruel things have been done by men and not by women.  Los Angeles  Project  Nayeri: Can you speak about your project for the  Los
Angeles County Museum of Art  redevelopment? It seems unusual for
you to do a high-profile site in the middle of that city.  Zumthor: I’ve done a high-profile site in Cologne,  Germany .
What makes you say that?  Nayeri: It’s on a scale we’re not used to with you.  Zumthor: Ah, yeah. You’ll get used to it! (He laughs.)  The director Michael Govan is a great guy. Together with
him, we can do something fantastic. He knows that I taught in
Los Angeles, I know Los Angeles, I like the city. And we are up
to something fantastic. We have a great concept already.  Nayeri: What has the Pritzker Prize changed for you?  Zumthor: It makes me more quiet.  Nayeri: More quiet? That’s unusual.  Zumthor: I don’t know. It gives you more of a base to stand
there. You can be even less questioned in what you’re doing.  Zumthor’s pavilion can be viewed through Oct. 16.  Information:  http://www.serpentinegallery.org  or
+44-20-7402-6075.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 