-- 
Thaksin’s Sister to Be Thailand’s First Female Leader as Abhisit Concedes

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-07-03T16:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/pro-thaksin-party-to-win-parliamentary-majority-thailand-exit-poll-shows.html
The sister of ousted leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  was set for victory in Thailand’s elections, five
years since he was deposed in a coup, after Prime Minister
 Abhisit Vejjajiva  conceded defeat.  “There are a lot of tasks we have to fulfill for Thailand
to move forward and maintain unity,” Yingluck, 44, who will
become the country’s first female prime minister, told
supporters in Bangkok. She said she had already contacted one
party about forming a ruling coalition and that she expected
“other small parties to join later.”  With more than 97 percent of the vote counted, Pheu Thai
was expected to win 264 seats in the 500-member Parliament, with
Abhisit’s Democrat party winning 160 seats and smaller parties
taking 76 seats, according to Election Commission data.  The prospect of a Pheu Thai victory has heightened concerns
of post-election violence that has led investors to sell Thai
stocks and the currency over the past month. Victories by
Thaksin-backed parties in the last three elections, achieved
with support from voters in the poorer north and northeast, have
been overturned by the army and the courts.  “The message today is that the voices of the marginalized,
neglected electorate of  Thailand  have spoken again,” said
Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute for Strategic
and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University in
Bangkok. “They spoke in 2001, 2005, 2006, 2007 and now again in
2011. They have given rise to a new Thailand whether the
opponents of Thaksin accept it or not.”  ‘Stunned’ by Polls  Exit polls showed Pheu Thai winning by a wider margin. The
party was forecast to win 313 seats, the Democrats 152 seats and
smaller parties were expected to take 35 seats, according to a
Suan Dusit Rajabhat University exit poll. The poll, which
surveyed 157,759 people nationwide, correctly predicted pro-
Thaksin victories in the elections in 2005 and 2007. It did not
provide a margin of error.  “I hope that we will accept the decision by the majority
of Thais in this election,” Thaksin told Thai PBS television
station by phone from Dubai, where he has lived since fleeing a
jail sentence in 2008 for abuse of power. “If you don’t respect
the decision of most people, the country can’t have peace.”  Thailand’s army accepts the election result, Defense
Minister Prawit Wongsuwan told reporters in Bangkok. He
reiterated a pre-election pledge from the army that there
wouldn’t be a coup.  Election Commission  The Election Commission will certify winning candidates
within 30 days, after which Parliament will meet to pick a prime
minister, according to spokesman Paiboon Lekprom. The parties
are vying for seats in the 500-member Parliament, with 375
chosen in constituencies and 125 through proportional
representation.  The U.S. congratulates the Thai people “for their robust
participation” in the parliamentary elections, U.S. State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “We look forward to working with the next Thai government
to broaden and strengthen our alliance, which is based on shared
values and mutual respect,” Nuland said. “The  United States  also
looks forward to working with the opposition and non-partisan
civil society, as we have always done.”  “It is clear that Pheu Thai will win the election,”
Abhisit told supporters at party headquarters in Bangkok. “I
congratulate Yingluck on becoming the next prime minister.”  The SET Index dropped 3 percent in June, the biggest
monthly decline since January, with state-owned  Thai Airways
International Pcl (THAI)  losing 18 percent. The baht fell 1.4 percent
in that time, declining two months in a row for the first time
since the end of protests a year ago.  ‘Positive’ for Markets  “This will be positive for the Thai financial markets as
the election results indicate Thailand’s politics will be stable
for at least three to six months,” said Win Udomrachtavanich,
chief investment officer at Asset Plus Fund Management Co.,
which oversees about $900 million of assets. “The government
with a majority in the parliament will ensure better
coordination on economic policies.”  A clear majority for Pheu Thai may raise the prospect of a
return by Thaksin, who has been shaping Pheu Thai’s strategy
from exile in Dubai.  Thaksin, 61, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest
mobile-phone company, has maintained his popularity among poorer
Thais who recall his policies of affordable health care and
cheap loans. Parties linked to him have won at least 15 percent
more seats than the Democrats in the four previous elections.  Red Shirts   Supporters of Thaksin, known as Red Shirts, blockaded parts
of Bangkok the past two years to push for an election after
smaller parties switched sides that year in a parliamentary vote
to give the premiership to Abhisit. The protests last year
killed 91 people.  Thaksin’s opponents, who wear yellow shirts as a symbol of
their allegiance to  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , view the ex-premier
as a corrupt billionaire who wants to regain power and subvert
the monarchy.  There have been nine coups since King Bhumibol ascended the
throne in 1946. Twelve of Thailand’s 27 prime ministers since
absolute monarchy ended in 1932 have been military leaders.  Army Chief Prayuth Chan-ocha urged Thailand’s 47.3 million
voters last month not to pick the “same thing” in elections,
the last four of which have been won by Thaksin loyalists. In
the run-up to the election, Abhisit said Pheu Thai would grant
Thaksin amnesty if it wins in an effort to galvanize opponents
of the former premier.  Voters “want to send a message to whoever controls
Thailand that it’s time to let go of the power,” said Pichai Naripthaphan, a former deputy finance minister who is a leading
member of Pheu Thai’s economic team. “It’s time to let Thailand
go on to democracy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  