-- 
Traders Diverging From Stevens Over Interest-Rate Rises: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-04T03:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/traders-diverging-from-stevens-over-interest-rate-rises-australia-credit.html
Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor
Glenn Stevens has put the financial markets on notice that he’s
likely to raise  interest rates . Not this year, according to the
bond markets.  Stevens will leave the cash-rate target at 4.75 percent
tomorrow, matching his longest pause since taking charge in
2006, and is likely to keep borrowing costs unchanged for a
year, money-market futures show. While economists also expect
the RBA to hold interest rates this month, they forecast the
benchmark will reach 5.25 percent by year-end, according to the
median estimate of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Stevens said June 15 rates probably have to climb “at some
point” as “the underlying rate of inflation is more likely to
rise than fall.” Bond investors are betting there’s no need to
add to the developed world’s highest borrowing costs as  Greece ’s
debt crisis roils financial markets and China’s growth slows. An
inflation-expectations gauge shows consumer prices will rise at
a rate below the top of the RBA’s target range.  “Traders do not believe that the RBA’s confidence in the
China commodity story will play out as strongly as the bank
assumes it will,” said Sean Keane, an Auckland-based analyst at
Triple T Consulting, and former head of Asia-Pacific rates
trading at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The trading market still
believes the RBA is overestimating the strength of the
Australian economy, and that rate hikes will not be necessary.”  Retail, Building Weaken  Australia’s currency and government bond yields fell today
as government reports showed retail sales and building approvals
dropped in May. Sales declined 0.6 percent from April, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today, compared with the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists for
a 0.3 percent gain. Building permits were down 7.9 percent in
the month.  The Australian dollar weakened to $1.0734 as of 12:29 p.m.
in Sydney from $1.0770 on July 1 in  New York . The two-year bond
yield declined four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
4.77 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  The spread between yields on 10-year government notes and
similar-maturity inflation-indexed securities narrowed 11 basis
points since May 31 to 2.86 percentage points today.  A measure of Australia’s annual inflation fell below the
top of the central bank’s target range in June for the first
time in 11 months as costs declined for automotive fuel and
clothing.  Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in the 12 months through
June after a 3.3 percent advance for May, according to an index
compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute
released in Sydney today.  RBA’s Outlook  The central bank forecast growth in 2011 at 4.25 percent,
in a May 6 policy statement, the fastest pace since 1999.
Consumer prices will rise 3.25 percent over the period and core
inflation will accelerate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it
said. The RBA aims to keep inflation between 2 percent and 3
percent on average.  China ’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at the
slowest pace in four months in June, a report showed yesterday,
adding to concerns that efforts to tame inflation are curbing
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.  A purchasing managers’ index dropped to 57 from 61.9 in
May, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on
its website yesterday. Signs in the report of a slowdown in the
service, retail and catering industries add to evidence China’s
growth is cooling, with data last week showing a manufacturing
index fell to 50.9, its lowest level since February 2009.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  China’s economic growth target for this year will be “very
challenging” to achieve, Vice Premier Wang Qishan said
yesterday. The ruling Communist Party, which celebrated its 90th
anniversary last week, says taming inflation is the top priority
in 2011. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said June 24 he is confident of
keeping prices under control, while Morgan Stanley says
inflation may have peaked at an estimated 6.2 percent last
month, which would be the fastest pace since 2008.  Greece Concerns  Australian money markets have reversed course over the past
month on concerns a Greek default would cause the biggest
disruption to global financial markets since Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.  European finance ministers agreed over the weekend to
disburse 8.7 billion euros ($12.7 billion) of loans under last
year’s 110 billion-euro bailout by July 15, rewarding Greek
Premier  George Papandreou  for pushing an extra austerity plan
through parliament.  Cash-rate futures show a 30 percent probability the RBA
will lower borrowing costs by year-end, compared with a 72
percent chance of an increase on June 1, according to contracts
on the  Sydney Futures Exchange . The futures had indicated a 100
percent chance of a rate cut by December on June 27.  The central bank increased its target rate by 175 basis
points from October 2009 to November last year.  Australia is experiencing a surge in resource investment as
mining and energy firms boost output to meet demand from China
and  India , two economies that account for more than a third of
the world’s population. That’s bolstered demand for Australia’s
dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, which advanced
28 percent in the past year and reached $1.1012 on May 2, the
highest since it was freely floated in 1983.  ‘Further Tightening’  The currency jumped 2.7 percent last week, the biggest
five-day climb since March.  Stevens, in a speech last month, reiterated that policy
makers will need to raise rates at some stage and signaled
inflation data on July 27 may be key for such a decision.  “Our most recent analysis, as published in early May,
concluded that the underlying rate of inflation is more likely
to rise than fall over the next couple of years,” Stevens said
June 15. “This central expectation -- subject to all the usual
uncertainties inherent in forecasting -- suggests, as we said at
the time, that ‘further tightening of monetary policy is likely
to be required at some point for inflation to remain consistent
with the 2-3 percent medium-term target’,” the RBA Governor
said in Brisbane.  The RBA has expressed concern that higher consumption will
clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages caused
by mining investment that the government estimates will reach
A$76 billion ($81 billion) this fiscal year.  Australia’s gross domestic product shrank 1.2 percent in
the first quarter, the most since 1991, as floods that
devastated slashed coal exports.  ‘Softer Patch’  Investors are concerned the economy will take longer than
expected to recover after a government report last month showed
the number of full-time jobs fell by 22,000 in May after
dropping 57,200 in April, the biggest two-month decline in more
than two years. The jobless rate held at 4.9 percent.  “Our view is that the current softer patch is largely
temporary, reflecting some transition dynamics for an economy
that is becoming more mining sector dependent,” said Paul
Bloxham, Sydney-based chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc and
a former RBA official. “But one cannot rule out the possibility
that the slowdown is something more sinister, which is a risk to
our central call of a hike in August and 100 basis points of
hikes by mid-2012.”  Bond Yields  Australian 10-year bond yields fell three basis points
today to 5.25 percent, clawing back some of last week’s 20-
basis-point increase, the biggest five-day advance since March
2010. The premium over similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed to
206 basis points from 225 on Dec. 31.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate debt rather than  government securities  climbed to 177
basis points on June 30, the widest spread since Feb. 21, and
was 175 basis points at the end of last week.  Traders bet there is a 10 percent chance of a 25-basis-
point rate cut in August and a 30 percent chance in October, 30-
day interbank cash-rate futures show.  “Looking for a trigger to flatten this curve again there’s
not going to be anything in the next three to four weeks,” said
 Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities
in  Singapore . “We really need to see some big numbers to focus
back on the strong fundamentals for Australia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  