-- 
Cornyn Says Republicans May Accept ‘Mini’ Deal on Raising U.S. Debt Limit

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-07-04T13:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/republicans-may-accept-mini-debt-ceiling-deal-cornyn-says.html
Republicans might accept a “mini”
deal with the Obama administration on raising the debt limit,
Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , a Republican leader, said
yesterday on “Fox News Sunday.”  The idea may delay politically difficult decisions if it’s
structured to postpone action on a larger package of spending
cuts or revenue increases until after the 2012 election cycle,
an analyst said.  “What we’ve been calling for is to have a down payment
that’s as big as possible,” Marc Goldwein, former associate
director of President Barack Obama’s debt commission, said
yesterday in an interview.  Even so, the White House rejected a short-term extension of
the debt limit, deputy communications director  Jen Psaki  said.  “The president has consistently said it is in the
country’s economic interests for Congress to reach common ground
on a significant long-term deficit reduction package,” Psaki
said in an e-mail. “He has been clear in conversations with
leaders in both parties about that.”  The Senate shortened its July 4 recess and will remain in
Washington to discuss a deal this week to raise the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt limit. The Obama administration is
negotiating with Congress on reducing the long-term  budget
deficit  as part of a plan to raise the limit before borrowing
authority expires.  August 2  Cornyn said that while Republicans would prefer a long-term
settlement, they would accept a shorter-term agreement if that’s
all they could get done. The Treasury Department has projected
that on Aug. 2 the U.S. will no longer be able to meet
obligations if the legal debt ceiling isn’t raised.  “The problem with a mini-deal is we have a maxi problem,”
said Cornyn, who is in charge of the 2012 Republican Senate
campaign strategy. “We’ll take the savings we can get now, and
we will re-litigate this as we get closer to the election.”  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, declined to comment on the idea of a short-term
agreement.  “The speaker has always said that the time is now and our
goal is to get the largest possible spending cuts,”  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said in an interview.  The White House didn’t respond to a request for comment on
Cornyn’s remarks.  Federal Budget  “Obviously the debt ceiling is coming up in about a month
now, and this is must-pass legislation,” said Goldwein, now
policy director at the Washington-based Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget. “Something’s going to have to be
agreed to. Given that amount of time, what we should be looking
for is a $4 trillion plan.”  Goldwein said the best action would be a comprehensive plan
that includes overhaul of taxes and entitlement spending, such
as Medicare, and doesn’t delay tough decisions until after the
2012 elections.  Any deal with the administration shouldn’t include a tax
increase, Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, said
yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the Union” broadcast.  Closing some so-called tax loopholes would “have very
small impact, but the principle of not raising taxes is
something that we campaigned on last November and the results of
the election was that the American people didn’t want their
taxes raised and they wanted us to cut spending,” he said.  ‘Crazy Talk’  Republicans won control of the  House of Representatives 
and gained seats in the Senate in the 2010 midterm elections.  Cornyn, asked about the idea of Obama ignoring the debt
ceiling, said that’s “crazy talk.”  “It’s not acceptable for Congress and the president not to
do their job and to say somehow the president has the authority
then to basically do this by himself,” he said. “We ought to
sit down and work together.”  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, a Democrat who
balanced his city’s budget, said both the Democratic
administration and Republican congressional leaders will need to
yield.  “ Washington  has its head in the sand,” Villaraigosa said
yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “We’re
dithering on the verge of default.”  “Democrats won’t address entitlements -- Medicare and
Social Security -- and Republicans won’t talk about revenue or
defense spending,” he said. “The fact is we have to talk about
all of that.”  A spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a
Kentucky Republican, referred to comments the lawmaker made to
reporters on June 28 in Washington.  “We are still hoping for a very large package that will
impress the  ratings agencies , impress foreign countries and
astonish the American people that we’re actually going to come
together here and take advantage of this terrific opportunity
that’s provided by the president’s request of us to raise the
debt ceiling,” McConnell said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  