-- 
RWE Said to Work With Goldman on Possible Sale of U.K. Business

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-07-04T09:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/rwe-examining-potential-sale-of-u-k-division.html
RWE AG (RWE)  is working with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. as  Germany ’s second-largest utility considers a sale
of its Npower unit in the U.K., according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The examination of the business, valued by analysts at
about 3.6 billion euros ($5.2 billion), is preliminary and the
company may not pursue a sale, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the discussions are private. A person
familiar with the matter said in February that RWE was
considering a sale of U.K. assets.  RWE, based in Essen, is seeking to raise as much as 8
billion euros through asset sales by 2013 to cut debt. The
company also faces a tax on its German nuclear plants and a
government decision to phase out atomic power.  The Npower division is worth about 3.6 billion euros, Scott Phillips, an analyst at Unicredit, wrote in a note to investors.
RWE will struggle to get a higher price as regulatory risks may
hinder foreign interest, while U.K. buyers may face a
competition inquiry, he said.  Npower has 6.5 million U.K. customers and generates 10
percent of the country’s power, according to RWE’s  website .
RWE’s renewable-energy unit, called Innogy, operates about 550
megawatts of  wind turbines  and hydropower facilities in the U.K.  Core Market  “The U.K. continues to be a core market of RWE,” Peter Hoscheidt, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Beyond that, we don’t have any further
comment on market speculation, which this is.”  RWE climbed 1.2 percent to 39.29 euros as of 11:01 a.m in
Frankfurt. The stock has fallen 21 percent this year for the
worst performance in  Europe ’s benchmark utility index.  RWE may sell Npower, one of the U.K.’s six largest energy
suppliers, for 5 billion pounds ($8 billion), the London-based
Sunday Times reported yesterday, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter. That would make it the U.K.’s largest
utility deal since Electricite de France SA sold its British
power network to a group led by  Hong Kong ’s Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Ltd. last year for 5.78 billion pounds, according
to Bloomberg data.  U.K. power companies must invest record amounts to meet
targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. The government
has pledged to get 15 percent of its energy from renewable
sources by the end of the decade. The cost of replacing existing
plants and building renewable projects will be about 200 billion
pounds, according to Ernst and Young.  Attract Capital  Power generators will need to attract capital from banks
and other financial institutions, Npower’s Chief Executive
Officer Volcker Beckers said in an interview last month.  The industry needs “50 to 80 percent of funding coming
from the banking sector and pension funds,”  Beckers said.
“Where we find partners that understand our model, it is
something we should look at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  