-- 
Standard Bank Unit Gets License for Islamic Banking Operations in Nigeria

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-04T11:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/stanbic-gets-license-for-islamic-banking-operations-in-nigeria.html
Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (IBTCCB) , a unit of
Standard Bank Group Ltd., won approval from  Nigeria ’s central
bank to provide Islamic banking services in  Africa ’s most
populous nation, Deputy Governor Kingsley Moghalu said.  A preliminary license was awarded to Stanbic last week for
a Shariah-compliant banking window, the first one given to a
commercial bank in Nigeria, Moghalu said in an interview in
 South Africa ’s capital,  Pretoria , on July 1. Islam bans paying
and receiving interest.  Nigeria’s 150 million population is divided almost evenly
between Muslims and Christians, providing it with a market for
Islamic banking products. Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi
said on June 20 Nigeria wants to be a “hub of Islamic finance”
in the region and plans to sell its first Islamic bond, known as
sukuk, within 18 months.  “We know a number of other banks are interested in
applying for non-interest banking windows,” Moghalu said. “We
are preparing our officials to be able to regulate that space,
and a lot of training is taking place in that context.”  Stanbic spokesman Bimbo Ashiru couldn’t immediately comment
when called in Lagos today.  The central bank has given approval to Jaiz International
Bank Plc, a local lender with international investors, to open
the country’s first Shariah-compliant bank, Moghalu said.
Stanbic has a license to begin operating Islamic banking
branches within six months and if it fails to do so within that
time, the lender will need to reapply for approval, he said.  Standard Chartered   London-based Standard Charted Plc indicated to the central
bank it’s interested in seeking a license to provide Shariah-
compliant banking services, Sanusi told reporters in Nigeria’s
capital, Abuja, today.  Islamic banking “has significant potential but it’s
subject to the risks that go with every other type of banking
activity,” the deputy governor said.  Nigeria is trying to stabilize its banking industry after a
debt crisis in 2009 almost led to its collapse. Sanusi fired the
chief executive officers of eight lenders, pumped 620 billion
naira ($4.1 billion) into ailing banks and created a state-owned
company to buy bad debts.  The central bank has faced criticism from Christian groups
that the introduction of Islamic banking may fan religious
tension. Cosmas Ilechukwu, chairman of the Christian Association
of Nigeria in Imo state, said Sanusi, a Muslim who studied
Islamic law, is trying to promote his religion under the guise
of banking reform, Vanguard newspaper reported on July 1.  “This is a financial product,” Moghalu said. “It’s got
nothing to do with religion.”  Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank  is Africa’s biggest
lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  