-- 
Standard Chartered Said to Name Swaroop as Head of South East Asia Region

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-03T16:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/standard-chartered-said-to-name-neeraj-swaroop-as-head-of-southeast-asia.html
Neeraj Swaroop,  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN) ’s chief executive officer for South  Asia , will become the
U.K. bank’s head of South East Asia later this year, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Swaroop, 52, takes over from Ray Ferguson and will be based
in  Singapore , said the people, who declined to be identified
because the appointment hasn’t been announced publicly. Swaroop
has been in his current role since 2007.  Standard Chartered’s South East Asia portfolio includes
Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines and Australia. Sunil
Kaushal, the London-based bank’s chief executive officer for
Taiwan, is the leading candidate to succeed Swaroop as head of
 India  and South Asia, the people said.  Ferguson and Kaushal didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment. Christiana Marran, a London-based spokeswoman for the
bank, couldn’t immediately confirm or deny the report.  The appointment comes after the lender, which generates
most of its earnings from Asia, appointed Harinder Singh as the
regional co-head of wholesale banking for  South Asia , according
to a memo sent to employees on June 30. He was previously the
global co-head of structuring based out of Dubai and also takes
over as head of global markets for South Asia. Venkat Anantharaman, who was the head of corporate banking for India
and South Asia, has also been promoted as the regional co-head
for wholesale banking.  Standard Chartered hired Citigroup Inc.’s Sanjeeb Chaudhuri
as head of South Asia consumer banking, it said in a June 7
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  