-- 
Strauss-Kahn May Seek Socialist Nomination If He Wants, Party Chief Says

-- B y   A l a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-03T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/strauss-kahn-may-be-socialist-candidate-if-he-wants-desir-says.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  will decide
whether he wants to be a candidate in the French Socialist
Party’s presidential primary, regardless of the calendar set for
formal registration, if he is fully cleared by the U.S. justice
system, said Harlem Desir, the interim party leader.  “It’s Dominique Strauss-Kahn who will decide himself how
he wants to participate in public life when he is able to,”
Desir said yesterday on LCI television. “No one has the
intention to prevent someone, no matter who it is, from being a
candidate.”  The possibility of a political return by Strauss-Kahn, 62,
divides French public opinion, according to a poll published in
the daily Le Parisien yesterday. Of 1,000 people surveyed, 49
percent said he should come back to political life one day,
while 45 percent said he shouldn’t.  The Socialists are selecting their candidate for next May’s
presidential vote through an open primary in October, the first
time a French political party will choose its nominee this way.
Contenders have until July 13 to register, with the winner
challenging President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Francois Hollande , a Socialist candidate, has said he’s
open to postponing the party’s leadership race to allow Strauss-
Kahn to run.  “My most profound wish is that Dominique Strauss-Kahn can
rapidly wash the stain from his honor, regain his freedom and
come back among us,” Desir said yesterday.  Asked directly whether the calendar set out for the primary
is an obstacle to a possible Strauss-Kahn candidacy, Desir said,
“Of course there is no obstacle.”  Accuser’s Credibility  Strauss-Kahn took a step toward a possible return to
political life with his release from house arrest in New York on
July 1 after Manhattan prosecutors found evidence undermining
his accuser’s credibility. The sexual-assault case against
former International Monetary Fund chief will be pursued along
with an investigation of false statements by his accuser that
have “raised concerns,” District Attorney Cyrus Vance said.  The former IMF chief, accused of the sexual assault and
attempted rape of a hotel maid in  New York  on May 14, was
released on his own recognizance and will have his bail returned
but not his passport, New York State Supreme Court Justice
Michael Obus said. His next court hearing is scheduled for July
18. Strauss-Kahn has pleaded not guilty.  “Say Dominique Strauss-Kahn decides to come back as a
candidate among us, no one will oppose” his candidacy, said
 Martine Aubry , who announced her intention to run for president
last week. “He was dragged through the mud, now justice is
advancing and I hope that in the coming days he will be totally
cleared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 