-- 
Sudan Is ‘Very Tense’ Amid Concern Fighting Might Erupt on Southern Border

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-03T17:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/sudan-is-very-tense-amid-concern-fighting-might-erupt-on-southern-border.html
A wider war may erupt in northern
 Sudan  if clashes in Southern Kordofan state are not resolved,
and it would be “coordinated” against the Sudanese army, Malik Agar, governor of northern Sudan’s border Blue Nile state said.  The war could spread along the border with the south from
Blue Nile state on the Ethiopia border in the east to the
western Sudanese region of Darfur, Agar, who’s also the head of
the northern branch of the south’s ruling Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, told reporters today in Khartoum, Sudan’s
capital.  “We are being candid in this; if a war erupted, everyone
will be looking for allies,” Agar said. “The situation is very
tense on the ground.”  Clashes between Sudanese government forces and units of
 Southern Sudan ’s army in Southern Kordofan, northern Sudan’s
only oil-producing state, have led more than 73,000 people to
flee their homes since June 5, according to the  United Nations .
The fighting there and in the disputed border region of Abyei
raised concern of a resumption of a two-decade civil war that
ended in 2005.  The northern Sudanese states of Southern Kordofan and Blue
Nile states and Abyei were key battlegrounds during the civil
war between the north and the oil-rich south. The south is due
to be declared independent next week.  Ripe for Clashes  Conditions are ripe for clashes to erupt in the Blue Nile
state, between units of the south’s army and government forces,
with are both currently on high alert, Agar said.  Authorities in Southern Sudan said fighting in Southern
Kordofan broke out when the Sudanese army tried to disarm
residents of the state, such as members of the Nuba ethnic
group, who fought with the south’s army in the civil war. They
accuse President Umar al-Bashir’s government of attempting to
occupy disputed border areas before the south becomes
independent on July 9.  “If they try to disarm our forces, then the same thing
will happen in Blue Nile,” Agar said.  Agar and Yasser Arman, the secretary-general of the SPLM’s
northern branch, will travel with other officials tonight to the
Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , for cease-fire talks with
Sudanese government officials, the two men said.  The Sudanese government and the SPLM’s northern branch
agreed on June 28 that southern-allied fighters from the
northern states of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile would be
integrated into the Sudanese army, though the details are yet to
be worked out, according to the African Union High-Level
Implementation Panel on Sudan, led by former South African
President  Thabo Mbeki .  Oil-Rich States  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent. The crude is pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
 India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Sudan is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s
third-biggest oil producer.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels a day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum accused the Southern
Sudanese army of starting the violence in both Southern Kordofan
and Abyei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 