-- 
Sun Art Retail Group Intends to Raise Up to $1.1 Billion in Hong Kong IPO

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-07-03T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/sun-art-plans-to-raise-up-to-hk-8-2-billion-in-hong-kong-ipo.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. ,  China ’s
largest hypermarket operator, may raise as much as HK$8.2
billion ($1.1 billion) in a Hong Kong initial public offering.  The Shanghai-based company will sell 1.14 billion new
shares for HK$5.65 to HK$7.20 each, according to a prospectus
distributed to reporters today. Half of the IPO proceeds will be
spent opening new stores and the rest will mainly be used to pay
back loans and refurbish existing properties.  “We will strive to further strengthen our market position
by continuously expanding our retail network,” Bruno Mercier,
chief executive officer of Sun Art, said in a statement.  At least six companies withdrew or postponed Hong Kong
initial offerings in June as the benchmark Hang Seng Index sank
to a nine-month low. Prada SpA and Samsonite International SA,
which both started trading in  Hong Kong  last month, sold shares
at the low end of the price range.  Sun Art aims to benefit from rising consumer spending in
China as the nation’s economy is forecast to expand 9.5 percent
in 2011, according to the median estimate of 11 economists
tracked by Bloomberg. Retail-sales growth slowed to 16.9 percent
in May, less than the average of the past five years, the
Beijing-based statistics bureau said on June 14.  China’s hypermarket industry, large retailers that sell
groceries and goods from clothing to household appliances, may
grow at 15 percent compounded annually in the next five years,
Mercier said at the press conference. It has expanded at a 19
percent rate in the previous five years.  Hypermarket Operators  Sun Art is the largest hypermarket operator in China with
12 percent market share in 2010, followed by Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., China Resources Enterprise Co. Ltd., and Carrefour SA,
according to the prospectus, which cites estimates from
Euromonitor.  Sun Art reported 56.2 billion yuan ($8.7 billion) in net
sales last year and 1 billion yuan in profit attributable to
shareholders, according to the prospectus. The company operates
197 outlets in China under brand names Auchan and RT-Mart, based
on the statement. It also has 51 locations under development
that are expected to start operating by next year.  Shareholders include Groupe Auchan SA in  France , Ruentex
Development Co. and Ruentex Industries Ltd., both listed in
 Taiwan . Sun Art shares will start trading on the stock exchange
on July 15.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are managing
Sun Art’s offering as global coordinators.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, China
International Capital Corp.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are also arranging the IPO as joint bookrunners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  