-- 
Dlamini Vows to Keep Currency Peg as Swaziland Runs Out of Cash for Wages

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-07-04T08:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/swaziland-pledges-to-keep-currency-peg-as-state-runs-out-of-cash-for-wages.html
Swaziland, where the government is
running out of cash to pay its workers, will keep its currency
peg with  South Africa ’s rand as it seeks funding to boost
foreign exchange reserves, central bank Governor Martin Dlamini
said.  Reserves stood at about 4 billion rand ($594 million) as of
June 28, enough to cover 2.3 months of imports, Dlamini said in
a June 29 interview in South Africa’s capital,  Pretoria .  Swaziland, a landlocked nation bordering South Africa and
 Mozambique , is struggling to contain a  budget crisis  that has
forced it to raise taxes and slash spending on wages to win
funding from the  International Monetary Fund , the  African
Development Bank  and other lenders. South Africa is considering
a request from Swazi authorities for financial aid, including
balance-of-payments support to boost reserves, Dlamini said.  “We have foreign-exchange reserves that, if we eat into
it, we can still maintain the peg,” Dlamini said. “The peg is
not threatened. We will maintain the peg.”  Swaziland, Africa’s third-largest sugar producer, lost a
third of its fiscal revenue last year after the global recession
slashed trade, reducing income from a regional customs union
that includes South Africa.  Wage Crisis  The government doesn’t have enough cash to pay salaries
this month, Dlamini said. The Times of Swaziland said on June 28
the state may need to cut wages by half this month, citing
Finance Minister Majozi Sithole.  “Swaziland is seriously under pressure,”  Mthuli Ncube ,
chief economist of the African Development Bank, said in a
speech in Johannesburg today. “It’s a fiscal problem. They’re
draining resources.”  The Swazi currency, the lilangeni, is pegged one-to-one
with the rand, which was at 6.7291 per dollar as of 9:47 a.m. in
Johannesburg. South Africa sets monetary policy for the Common
Monetary Area, which includes Swaziland, Lesotho and  Namibia .  “It’s in the interest of South Africa and Swaziland that
we have optimal stability in the economy,” South African
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters on July 1,
declining to elaborate.  Swaziland’s government, which agreed with the IMF to reduce
salaries by 10 percent to qualify for funding, has faced
opposition from labor unions and delays in getting lawmakers’
approval for the spending cuts, Dlamini said.  Budget Cuts  “With commitment, the civil service will agree to some of
these measures,” Dlamini said. “It’s either half a loaf or no
bread at all. But if government is not committed, the program
will not proceed as expected.”  The  budget deficit  reached 14.3 percent of gross domestic
product as of March 31, the IMF said on May 18. The economy will
probably contract 1.9 percent this year as the government
implements spending cuts of 900 million emalangeni ($134
million), equivalent to 3 percent of GDP, the IMF said.  “The outlook is not promising,” Dlamini said. “We are
faced with austerity measures that require the government to
reduce substantially its spending. The government is a major
employer and that will have an impact on demand for retail
goods.”  The government is still in talks on how much funding is
required from South  Africa , though a minimum of about 1.5
billion rand will be needed, Dlamini said.  Swaziland has Africa’s last absolute monarchy. The nation’s
1.2 million people are ruled by 43-year-old King Mswati III, who
appoints the prime minister. Lawmakers aren’t allowed to belong
to a political party and the country is under emergency rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  