-- 
William Hill Is Seeking Nevada Bets on Palin, ‘American Idol’ in U.S. Push

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-07-04T16:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/u-k-bookmaker-william-hill-seeks-nevada-wagers-on-palin-american-idol-.html
William Hill Plc (WMH) , a U.K. bookmaker
with about 2,350 shops, is betting  Nevada  gamblers will want to
wager on whether Sarah Palin will be the next U.S. president or
on contenders in the television talent show “ American Idol .”  The company, which agreed this year to buy Nevada-based
sports-betting companies Brandywine Bookmaking LLC, American
Wagering Inc. and Club Cal Neva, expects the Nevada Gaming
Commission to grant it a gambling license before the November
2012 presidential election, Chief Executive Officer Ralph Topping said. The regulator approved non-sports betting in
February on condition each subject is cleared in advance.  Topping, 59, said in an interview on June 29 in London that
novelty wagers “wouldn’t be big bets. It’s small bets, it’s $1,
$2-type bets.”  William Hill’s bigger aim is sports wagers, which are only
legal in Delaware, Montana and  Oregon , as well as in Nevada,
where Brandywine estimates the three companies are present in
119 of 192 casinos that offer sports betting. Online gambling
transactions are illegal in the U.S., though states such as
 California  and  New Jersey  are considering allowing web-based
betting for their own residents.  “Once we get the license, that makes us the USA’s biggest
bookmaker, of the ones we know transacting legally,” Topping
said. The London-based company estimates less than 1 percent of
the $380 billion wagered annually in the U.S. on sports is done
within the law, he said.  Prince Philip, Romney  In Britain, William Hill offered bets on whether Prince Philip would fall asleep at the April 29 wedding of his
grandson,  Prince William . The company is currently offering U.K.
gamblers odds of 6-1 on Mitt Romney winning the presidential
election and 28-1 on Palin.  Barack Obama  is favored to win at 4-
9 odds.  William Hill Online reported a 26 percent increase in
first-quarter net revenue from a year earlier, with sportsbook
revenue jumping 54 percent. Revenue at the company’s betting
shops gained 8 percent.  The Nevada purchases won’t “move the dial” on earnings
for William Hill until more states or the U.S. government
approve sports betting, said Nicholas Batram, a London-based
analyst at Peel Hunt LLP.  “If that doesn’t happen, they’ve still bought an
interesting group of businesses,” said Batram, who has a
“buy” recommendation on the company.  Best Performance  William Hill rose less than 1 percent to 230.6 pence at the
4:35 p.m. close in  London  today, valuing the company at about
1.62 billion pounds ($2.6 billion). The stock has gained 35
percent this year, the best performance on the FTSE 350 Travel &
Leisure Index, which is down 4 percent.  Getting Nevada’s approval would help William Hill get
clearance from other government regulators as it seeks to expand
in  Latin America  and other parts of  North America , said Topping.
The 40-year company veteran, CEO since February 2008, is leading
a strategy of adding business overseas and online.  William Hill would prefer to grow outside the U.K. through
acquisitions, possibly by purchasing a land-based business with
little or no Internet presence, Topping said.  “Every day of the week, we’re looking at acquisitions,”
he said, declining to be specific. “That’s why you’ve got the
dosh in the bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  