-- 
U.K. Banks Least Optimistic About Employment, CBI Survey Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-07-03T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/u-k-banks-least-optimistic-about-employment-cbi-survey-says.html
U.K. banks and other lenders are the
least optimistic about employment prospects for the next three
months as they seek to control costs, according a survey by the
 Confederation of British Industry .  “Banks remain focused on costs,” said  Andrew Gray , U.K.
banking leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which compiled the
report with Britain’s biggest business lobby group. “Banks will
continue to make headcount reductions.”  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said last week it would shed
15,000 jobs to reduce costs by 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion)
by 2014, while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank, said it
will cut about 700 employees who offer branch-based advice on
financial products. Credit Suisse Group AG may cut about 100
jobs at its investment bank in the U.K. as part of a global
staff-reduction plan, a person familiar with the matter said on
June 29, while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said on the same day that it was
eliminating a further 50 investment-banking jobs amid a slowdown
in global markets.  Even so, financial services companies including insurance
brokers and life insurance firms, added about 11,000 jobs in the
second quarter.  “All big retail banks are looking at their headcount and
resizing some business activities to make sure that they remain
profitable,” said Gray at a press conference discussing the
research. “But it is also clear where some banks have made
headcount reductions they’ve also invested in other areas, so I
think what we are seeing is realignment.”  Some 44 percent of those surveyed said the volume of
financial transactions increased in the three months to June,
while 28 percent said it fell, according to the report  The CBI and PwC surveyed 104 banks, customer-owned lenders,
investment managers and securities firms from May 25 to June 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  