-- 
UBS Enlists Chimp Expert Goodall to Teach Wealthy Children

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-07-04T04:32:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/ubs-hires-chimp-expert-goodall-to-teach-wealthy-children-to-give.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
enlisted primatologist Jane Goodall’s services last week to give
lessons in conservation and philanthropy to children of its
private banking clients in Singapore.  Goodall, 77, who has studied chimpanzees since 1960 in
Tanzania, gave a talk on getting involved with animal welfare,
human rights and other causes to 18- to 25-year-olds on June 30
as part of UBS’s program for heirs of millionaire clients, the
Zurich-based bank said.  UBS and rivals including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are wooing
second-generation millionaires in Asia, where the wealthy
outnumbered those in  Europe  for the first time in 2010.
Philanthropy has been in the limelight this year as billionaires
Warren Buffett and Bill Gates toured  Asia  asking the rich to
give away more of their money.  “Banks are expecting greater and greater generational
wealth transfer, in particular in Asia,” Justin Ong, Asia-
Pacific private banking leader for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
Singapore, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
targeting of these individuals is seen as an important part of
the strategy.”  The wealth of high-net worth people in the Asia-Pacific
region climbed 12.1 percent last year to $10.8 trillion,
bolstered by economic growth in China and  India , according to
the 2011 World Wealth Report by Capgemini SA and Bank of America
Corp. Singapore may displace Switzerland as the world’s top
wealth-management center by 2013, PwC said last month.  ‘Payback Time’  Goodall’s session was part of an effort to introduce
philanthropy to a group of young adults with the potential to
influence society through their prominent positions and wealth,
said Daniel Harel, head of the South Asia ultra-high net worth
category at UBS. UBS runs such programs in Singapore,  Hong Kong 
and  Taiwan  each year with participants mainly from Asia.  “We are not inheriting Mother Earth from our parents, but
rather, we are stealing from our children,” Goodall told the 40
participants last week, according to Rachel Lin, a Singapore-
based spokeswoman for UBS. “And it’s payback time.”  Programs for children of wealthy clients, which typically
include sessions on wealth management, financial planning,
leadership and personal development, are also conducted by
Credit Suisse,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   “Philanthropy habits in APAC are slowly mirroring Western
trends,” Tee Fong Seng, head of Credit Suisse Private Banking’s
ultra-high net worth business in Asia, said in an e-mail.
“Geographical beneficiaries of Asian philanthropy are shifting
and are now often global.”  Giving Pledge  Gates and Buffett started the Giving Pledge last year for
billionaires who agree to commit half their fortunes to charity.
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg , filmmaker George Lucas
and New York City Mayor and Bloomberg LP founder Michael Bloomberg have signed up as members.  Gates, 55, chairman of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
Corp., is ranked second in Forbes magazine’s list of
billionaires, with a net worth of $56 billion. Buffett, 80,
chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., is ranked third with a net worth of $50 billion.  “Until recently it was, and largely still is, seen as a
private matter in the Asian context,” Credit Suisse’s Tee said.
“The Asian philanthropic equivalent to the likes of  Bill Gates ,
for example, is seldom heard of, but it does not mean they do
not exist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net ; 