-- 
United Continental, American Airlines Fight EU Over Airline Carbon Curbs

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-07-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/united-continental-american-fight-eu-over-airline-carbon-curbs.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines and the  Air Transport Association  of
America will challenge the European Union’s plans for emission
curbs on aviation.  In a hearing at the region’s highest court tomorrow, they
will dispute a law expanding the EU carbon market to encompass
flights that depart from or arrive at an EU airport.  The EU system “as applied to international aviation
violates international law and is bad policy,”  Steve Lott , a
spokesman for the ATA, said in an e-mail. “It also clearly
stands in the way of an appropriate and effective global
solution.”  The EU’s first attempt to extend the world’s largest carbon
cap-and-trade program beyond its borders sparked international
opposition.  China ’s airline association said the measures, which
start next year, are “unreasonable and illegal” and warned of
a potential trade conflict.  Willie Walsh , the head of British
Airways parent International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
said last month “we fully expect” other states to retaliate.  The move, which follows a doubling of airline discharges in
 Europe  over two decades, is a “practical example” of necessary
action to prevent global warming, EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said last month.  “This legislation is fully consistent with international
law and we’re confident that the court will side with us and
understand our arguments,” said Isaac Valero-Ladron, a
spokesman for Hedegaard at the European Commission, the 27-
nation EU’s executive agency. “We don’t intend to withdraw or
amend the law at all.”  Pay a Fine  The Emissions Trading System, started in 2005, covers more
than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers and is the cornerstone
of the EU’s climate plan. It requires companies that exceed
their carbon dioxide emissions quotas to pay a fine or buy spare
permits from businesses that emit less.  The U.S. carriers claim the plan violates international
law, the  Kyoto Protocol , an EU-U.S. aviation accord and the
Convention on International Civil Aviation, the so-called
Chicago Convention.  “Airlines should be racing to comply with this law and
deliver cleaner low-carbon travel to the flying public, instead
of racing to the courthouse to try to block a reasonable and
well-designed law,” Annie Petsonk, international counsel at the
Environmental Defense Fund, a New-York-based climate campaign
group, said in an e-mail.  ‘Moderate’ Reductions  The required reductions “are moderate, and the directive
provides carbon market mechanisms to ease airlines’ transition
to low-carbon growth,” said Petsonk.  Airlines would be the second-largest sector in the system,
after power generators. Under the legislation, 82 percent of the
emission allowances making up the airline-industry cap would be
allocated for free and 15 percent would be auctioned. The
remaining 3 percent would be put into a special reserve for
later distribution to fast-growing airlines and new entrants.  Emissions from international aviation account for 2-3
percent of global greenhouse gas discharges and their share is
expected to rise in the coming decades as the industry grows,
according to the EU.  The EU system is the region’s main tool to reach its target
to reduce carbon dioxide by 20 percent in 2020 compared with
1990 levels.  U.K.  High Court   The High Court in  London  referred the case to the  EU Court
of Justice  in Luxembourg last year to clarify the legality of
the emissions curbs.  The ATA, the largest U.S. airline trade group, has  said  it
was “compelled” to file its lawsuit in the U.K. because the
country was the first to implement the EU law into its national
rules and there were “looming” deadlines to take action.  While the European legislation offers an option to exclude
incoming flights from a non-EU country if the nation implements
“equivalent” measures to cut airplane pollution, the U.S.
contends the ETS doesn’t apply to its airlines, a government
official said after a meeting with the commission last month.  Equivalent measures are “the only avenue” that the EU
will explore when considering an exemption, Valero-Ladron said.  He refuted arguments by the U.S. airlines that the
unilateral imposition of carbon emission limits on aviation
violated international accords.  The  International Civil Aviation Organization  “concluded
in 2004 that market-based mechanisms are the most effective
economic policy instrument for tackling aviation emission and
last year it recognized the EU emissions trading system,”
Valero-Ladron said.  In October, the ICAO reached an agreement to restrict
global aircraft discharges of  greenhouse gases  from 2020,
breaking almost a decade-long deadlock at the organization. The
deal will cover more than 90 percent of worldwide air traffic.  The case is: C-366/10, The Air Transport Association of
America,  American Airlines , Inc., Continental Airlines, Inc.,
 United Airlines , Inc. v. The Secretary of State for Energy and
Climate Change  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 