-- 
Turkey Recognizes Libyan Rebels, Gives $300 Million, AP Reports

-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-03T22:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/turkey-recognizes-libyan-rebels-gives-300-million-ap-reports.html
Turkey  further bolstered the standing
of Libyan opposition leaders by recognizing them as rightful
representatives of the war-torn nation, according to the
 Associated Press .  Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said yesterday
that his country gave Libya’s Transitional National Council, a
rebel group engaged in armed conflict with the ruling regime of
 Muammar Qaddafi , $100 million and promised an additional $200
million, according to the AP.  Turkey, a member of NATO, joins  Italy ,  France , the United
Arab Emirates and other nations in acknowledging the group as
legitimate. Qaddafi has threatened to attack  Europe  if raids on
Libya continue. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the
rebels are gaining power and Qaddafi should stop making threats.  “The rebels have been gaining strength and momentum,”
Clinton said in  Madrid  during the weekend. The U.S. remains
committed to helping Libya’s people in their fight against
forces loyal to Qaddafi, she said. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s operation to protect civilians in Libya from
Qaddafi’s forces began in March.  Qaddafi, speaking to supporters on July 1 through an audio
message aired on state television, said the battle can be taken
to Europe and warned “enemies” of “an eye for an eye.”  Libyan rebel leader Mustafa Abdel Jalil said an offer to
let Qaddafi stay in Libya if he resigns no longer stands because
it was made before an International Criminal Court issued a
warrant for Qaddafi’s arrest, Al Jazeera reported.  Direct Threat  U.S. Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, said
Qaddafi remaining in power is a “direct threat” to U.S.
security. McCain, speaking yesterday in an interview on CNN’s
“State of the Union,” said the conflict in  Libya  “could have
been over a long time ago” if the U.S. had “acted decisively
with the use of American air power.”  “Tragically, hundreds if not thousands of young people
have been wounded and killed because this conflict has lasted so
long because we failed to use American air assets,” McCain
said.  Tens of thousands of refugees have fled the fighting in the
North African nation, and the price of crude oil soared because
of the conflict in the country with Africa’s biggest oil
reserves.  In Yemen, dozens of Yemeni soldiers were dead or missing
after clashes with Islamic militants suspected of ties to the
al-Qaeda terrorist network, according to Middle East media.  Yesterday in Taiz, Yemen’s second-largest city, gunmen
ambushed and killed four soldiers and injured 12 others, the
official SABA  news agency  reported, citing a military spokesman.  Militant Advances  Militants have been making advances as Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh, under pressure from within and outside the
country to step down, remains ill and out of sight, according to
news reports. Saleh was injured in an assassination attempt in
June and went to  Saudi Arabia  for medical treatment.  In  Syria , the army carried out arrests in the opposition
stronghold of Hama yesterday, the AP reported, citing activist
Rami Nakhleh, who collects information from Syrian activists.  Syrian President Bashar Assad dismissed the governor of the
city of Hama following protests against Assad’s regime, AP said.
Assad fired Ahmed Abdul-Aziz because the governor failed to call
in security forces to suppress the protests, Bassam Jaara, a
Syrian opposition writer in  London , told the news agency.  About 300,000 people joined protests in Hama on July 1,
according to the AP. Activists such as Jaara said they hoped the
demonstrations would revive the three-month-old protests against
Assad’s regime.  Bahrain ‘Dialogue’  The late Hafez al-Assad, Bashar’s father and predecessor as
president, used the Syrian army in 1982 to crush an uprising in
Hama led by the Muslim Brotherhood movement. Thousands of people
were killed.  In Bahrain, opposition and pro-government groups convened
what is scheduled to be a month long “national dialogue” to
bridge the divide created when the Sunni Muslim-controlled
government cracked down earlier this year on protesters, many of
them Shiite Muslims.  Some 300 people have been invited to the talks, the state-
run Bahrain News Agency said on June 21, citing Parliament
Speaker Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Dhahrani. They include
representatives from political parties and civil and non-
governmental organizations, as well as opinion leaders and
prominent figures, the news agency said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  “welcomes” the start of the
talks, according to a release issued July 2 by the White House.
In the release, Obama commended both sides for entering into a
dialogue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Malabo at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  