-- 
West Ham Taking Legal Action Over Newspaper’s Olympic Stadium Bid Claims

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-03T14:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/west-ham-taking-legal-action-over-newspaper-s-olympic-stadium-bid-claims.html
West Ham said it’s taking legal
action against fellow London soccer club Tottenham and the
Sunday Times over claims made about the contest for the right to
use the Olympic Stadium after next year’s Games.  The newspaper today alleged that West Ham made secret
payments to an executive on a body that awarded the stadium to
the club. It said the information was found by corporate
investigators hired by north London-based Premier League team
Tottenham, which lost out in the contest for the stadium.  On their website, the Hammers said they’re treating “with
the utmost seriousness” the newspaper’s statement that
Tottenham employed the investigators as the east London club
questioned the legality of the action to gain “private”
information. The team said it’s “certain of the robustness” of
its successful bid.  The suggestion of secret cash payments was “absolutely and
categorically denied,” West Ham said. “As such, legal action
is being taken against the Sunday Times as well as Tottenham
Hotspur.”  Tottenham’s press office didn’t pick up a call seeking
comment.  The Olympic Park Legacy Company, which awarded the stadium
to West Ham, said July 1 that an employee was suspended after it
was discovered she was working as a consultant for West Ham
during the bidding process.  “The company had no knowledge of this work and no
permission was given to undertake it,” the OPLC said in a
statement. West Ham said the employee was not connected to the
bidding process but to a procurement project after the Games.  Fight for Control  The employee had already declared a personal relationship
with a member of staff at West Ham and there were “robust
measures in place to ensure our stadium process was not
compromised,” the OPLC added.  The fight for control over the east London stadium has been
bitter. Tottenham and third-tier team Leyton Orient failed last
month in a legal challenge to overturn the decision. West Ham,
relegated to the Championship at the end of last season, is
working with the London Borough of Newham on the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at  at
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  