-- 
Wimbledon Champion Kvitova Finally Shows Emotion When Meeting Navratilova

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-04T11:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/wimbledon-champion-kvitova-finally-shows-emotion-when-meeting-navratilova.html
Petra Kvitova kept her cool to beat
 Maria Sharapova  at  Wimbledon  for her first major tennis title.
It wasn’t until she met  Martina Navratilova  afterward that the
Czech got emotional.  Watched by 10 former female champions in the royal box at
the All England Club, the 21-year-old Kvitova served her first
ace on match point to beat the Russian 6-3, 6-4 on Centre Court
two days ago.  Kvitova said she cried after meeting Czech-born
Navratilova, a nine-time Wimbledon singles champion and her
inspiration growing up in Fulnek, a small town where her father
is deputy mayor.  “My father told me: ‘Look at Martina, she is playing well,
she is playing aggressive, she is from the  Czech Republic ,’”
Kvitova said in an interview with a small group of reporters
after her victory. “So she became my idol.”  Kvitova was only a few months old when Navratilova, a
fellow left-hander, won her last Wimbledon singles title, so she
watched recordings of her matches. And just like Navratilova,
Kvitova didn’t buckle under pressure when playing for the
Wimbledon championship.  Yesterday, Serbia’s Novak Djokovic also won his first All
England Club title, defeating defending champion  Rafael Nadal  6-
4, 6-1, 1-6, 6-3.  Kvitova had Sharapova on the back foot from the start of
the match, hitting flat ground strokes close to the baseline as
the Russian struggled with the pace and her own serve.  Service Struggles  Sharapova handed Kvitova the break for 4-2 in the first set
with two double faults. The Russian has had problems with
her serve at times after she was forced to rebuild her action
following shoulder surgery three years ago. Kvitova took the
first set as Sharapova netted a forehand return on set point.  “She played a terrific match,” Sharapova said in a news
conference. “It all just comes down to her being more
aggressive and taking her chances a little bit more. Maybe I
wasn’t as ready after the serve as I should have been, and she
just got the first good hit. I was always kind of late.”  Kvitova remained calm in the second set, when Sharapova got
the break back in the sixth game as the Czech missed two
shots with the court wide open. Kvitova immediately broke back
for a 4-3 lead. Serving for the title at 5-4, she sank to her
knees after she aced the Russian.  Youngest Since Ivanovic  Kvitova is the youngest player to win a major since Ana Ivanovic won her lone Grand Slam title at the 2008 French Open
as a 20-year-old. After Ivanovic became No. 1 in the world, the
Serb struggled with injuries and pressure and is now ranked at
No. 18.  Sharapova said Kvitova has the advantage over other players
of her generation, such as women’s top seed  Caroline Wozniacki 
of  Denmark , who lost in the fourth round at Wimbledon and is
still seeking her first major title.  “She’s a much more powerful hitter, she has bigger
strokes, and I would say probably a better serve,” Sharapova
said.  Three hours after her win, Kvitova still seemed stunned.  “I’m still like in a dream, so I don’t know what I can say
about this,” she said in occasionally faltering English. “It’s
an unbelievable feeling.”  Czech newspapers welcomed the emergence of a new sports
hero amid a resurgence in the nation’s tennis.  “Wimbledon Witnessed the Birth of a Star,” Mlada Fronta
Dnes headlined today. “Modest Champion Petra Kvitova Enchanted
Wimbledon,” Pravo said.  Congratulations  Even after some sparkling wine, Kvitova had difficulty
sleeping after the final, she told Dnes. Jaromir Jagr, the Czech
hockey star who’s signed with the  Philadelphia Flyers , sent her
an SMS of congratulations, as did members of the tennis world
including Petr Korda and  Ivan Lendl .  Sharapova had been the center of attention in the second
week of the tournament, after pre-Wimbledon favorite and
defending champion  Serena Williams  and five-time winner  Venus Williams  both lost in the fourth round. The siblings, who have
won nine Wimbledon singles titles, recently returned to the
women’s game following long injury-related layoffs.  Although Kvitova made the semifinals at Wimbledon last
year, and this season entered the top 10 on the WTA Tour for the
first time in her career, she had advanced to her first
Wimbledon final away from the limelight.  ‘Be Normal’  After her triumph, Kvitova was stopped by Wimbledon
security guards while on her way to media interviews. She was
only let through after a WTA official pointed out that this was
the new Wimbledon champion. She then found herself in the path
of former U.S. Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice , who
congratulated her on her victory.  The Czech said she hoped life will remain the same, even
though Navratilova called her “the new star” of women’s
tennis.  “I’m not thinking about it, that I am a new star,”
Kvitova said. “I just want to stay and be normal. I don’t want
to change myself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  