-- 
Hynix Gets Initial Bids for Stake; Samsung Earnings: Korea’s Week Ahead

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-07-03T23:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-03/hynix-gets-initial-bids-for-stake-samsung-earnings-korea-s-week-ahead.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  shareholders
will receive by July 8 preliminary bids for their controlling
stake in the fourth attempt since 2009 to sell the world’s
second-largest maker of computer-memory chips.  Bidders are asked to buy all or part of the shareholders’
15 percent stake in Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix Semiconductor,
valued at 2.4 trillion won ($2.2 billion) based on Friday’s
closing price. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest
shipyard, has expressed interest in buying the stake. A
preferred bidder will be picked in August.  The  International Olympic Committee  will select the host
city for the 2018 Winter Olympics on July 6 in Durban,  South
Africa .  South Korea ’s Pyeongchang competes with  Germany ’s Munich
and  France ’s Annecy in its third bid. South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  left for Durban on July 2 to participate in the final
presentation before the announcement.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
memory chips and liquid-crystal displays, may announce guidance
on preliminary second-quarter earnings this week.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan speaks with foreign media on
July 6 on South Korea’s economic situation. Bahk’s ministry on
June 30 slashed its forecast for growth of  Asia ’s fourth-largest
economy to 4.5 percent this year, from the December estimate of
5 percent. Consumer prices are expected to rise 4 percent,
exceeding the previous 3 percent projection, the ministry said.  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1.7 percent last
week. The won strengthened 1.1 percent, ending last week at
1,066.65 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent note due June 2014
rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, last week to
3.77 percent, according to prices from  Korea Exchange Inc.   The following is a list of major events in South Korea this
week:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  