-- ADP Set to Run Istanbul Airport to Term-End as Unrest Hits Rival
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-06T11:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/adp-set-to-run-istanbul-airport-to-term-end-as-unrest-hits-rival.html
Aeroports de Paris (ADP)  SA’s Turkish unit
will likely run the Istanbul airport until the end of its term
in 2021 as a rival facility’s construction is hit by political
turmoil, said Chief Executive Officer Augustin de Romanet.  “The fact that this third airport is very difficult to
build means that the probability that we can operate Ataturk for
seven years is very strong,” the CEO of ADP, which bought a 38
percent stake in  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL)  last year, said
today in an interview in Aix-en-Provence, southern  France .  The construction of a new airport near Istanbul may suffer
from “delays” as recent political turmoil in Turkey
“emboldens environmentalists who want to protest over the fact
that 2 million trees have to be cut,” de Romanet said. “It’s
good that we lost” the bidding to build the new facility
“because it was auctioned at too high a price.”  A group consisting of five closely held constructors,
including Limak Insaat Sanayi ve Ticaret AS and Kolin Insaat
Turizm Sanayi ve Ticaret AS offered in May to pay  Turkey  a
rental fee of 22.13 billion euros ($28.4 billion) over an
operational period of 25 years to build a new facility to
replace the Ataturk Airport, which generates 40 percent of TAV
sales, according to the company’s website.  The new airport is planned to be built near the Black Sea
coast and about 60 kilometers (37 miles) northwest of the
Istanbul city center. TAV, whose concession of the Ataturk
airport ends in 2021, withdrew before the final bidding round.  Rio Bid  ADP, which operates airports of the French capital, has a
6.75 percent stake in a group that plans to bid for the Rio de
Janeiro airport in October, de Romanet also said. The bidding
group includes a Brazilian builder, a private equity company as
well as the operator of Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport, he said.  The French government last month sold a part of its stake
in ADP to construction company  Vinci SA. (DG)   Vinci’s decision to raise its stake in ADP to 8 percent
from 3.3 percent will force both companies “to discuss more,
and to make sure we avoid being rivals when we can while
respecting European competition laws,” de Romanet said. “I
don’t rule out targeted cooperation while maintaining the
independence of both companies.”  The French builder, which will get a seat on ADP’s board,
“will ask ADP, within the context of existing agreements, to
enter into discussions to share their respective expertise,
particularly in the area international development,” Vinci said
on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Aix-en-Provence at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  