-- Alterman Sees Egypt Violence Up Amid Divisions (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-07-06T02:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/alterman-sees-egypt-violence-up-amid-divisions-transcript-.html
Jon Alterman , a former special
assistant on Middle East affairs at the State Department, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that violence in Egypt
could increase as the Muslim Brotherhood, which still commands
some support, drops out of politics after the ouster of
President Mohamed Mursi.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with Jon Alterman. Jon,
what’s the prospects in Egypt? There’s violence now after the
coup. Over the next couple weeks, is there just going to be
continued violence? Is there any prospect for some kind of a
consensus to emerge?  JON ALTERMAN: You’re going to have a bumpy ride because the
army acted with a lot of popular support, but the Brotherhood
still probably enjoys the support of between 10 million and 20
million Egyptians, people who feel that the presidency was taken
from them, that Mursi never had a chance, and that what was
supposed to be an open political process was shut down. Those
people, a lot of them are going to be in the streets. Some of
them are going to use violence.  HUNT: So the Brotherhood is not going to go quietly is the
point. There’s going to be a - there’s going to be more violent
reaction.  ALTERMAN: The Brotherhood may not continue to participate
in politics, but that’s actually a problem. Because
participating in politics means you’re agreeing that differences
are settled through political means. What I think the
Brotherhood has concluded is the game is stacked and the only
way to get what they deserve is to change the game, not to play
in the game. That’s a big change from where the brotherhood was
a year ago.  HUNT: And has the army overreacted and made a mistake then
by creating some martyrdom for them, if you will, and - and
forcing them to go underground where they’re going to be more of
a threat?  ALTERMAN: I think the army actually has done a pretty good
job building a very broad non-Brotherhood consensus in  Egypt .
They brought together the Coptic pope. They brought together
Shehavalesshar. They brought Mohammed Reide representing the
liberal voices. What they demonstrated was that Mohamed Mursi
through his politics has kept narrowing his coalition to the
point where the only people who supported Mohamed Mursi were
Muslim Brotherhood supporters. And you can’t govern the country
if you’re only appealing to a base which ultimately is a
minority.  An interesting part of the participation with the military
was the Nour Party, the Salafis, the ultra-conservatives, who
decided they didn’t have a future with Mohamed Mursi either.
That brings - that tears apart any sort of Islamist coalition
and makes - creates a lot of questions about what the future of
Egyptian politics might look like. In fact, it may be that
empowering the Nour Party through bringing them on board may be
the biggest mistake the army did.  HUNT: Egypt has long been a huge political power influence
in the region. With this kind of political and economic
instability, can they continue to play a major role in the
region?  ALTERMAN: There’s a way in which Egypt has both has been
active in the region, I think much less so over the last 20
years or so. But there’s an intimacy that people feel to Egypt,
partly because people know a lot of Egyptians. There’s a way in
which Egypt just by virtue of its demographic weight but also
its intellectual heft is something that every single Arab feels
is not totally foreign to them. And for that reason, what
happens in Egypt sends ripples that continue to flow throughout
the region.  HUNT: Well talk about ripples. Right now if you’re sitting
in  Tel Aviv  or if you’re sitting in Tehran, how do you view
this?  ALTERMAN: I think the guys in Tel Aviv are relieved because
they always felt they had a better relationship with the army
than the Brotherhood. They never trusted the Brotherhood. They
don’t want to stick their head up and show their approval, but
the fact is people in Tel Aviv are sleeping much better tonight
than they have.  I think if you’re in Tehran, a much different sense. Mursi
seemed to be trying to reach out to the Iranians to the extent
that he could. He was slapped down by the Salafis. There is much
less confidence, but I think  Iran  is in its own space right now.
They’re trying to figure out what the election of Rohani means.
They’re trying to figure out how much conciliation they’ll have
with the rest of the region. They’re thinking a lot about  Syria .
So I think the Iranians are not focused on Egypt nearly to the
same degree as they might have been three months ago.  HUNT: Let’s talk about the Obama administration. It looks
like they have been reactive, vacillating. Options aren’t good I
know, haven’t been for the past two and a half years. But what
they - what should they be doing they’re not doing?  ALTERMAN: Well, I think what they should have done is they
should have been more critical of the Brotherhood as the
Brotherhood was narrowing its base, was abrogating power, was
not working with other parties. I think the administration
should have been more critical. It is perceived to be both in
bed with the Brotherhood and in bed with the army. Everybody’s
been unhappy with the Obama administration. Everybody’s been
unhappy with the U.S. embassy. I think there must have been ways
to make more clear where we stand and what we think is an excess
of power.  I think at this point they’re going to say, well we’re
studying whether it was a coup. They don’t want to cut off aid.
Strategically, there is a U.S. interest in having a strong
relationship with Egypt. The people in power in Egypt are
certainly people the U.S. has been in dialogue with and will
continue to be in dialogue with. So they’re going to try to
rebuild this relationship, but there still I think is this sense
in Egypt that the administration’s been naïve, that they didn’t
understand what a threat the Brotherhood is. And there’s not the
same confidence in American judgment.  Now quite frankly there’s never been a lot of confidence in
the Egyptian government about the judgment of Americans about
what Egyptian policy should look like. Americans have been
trying to democratize Egyptian politics for more than a half
century with very, very paltry results to show for it. But I
think there is that sense when it comes to politics, the
Americans just don’t know what they’re talking about.  HUNT: You say we don’t want to cut off aid. That may
certainly be good policy, but it was a coup. We can say - we can
call it whatever we want to, but it clearly was a coup. The law
clearly says that if there’s a coup you cut off all aid. And we
are now calling on the Egyptians to heed the rule of law. There
is a certain contradiction if not hypocrisy here, isn’t there?  ALTERMAN: There is, although the way the aid is actually
disbursed and what the law says about not obligating it, there
may be an opportunity using the aid that’s already been
obligated not need to obligate new aid. Different fiscal years.
There may be some breathing room. I think --  HUNT: But you don’t think aid’s going to be cut off?  ALTERMAN: I don’t think aid’s going to be cut off. And
quite frankly, I think there is an enthusiasm on  Capitol Hill 
among some quarters to condition aid. I don’t think conditioning
aid persuades people to do anything when it comes to politics.
You can condition aid when it comes to very clearly measured
economic indicators and those kinds of things. The more
qualitative you get and the more you deal with what people
consider to be their core interests, the political future of the
country for the next half century, the less they care what
anybody says.  And the fact is our gulf allies, especially  Saudi Arabia 
and the UAE, who are very, very concerned about the Brotherhood,
could write a check overnight that would triple the consequences
of American aid and there would be no strings and no conditions.
I don’t think we have an opportunity to shape the way the
Egyptian government thinks about this in an acute way, although
in a broader way I think they want to have a good relationship
with the  United States . And we have to show our -what we care
about and what we’re willing to do for it.  HUNT: Jon Alterman, you’re going to have a fascinating
couple of weeks and months, if not years. It’s an extraordinary
story.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 