-- Asian Stocks Cap Second Week of Gains on Japan Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-06T01:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/asian-stocks-cap-second-week-of-gains-on-japan-optimism.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a second week,
with Japanese shares leading gains on optimism Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will succeed in beating deflation and as a
weaker yen improved the outlook for exporters.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, advanced
5.3 percent. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-largest iron-ore producer, jumped 11 percent as the steelmaking
 ingredient  rebounded. Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest smartphone maker, sank 5.6 percent after posting second-quarter earnings that missed analyst estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.6 percent to 131.34
this week, while a  gauge  that excludes  Japan  declined 1.1
percent. Both measures slumped in June for a second month as a
government clampdown on speculative lending in China spurred a
cash crunch and after  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said policy makers may start dialing down stimulus if the  U.S.
economy  shows sustained improvement.  “Markets have some potential to pick up from here,” said
 Angus Gluskie , managing director at White Funds Management in
Sydney, who helps oversee about $450 million. “There’s still a
degree of nervousness out there as we’re at the juncture when
the Federal Reserve is signaling it may reduce stimulus
measures. There’s also a clear change of policy direction in
China.”  Japanese shares led advances this week, with the  Topix (TPX) 
index rising 4.8 percent, capping its biggest three-week advance
since April 2009. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed
4.6 percent, as the yen weakened beyond 100 to the dollar.  Japan Optimism  The quarterly  Tankan index  for large manufacturers rose to
plus four in June, the Bank of Japan reported on July 1. That
exceeded the plus three forecast by 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg and was the first positive reading since September
2011. A positive figure shows optimists outnumber pessimists.  Japanese consumers expect prices to climb 3 percent over
the next 12 months, according to the median result in a  Bank of
Japan  survey released yesterday in Tokyo, in a sign that the
reflationary drive by Abe and central bank Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda may be working.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  rose 0.8 percent this week as
the nation’s central kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index advanced 1.1 percent.
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index gained 0.6 percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index increased 1.4 percent, its
first gain in five weeks, as money-market  rates  declined.
Reports this week added to signs  China’s economy  is weakening,
with official gauge of manufacturing expanding in June at the
slowest pace in four months and a services measure by the least
since September.  Tolerating Slowdown  Chinese President Xi Jinping said last month officials
shouldn’t be judged solely on their record in boosting gross
domestic product, the latest signal that policy makers are
prepared to tolerate slower economic expansion.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.3 percent this week
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, Asia’s worst-performing major index this year, dropped 1.1 percent for a
seventh decline in eight weeks. South Korea’s Kospi index lost
1.6 percent.  Shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 12.8 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 14.8 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exporters advanced after reports showed an official gauge
of U.S. manufacturing expanded faster than expected in June.
Claims for jobless benefits in the world’s biggest economy
decreased by 5,000 to 343,000 in the week ended June 29, the
Labor Department said July 3. Japanese carmakers and electronics
manufacturer also gained after the yen fell for a third week,
which will boost the value of their overseas income when
repatriated.  Canon Shares  Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera maker, gained 4.3
percent to 3,375 yen.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and
clothes to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., jumped 3.8
percent to HK$11.06 in Hong Kong.  United Spirits Ltd. surged 17 percent to 2,533.35 rupees
this week in Mumbai. Diageo Plc, the world’s biggest distiller,
gained control of United Spirits after completing the final
stage of a transaction to acquire a stake in the Indian maker of
Bagpiper whiskey.  Among stocks that declined, Samsung Electronics slipped 5.6
percent to 1,267,000 won in  Seoul . Operating profit rose to
about 9.5 trillion won ($8.3 billion) in the three months ended
June from 6.5 trillion won a year earlier, the company said in
preliminary earnings released July 5. That compares with the 10
trillion-won average of 34 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  China  Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s biggest shipyard outside state control, tumbled 21
percent to 89 Hong Kong cents after seeking government financial
support as orders plunged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  