-- Bartoli Dominates Lisicki on Way to First Wimbledon Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-06T16:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/bartoli-beats-lisicki-at-wimbledon-after-injury-illness.html
Marion Bartoli dominated Sabine Lisicki from start to finish at Wimbledon to win  France ’s first
major tennis championship in seven years.  Bartoli, 28, beat the No. 23 seed from Germany 6-1, 6-4, on
Centre Court at the All  England  Club in southwest  London .  Bartoli’s accuracy off the baseline and cross-court angles
which frequently forced her opponent out of the court were no
match for a nervous Lisicki. The 23-year-old, who was the
tournament ace leader in the women’s draw, had her service
broken five times.  “When I started this campaign, if you told me I would even
be in the final, I wouldn’t have believed it,” Bartoli, 28,
said at the trophy ceremony. “I can’t believe I’m holding this
trophy: it’s been my dream since I was six.”  The runner-up up to  Venus Williams  in 2007, No. 15 Bartoli
is the first woman to win the Wimbledon title in the Open era
without facing a top-10 seeded opponent. The tournament double
fault leader with 33, she finished off the match with only her
14th ace of the event. Lisicki produced 45 aces -- the most in
the past two weeks -- and 10 alone in her fourth-round win
against five-time Wimbledon champion  Serena Williams .  “Finishing with an ace to win Wimbledon, I couldn’t
believe that,” Bartoli said after climbing to her box to
embrace her family and friends as well as 2006 Wimbledon
champion Amelie Mauresmo, the French Federation Cup captain and
one of her coaches. “Maybe a backhand winner, but not an ace.”  Injury, Illness  The victory comes after months of struggling with illness
and injury. Bartoli, who this week said her body had been
“cracking up all over the place,” earlier in the season, quit
a tournament in Miami in March with a left-foot injury, and
withdrew from  Rome  a month later with a right ankle ailment. Her
ankle still bothered her during last month’s  French Open , where
she lost in the third round. On grass, she withdrew from an
event in Birmingham, England, and won one match in Eastbourne
before pulling out with a viral illness.  “She’s had to come back from injury a lot of times,”
Walter Bartoli said shortly after his daughter’s win. “She has
always been so determined to do her best. This morning at the
breakfast table, she was quiet, but relaxed.”  Lisicki had the biggest upset of the tournament on her way
to the final as she ousted French Open champion Williams of the
U.S. With a game built around a booming serve of about 120
miles-per-hour (193 kilometers-per-hour) and powerful ground
strokes, the right-hander has beaten the reigning French Open
champion in four of the past five years at Wimbledon.  Her serve deserted her today against Bartoli as she hit six
aces and five double faults, often at crucial moments. She made
25 unforced errors.  “I think it was just overwhelmed by the whole situation,
but credit to Marion, she’s been in that situation before and
she handled it really well,” Lisicki said as she fought back
tears.  Nervous Start  Both players had a nervous start, each getting broken on a
double fault. Struggling to get a first serve in, Lisicki was
broken for a second time as she netted a backhand to go down 3-1.  Despite initially leading 40-15, Lisicki dropped serve for
a third time to trail 5-1 as Bartoli dominated the rallies and
the German made several unforced errors. Bartoli easily served
out the first set on yet another unforced error by Lisicki, who
had 14 in the period compared to four by her opponent.  After 35 minutes of play, Lisicki finally held in the
opening game of the second set as the crowd cheered loudly. She
then squandered two opportunities to break with a pair of
wayward ground strokes. Saving two more break points with
powerful shots struck from inside the baseline aimed at her
opponent’s feet, Bartoli held for 1-1.  Service Struggles  Once again, Lisicki’s serve faltered as she faced three
break points in the next game. A drop shot that was too short
was punished as Bartoli took a 2-1 lead.  Serving at 3-1 down, Lisicki let her head drop after she
produced two double faults in one game and failed to find an
answer to Bartoli’s accurate ground strokes and cross-court
shots that frequently took her out of the court.  Serving to stay in the championship, the crowd gave Lisicki
another cheer. A forehand error handed Bartoli two match points,
which Lisicki saved with a backhand volley and a service winner.  A third one followed, only for Bartoli to net a backhand.
Lisicki shouted to herself in German as she held with a 115
miles-per-hour serve.  She kept momentum, breaking to move to 3-5. Playing more
aggressively, she held and pumped her fist.  “They helped me get back my nerves,” Lisicki said of the
crowd. “I got them back but Marion was too good.”  Still, Bartoli was serving for the match. She got her
fourth match point with a cross-court shot and won with an ace,
her 15th winner of the match. Lisicki had 21 winners.  Dreams  “I dreamed about this moment for so long,” Bartoli said.
“I was there in 2007 and missed it and know how it feels.”  Bartoli was introduced to tennis when she was six years old
by her father, a doctor who has applied some of his medical
knowledge to hone his daughter’s unusual technique. She has been
working with Mauresmo at Wimbledon after her father coached her
for most of her career.  An unorthodox player both on and off the court, Bartoli is
the first double-handed woman to win Wimbledon since tennis
turned professional in 1968. She’s modeled her technique on that
of her idol  Monica Seles , who won nine major singles titles
hitting with both hands off both wings.  During practice sessions at nearby Aorangi Park at
Wimbledon, Bartoli, who writes with her left hand, has
frequently used elastic bands tied around on her ankles while
hitting dozens of air shots in a row. During matches, she
practices her ground strokes in between points, bounces up and
down and fist pumps after nearly every shot won.  Major Losses  Bartoli’s victory comes after a tumultuous two weeks at
Wimbledon, with the men’s and women’s draws losing half of the
players in the top 10 -- including former champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and Australian Open winner  Victoria Azarenka 
of Belarus -- before the third round because of injuries and
upsets.  The highest seed Bartoli faced on her way to her second
Wimbledon final was No. 17 Sloane Stephens of the U.S. in the
quarterfinals.  Lisicki was the first German woman playing for the
Wimbledon title since  Steffi Graf  -- who won seven times on the
London grass courts -- reached her last final in 1999, where she
lost to Lindsay Davenport. Her win at  Roland Garros  in the same
year remains the last major singles title for a German player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  