-- Bartoli Dances to Victory Over Lisicki at Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-06T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/bartoli-dances-to-victory-over-lisicki-at-wimbledon.html
Marion Bartoli danced in the locker
room before the Wimbledon final, and ended up playing her best
match of the tournament as she brushed aside  Sabine Lisicki  to
clinch  France ’s first major tennis championship in seven years.  The 28-year-old dismantled the big-serving 23rd-seeded
German yesterday with a combination of power and accuracy to win
6-1, 6-4 on Centre Court at the All England Club in southwest
 London .  “I was smiling and listening to music, singing through the
locker room,” Bartoli said after an ace had sealed her first
Grand Slam singles title. “That was not supposed to be the
perfect routine before going to play the Wimbledon final.”  In today’s men’s title match, second-seeded  Andy Murray  of
Britain plays top-ranked  Novak Djokovic  of  Serbia . Murray is
trying to become the first man from the British Isles to win the
Wimbledon singles championship since 1936. Djokovic won the
event in 2011.  Bartoli said she remembered “hitting rock bottom” during
a tournament in Miami in March, when she retired with an injury
to her left foot. She withdrew from  Rome  a month later with a
right-ankle ailment. On grass, she pulled out of an event in
Birmingham,  England , and won one match in Eastbourne before
withdrawing with a viral illness.  Bartoli’s physiotherapist told her yesterday to remember
how she felt in Miami. “He told me; It’s so nice to see you
like that no matter what happens in the final,” she said.  The Frenchwoman said she ended up playing “probably my
best match of the championship. I was doing everything well. I
was moving well. I was returning well. I really played a
wonderful match.”  She had support from her father, Walter, and coaches in her
box during the match.  “She’s had to come back from injury a lot of times,”
Walter Bartoli said shortly after his daughter’s win. “She has
always been so determined to do her best. This morning at the
breakfast table, she was quiet, but relaxed.”  Drained  Lisicki said the occasion had been too much after she had
dispatched three Grand Slam champions -- including five-time
Wimbledon winner  Serena Williams  -- on the way to the final.  “After those two weeks, having so many hard matches is
draining in the end of the day,” Lisicki, 23, said. “Marion
was fresher. That made a big difference, too.”  The runner-up up to  Venus Williams  in 2007, No. 15 Bartoli
is the first woman to win the Wimbledon title in the Open era
without facing a top-10 seeded opponent. The tournament double
fault leader with 33, she finished off the match with only her
14th ace of the event. Lisicki produced 45 aces -- the most in
the women’s draw the -- and 10 alone in her win against
defending champion Williams.  Dream Come True  Bartoli’s accuracy off the baseline and cross-court angles
which frequently forced her opponent out of the court were no
match for a nervous Lisicki, who had her service broken five
times.  “When I started this campaign, if you told me I would even
be in the final, I wouldn’t have believed it,” Bartoli told the
crowd at the trophy ceremony. “I can’t believe I’m holding this
trophy: it’s been my dream since I was six.  ‘‘Finishing with an ace to win Wimbledon, I couldn’t
believe that,” Bartoli said after climbing to her box to
embrace her family and friends as well as 2006 Wimbledon
champion Amelie Mauresmo, the French Federation Cup captain and
one of her coaches. “Maybe a backhand winner, but not an ace.”  Nervous Start  Both players had a nervous start, each getting broken on a
double fault. Struggling to get a first serve in, Lisicki was
broken for a second time as she netted a backhand to go down
3-1.  Despite initially leading 40-15, Lisicki dropped serve for
a third time to trail 5-1 as Bartoli dominated the rallies and
the German made several unforced errors. Bartoli then easily
served out the first set on yet another unforced error by
Lisicki, who had 14 in the period compared to four by her
opponent.  After 35 minutes of play, Lisicki finally held in the
opening game of the second set as the crowd cheered loudly. She
then squandered two opportunities to break with a pair of
wayward ground strokes. Saving two more break points with
powerful shots struck from inside the baseline aimed at her
opponent’s feet, Bartoli held for 1-1.  Service Struggles  Once again, Lisicki’s serve faltered as she faced three
break points in the next game. A drop shot that was too short
was punished as Bartoli took a 2-1 lead.  Serving at 3-1 down, Lisicki let her head drop after she
produced two double faults in one game and failed to find an
answer to Bartoli’s accurate ground strokes and cross-court
shots that frequently took her out of the court.  Serving to stay in the championship, the crowd gave Lisicki
another cheer. A forehand error handed Bartoli two match points,
which Lisicki saved with a backhand volley and a service winner.  A third one followed, only for Bartoli to net a backhand.
Lisicki shouted to herself in German as she held with a 115
miles-per-hour (185 kilometers) serve.  She kept momentum, breaking to move to 3-5. Playing more
aggressively, she held and pumped her fist.  “They helped me get back my nerves,” Lisicki said of the
crowd. “I got them back but Marion was too good.”  Bartoli served for the championship. She got her fourth
match point with a cross-court shot and won with an ace, her
15th winner of the encounter. Lisicki had 21 winners.  Dreams  “I dreamed about this moment for so long,” Bartoli said.
“I was there in 2007 and missed it and know how it feels.”  Bartoli was introduced to tennis when she was six years old
by her father, a doctor who has applied some of his medical
knowledge to hone his daughter’s unusual technique. She has been
working with Mauresmo at Wimbledon after her father coached her
for most of her career.  An unorthodox player both on and off the court, Bartoli is
the first double-handed woman to win Wimbledon since tennis
turned professional in 1968. She’s modeled her technique on that
of her idol  Monica Seles , who won nine major singles titles
hitting with both hands off both wings.  During practice sessions at nearby Aorangi Park at
Wimbledon, Bartoli, who writes with her left hand, has
frequently used elastic bands tied around on her ankles while
hitting dozens of air shots in a row. During matches, she
practices her ground strokes in between points, bounces up and
down and fist pumps after nearly every shot won.  Major Losses  Bartoli’s victory comes after a tumultuous two weeks at
Wimbledon, with the men’s and women’s draws losing half of the
players in the top 10 -- including former champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and Australian Open winner  Victoria Azarenka 
of Belarus -- before the third round because of injuries and
upsets.  The highest seed Bartoli faced on her way to her second
Wimbledon final was No. 17 Sloane Stephens of the U.S. in the
quarterfinals.  Lisicki was the first German woman playing for the
Wimbledon title since  Steffi Graf  -- who won seven times on the
London grass courts -- reached her last final in 1999, where she
lost to Lindsay Davenport. Her win at  Roland Garros  in the same
year remains the last major singles title for a German player.  Lisicki said the experience of playing for the Wimbledon
title “will help me to go one step further,” next time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  