-- Bartoli Takes First Set of Wimbledon Women’s Final Over Lisicki
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-06T13:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/bartoli-takes-first-set-of-wimbledon-women-s-final-over-lisicki.html
Marion Bartoli won the first set of
her Wimbledon singles final against Sabine Lisicki as she
attempts to be the first French player to win a tennis major
since 2006.  The 15th seed took the set 6-1 over Lisicki, as the 24th
seed from  Germany  hit 14 unforeced errors to Bartoli’s 4.  The women exchanged breaks to start the match, each double
faulting to hand the opponent the game. Bartoli then held to
take a lead, and kept the momentum, winning a several shot rally
at the net on the way to breaking Lisicki. She held at love,
keeping the crowd from getting behind the German.  Coming out serving 1-4, Lisicki raced out to a lead, but
couldn’t hold it and lost the game on Bartoli’s second break
point with a long forehand. Bartoli held at love as Lisicki hit
another forehand into the net.  Bartoli had also reached the championship match at the All
England Club in 2007, when she lost to Venus Williams of the
U.S. The highest seed the 28-year-old Bartoli faced on her way
to her second Wimbledon final was No. 17 Sloane Stephens of the
U.S. in the quarterfinals.  She’s trying to become the first player from  France  to
clinch a major championship since Amelie Mauresmo, one of her
coaches, won Wimbledon seven years ago.  Lisicki, 23, reached the final having staged the biggest
upset of the tournament as she ousted five-time champion and
top-ranked Serena Williams in the fourth round. With a game
built around a booming serve of about 120 miles-per-hour and
powerful groundstrokes, the 23rd-seeded righthander also beat
former French Open winner Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  in the
first round and former U.S. Open champion Sam Stosur of
 Australia  in the third round.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  