-- Bryan Brothers Win Wimbledon Doubles to Hold All Major Trophies
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-06T20:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/bryan-brothers-win-wimbledon-doubles-to-hold-all-major-trophies.html
Bob and Mike Bryan won the Wimbledon
men’s doubles title to become the first team to be champions of
all four majors at the same time since the sport went
professional.  The American twins came back to beat  Croatia ’s Ivan Dodig
and Marcelo Melo of Brazil 3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. The Bryans were
playing in their 25th Grand Slam championship match, while their
opponents, who got together last year, were in their first.  “It’s been a really good run for us,” Mike Bryan said.
“We just take it one point at a time but it adds up over two or
three months. We’ve put the game in the right perspective.”  The victory also gives the 35-year-olds a so-called Golden
Slam, as they hold the Olympic title after winning last year at
the All England Club. They won at Wimbledon in 2006 and 2011 and
have extended their record for major doubles titles to 15, three
more than the next-closest team, John Newcombe and Tony Roche.  Along with their three championships, the brothers are
three-time runners-up at the London grass-court major.  The victory keeps them on track for a calendar-year sweep
of the four Grand Slam titles, which has only been done by one
other men’s doubles team, Australians Ken McGregor and Frank
Sedgman in 1951. No team has held all four titles at the same
time since tennis went professional in 1968.  In the women’ final,  Taiwan ’s Su Wei Hsieh and  China ’s Peng
Shuai beat Australians Ashleigh Barty and Casey
Dellacqua 7-6 (7-1), 6-1.  It is the first Grand Slam title for the pair. Hsieh is the
first Taiwanese player to win a major tennis championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  