-- Deutsche Bank to Reduce Assets as Leverage Rules Tighten
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-06T13:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/deutsche-bank-to-reduce-assets-as-leverage-rules-tighten.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
Europe’s biggest bank, will reduce its balance sheet as
regulators implement stricter rules on the relation of equity to
total assets, Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said.  Deutsche Bank is “well prepared” to meet a European Union
leverage target under higher  capital requirements , Krause said
in an interview with Boersen-Zeitung published today. “We have
to further reduce our balance sheet” and set aside profit, he
said in the interview with the German newspaper. Klaus Winker, a
spokesman for Frankfurt-based company, confirmed the comments
when contacted by  Bloomberg News  by phone today.  Regulators are increasingly looking at leverage, in
addition to measures based on risk weightings assigned to
different assets, to gauge banks’ financial strength. The rules,
which are at various stages of development in different
countries, risk hurting investors as lenders will have to reduce
assets or raise capital to comply.  Krause said that while the leverage ratio can serve in
addition to capital requirements based on perceived risk,
focusing on the former would push banks to load up on risk and
reduce lending.  Deutsche Bank’s equity accounted for 2.8 percent of its
assets at the end of March, the lowest value of Europe’s major
banks after France’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries show.  The German lender needs to raise 12.3 billion euros ($15.8
billion) in capital or reduce assets by 409 billion euros to
comply with a proposal on leverage by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a
July 4 note to clients.  Deutsche Bank wants to take “substantial steps” in the
next year or two on selling assets from a 90 billion-euro
portfolio that isn’t central to its business, Krause said. The
company will have to reduce liquidity, which counts toward
assets, and could pursue other measures, the CFO said.  The bank can also “achieve significant reductions without
tangibly changing the balance sheet” as regulators make changes
to how derivatives are accounted for, Krause said.  Krause told analysts on a conference call at the end of
April that Deutsche Bank would improve its  leverage ratio  and
focus on “balance sheet optimization” and efficiency.  The CFO told Boersen-Zeitung that he can’t yet say by what
volume the company’s assets will decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  