-- Dwight Howard Houston Move Boosts Comcast Over Time Warner Cable
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-06T04:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/dwight-howard-houston-move-boosts-comcast-over-time-warner-cable.html
Dwight Howard ’s decision to leave the
 Los Angeles Lakers  for the  Houston Rockets  also means a victory
for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  against  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   Howard, a rebounding, shot-blocking, 6-foot-11-inch (2.1-meter) center, said yesterday he’d sign an $88 million, four-year deal with the  National Basketball Association ’s Rockets
instead of staying with the Lakers for five more years. The
choice is a boon for Comcast’s Houston sports network while
potentially taking viewers from Time Warner Cable’s more popular
Lakers channel in Los Angeles.  “The Rockets have landed the biggest free agent in the
world,” Comcast SportsNet Houston said last night on its
website. “Dwight Howard is coming to Houston.”  The three-time Defensive Player of the Year gives an
immediate boost to Houston’s championship aspirations. That may
convince pay-TV companies such as  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) 
to shell out for the rights to carry Comcast’s Houston network
for the first time, said Lee Berke, president of Scarsdale, New
York-based LHB Sports, Entertainment & Media.  “A lot of fans in Houston and throughout the state are
going to want to see the Rockets play,” Berke said in an
interview before Howard’s decision was announced. “Comcast
SportsNet will have more leverage in getting deals done.”  Time Warner Cable’s Lakers networks, meanwhile, could see a
dip in ratings and advertising revenue with Howard’s departure,
Berke said.  Comcast is the largest U.S. cable provider and owns 13
regional sports networks, more than any company other than 21st
Century Fox Inc. Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S.
cable operator, pitched Howard his own TV show on its Lakers
channel in an attempt to persuade him to stay, ESPN reported.  Team Meetings  In addition to the Lakers, with whom he spent one season,
and the Rockets, the 27-year-old Howard talked to the Dallas
Mavericks,  Golden State Warriors  and  Atlanta Hawks , according to
ESPN. The Lakers put up  billboards  in the L.A. area urging him
to re-sign with the team.  Comcast SportsNet Houston probably will ask for $3 to $3.50
per subscriber per month from pay-TV operators after failing to
agree on deals in 2012, Berke said. The network is jointly owned
by the Rockets, Major League Baseball’s Houston Astros and NBC
Sports Group, a Comcast  unit .  Houston is the 10th-largest U.S. pay-TV market, according
to data from research firm SNL Kagan. Comcast is the region’s
largest provider by customers, with about 684,000 video
subscribers. DirecTV, Dish,  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse and Suddenlink
Communications serve a combined 1.1 million subscribers,
according to Kagan data. At $3.50 a month, Comcast could reap
about $10 million annually by striking a deal for the regional
sports network with all those providers.  The Rockets finished last season with a 45-37 record with
the core trio of  James Harden , Jeremy Lin and Chandler Parsons.  Softened Blow  Time Warner Cable SportsNet has already locked up long-term
deals with providers including DirecTV and AT&T’s U-verse last
year -- with Howard in the fold. That will soften the blow for
the New York-based company despite Howard’s departure, Patrick Rishe, a sports business professor at Webster University in  St.
Louis , said in an interview.  “It’s far more important for Comcast and Houston to obtain
Dwight Howard,” Rishe said. “The Lakers brand is solidified. I
think they may go through a rough patch, but I don’t know if
Howard would be the savior even if he signs. Howard in Houston
makes a bigger splash.”  The Lakers channel also has a Spanish-language sister
station, SportsNet Deportes.  Most Expensive  Regional sports networks are some of the most expensive
cable channels for pay-TV operators to carry due to their strong
demand among sports fans and the high cost for broadcast rights.
Time Warner Cable agreed earlier this year to pay more than $7
billion over 25 years for the right to create a network that
airs Los Angeles Dodgers games.  Time Warner Cable SportsNet and Comcast SportsNet Houston
representatives both spoke to Howard about the media coverage
benefits they planned to offer him, according to ESPN.  Howard is a seven-time All-Star. He has averaged 18.3
points, 12.9 rebounds and 2.2 blocks per game for his career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  