-- Dwight Howard Joins NBA’s Rockets After One Season With Lakers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-06T04:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/dwight-howard-joins-nba-s-rockets-after-one-season-with-lakers.html
Dwight Howard  is heading to Houston
after one season with the  Los Angeles Lakers , accepting a
contract worth $30 million less to join a younger roster and
become the latest in a line of Rockets big men that includes
Hakeem Olajuwon, Dikembe Mutombo and  Yao Ming .  “I’ve decided to become a member of the  Houston Rockets ,”
Howard said last night on his Twitter.com site after changing
his avatar into a Rockets uniform. “I feel it’s the best place
for me and I am excited.”  Howard, 27, a seven-time All-Star center and three-time
National Basketball Association defensive player of the year,
was regarded as the top free agent available this offseason and
also had been courted by the  Atlanta Hawks , Dallas Mavericks and
 Golden State Warriors  in addition to the Lakers. The 6-foot-11
Howard has averaged 18.3 points, 12.9 rebounds and 2.2 blocked
shots a game in his nine-year career.  “Welcome to Houston @DwightHoward!!!” Rockets General
Manager Daryl Morey said on Twitter.com. “Years of work by
Dwight & Rockets went into this. This team is going to be
special.”  Howard will sign a four-year, $88 million contract with the
Rockets, who have won one playoff series in 16 seasons. He
spurned the Lakers’ league-maximum offer of $118 million over
five years.  Lakers Disappointed  NBA players can agree on contracts, though they can’t
officially sign until July 10, when the league’s moratorium on
trades and signings is lifted.  Shortly before Howard’s decision was made public, Lakers
General Manager Mitch Kupchak said the player had told the team
he wouldn’t be returning.  “We have been informed of Dwight’s decision to not return
to the Lakers,” Kupchak said in an e-mail. “Naturally we’re
disappointed. To Dwight, we thank him for his time and
consideration, and for his efforts with us last season. We wish
him the best of luck on the remainder of his NBA career.”  Howard’s decision improved the Rockets’ odds to 12-to-1 to
win the NBA title from 25-to-1, according to LVH SuperBook in
Las Vegas, said R.J. Bell of Pregame.com, a sports-betting news
website. The Lakers’ odds fell to 100-to-1 from 25-to-1 when
Howard announced his departure.  All-Star point guard  Chris Paul  said he was re-signing with
the Los Angeles Clippers hours after the start of the NBA’s
free-agency period on July 1, leaving Howard as the top player
on the market. The Lakers erected billboards in Los Angeles and
started a Twitter campaign urging Howard to stay, while Lakers
players  Kobe Bryant  and  Steve Nash  were part of the contingent
to meet with Howard, along with General Manager Mitch Kupchak,
coach  Mike D’Antoni  and other team executives.  No Taxes  Olajuwon, Mutombo -- who played the final five years of his
career in Houston -- and Yao helped the Rockets recruit Howard,
who’s often regarded as the NBA’s best big man now. While the
Rockets couldn’t offer a contract as lucrative as the Lakers,
they had the benefit of no state taxes in Texas, a strong
marketing presence in Asia and can pair Howard with 23-year-old
 James Harden , whose scoring average of 25.9 points a game last
season was fifth in the NBA.  Houston also may seek to add a third All-Star caliber
player. Howard had asked Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey if
the team would be able to offer another player a maximum-contract deal, according to the Houston Chronicle.  If Howard stayed in Los Angeles, it would have been on the
assumption that the Lakers would be building for the future.
Nash is the only player under contract for the 2014-15 season,
when he’ll be 40. Bryant will be 35 next season, his 18th in the
NBA, and is coming back from a torn left Achilles tendon that
forced him to miss the end of last season.  Young Rockets  The oldest player on the Rockets’ roster is 31-year-old
Francisco Garcia and Houston’s top four scorers last season were
all 26 or younger. Houston had a 45-37 record last season, the
same record as the Lakers, and lost in the first round of the
playoffs.  After eight years with the Orlando Magic, Howard averaged
17.1 points and 12.4 rebounds in his only season with the
Lakers. Howard, Bryant and Nash struggled to mesh on the court
in D’Antoni’s system, and after Bryant’s injury the Lakers
failed to advance past the first round of the playoffs for the
first time in six years.  Howard and Nash joined the Lakers last offseason in hopes
of giving the team a core of three All-Stars similar to the
 Miami Heat ’s trio of  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh .
While the Heat are celebrating their second straight title,
Bryant has spent this offseason rehabilitating his torn Achilles
and Nash is recovering from a right hamstring injury.  Howard leaves a franchise that’s won 16 championships --one
behind the  Boston Celtics ’ NBA record -- to join a team that won
its only two titles in 1994 and 1995 behind Olajuwon and
shooting guard Clyde Drexler. Howard and Harden now may give the
Rockets a similar duo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  