-- Obama Call for Muslim Brotherhood Role Overtaken in Egypt
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2013-07-07T00:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/obama-call-for-muslim-brotherhood-role-overtaken-in-egypt.html
The Obama administration’s call for
an “inclusive” political process in Egypt with a role for the
Muslim Brotherhood has been overshadowed by conflict between
security forces and supporters of the Islamist group.  Violent protests in Cairo and elsewhere over the military’s
ouster of President Mohamed Mursi raised doubts about prospects
for an eventual accommodation that would allow the Brotherhood
that supports him to compete in new elections.  President  Barack Obama  “condemned the ongoing violence
across Egypt and expressed concern over the continued political
polarization,” according to a statement issued yesterday by the
White House. “He reiterated that the  United States  is not
aligned with, and does not support, any particular Egyptian
political party or group.”  Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in a separate statement
yesterday that “we firmly reject the unfounded and false claims
by some in Egypt that the United States supports the Egyptian
Muslim Brotherhood or any specific Egyptian political party or
movement.”  Still, the administration has urged the Egyptian military
to stop using heavy-handed tactics against the Brotherhood,
according to two U.S. officials who asked not to be identified
commenting on private communications. They said the
administration is concerned that some in the military may want
to provoke the Islamists to violence and provide a rationale for
crushing the movement once and for all.  Such a move would fail and probably prompt a shift to al-Qaeda type terrorist tactics by extremists in the Islamist
movement in  Egypt  and elsewhere, the U.S. officials said.  Mursi Detained  While Obama’s administration has stopped short of
condemning the July 3 military takeover, it has called on
Egyptian leaders to pursue “a transparent political process
that is inclusive of all parties and groups,” including
“avoiding any arbitrary arrests of Mursi and his supporters,”
Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the National Security
Council, said July 4 in a statement. Mursi has been detained
since his ouster.  At least 36 people were killed and more than 1,000 were
wounded on July 5 as security forces and opponents of Mursi
clashed with his Islamist supporters.  ‘Cure Worse’  Locking out the Muslim Brotherhood from the early elections
promised by the military “would be a cure worse than the ill,
almost certainly driving Islamist groups underground and giving
rise to a generation of radicalized Islamists, in Egypt and
beyond, who will have lost faith in peaceful, democratic
change,” the  International Crisis Group , a New York-based
organization that offers recommendations to policy makers, said
in a July 3 statement.  Participating in politics means agreeing that differences
will be settled through political means, said  Jon Alterman ,
director of the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, a Washington policy group.  “What I think the Brotherhood has concluded is the game is
stacked, and the only way to get what they deserve is to change
the game, not to play in the game,” Alterman said in an
interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capitol with  Al
Hunt ” airing this weekend. “That’s a big change from where the
Brotherhood was a year ago.”  Mohamed Tawfik,  Egypt’s ambassador  to the U.S., said July 4
that “not a single arrest will be made in an arbitrary way”
and that “we also have to work on national reconciliation.”  “We don’t want to exclude anyone,” he said in an
interview with  CNN . “We don’t want to repeat the mistakes made
by the Mursi government.’  Brotherhood’s Radicalization  A crackdown on the Brotherhood by Egyptian authorities in
the early 1950s contributed to its radicalization. After an army
coup ousted Egypt’s monarchy in 1952, the Brotherhood was
accused of trying to assassinate the president. The party was
banned and thousands of its members were tortured, imprisoned
and held for years.  Members of the group counseled a young  Osama bin Laden  in
 Saudi Arabia , and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the architect of the
Sept. 11 attacks, was a member of the Brotherhood before joining
al-Qaeda. Ayman al Zawahiri, the current al-Qaeda leader, also
was a member.  The Brotherhood faced repeated crackdowns under successive
Egyptian presidents until the revolt that led the military to
topple authoritarian President  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011 opened the
door for it to compete and win a democratic election.  Feeling Deprived  Now ‘‘the Islamists feel very much that they’ve been
deprived of a legitimately won election” said Michele Dunne,
who heads the Middle East program at the Atlantic Council, a
Washington policy group.  The events in Egypt will become part of a broader Islamist
narrative of marginalization and victimhood, Dunne said.  In  Algeria , the military stepped in to void an election as
Islamists neared victory in 1991. After Hamas won a 2006
election in the Palestinian territories, Western countries
including the U.S. cut funds to the  Palestinian Authority  and
 Israel  withheld  tax revenue . Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S. and Israel.  While the Brotherhood hasn’t used violence in a long while,
“some of their allies -- Salafi or jihadi groups -- could turn
to violence” more readily, Dunne said in an interview.  The Obama administration has avoided describing the
military takeover in Egypt as a coup because that could force a
cutoff in $1.55 billion in annual U.S. aid to Egypt. A U.S. law
bars “any assistance to the government of any country whose
duly elected head of government is deposed by a military coup
d’etat or decree,” or a coup “in which the military plays a
decisive role.”  General Dynamics, Lockheed  The administration previously has sought to avert
provisions restricting aid to Egypt. In March and May, the State
Department let assistance continue despite conditions imposed by
Congress that the country demonstrate progress on democracy and
human rights. The State Department cited national-security
interests, while administration officials also said the
potential loss of thousands of U.S. jobs was a consideration.  Among American companies benefiting from the military aid
are  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , which sells M1A1 tanks that are
assembled in Egypt, and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , which provides
F-16 jets.  IMF Loan  Suppression of the Brotherhood also would raise new doubts
about Egypt’s continuing efforts to negotiate terms of a
possible $4.8 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund .  An IMF spokeswoman, who asked not to be further identified,
said in an e-mail on July 1 that the fund was following
developments closely. The spokeswoman reiterated the IMF’s call
for Egypt to develop and implement a homegrown program to
resolve economic and financial challenges facing the country.  As Egypt seeks a transition to democracy, it’s hobbled by
the lack of a road map to follow, according to Amy Hawthorne, a
senior fellow at the Atlantic Council and a former State
Department official who worked on the country’s transition after
Mubarak’s ouster.  First, the military made an arrangement with the Islamists
to the exclusion of other groups in Egypt, she said.  “Now we might see the military doing a deal with non-Islamist groups and excluding the Islamists,” Hawthorne said.
“The only way Egypt is going to be able” to establish
democracy “is if all groups agree on the basic rules of the
game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  