-- Portugal’s Portas to Be Vice Premier, Oversee Economic Policy
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-06T23:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/portugal-s-portas-to-be-vice-premier-oversee-economic-policy.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said Paulo Portas, leader of the conservative CDS
party, will become vice premier as part of an agreement to hold
the coalition government together and avoid early elections.  Portas will be responsible for coordinating  economic policy 
and the relationship with the so-called troika of officials from
the European Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund  that oversee the country’s aid plan, Coelho said
in Lisbon late yesterday. Coelho, who leads the  Social
Democrats , needs the smaller CDS party for a majority in
parliament to pass measures and meet terms of the bailout from
the EU and IMF that ends in June 2014.  “ Portugal  will continue to have a stable and determined
government to solve the country’s serious problems,” Coelho
said. “We want to complete the aid program by the dates that
have been set. We want to create the conditions for a new
economic cycle.”  Portas said on July 2 he was quitting as foreign affairs
minister in a dispute over budget policy with the prime
minister. Coelho, who lost Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar the day
before, refused to accept the resignation, citing Portas’s role
as leader of a coalition party. Portas never left the Cabinet
because Coelho didn’t submit his resignation to the president.  President  Coelho on July 5 presented the agreement between the two
coalition parties to President Anibal  Cavaco Silva , who still
has to assess the plan. Cavaco Silva, who as president has the
power to dissolve parliament and call early elections, is set to
start meeting with Portugal’s political parties tomorrow.  The agreement has other consequences on the composition of
the government, and the proposed Cabinet changes are to be
announced by the president, the prime minister said yesterday.
Antonio Pires de Lima, chief executive officer of brewer Unicer
SA and a CDS party official, may be named economy minister,
newspaper Jornal de Negocios reported on July 5.  Besides Portas, Agriculture Minister Assuncao Cristas and
Social Security Minister Pedro Mota Soares are the other
representatives of the CDS party in the Cabinet. Portas, a
minister of state, already had more senior status than most
other ministers.  Portas on July 2 said he was resigning after opposing the
prime minister’s decision to name Secretary of State for the
Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque  as finance minister to replace
Gaspar. Prime Minister Coelho yesterday confirmed Albuquerque
will remain finance minister.  Rising Joblessness  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting terms
of the 78 billion-euro ($100 billion) aid program is due to
start July 15, the  Finance Ministry  said last month. The
government has started raising cash to finance its 2014 deficit
after covering its needs for this year, then-Finance Minister
Gaspar said in May.  Coelho is battling rising  joblessness  and a deepening
recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet the terms
of the bailout. He announced measures on May 3 intended to
generate savings of about 4.8 billion euros through 2015 that
include reducing the number of state workers.  On March 15, the government announced less-ambitious
targets for narrowing its  budget deficit  as it forecast the
economy will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year. It targets a deficit of 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent
limit in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. Portugal
forecasts  debt  will peak at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  The  Portuguese government  sought a “more realistic”
 budget deficit  target for 2014 than the 4 percent goal set by
the troika of EU and IMF officials, Portas said on May 5.  Economic growth  has averaged less than 1 percent a year in
the past decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest
performers. The government projects GDP will contract 2.3
percent this year before expanding 0.6 percent next year. The
jobless rate will climb to 18.2 percent in 2013 and 18.5 percent
in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  