-- Train Carrying Crude Derails in Quebec, Sparking Explosions
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-07-06T18:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/train-carrying-crude-derails-in-quebec-town-sparking-explosions.html
Police and firefighters are working
to control a series of fires after a train carrying crude oil
derailed and exploded near a town center in southeastern  Quebec 
early today.  Sixty people are  reported  missing and 30 buildings are
damaged, the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. said, without citing
its sources. Local and federal authorities have yet to provide
estimates on the casualties.  “It’s a major catastrophe,” said Sergeant Gregory Gomez
del Prado, a spokesman with the Surete du Quebec provincial
police, in a telephone interview from Montreal. He couldn’t
confirm the CBC report.  The accident occurred in  Lac-Megantic, Quebec . The town is
about 250 kilometers (155 miles) east of Montreal, and 10 miles
from the U.S. border with  Maine .  The explosions and fires are concentrated in an area about
1 square kilometer (.39 square mile), and many buildings have
been affected, Gomez del Prado said. About 1,000 people have
been evacuated to a nearby school.  “The winds can change, if the direction changes we might
have to evacuate more people,” he said. “There’s no
information on injuries or deaths, but I fear there will be
casualties.”  About 6,000 people live in Lac-Megantic.  Runaway Train  “We have deployed all resources to ensure that we can
support our citizens,” Colette Roy-Laroche, mayor of Lac-Megantic, said at a press conference this morning, the CBC
reported.  The explosion occurred at about 1 a.m. local time after the
train derailed, Gomez del Prado said. About 50 of the cars are
on fire, he said. The cause of the accident remains unknown.  Montreal , Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd., a closely held
company based in Maine that operated the train, is working with
police and fire services to investigate the accident, Gomez del
Prado said.  Joseph McGonigle, vice president of sales and marketing
with the railway, said the train was unmanned when it derailed.  “The train got loose,” he said in an interview with the
Montreal Gazette. “It traveled under its own inertia to the
center of town.”  McGonigle said the train’s conductor locked the brakes and
checked that the rail cars were secure shortly before midnight.
He then checked into a hotel. The locomotive detached a half-mile outside the town, and the rest of the cars carrying the
crude kept moving.  Under Investigation  Chris Krepski, a spokesman with the Transportation Safety
Board of Canada, said four investigators have been sent to the
scene of the accident and will arrive early this afternoon.  “My initial information is there were no injuries to the
train crews,” Krepski said in a telephone interview. According
to a release from the TSB, numerous cars derailed.  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic owns 510 route miles of track in
Maine,  Vermont  and Quebec and employs about 170 people,
according to the company’s website. It operates 15 trains daily
with a fleet of 26 locomotives.  Telephone messages left with Robert Grindrod, chief
executive officer, and Jean Demaitre, manager of train
operations at the company, weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier in Trenton,  New Jersey , at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  