-- Switzerland Will Join Race to Be Trading Hub for China’s Yuan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-06T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/switzerland-will-join-race-to-be-trading-hub-for-china-s-yuan.html
Switzerland plans to bid to become an
offshore  yuan  trading center in  Europe , competing with Frankfurt
and London to corner trade in the Chinese currency.  “It is in Swiss interest to have a renminbi hub in the
center of Europe,” Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann
said in Beijing yesterday after signing a free trade agreement
with Chinese Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng. While no official
talks have taken place, Schneider-Ammann said he hopes the idea
will become “more serious” in the coming weeks or months.  Leaders of the world’s second-largest economy are promoting
greater use of the yuan in international trade and finance to
decrease the country’s dependence on the U.S. dollar and move
toward making the currency convertible for investment purposes.
Zurich is vying with London, Paris and Frankfurt for the top
spot in Europe, while Canadian banks are considering a plan to
make Toronto the first North American trading hub.  “The Swiss side, the Swiss financial system, in particular
the  Swiss National Bank , we are interested in getting the chance
to negotiate with the Chinese about a  renminbi  hub in the center
of Europe, in Switzerland,” Schneider-Ammann said, using
another term for the yuan.  London, the center of the world’s $4 trillion-a-day market
for foreign-exchange trading, claims to have the edge in Europe
after the Bank of England signed a three-year currency swap line
with the People’s Bank of China last month, becoming the first
among European central banks to establish such a facility with
the Asian nation.  Swap Agreement  An organization representing Frankfurt’s financial industry
predicted last week the  European Central Bank  will get a swap
deal that would allow it to exchange euros for as much as 800
billion yuan ($130 billion) -- four times the size of the
agreement obtained by the  Bank of England .  To have a trading hub, a country’s central bank must have
an agreement with the PBOC to swap its currency for yuan. Such
an accord gives a central bank access to yuan funds to backstop
companies doing business with Chinese partners.  The  Swiss Bankers Association  “understands” the nation’s
central bank is looking at a swap agreement, Heinrich Siegmann
from the association said at a briefing in Zurich on July 5.  Some of  Canada ’s largest banks, insurance companies and
pension funds met with government representatives and the  Bank
of Canada  in Toronto on June 21 to discuss establishing a yuan
trading hub, according to industry group Toronto Financial
Services Alliance.  Sole Gainer  The Chinese currency completed its best week since May,
rising 0.08 percent to 6.1326 per dollar, ahead of this week’s
annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue between Chinese and U.S.
government officials in  Washington . The yuan has advanced 1.6
percent this year, the sole gainer among Asian currencies, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yuan transactions account for less than 1 percent of global
trades, compared with about 84 percent combined for the  U.S.
dollar , euro, pound and yen, according to the Belgium-based
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, or
 Swift , which provides messaging services to banks.  By 2015, a third of China’s cross-border business will be
settled in yuan, making the currency the third most traded,
after the dollar and euro, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Nerys Avery, Russell Ward  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  