-- Venezuela Leads Latin American Shelter Offers to Snowden
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-07-07T03:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/venezuela-offers-asylum-to-u-s-fugitive-edward-snowden.html
Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro 
offered asylum to the fugitive U.S. security contractor Edward Snowden, setting up a potential diplomatic showdown between the
U.S. and South America’s biggest oil exporter.  “We decided to grant Snowden, this figure of international
human rights, protection from persecution from the most powerful
empire of the world,” Maduro said yesterday in a speech at a
parade commemorating Venezuela’s July 5 independence day.  Venezuela’s offer was matched by  Bolivia  and Nicaragua,
which opened their doors to the 30-year-old behind leaks on top-secret U.S. National Security Agency programs that collect
telephone and Internet data. The U.S. pursuit of Snowden has
roiled international relations.  “We will give asylum to this North American, who is
persecuted by his compatriots, if he asks us. We are not
afraid,” Bolivian President  Evo Morales  was quoted as saying by
the Bolivian state news agency in Chipaya, Oruro today.  Morales said the offer is “justified protest” against
four European countries that denied him flyover permission on
U.S-fed suspicion that his plane carried Snowden from Moscow on
July 2.  Venezuela Foreign Minister Elias Jaua said his government
has had no contact with Snowden.  “We are waiting until Monday to know if, first of all, he
shows disposition to take asylum in Venezuela,” Jaua said
Trinidad in comments broadcast on Venezuela state television
today. “Secondly, we have to contact the government of Russia
to get their opinion on the matter.”  Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega said yesterday he would
receive Snowden “circumstances permitting,” in comments
broadcast on Venezuelan state television. Maduro, Ortega and
Morales didn’t say if they would issue travel documents to him.  ‘Consequences’  “These leaders have made their point. They are clearly
taking the plane incident seriously,” Diego Moya-Ocampos, a
Latin America analyst at consulting firm IHS  Global Insight ,
said by phone from  London  today. “There are going to be
consequences, but they are willing to take that risk.”  Snowden remains in limbo at an airport in Moscow after
withdrawing his request for asylum in Russia. He has instead
sought refuge in 26 other countries, including Venezuela,
Bolivia and Nicaragua, according to the anti-secrecy group
WikiLeaks.  Snowden, whose U.S. passport was revoked, can’t leave the
Moscow airport transit zone without a new travel document. He
dropped his request for asylum in Russia after President
 Vladimir Putin  said July 1 that the American must stop hurting
U.S. interests if he wants to remain there.  Cuban Connection  Traveling through Cuba would be Snowden’s most likely route
to Venezuela, Boliva or Nicaragua, said Daniel Sachs, Central
America and Caribbean analyst at  Control Risks , a consulting
company.  “I don’t see Cuba obstructing Snowden’s passage on behalf
of the U.S. if Russia did do a transfer deal with Venezuela or
another Latin American country,” Sachs said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City today. “Like Russia, I think Cuba
would let him use the transit area of the airport, avoiding the
antagonistic move of letting him through it’s actual
territory.”  Russia’s state-controlled Aeroflot airline flies directly
to Cuba, Mexico and the Dominican Republic in  Latin America . A
press official at the Cuban embassy in Caracas, who asked not to
be named because of government policy, declined to comment about
Snowden’s possible use of Cuba as a transit point.  U.S. Pursuit  Prosecutors in the U.S. are seeking Snowden’s return and
have filed theft and espionage charges against the former
employee of McLean, Virginia-based government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)   Snowden’s requests for asylum were spurned earlier this
week by nations from  Switzerland  to  India . U.S. officials have
been contacting countries Snowden might approach for asylum or
pass through on the way to a third country to provide “reasons
why Mr. Snowden should be returned to the  United States  and face
charges,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said on July 2
in  Washington .  The State Department declined to comment today on offers of
asylum to Snowden.  WikiLeaks, which has been advising Snowden, said in a
message on its Twitter feed today it “applauds” the offer of
asylum by Bolivia. “All states should stand in solidarity with
Morales,” the anti-secrecy group said. Yesterday, WikiLeaks
said on Twitter Snowden had applied for asylum in 27 nations,
without naming the countries on concern the U.S. would seek to
disrupt the petitions.  The governments of Morales, Maduro and Ortega all have
strained ties with the U.S. and the leaders frequently criticize
U.S. policy.  Plane Incident  Morales said speculation that he was helping Snowden flee
Russia on his plane after a Moscow conference led European
countries to deny him permission to stop and refuel on July 2.
The leader never spoke with Snowden in Russia and the former NSA
contractor is not on Bolivian territory, he said.  The plane incident has changed the Latin American nations’
posture on Snowden, Gregory Weeks, director of Latin American
studies at the University of North Carolina in  Charlotte , said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Now Maduro feels he has a chance to establish himself as
a leader who responds when U.S. imperialism exerts itself over
the region,” Weeks said. “For Maduro the best case scenario
would be if Snowden never comes. That way he can say that he is
fighting the U.S. without actually having to do it.”  Apology Demanded  Presidents from Argentina, Ecuador, Suriname, Uruguay and
 Venezuela  met with Morales on July 4 to demand Spain, France,
Portugal and Italy apologize and explain why they denied the
Bolivian leader flyover permission. Spain’s Foreign Minister
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo said yesterday his government was
told Snowden was aboard.  Morales, 53, threatened to close the U.S. embassy at the
meeting.  “We don’t need them, we’ve got other allies,” he
said.  In a joint statement after the meeting, the South American
leaders promised to meet on July 12 in Montevideo, Uruguay, to
discuss further retaliation against the European countries for
the “flagrant violation” of international law. Leaders from
 Brazil ,  Chile ,  Peru  and  Colombia  didn’t attend the event.  In Venezuela, Maduro is struggling to contain soaring
inflation and rising shortages of everything from toilet paper
to chicken while economic growth slumps. Annual inflation soared
to 35 percent in May, the highest since at least 2008.  Capriles Response  “Asylum will not solve the economic disaster, record
inflation, another devaluation that’s coming, growing insecurity
and product shortages,” opposition leader Henrique Capriles
Radonski said yesterday in a message on his Twitter account.  Venezuela, which holds the largest oil reserves in the
world, and the U.S. have gone without ambassadors since 2010.
The two countries maintain close energy ties, with Venezuela
exporting about a million barrels a day of oil to the U.S. in
2012, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state oil company, owns Houston-based fuel refiner and distributor Citgo Petroleum Corp.  If Maduro “were in a stronger position politically at
home, he’d be less inclined to these kinds of rhetorical
statements, because he’d have the solid base of support of his
coalition, but I don’t think that’s the case,”  Michael Shifter ,
president of the  Inter-American Dialogue  in Washington, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  