-- Wells’s Bases-Loaded Walkoff Carries Yankees Over Orioles 3-2
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-06T05:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/wells-s-bases-loaded-walkoff-carries-yankees-over-orioles-3-2.html
Vernon Wells hit a bases-loaded
single in the ninth inning to give the  New York  Yankees their
fifth straight Major League Baseball win, 3-2 over the Baltimore
Orioles.  The Yankees (47-39) moved within a half-game of the second-place Orioles (48-39) in the American League East, six games
behind the division-leading Boston Red Sox, who topped the Los
Angeles Angels 6-2.  The Orioles, who swept the Yankees in a three-game home
series June 28-30, took a 2-0 lead in the second inning at
Yankee Stadium on a Matt Wieters home run.  Luis Cruz hit a run-scoring single in the fourth inning off
Oriole starter Miguel Gonzalez.  New York third baseman David Adams singled in the ninth off
Baltimore closer Jim Johnson, who then bobbled Brett Gardner’s
bunt attempt to put runners at first and second.  “Holy mackerel, it was kind of a line-drive bunt, so my
initial reaction was to freeze,” Adams said. “As soon as I see
it down, I’m going as fast as I can. In my mind, I’m just, ‘Oh
my God, just get there, get there.’ Thank God he fumbled the
ball.”  Johnson was charged with an error on the play.  “The thing that really changed it was screwing up the
bunt,” Johnson said. “That was trying to do too many things at
once instead of just taking the out.”  Ichiro Suzuki advance Adams and Gardner on a sacrifice, and
Johnson intentionally walked Robinson Cano, loading the bases
before throwing four balls to Travis Hafner to send Adams home
and tie the score.  Wells then hit his run-scoring single off Johnson (2-7), who
gave up two runs on two hits and walked two in 1/3 inning for
the loss.  ‘Had Our Number’  “That team over there has had our number,” Wells said of
the Orioles. “They’ve played well against us, even in the games
that we’ve won. We were just able to come through late. We need
to win games like that.”  Yankee starter Ivan Nova (3-2) pitched a complete game,
allowing two runs on three hits and striking out 11 batters.  “I was positive the whole night. I knew that we were going
to win at some point,” Nova said. “I told a couple of the guys,
‘It’s impossible that I can pitch that way, the first time, and
lose the game.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  