-- Two Koreas Start Talks on Opening Shuttered Joint Factory Park
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-06T03:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-06/two-koreas-start-talks-on-reopening-shuttered-factory-park.html
North and South Koreans met at a
border village today to discuss opening a jointly run factory
park, an effort to mend ties that deteriorated after the North
tested a nuclear weapon in February.  Three officials from each side started talks at 11:45 a.m.
local time in Panmunjom after a delay of about two hours to
repair malfunctioning communications lines,  South Korea ’s
Unification Ministry said today in a text message. The border
village was the site for the signing of the armistice that ended
the 1950-1953  Korean War  without a peace agreement.  The South will “focus on negotiating facilities and
equipment inspections at Gaeseong, retrieval of completed
products from the zone and normalization of operations,”
ministry official Suh Ho said on a live broadcast to reporters
this morning before he crossed the border to lead the South
Korean delegation.  Today’s working-level talks come after the two sides failed
on June 9-10 to arrange discussions among more senior officials.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un appears to be softening his
stance after earlier defying the  United Nations  with the nuclear
test and threatening strikes against the U.S. and the South.  “North Korea is trying to showcase both domestically and
internationally that it is willing to ease tension with South
Korea and take the lead in doing so,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a
North Korean studies professor at  Dongguk University  in Seoul.
“North Korea’s top priority right now is senior-level talks
with the Americans which could get them much-needed aid, and the
U.S. is unwilling to engage the North when inter-Korean tensions
are so high.”  Dialogue  The North withdrew its workers from the Gaeseong industrial
zone in April to protest UN sanctions and U.S.-South Korean
military drills. Last month the North requested talks with the
South on opening Gaeseong, scrapped the offer over a protocol
dispute, then less than a week later suggested high-level talks
with the U.S. on a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War.  Any talks between Kim’s regime and the U.S. would be the
first since the North fired a long-range rocket in April 2012,
breaking its pledge of a moratorium on weapons testing in
exchange for 240,000 metric tons of food aid.  The North faces increasing diplomatic isolation as  China ,
its biggest trading partner, tightens enforcement of UN
sanctions targeting financial transactions and joins the U.S.,
South Korea and  Japan  on no-tolerance for  North Korea ’s nuclear
ambitions.  Cash Source  Closing the complex at Gaeseong, about 10 kilometers (six
miles) north of the demilitarized zone, deprived the Kim regime
of a key source of hard currency. Recalling nearly 54,000 of its
workers employed by 123 South Korean companies has disturbed the
$100 million the North earns in annual profits, according to
Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean
Studies in Seoul.  On July 3, the North agreed to restore the Panmunjom hot
line and allow South Korean executives access to Gaeseong. The
businessmen want to visit on July 9, according to an e-mailed
statement from the association of companies operating in the
zone.  Panmunjom, about 60 kilometers northwest of South Korea’s
capital  Seoul , is used for diplomatic engagements and
negotiations. It straddles the military demarcation line that
runs through the four kilometer-wide demilitarized zone -- the
world’s most fortified border.  Three North Korean fishermen, who were rescued by the South
after their boat capsized, traveled through Panmunjom yesterday
to return home, the Unification Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  