-- ‘The Expendables 2’ Is Top Film With Sales of $28.8 Million
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-08-19T15:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/-the-expendables-2-is-top-film-with-sales-of-28-8-million.html
“The Expendables 2,”  Sylvester Stallone ’s R-rated action sequel to the 2010 hit, led the U.S.
and Canadian box office with sales of $28.8 million, topping
three other new films this weekend.  The animated film “ParaNorman,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Focus Features  and Laika Entertainment, took in $14 million to
place third,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “The Expendables 2” follows Stallone and his team as they
are enlisted by Mr. Church, a CIA agent played by  Bruce Willis ,
for a seemingly simple job. One member is murdered, and the
group’s quest for revenge puts them in enemy territory against
an unexpected threat. Distributor  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
ranks sixth in U.S. ticket sales this year at $642.2 million as
of Aug. 12, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  Stallone stars and co-wrote the film.  Jason Statham ,  Jet Li , Chuck Norris,  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and Liam Hemsworth are
also featured.  The first film grossed $274.5 million worldwide on an $80
million production budget, and collected $34.8 million in its
first weekend, according to Box Office Mojo. Domestic weekend
forecasts for “The Expendables 2” ranged from $31 million at
Box Office Guru to as much as $40 million, the prediction of
BoxOffice.com. The film was made for about $100 million,
according to the Internet Movie Database.  ‘ParaNorman’  “The Bourne Legacy,”  Universal Pictures ’ reboot of the
“Bourne” action-film series, took in $17 million to place
second in its second weekend.  The fourth movie in the Bourne saga begins a new storyline
without the namesake character of the first three films or actor
 Matt Damon .  “The Bourne Legacy” explores the government program that
gave the previous three films’ lead character, Jason Bourne, and
other agents their enhanced abilities. In the new installment,
Oscar nominee  Jeremy Renner  stars as Aaron Cross, another super
soldier who learns he was genetically altered.  “ParaNorman,” a 3-D animated children’s film, follows a
misunderstood boy who can speak to the dead. In the PG-rated
comedy-thriller, Norman takes on ghosts, zombies and grown-ups
to save his town from a centuries-old curse.  Kodi Smit-McPhee provides the voice of Norman. Anna
Kendrick and Christopher Mintz-Plasse co-star.  Focus Features, part of Comcast’s  NBC Universal , also
collaborated with Laika Entertainment on 2009’s “Coraline,”
another animated children’s film that went on to garner an
Academy Award nomination. “ParaNorman” earned 86 percent
positive reviews on the movie-review website Rotten Tomatoes,
the average of 77 movie critics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  