-- ‘The Expendables 2’ Is Top Film With Sales of $28.6 Million
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-08-20T22:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/-the-expendables-2-is-top-film-with-sales-of-28-8-million-1-.html
“The Expendables 2,”  Sylvester Stallone ’s R-rated action sequel to the 2010 hit, led the U.S.
and Canadian box office with sales of $28.6 million, topping
three other new films this past weekend.  The animated film “ParaNorman,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
Focus Features and Laika Entertainment, took in $14.1 million to
place third,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Sparkle,” featuring the late Whitney Houston, opened in fifth place with sales of $11.6 million, and
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “The Odd Life of Timothy Green” collected
$10.8 million for seventh.  “The Expendables 2” follows Stallone and his team as they
are enlisted by Mr. Church, a CIA agent played by  Bruce Willis ,
for a seemingly simple job. One member is murdered, and the
group’s quest for revenge puts them in enemy territory against
an unexpected threat. Distributor  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
ranks sixth in U.S. ticket sales this year at $642.7 million as
of Aug. 16, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  “‘The Expendables 2’ came in a little below expectations,
continuing a trend we’ve seen throughout much of the summer of
being a little disappointing compared with last year,”  Paul Sweeney , a Bloomberg Industries analyst in Princeton, New
Jersey, said in a telephone interview.  “If there are good movies, people will come out in droves
to see them, but if the titles aren’t as good, they certainly
won’t,” Sweeney said.  Stallone Wrote  Stallone stars and co-wrote the film.  Jason Statham ,  Jet Li , Chuck Norris,  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and Liam Hemsworth are
also featured.  The first film grossed $274.5 million worldwide on an $80
million production budget, and collected $34.8 million in its
first weekend, according to Box Office Mojo. Domestic weekend
forecasts for “The Expendables 2” ranged from $31 million at
Box Office Guru to as much as $40 million, the prediction of
BoxOffice.com. The film was made for about $100 million,
according to the Internet Movie Database.  Finishing second was “The Bourne Legacy,”  Universal
Pictures ’ reboot of the “Bourne” action-film series. It took
in $17.1 million in its second weekend.  The fourth movie in the Bourne saga begins a new storyline
without the namesake character of the first three films or actor
 Matt Damon .  ‘ParaNorman’  “The Bourne Legacy” explores the government program that
gave the previous three films’ lead character, Jason Bourne, and
other agents their enhanced abilities. In the new installment,
Oscar nominee  Jeremy Renner  stars as Aaron Cross, another super
soldier who learns he was genetically altered.  Like Bourne, he fights back when the agency tries to have
him killed. Renner is joined by  Rachel Weisz  and  Edward Norton 
in new roles. David Strathairn, Joan Allen and Scott Glenn
return from the previous films.  “ParaNorman,” a 3-D animated children’s film, follows a
misunderstood boy who can speak to the dead. In the PG-rated
comedy-thriller, Norman takes on ghosts, zombies and grown-ups
to save his town from a centuries-old curse.  Kodi Smit-McPhee provides the voice of Norman. Anna
Kendrick and Christopher Mintz-Plasse co-star.  Focus Features, part of Comcast’s  NBC Universal , also
collaborated with Laika Entertainment on 2009’s “Coraline,”
another animated children’s film that went on to garner an
Academy Award nomination. “ParaNorman” earned 86 percent
positive reviews on the movie-review website Rotten Tomatoes,
the average of 77 movie critics.  ‘The Campaign’  “The Campaign,” an R-rated election comedy from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., finished in fourth place, taking in
$13.1 million in its second weekend.  Will Ferrell  and Zach
Galifianakis star.  Jason Sudeikis  and Dylan McDermott co-star.  “Sparkle,” a remake of the 1976 cult classic featuring
Irene Cara, stars Jordin Sparks of “American Idol” as the
namesake character, a young woman from Detroit who rises to fame
in the 1960s music industry.  Three sisters, including Sparks, form a girl group and soon
become Motown sensations. The close-knit family begins to fall
apart, jeopardizing their fame. Houston, who died in February
shortly after completing work for the movie, stars as the
family’s single mother. Carmen Ejogo co-stars.  “The Dark Knight Rises,” the final film in the Warner
Bros. Batman trilogy, fell to sixth place with $11 million in
receipts.  ‘Timothy Green’  Disney’s “The Odd Life of Timothy Green,” which placed
seventh, is a feel-good drama that follows a childless couple
and their wishes for an infant. Soon, a child, Timothy Green, is
born and shows up on the couple’s doorstep one night.  Jennifer Garner and Joel Edgerton are featured. CJ Adams
co-stars as Timothy Green.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 20 percent to
$127.3 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 3.3 percent to $7.22
billion, with attendance up 2.1 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Aug. 17 to Aug. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  