-- AMR Attendants’ Contract Boosts Pressure for Pilots Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-08-20T18:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/m90fqi1a1i4h.html
American Airlines  flight attendants’
approval of a new cost-cutting contract increases pressure for a
similar accord between the bankrupt carrier and its pilots, the
lone holdout on union givebacks.  The  Association of Professional Flight Attendants  said
members voted  7,482 to 5,088  to approve the contract, joining
American’s mechanics and aircraft stock clerks who accepted an
offer Aug. 8. Their employer, trying to cut industry-leading
labor costs as it restructures in bankruptcy, is seeking a
judge’s permission to impose concessions on the pilot’s union.  “Some kind of agreement with the pilots is likely to be
reached because the other groups have gone along and left them
alone,”  Alan Bender, a professor of airline economics at
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in  Daytona Beach ,  Florida ,
said in a telephone interview. “They don’t want to be treated
punitively and American management doesn’t want to single them
out for punishment if it can be avoided.”  Gregg Overman, an  Allied Pilots Association  spokesman,
didn’t return e-mails or calls to his office and mobile phone
seeking comment yesterday. The pilots rejected a tentative
agreement between their board and AMR earlier this month.  “We will continue to work with the union to explore paths
to a consensual deal which addresses our pilots’ priorities
while working within the economic parameters of the tentative
agreement,” American Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said
today in a letter to employees.  Pilots Rejection  American parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s 6.25 percent convertible notes
due October 2014 rose 3 cents to 61.5 cents on the dollar today,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  American filed a revised motion in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan  on Aug. 17 seeking permission to void its current
labor agreement with the pilots’ union after Judge Sean Lane
rejected a previous request two days earlier.  The move followed a decision by the pilots union to turn
down an offer that would have eliminated furloughs and given it
a 13.5 percent stake in AMR after bankruptcy.  The unsecured creditors committee in American’s bankruptcy
last week said it supported the offering of equity stakes in the
restructured company to the unions to secure agreements. It also
said it would not support cutting concessions further or adding
any economic incentives.  Bruce Hicks , an American spokesman, declined to specify how
the airline is working with the Allied Pilots Association now.
The union has said it’s open to resuming talks.  ‘Big Bugaboo’  “They’re not going to exit bankruptcy without a contract
for the pilots, so that’s the big bugaboo,” Jeff Straebler, an
independent airlines analyst, said in a telephone interview
yesterday after the flight attendants’ vote. “The important
thing for American is to go from one agreement outstanding to
zero, not three to two or two to one.”  The  flight attendants’ contract  includes changes in
pensions and work hours and an early retirement offer that may
prevent more than 2,000 furloughs.  “The bankruptcy laws of this country were set up to
protect corporate assets and not people,” said James Little,
president of the Transport Workers Union International, which
represents the mechanics and stock clerks. “Placing their
futures into the hands of the  bankruptcy court  would have been a
costly mistake for flight attendants.”  American will seek court approval of the APFA and TWU
agreements and begin to implement terms, including “staffing
and operational changes throughout the system,” Horton said.  Disliking Management  “We must remain strong and professional and work to heal
from this very stressful process,” the flight attendants union
said in a message to members. “It is important to remember who
and what has caused this horrible situation: our current
management team.”  The APFA and the unions for American’s pilots, mechanics,
baggage handlers and other airport workers have also signed
labor agreements with potential suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  The
contracts won’t take effect without a merger.  Under the contract terms, attendants will work more hours,
have their pensions frozen, pay more for medical coverage and
face changes in the way they’re scheduled for work and accrue
vacation and sick time. Medical and life insurance coverage for
retirees will be eliminated.  The workers secured an early retirement offer that will pay
$40,000 to eligible employees and may eliminate the need for
furloughs. Attendants will also get hourly pay raises totaling
9.5 percent over the six-year term, $1,500 lump-sum payments at
signing and a 401(k) defined-contribution plan.  “With this vote behind us, our focus will be on achieving
a merger with  US Airways ,” the union told members. “We firmly
believe that the only way for American Airlines to grow and
compete and perhaps even to survive is through a merger” led by
US Airways’ management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  