-- Champion Manchester City Recovers to Avoid Upset by Southampton
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/man-city-rallies-to-beat-southampton-3-2-in-premier-league.html
Manchester City  rallied to beat
Southampton 3-2 as it started its defense of the Premier League
soccer title, denying the newly promoted Saints an upset.
Chelsea defeated Wigan 2-0.  City, which in May ended a 44-year wait for the title,
trailed with 22 minutes remaining at its Etihad Stadium
yesterday before goals from Edin Dzeko and Samir Nasri.  Carlos Tevez  also scored for the champion, with Rickie Lambert and
 Steven Davis  getting Southampton’s goals.  “It’s important we won this game, because the first day is
always difficult,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told  Sky
Sports . “It is important we have character.”  Champions League winner Chelsea, aiming to improve on a
sixth-place finish in the domestic league last season, won on
goals from Branislav Ivanovic and  Frank Lampard . The Blues
haven’t lost their opening league match since 1998.  City had an early blow in its match as  Sergio Aguero 
suffered an injury that saw him leave the field on a stretcher.
The Argentine striker will require a scan on his knee, Mancini
said.  The home team had an opportunity to take a lead on 16
minutes when it was awarded a penalty for a trip by Josh
Hooiveld on Tevez.  David Silva ’s effort had little power and was
easily stopped by Kelvin Davis.  Tevez Goal  City had few other chances before Tevez scored after 40
minutes with a low shot.  A period of pressure on the Saints defense followed, but
there were no further goals before halftime.  There were several opportunities for City early in the
second half too, with Dzeko and Silva among those unable to
convert them. Soon the champion was trailing the Saints.  Lambert, scorer of 27 goals in the second-tier Championship
last season, was introduced as a substitute and took about four
minutes to get his first Premier League strike. He collected a
loose ball near the edge of the area and fired a shot into the
bottom corner of the net on 59 minutes.  An underhit pass from City’s  Jack Rodwell  allowed the
Saints to break forward in the 68th minute. Midfielder Davis, on
the field for two minutes, finished off the move to give his
team a surprise lead.  City was back level five minutes later through Dzeko, with
Nasri completing the turnaround after 80 minutes.  “Our defenders have just played against the best forward
line they’ve ever played in their lives and I think manfully
they’ve put a good performance in today,” Southampton manager
Nigel Adkins told Sky Sports.  Early Lead  At the DW Stadium, it took Chelsea less than two minutes to
take a lead. New signing Eden Hazard slid through a pass for
fullback Ivanovic, who advanced into the penalty area before
shooting past Ali Al-Habsi.  The advantage was doubled on seven minutes with a penalty
after defender Ivan Ramis, making his Wigan debut, fouled
Hazard. Lampard stepped up to fire a low shot under Al-Habsi.  Franco di Santo headed over for Wigan on 21 minutes, then
Victor Moses, a target for Chelsea according to U.K. newspapers,
tested  Petr Cech  with a powerful shot after 38 minutes.  Fernando Torres almost added a third goal for the Blues in
the 63rd minute, stabbing the ball past the goalkeeper even as
he was off balance. Ramis got back to clear off the line.  Wigan Chances  The hosts had further chances to get back into the match.
Jordi Gomez missed with a close-range header from a Maynor
Figueroa cross, then substitute Arouna Kone headed wide from a
corner. Gomez also had an overhead shot that missed the  target.  “I’m very pleased with the performance and the result,”
Chelsea manager Roberto di Matteo told reporters. “It’s always
tricky the first game of the season.”  Two days ago, Swansea won 5-0 at Queens Park Rangers,
Fulham beat Norwich by the same score, and West Bromwich Albion
defeated Liverpool 3-0.  West Ham celebrated its return to the Premier League with a
1-0 victory over  Aston Villa , Newcastle beat Tottenham 2-1,
Reading and Stoke tied 1-1, and the match between Arsenal and
Sunderland was scoreless.  Manchester United  is at Everton today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 