-- Hana Says 2012 Growth Doubtful on Demand Slump: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-08-19T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/hana-says-2012-growth-doubtful-on-demand-slump-southeast-asia.html
Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) , a maker
of parts for companies including Apple Inc., said any increase
in sales would represent an “achievement,” as cooling global
demand threatens the company’s recovery from  Thailand ’s floods.  “We might see some growth, but it won’t be much,” Chief
Executive Officer Richard Han, 55, said in an interview on Aug.
17. “If we grow at all, it will be an achievement.”  Hana’s factory in Ayutthaya was among thousands shuttered
when floodwaters spread across 65 of Thailand’s 77 provinces in
the fourth quarter of last year, slashing output of parts for
devices including  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry. The
company’s production is recovering just as  Europe ’s debt crisis
and slower Chinese economic expansion threaten to stall growth
in  Asia ’s export-oriented economies, Han said.  “The export outlook in the second half is very bleak
because of global economic uncertainties,”  Thanomsri Fongarunrung , an economist at Phatra Securities Pcl in Bangkok,
said by phone. “There is a chance the global economy may
deteriorate further and the supply shortage after the floods,
which helped support exports earlier, will fade.”  Some of Hana’s customers have delayed orders because of
uncertainty over the outlook for demand, Han said, declining to
name them. Hana’s Ayutthaya factory is operating at 60 percent
of capacity, and may return to pre-flood production levels next
year depending on the volume of orders, he said.  “It’s about the confidence of customers,” he said. “It’s
also important that the government show to the world that you
can have confidence in this area that it won’t be flooded again,
even if you have a big rain.”  Infrastructure Spending  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has pledged to spend
more than 2 trillion baht ($63.5 billion) on infrastructure and
water-management projects over the next seven years to boost
growth and prevent a repeat of the disaster, which killed more
than 700 people and cost the economy 1.4 trillion baht.  Hana’s Ayutthaya plant closed on Oct. 7 as floodwaters
threatened to swamp the Hi-Tech Industrial Estate in Ayutthaya
province, 78 kilometers (48 miles) north of Bangkok. The deluge
later forced the closure of six other industrial estates,
crippling  supply chains  of companies including Honda Motor Co.,
 Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)   The disruption contributed to a 3.8 percent decline in
Hana’s sales and a 41 percent slump in  net income  last year.
Profit fell 16 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, as sales increased by 8 percent, Hana said Aug. 9.  Hana  shares  have gained 11 percent this year, compared with
a 19 percent gain for Thailand’s benchmark SET Index.  China, Myanmar  Hana’s Ayutthaya plant contributed 34 percent of total
revenue in the third quarter of last year. That figure fell to
14 percent in the flood-affected fourth-quarter. Hana operates
three factories in Thailand, two in Jiaxing in China and one in
 Ohio , according to regulatory filings.  The company will build a new plant in either Cambodia or
Myanmar to take advantage of labor costs that are as much as 60
percent less than in Thailand, Han said. A location will be
chosen by the end of the year and construction may start in
2014, he said, adding that the plant will employ as many as
5,000 people.  “We think Cambodia may be a better bet, but we haven’t
made the decision yet,” he said. “Myanmar has opened up
recently, but there are still a lot of uncertainties.”  Myanmar’s shift toward democracy since a 2010 election
ended five decades of direct military rule prompted the U.S. and
European Union to ease sanctions, encouraging companies
including Coca-Cola Co., Unilever and General Electric Co. to
invest in the country of 64 million people that borders  China 
and  India .  “Myanmar needs improvement on power, logistics and
telecommunications, which are unreliable, slow and expensive,”
Han said. “Government stability is still unproven and changing
fast, so it’s still risky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  