-- Assange in ‘Fighting Spirits,’ Thanks Ecuador for Protection
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-08-19T12:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/assange-thankful-for-political-protection-legal-adviser-says.html
WikiLeaks  founder Julian Assange is
in “fighting spirits” and will seek legal measures to protect
himself and his organization, his legal adviser said.  Assange, 41, has taken refuge in  Ecuador ’s embassy in
central  London , where he has been since June 19 after exhausting
options in U.K. courts to avert extradition to Sweden. The
Australian citizen faces questioning on allegations of rape and
sexual molestation. Ecuador granted him asylum on Aug. 16.  “I have spoken to Julian Assange and I can tell you he is
in fighting spirits and he is thankful to the people of Ecuador
and especially to the president for granting asylum,” the
adviser Baltasar Garzon said in a televised statement outside
the embassy building today. Assange “has always fought for
truth and justice and has defended human rights and continues to
do so. He demands that WikiLeaks and his own rights be
respected.”  At least three dozen  Metropolitan Police Service  officers
were on duty outside the embassy, adjacent to the Harrods
department store, where a crowd of protesters, Assange
supporters and media had gathered in the expectation that
Assange himself will make a statement later today. Some
supporters carried homemade signs saying “Free Assange” and
“Protect Assange. Protect Freedom to Publish!”  ‘Censorship’  Charlie Davies, 23, from London, said: “Julian Assange
stands for freedom of speech. Julian Assange stands as a martyr
for the information war with censorship.”  Garzon said Assange has instructed his lawyers to take
legal action “to protect the rights of WikiLeaks, Julian
himself and all those currently being investigated.”  The U.K. government last week said it has a “binding
obligation” to extradite Assange to  Sweden  and intends to
fulfill it. It said it doesn’t recognize the concept of
“diplomatic asylum” and won’t grant safe passage out of Britain.  Assange, first arrested in London in December 2010,
breached the terms of his bail by staying at the embassy and may
be arrested again if he steps outside the building, the
Metropolitan Police said in June.  The U.K. Court of Appeal ruled in November that he should
return to Sweden to face the allegations. He hasn’t been charged
with a crime.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  