-- Assange Calls on U.S. to End Its ‘Witch Hunt’ of WikiLeaks
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-08-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/assange-calls-on-u-s-to-end-its-witch-hunt-of-wikileaks-1-.html
Julian Assange, founder of the anti-
secrecy website WikiLeaks, said the U.S. must end its “witch
hunt” against whistle-blowers and release a soldier accused of
leaking classified information.  Assange, making a televised statement yesterday from the
balcony of the Ecuadorean Embassy in central  London , said
threats to prosecute whistle-blowers were “foolish.” It was
the first public appearance in two months for Assange, who was
granted asylum by  Ecuador  on Aug. 16.  “I ask President Obama to do the right thing,” Assange
said. “The  United States  must renounce its witch hunt against
WikiLeaks. The United States must vow it will not seek to
prosecute our staff or our supporters. The U.S. administration’s
war on whistle-blowers must end.”  The 41-year-old Australian sought asylum inside the
building on June 19 after exhausting options in U.K. courts to
avert extradition to Sweden, where he faces questioning on
allegations of rape and sexual molestation. Assange has refused
to go to  Sweden , citing concern that he would be extradited to
the U.S. for releasing diplomatic secrets, and London police
have said they will arrest him if he leaves the embassy.  Assange drew renewed attention to the case of Bradley Manning, a U.S. Army soldier who has been in detention for more
than two years facing a court martial on charges that he leaked
classified information published on the WikiLeaks website.  Bradley Manning  “If Bradley Manning really did as he is accused, he is a
hero and an example to all of us and one of the world’s foremost
political prisoners,” Assange, dressed in a blue shirt and tie,
said yesterday to cheering supporters gathered outside the
embassy. “Bradley Manning must be released. On Wednesday,
Bradley Manning spent his 815th day of detention without trial.
The legal maximum is 120 days.”  Reporters and supporters, many of whom had waited since 8
a.m. and sat through a brief rain shower before Assange spoke in
mid-afternoon, were barricaded together across the street and
separated from the building by a line of about three dozen
police. The embassy is near the Harrods department store in
London’s Knightsbridge district.  Ecuadorean Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino earlier told
reporters in  Quito  that the evidence “backs up Julian Assange’s
fears that he is a victim of political persecution.” President
 Rafael Correa  granted him asylum on condition he didn’t make
political statements from the embassy.  The Hague  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said on Aug. 16 that
Britain doesn’t recognize the concept of “diplomatic asylum”
and won’t allow Assange safe passage out of the country. Ecuador
had accused the U.K. of threatening to “assault” its embassy
in London and arrest Assange. Foreign ministers from Latin
American states are due to meet on Aug. 24 in  Washington  to
discuss the issue.  “If the U.K. didn’t throw out the Vienna Convention the
other night, it’s because the world was watching, because you
were watching,” Assange said, thanking his supporters.  Ecuador said it may seek arbitration from the  International
Court of Justice  at  The Hague .  “We think one of the resources we could use is The Hague
tribunal,” Patino said in a statement published yesterday in
the South American nation’s presidential gazette. “The Hague is
the step that Ecuador naturally would call for help to attempt a
judicial solution for the differences we have with the U.K.”  Swedish Claims  The Swedish claims against Assange became public around the
same time he posted classified U.S. military and diplomatic
cables on WikiLeaks, creating controversy for President  Barack Obama ’s administration. Assange argues Sweden fabricated the
arrest warrant to assist the U.S. in punishing him.  The U.K. Court of Appeal ruled in November that he should
return to Sweden to face the sexual molestation allegations. He
hasn’t been charged with a crime. The two women who accused
Assange of sexual misconduct are both supporters of WikiLeaks
and let him stay at their homes during a speaking tour in 2010.  His legal adviser, Baltasar Garzon, yesterday told
reporters in London that Assange had instructed his legal team
to take action to protect himself and WikiLeaks.  “Julian Assange has always fought for true justice, has
defended human rights and will continue to do so,” Garzon said.
“He has instructed his lawyers to carry out a legal action in
order to protect the rights of WikiLeaks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  