-- Assad Prays in Rare Appearance as Syrian Violence Rages
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-08-19T21:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/assad-prays-in-rare-appearance-as-syrian-violence-rages.html
Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad was
shown on state television yesterday praying in a Damascus mosque
to mark the start of an Islamic holiday, a rare public
appearance as soldiers battled rebels in several cities.  State-run Syrian Television broadcast footage of Assad
praying at the Hamad mosque at end of the fasting month of
Ramadan, accompanied by Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem and
other top officials.  Assad, who used to be seen with his wife at restaurants and
in public before the uprising began last year, has limited his
appearances since the fighting started. Rebels are pushing
forward with attacks and control large areas of the country.  Assad spent 11 minutes at the mosque and didn’t linger to
talk with worshippers as was his previous practice, Dubai-based
Al Arabiya television said. Security at the mosque and in the
vicinity were stepped up, it said. Trash cans were removed,
bomb-sniffing dogs were brought in and elite Republican Guard
forces and snipers were deployed.  Protests in several cities and towns across  Syria  erupted
yesterday after morning prayers were held on the first day of
Eid al-Fitr, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said on its
Facebook page. Syrian government forces killed 160 people
yesterday, including 51 in Daraa and 47 in Damascus and its
suburbs, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an
e-mailed statement.  Opposition activists in Darayya released balloons marked
with the names of the dead and their families on the first day
of the holiday, the committee said.  Bomb Attack  Vice President Faruq al-Shara wasn’t among the officials
shown on television with Assad during his mosque visit. State
television reported on Aug. 18 that al-Shara’s office denied
reports that he had left the country and defected. Al Arabiya
television had reported that Shara had left for neighboring
 Jordan .  Last month, a bomb attack in Damascus killed key members of
the military establishment including Assad’s brother-in-law,
Assef Shawkat, Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah and the vice
president’s military adviser, Hasan Turkmani.  UN Mission  The increasing violence led the United Nations mission in
Syria to suspend its activities in June. The mission’s mandate
ended yesterday after the UN failed to extend it. The head of
the mission, Lieutenant General Babacar Gaye, called on all
parties involved in the Syrian conflict to “stop this violence
that is causing such suffering to the innocent people of
Syria,” according to a transcript e-mailed by his office.  A girl was injured in Jordan as four Syrian shells landed
across the border during a battle with rebels, Jordan’s state-
run Petra news agency reported yesterday, citing Sameeh Maayteh,
Jordan’s minister of state for media affairs and communications.  Lakhdar Brahimi, who was appointed last week to replace
 Kofi Annan  as the UN special envoy to Syria, yesterday told the
 Associated Press  he doesn’t have a plan to achieve consensus
within the UN’s Security Council.  Russia and  China  have blocked actions by the council
against Syria.  “The problem is not what I can do differently, it is how
others are going to behave differently,” Brahimi, a former
Algerian foreign minister, said in the interview with the AP.
Annan, a former UN Secretary General, is stepping down as the
UN’s envoy to Syria on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net 
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  