-- Australian Investment Surging Even With Carbon Tax, Swan Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-08-19T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/australian-carbon-tax-hasn-t-curbed-new-investment-swan-says.html
Australia’s carbon tax and a levy on
mining company profits hasn’t stopped a surge in investment in
the resources industry, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “While there have been no end to the irresponsible claims
made about the impact of both a price on carbon pollution and
the new resource tax arrangements, the investment figures tell
the real story,” Swan said in an economic note yesterday. “Far
from putting a  wrecking ball  through the economy, investment has
actually skyrocketed since these policies were announced.”  Australia has about A$260 billion ($271 billion) of
projects at an advanced stage, and the investment pipeline has
increased about A$90 billion in the past year, Swan said. The
government began taxing  carbon emissions  on July 1 along with
new levies on iron ore and coal mining profits.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia this month raised its
forecast for economic growth in 2012 citing consumer demand and
the continuing demand from emerging nations including China and
India for iron ore, coal and natural gas.  “Resource investment is expected to decline gradually in
the latter part of the forecast period,” the RBA said in its
quarterly monetary policy statement on Aug. 10. “The effect of
this on GDP growth is expected to be roughly offset by faster
growth in resource exports.”  Solid Foundation  The pipeline of investment projects “provides a rock-solid
foundation for the economy in the face of continuing global
turbulence,” Swan said.  Australia is increasingly viewed as a “new safe haven,”
he said. “As a capital-hungry nation, our reputation as an
attractive investment destination is critical.”  The opposition Liberal-National coalition, favorites to win
elections due next year, will get rid of taxes that stand in the
way of projects such as the Olympic Dam copper-uranium-gold mine
expansion in  South Australia , leader  Tony Abbott  said Aug. 18.
In March, he described the carbon tax as a “wrecking ball” for
the economy.  Primary support for the ruling  Labor party  stood at 33
percent compared to 45 percent for the opposition, according to
a Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper Aug. 7. On a
two-party preferred basis, which takes into account the
country’s preferential voting system, Labor would lose elections
due next year with 46 percent to the opposition’s 54 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, will
delay approval of the $33 billion Olympic Dam mine expansion for
two years until 2014 because of falling commodity prices, the
Australian newspaper reported July 28, citing a document
prepared by an unidentified consultancy with knowledge from BHP
staff. The Melbourne-based company is also due to decide on an
 iron-ore  port expansion in Western Australia by the end of this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  