-- Wallabies Captain Pocock Needs Surgery; Boks Arrive in Argentina
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-20T03:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/australia-s-pocock-to-consult-surgeon-south-africa-names-squad.html
Australia  captain  David Pocock  will
miss at least this week’s Rugby Championship match against  New
Zealand  and requires surgery to determine the extent of the knee
injury he sustained in the tournament opener.  The openside flanker will undergo a keyhole procedure
tomorrow after damaging cartilage in his right knee during the
Wallabies’ 27-19 loss to the All Blacks in Sydney two days ago,
the team said. Pocock said he’s not sure how long he’ll be out.  The surgeon “wanted to avoid putting a timeline on it till
after he actually got in there to have a look,” Pocock, 24,
said in Sydney today.  Pocock was appointed Australia captain in June after
regular skipper  James Horwill  ruptured his hamstring, an injury
that needed surgery and sidelined the second-rower for the rest
of the year. Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said after the loss to
New Zealand that scrum-half Will Genia would lead the team at
Auckland’s  Eden Park  on Aug. 25 if Pocock was unavailable. Deans
is scheduled to name his team in three days.  Australia must win to have any chance of winning back the
Bledisloe Cup contested annually against New Zealand. The
Wallabies last held the trophy in 2002 and this year is the
first best-of-three contest since 1998, the series having been
played over two or four matches in the time since.  South Africa hooker Bismarck du Plessis suffered a season-
ending knee injury during the Springboks’ 27-6 win over southern
hemisphere championship newcomer Argentina two days ago.  Du Plessis needs surgery after damaging the medial and
anterior cruciate ligaments in his right knee, the South African
Rugby Union said. He was replaced in the squad by Craig Burden.  Four other players were added to the 22-man roster that
beat the Pumas to travel to  Argentina  for the second round of
the Rugby Championship. The Springboks will transfer to Mendoza
today after arriving in  Buenos Aires .  “The travel has been good, we got some sleep on the
flight,” Springboks captain Jean de Villiers said in an e-
mailed team release. “We will review the first Test on Monday
and see where we are injury wise and then start preparing for
Saturday’s game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  