-- McEwan’s Fetching Spy Seduces Writer With Dirty Money
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-08-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/mcewan-s-fetching-spy-seduces-writer-with-dirty-money-review.html
A disgraced spy, a failed mission, a
ruined lover: Ian McEwan’s new novel, ‘‘ Sweet Tooth ,’’ opens at
full tilt.  Narrator Serena Frome (rhymes with ‘‘plume’’) is looking
back to the early 1970s and a calamitous 18-month stint at MI5.
The pretty elder daughter of an Anglican bishop, she had studied
mathematics despite being a bookworm at heart. When she
graduates from Cambridge, her real education is just beginning.  All that summer she pursues an affair with Tony Canning, an
older, married professor who introduces her to pancetta, polenta
and other sensual delights. Before dumping her, he sets her up
with an interview at MI5, where he’s rumored to have had a
wartime career.  McEwan is sometimes criticized for favoring middle-aged,
middle-class white male protagonists. This latest novel is his
first to deploy a female narrator since 2001’s ‘‘ Atonement .’’
Yet in many ways, Serena is Tony’s creation. He teaches her what
to read, what to say, what to think.  The novel’s end reveals a further twist about which I’ll
say only this: If it feels overly familiar to some McEwan
aficionados, it will leave others with the urge to flip back to
the beginning and read it all over again.  The title derives from the code name of Serena’s first
mission at MI5. With a new enemy, the IRA, hogging resources,
some of the agency’s old Communist fighters are casting around
for a project. They come up with Sweet Tooth, which strives to
fight the Soviets by sponsoring right-thinking and thoroughly
unsuspecting writers.  “This is a culture war, not just a political and military
affair,” Serena is instructed.  Monthly Stipend  Masquerading as an employee of a generously endowed arts
foundation, Serena duly signs up Tom Haly, a promising young
author. He receives a monthly stipend which gives him the means
to dine out and fill his fridge with Chablis as well as turn
down teaching jobs. Without realizing it, Tom becomes an agent
run by Serena.  Inevitably, they fall in love.  The novel’s pleasures are multiple and, as always with
McEwan, they begin with the storytelling. A faint word on a
scrap of paper, the sense of being watched and an undelivered
letter fuel Serena’s suspicions about Tony’s abrupt exit from
her life and the reasons for her recruitment by the security
service. Meanwhile, the ‘‘off-white lies’’ she must spin for Tom
become a trap.  MI5 runs a staff lecture program and Serena’s notes provide
a potted history of sectarian terrorism and a glimpse of a
socio-economic backdrop in which unemployment and inflation are
steep. This can feel forced, as if the novelist already had in
mind the movie adaptation.  Keeping Warm  Quotidian details of life in 1970s Britain are more vivid.
With miners striking and  oil prices  soaring, the government
issues employees with insulating squares of felt to place
between their feet and the cold floor.  In Serena’s bed-sitting room, a yellow bedcover carries ‘‘a
clammy intimate scent, of dog perhaps, or very unhappy human.’’
You half expect a damp whiff as you turn the pages.  There is insider wit here, too, including a cameo for
Martin Amis and nerdy references to classic spy thrillers. Tom’s
stories recall McEwan’s own early work, and the two share an
editor in Tom Maschler. As for the  Booker Prize , whose judges
have already excluded ‘‘Sweet Tooth” from this year’s
competition, it’s merely a ‘‘new-fangled” upstart.  These bookish preoccupations flag the novel’s true concern,
which is literature itself. The novelist, McEwan suggests, is
the ultimate spy. While it’s giving nothing away to say that
MI5’s attempt to influence fiction ends in fiasco, what of
fiction’s ability to influence real life?  ‘‘Sweet Tooth’’ champions just that. As its sly plot tells
it, books not only promote empathy, they can even alter the
course of a love story. If only this one didn’t leave quite such
a sugary aftertaste.  ‘‘Sweet Tooth’’ is published by Cape in the U.K. (18.99
pounds). It will be published in the U.S. by Nan A.
Talese/Doubleday on Nov. 13.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Amanda
Gordon  on parties.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 