-- Chelsea Wins 2-0 at Wigan on Opening Premier League Weekend
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-19T14:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/chelsea-beats-wigan-2-0-in-league-on-ivanovic-lampard-goals.html
Chelsea won 2-0 at Wigan today on
the opening weekend of soccer’s Premier League with Branislav Ivanovic and  Frank Lampard  scoring the goals.  The Blues, who won Europe’s elite  Champions League  last
season, are aiming to improve on a sixth-place finish in the
domestic league. Chelsea hasn’t lost its opening league match
since 1998.  “You always want to get a win on the opening day,”
Lampard told  Sky Sports .  Defending Premier League champion Manchester City hosts
newly promoted Southampton in today’s other game.  It took Chelsea less than two minutes to take a lead at the
DW Stadium. New signing Eden Hazard slid through a pass for
fullback Ivanovic, who advanced into the penalty area before
sliding a shot past Ali Al-Habsi.  The advantage was doubled on seven minutes from the penalty
spot after defender Ivan Ramis, making his Wigan debut, fouled
Hazard. Lampard stepped up to fire a low shot under the dive of
Al-Habsi.  Franco di Santo headed over for Wigan on 21 minutes, then
Victor Moses, a target for Chelsea according to U.K. newspapers,
tested  Petr Cech  with a powerful shot after 38 minutes. Di Santo
wasted another opportunity at the end of the half.  Wigan continued to apply pressure early in the second half,
with Lampard managing to block a shot from Di Santo.  Fernando Torres  almost added a third goal for the Blues in
the 63rd minute, stabbing the ball past the goalkeeper even as
he was off balance. Ramis got back to clear off the line.  Gomez Chance  The hosts had two further headed chances that they failed
to get on target. Firstly, Jordi Gomez missed from close range
from a Maynor Figueroa cross, then substitute Arouna Kone headed
wide from a corner. Gomez also had an overhead shot that missed
the target.  Yesterday, Swansea won 5-0 at Queens Park Rangers, Fulham
beat Norwich by the same score, and West Bromwich Albion
defeated Liverpool 3-0.  West Ham celebrated its return to the Premier League with a
1-0 victory over Aston Villa, Newcastle beat Tottenham 2-1,
Reading and Stoke tied 1-1, and the match between Arsenal and
Sunderland was scoreless.  Manchester United  is at Everton tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 