-- De Guindos Says Bailout Fund to Manage Spain Bank Restructuring
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-19T11:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/de-guindos-says-bailout-fund-to-manage-spain-bank-restructuring.html
Spain  will put its bank rescue fund
in charge of the bad assets separated out from the nation’s
struggling lenders that are receiving a European bailout.  The FROB fund will be the main shareholder in a so-called
bad bank, according to a proposal that will be approved by the
Cabinet on Aug. 24, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told the
Efe news agency in an interview today.  All the banks receiving loans from European rescue funds
will have to transfer their non-performing assets to the bad
bank, he said. The comments were confirmed by a Spanish
official, who asked not be identified, citing government policy.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to avoid a
second bailout after his government signed off on 100 billion
euros ($123 billion) of loans from EU rescue funds on July 24 to
recapitalize banks amid its second recession since 2009 and
surging borrowing costs.  Spain’s  benchmark 10-year bond  yield closed at 6.44 percent
on Aug. 17, falling 76 basis points since European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the bank would buy
sovereign bonds to bring down yields if countries applied for
similar support from  Europe ’s rescue fund and accepted strict
conditions in return.  Preferred Shares  Spain will also approve rules to restrict the sale of
preferred shares on Aug. 24 to prevent repeating past errors, de
Guindos said. Savings banks such as the nation’s third-largest
lender, Bankia group, in 2009 resorted to selling preferred
stock to retail clients through branch networks after debt
markets dried up.  New issues will have to have an institutional participation
of at least 50 percent and have the same conditions as those set
for retail clients, de Guindos said. In the case of non-listed
entities, there will be a fixed minimum sales amount of 100,000
euros.  Preferred shareholders, unlike depositors, aren’t insured
by the government against losses. As many as 686,296 retail
investors held about 22.5 billion euros of preferred shares sold
by banks as of May 2011, according to Spain’s stock market
regulator, known as CNMV.  Holders must also under European Union rules share the
burden of rescuing cash-strapped lenders to reduce taxpayers’
contribution to the 100 billion-euro bailout of Spain’s banking
system.  Bankia’s preferreds, which were issued by the Caja Madrid
savings bank in 2009, last traded at 45 percent of face value on
July 11, according to the Bolsas y Mercados Espanoles SA stock
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  