-- Dutch Socialist Leader Says Doubtful Euro Will Survive Crisis
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-08-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/dutch-socialist-leader-says-doubtful-euro-will-survive-crisis.html
The Dutch Socialist Party, leading
in most of the polls ahead of elections Sept. 12, is doubtful
whether the euro will survive as the economic crisis may only
get worse amid a wave of austerity measures.  “Whether we get everything resolved, I am not sure,”
Emile Roemer, 49, the party’s leader told a press conference in
Arnhem, Netherlands, yesterday. “I can’t tell whether we will
be able to preserve the euro but I do hope it because the misery
will be bigger if we fail to do so.”  The SP, as the party is known, is leading with 34 seats,
ahead of caretaker Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s  Liberal Party 
with 33 seats, according to a TNS-NIPO survey published Aug. 15.
The poll surveyed 1,384 people between Aug. 12 and Aug. 14 and
has a margin of error of 2.3 percentage points.  The Socialist Party wants the Netherlands to meet its euro
budget deficit limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by
2015 --not 2013 as targeted by the present government -- and it
prefers a broader mandate for the  European Central Bank . More
 government spending  is needed to help the economy while drastic
budget cuts will harm growth, according to the party’s program.  Wrong Way  “The pace of austerity measures implemented throughout
Europe doesn’t work, it is the wrong way,” Roemer said. The
northern European countries need to grow in order to help boost
the economies in southern  Europe , he said. “We also want to get
the budget in order for the long-term but if you cut that much
you make society weaker,” he said.  Elections in the Netherlands were called after Rutte
submitted his Cabinet’s resignation on April 23 as Geert
Wilders’s Freedom Party withdrew support for spending cuts and
tax increases. After that, investors demanded as much as 79
basis points of extra yield to lend to the Netherlands for 10
years rather than to  Germany , the highest premium in three
years.  Since April 23, the extra yield, or spread, that investors
get for holding Dutch 10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity
German bunds has narrowed 43.2 basis points to 35.8 basis
points. Demand for the securities rose after Rutte’s Liberals
agreed with the opposition on a package to meet the European
Union’s budget deficit limit.  Economic Contraction  The fifth-largest economy in the euro area may contract by
0.75 percent this year even as the economy unexpectedly expanded
in the second quarter. Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent
from the first quarter, when it increased a revised 0.2 percent,
national statistics agency CBS in The Hague said Aug. 14.
Unemployment increased to 6.5 percent in July from 6.3 percent a
month earlier.  Almost three years after the debt crisis erupted in Greece,
Germany’s  Angela Merkel , as leader of Europe’s largest economy,
is facing calls from  Italy  and  Spain  to pool debt to bring down
bond yields, from Greece to back an easing of its austerity
timetable and from the European Central Bank for politicians to
take the lead in fighting the crisis. The Dutch elections take
place the same day as the German Federal Constitutional Court
rules on the 500 billion-euro ($616 billion) European Stability
Mechanism.  Greece has required two bailouts totaling 240 billion euros
since the  European debt crisis  erupted in the southern European
nation and is now grappling with measures to qualify for more
disbursement. European leader have struggled to contain the debt
crisis that’s roiling the 17-nation region and also pushed
Ireland,  Portugal , Cyprus and Spain to seek help.  ‘Take Responsibility’  Roemer, a former school teacher, said throwing more money
at  Greece  is not the solution. The country needs to get its
fiscal policy in order and bring corruption under control. “If
they meet certain conditions, then I will take my
responsibility,” Roemer said, when asked whether he would
support another aid package to Greece.  “The development of Europe should be about people and not
only about more room for big multinationals and the financial
sector with all the risks that come with it as we’ve seen the
past few years,” Roemer said.  Roemer took the helm of the party in March 2010 and was a
member of the city council of Boxmeer, 87 miles south of
Amsterdam, from 2002 until 2007. He was elected for parliament
in November 2006. His party is four seats ahead of Rutte’s VVD
at 36 seats, according to another poll published yesterday by
Maurice de Hond. A survey by polling company Ipsos Synovate
gives the VVD the top spot with 35 seats, six more than the
Socialists. That poll was published Aug. 17.  It has taken an average of almost three months to set up a
coalition in the  Netherlands  since World War II while the
formation of the Rutte cabinet in 2010 took four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  