-- The Real Conservative Opportunity This November
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-08-19T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/the-real-conservative-opportunity-this-november.html
Fighting November’s U.S.
presidential election on  Paul Ryan ’s Medicare  plan  is unlikely
to go well.  The ideas don’t please the right -- former Ronald Reagan
budget director  David Stockman  and others are displeased because
Ryan would keep Medicare in part and largely postpone the
effects of any change. Yet the same proposals greatly animate
the left -- it can credibly claim that Ryan, the House Budget
Committee chairman and Republican vice-presidential pick, would
partially dismantle Medicare.  On top of this, Ryan’s plan won’t even satisfy the center,
when independents apply any kind of reasonable scrutiny. The
Congressional Budget Office  scores  his proposals as likely to
increase health-care costs as a percent of gross domestic
product -- because it would reduce government pooling of
insurable risks.  The big opportunity for presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  and for conservatives more broadly is to
choose this moment to pivot against big banks. Ryan is plugged
into the  Tea Party  wing of the  Republican Party , which has been
consistently opposed to megabanks and the subsidies they attract
through being too-big-to-fail (talk to Representative  Ron Paul ).  Ryan can draw on the intellectual support of senior figures
in the Republican Party -- including former Utah Governor  Jon
Huntsman , the presidential candidate who had the strong support
of the Wall Street Journal editorial page for his  approach  to
breaking up the megabanks. Senator  Richard Shelby  -- ranking
Republican on the Senate Banking Committee -- is cagier, but
seems inclined to be skeptical of the value of the largest banks
as currently constituted. Two weeks ago, Senator David Vitter
co-wrote a brilliant  letter  to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on the problems the banks pose.  In addition to politicians, the emerging consensus among
heavyweight Republican intellectuals is that bigger banks should
be forced to fund themselves with much more equity relative to
debt -- in other words,  capital requirements  should be
significantly higher for any financial firm whose failure can
cause broad damage. The argument is that too-big-to-fail is too-
big-to-exist and the right way to pressure banks to break up is
through capital requirements that increase along with a bank’s
size.  A Romney-Ryan ticket has the opportunity to tap the
Republican populist tradition (think Teddy Roosevelt).  The
megabanks -- such as Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Citigroup Inc. -- have become today’s government-sponsored
enterprises. They receive large, opaque and dangerous subsidies,
encouraging them to engage in excessive risk taking. The
question is how best to remove those subsidies.  After a summer of scandals -- JPMorgan’s $6 billion  loss 
and Barclays Plc’s Libor debacle -- there’s growing recognition
these banks are too big to manage. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Standard Chartered Plc have both acknowledged violating U.S.
laws on financial transactions with  Iran  and other rogue states,
their defense being that executives didn’t know what was going
on in their own sprawling empires.  When you employ 300,000 or so people across 100 or more
countries, it’s easy for things to get out of control. And when
the government provides implicit guarantees, no one has an
incentive to be sufficiently careful.  One hundred years ago, the industrial and railroad “trusts”
that Teddy Roosevelt took on were relatively well-run paragons
of efficiency. The original J.P. Morgan -- confronted by
Roosevelt in his first big Sherman antitrust case -- didn’t blow
up his bank, do great damage to the American economy, and need
to be rescued at an enormous expense to the taxpayer. The titans
of  Wall Street  and industry were held accountable by Roosevelt
for price fixing and generally gouging customers through
monopolistic behavior. That policy was both sensible economics
and a great vote-getter.  The objections to taking this approach are that it would
fly in the face of Ryan’s convictions, his voting record and his
donors. All of these can be overcome.  Ryan wants to abolish the resolution powers created by the
Dodd-Frank financial law, but this is a weak position from which
he can walk back. Even most of the industry is not opposed to
the existence of this authority (as the strong think they can
use it to take over the weak). In terms of voting, Ryan voted
for the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- which bailed out the
banks -- but it was in a time of crisis, and a Republican
president asked him to do it.  The most serious obstacle is that Ryan’s (and Romney’s) big
donors include major players from the financial sector (who have
generally been supportive of the Tea Party due to convergent
views on taxes). But if Republicans turn on the too-big-to-fail
banks, where will they go? The megabanks have burned too many
bridges with the Democrats.  As Huntsman put it, we need to re-establish a free market
in financial services. There is currently no market -- just
subsidies and crony capitalism. True conservatives should all
want the megabanks to break up, becoming small enough and simple
enough so they can fail -- without any kind of government or
central-bank bailout.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author   of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Putin’s failed show trial  and
on how your  taxes are going up ; William D. Cohan on the  SEC’s
treatment of whistle-blowers ;  Albert R. Hunt  on why  voter
turnout  will be critical in November; Elena Marks on why even
governors in opposition should set up  state insurance exchanges .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Deborah Solomon  at   dsolomon20@bloomberg.net . 