-- ECB May Set Yield Limits on Euro Sovereign Bonds, Spiegel Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-19T14:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/ecb-may-set-yield-limits-on-euro-sovereign-bonds-spiegel-says.html
The  European Central Bank  is
considering setting limits on yields of euro area sovereign debt
by pledging unlimited bond purchases,  Germany ’s Spiegel magazine
reported without saying where it obtained the information.  The policy will be decided at the September meeting of the
ECB’s governing council, Spiegel said. The Frankfurt-based
central bank would immediately publish bond purchases after
making them, the magazine added. An ECB official declined to
comment on the article.  Speculation about additional ECB intervention to counter
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis helped lift Spanish government
bonds for the first week this month.   Spain ’s 10-year yield slid
46 basis points, or 0.46 percentage point, to 6.44 percent last
week, the lowest since July 5.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the central
bank may buy government debt in unison with the region’s bailout
funds to address elevated yields that are “related to fears of
the reversibility of the euro.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed
the ECB’s insistence on conditions for helping reduce borrowing
costs on Aug. 16, saying Germany is “in line” with the central
bank’s approach to defending the euro.  Even so, economists are divided on Draghi’s ability to
deliver on such debt purchases. Daiwa Capital Markets Europe
said last week the central bank may disappoint investors by
limiting the size of potential bond purchases and may force
Spain and  Italy  to sign memorandums of understanding in return
for help.  No Targets  “Contrary to the expectations of many market participants,
we do not think the ECB will announce an interest-rate or spread
target for short-dated peripheral  government bonds ” and may
“announce a volume of future bond purchases instead,” London-
based Daiwa economists Tobias Blattner and Grant Lewis said in a
 note to investors  published Aug. 17.  Daiwa reckons that if the ECB were to focus on Spanish and
Italian maturities of up to three years, mirroring the length of
the loans it pumped into the banking system, a 15 percent volume
target would result in purchases of 30 billion euros ($37
billion) of Spanish bonds and 78 billion euros of Italian debt.  A 15 percent target is similar in size to the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s second quantitative-easing program. Even if the ECB
were to top that by buying a third of all outstanding Spanish
and Italian government bonds with a residual maturity of less
than five years, the 340 billion-euro bill would “pale in
comparison” with the ECB’s 1 trillion-euro longer-term loans,
according to the report.  ECB ‘Reluctant’  The central bank is reluctant to opt for a spread target,
because the “the potentially unlimited bond purchases such a
move could imply are, in the ECB’s opinion, simply not
compatible with the prohibition of monetary financing of
government debt in the EU Treaty,” Daiwa said.  To further ensure that countries don’t deviate from the
path of revamping their economies, “the ECB might require a
separate memorandum of understanding between itself and the
country concerned, underpinning the conditional nature of its
bond purchases,” Daiwa said.  For Italy, that may prove too much, the report said, as
“with most Italian political parties already positioning
themselves for elections in April next year, they are unlikely
to want to pre-commit to yet more austerity and structural
reforms, which would likely prove an electoral liability,”
Daiwa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  