-- Merkel’s Green Shift Forces Germany to Burn More Coal
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-08-20T15:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/merkel-s-green-shift-forces-germany-to-burn-more-coal-energy.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government says  RWE AG (RWE) ’s new power plant that can supply 3.4
million homes aids her plan to exit nuclear energy and switch to
cleaner forms of generation. It’s fired with coal.  The startup of the 2,200-megawatt station near Cologne last
week shows how  Europe ’s largest economy is relying more on the
most-polluting fuel. Coal consumption has risen 4.9 percent
since Merkel announced a plan to start shutting the country’s
atomic reactors after last year’s Fukushima disaster in  Japan .  Germany ’s largest utilities RWE and  EON AG (EOAN)  are shunning
cleaner-burning natural gas because it’s more costly, while the
collapsing cost of carbon permits means there’s little penalty
for burning coal. Wind and solar projects, central to Germany’s
plans to reduce nuclear energy and cut the release of heat-
trapping gases, can’t produce electricity around the clock.  “ Angela Merkel ’s policy has created an incentive structure
which has the effect of partially replacing nuclear with coal,
the dirtiest fuel that’s responsible for much of the growth in
the world’s greenhouse-gas emissions since 1990,” Dieter Helm,
an energy policy professor at the University of Oxford, said by
phone Aug. 17. Building new coal stations means “locking them
in for the next 30 years” as a type of generation, Helm said.  Germany’s increasing coal consumption is part of a global
return to the  fossil fuel  that’s cheaper than most alternatives.
The amount of coal burned worldwide rose 5.4 percent to account
for 30 percent of total energy use last year, the highest
proportion since 1969, according to  BP Plc (BP/)  data.  Clean-Dark Spread  European Union  carbon emissions  may rise 43 million metric
tons this year because of increased coal burning at power
stations, according to Barclays Plc analyst  Trevor Sikorski .  The German clean-dark spread, a measure of profit that
utilities can earn from selling coal-generated power after
accounting for the cost of carbon-emission permits, was about
9.86 euros ($12.17) a megawatt-hour today for the year ahead,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same
time, utilities are set to lose about 10 euros a megawatt-hour
from burning gas according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Lignite is the lowest-priced type of power generation and
thus increasingly stormed the market,” Martin Pack, an RWE
spokesman, said by phone from Essen, referring to a type of soft
coal that dominates RWE’s consumption of the fuel.  EON generated 10 percent more electricity from burning coal
in the first half than in the same period a year ago. RWE’s
coal-fired power output in Germany rose by 12 percent in the
same period. Reliance on coal may continue to increase after
Statkraft SF shuttered its gas-fired plant in Emden in March and
EON and RWE warned they may mothball generators that lose money.  Reliance on Coal  EON fell 0.6 percent to 18.15 euros by the Frankfurt close
and RWE rose less than 0.1 percent to 33.40 euros.  Coal is being used in part because the prices for permits
that allow the emissions of carbon dioxide linked to  climate
change  are too low to spur other forms of generation. The price
of carbon-dioxide permits in the European Union has dropped 43
percent over the past year.  Switching to coal from gas is “a consequence of the low
prices” in Europe’s carbon market, Helm said. “Germany needs
to exit coal and switch to gas as a transitionary fuel, not the
other way around, as quickly as possible if it really cares
about the climate.”  Merkel’s government wants utilities to build 10,000
megawatts of coal- and gas-fired generators this decade to
replace older, dirtier generators and underpin a growing share
for  wind turbines  and solar panels.  Carbon Market  “The European Commission is on the right track if, as
planned, the number of emissions allowances is reduced,”
Johannes Teyssen, EON’s chief executive officer, said last week
on a conference call with journalists. He also called for long-
term binding carbon-reduction targets and said curbing emissions
by half is feasible by 2030.  Building new coal generators in Germany isn’t easy. A group
of local utilities last month scrapped plans to spend 3.2
billion euros to construct the nation’s biggest hard-coal plant
in Schleswig-Holstein after resistance from environment groups
and the state government led by the  Social Democratic Party  and
 Green Party .  The Greens, Germany’s second-biggest opposition group, are
against building new coal plants and favor gas ahead of
Germany’s federal elections scheduled for the fall of 2013, when
Merkel seeks to win a third term as chancellor.  “We need to do a lot of things to make the German energy
switch a success, but building new coal plants is not among
them,” Oliver Krischer, energy spokesman for the Green Party’s
parliamentary group, said in a statement last month.  More Efficient  The so-called BoA coal plant near Cologne shows how new
fossil fuel plants, which are more efficient than their older
models, “not only help to reduce carbon emissions but can also
make an outstanding contribution to the success of the energy
industry’s transformation,” Environment Minister Peter Altmaier, who was present at the plant’s opening last week, said
in a statement distributed by RWE.  RWE says coal plants are key to ensuring supply security as
Germany raises the market share of renewable generation to at
least 35 percent by the end of the decade, and to 80 percent by
2050. BoA, which has an efficiency of 43 percent, can raise or
lower output by 500 megawatts per unit within 15 minutes, Peter Terium, RWE’s CEO, told reporters in a call on Aug. 14.  It can “step in immediately when the wind is not blowing
or the sun is not shining,” Terium said. Like most  power plants 
in Germany, BoA burns lignite, a soft coal that’s sourced from
domestic open-cast strip mines and emits about 29 percent more
carbon dioxide than hard coal when burned. Environmental groups
are concerned about the growing use of the fuel.  “It’s very alarming that leading German politicians praise
a plant run on lignite,” Gerald Neubauer, a Greenpeace
campaigner in Germany focusing on energy issues, said by phone
on Aug. 16. “Burning lignite spews more carbon dioxide than
using most other energy sources, and mining it inflicts major
damage on the environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  