-- Europe’s Leaders Plan Debt Talks Amid Report of Yield Cap
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-20T07:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/eu-leaders-plan-shuttle-talks-to-bolster-greece-sovereign-bonds.html
Europe’s leaders plan a week of
intensive shuttle diplomacy to help defuse the continent’s debt
crisis, as  Der Spiegel  magazine reported that the  European
Central Bank  is considering a plan to put a cap on bond yields.  As the debt crisis continues to threaten the global
economy, French President  Francois Hollande  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet in Berlin on Aug. 23. Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras travels to the German capital the
next day before going on to Paris on Aug. 25.  The talks come as the ECB fleshes out plans to curb the
turmoil in European bond markets, a move that would give
governments time to push through measures to revamp their
economies. The ECB’s governing council may decide at its next
meeting in early September to set yield limits on the debt of
each country, German news magazine Der Spiegel reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  A cap “could be a major step to defuse tensions in the
eurozone and buy time for the fiscal repair and pro-growth
reforms to work,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . An ECB official declined to comment on
the Spiegel report.  A plan to set a target on bond yields would involve the ECB
using its power to print money, Spiegel said. The central bank
would publish the volume of purchases for each country, the
magazine said.  Draghi Plan  ECB President  Mario Draghi  is trying to overcome opposition
from Germany’s Bundesbank to a new bond-purchase plan. Announced
on Aug. 2, Draghi said any ECB bond-buying would work alongside
euro-area bailout funds and only if countries applied for
support and accepted strict conditions in return. Italy and
Spain, the countries now at the heart of the crisis as borrowing
costs soar, have yet to say whether they will request ECB help.  Italian and Spanish bonds rose after the Spiegel report.
The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond fell 14 basis
points to 6.27 percent as of 9:38 in Madrid, while the yield on
Italian 10-year bonds was 5.73 percent, down 4 basis points.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos urged the ECB to
deploy unlimited bond buying in the secondary market, according
to an interview with Spanish news agency Efe on Aug. 18. Terms
for the assistance will be discussed at a euro-area ministers’
meeting in the second week of September.  A successful ECB plan could also help shelter Spain and
Italy from any further turmoil from  Greece  as officials send
mixed signals about their willingness to stump up more funds.  German ‘Limits’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Aug. 18
that the sovereign-debt crisis mustn’t become a “bottomless
pit” for his country. “There are limits,” he said, ruling out
another aid program for Greece. At the same time, two German
lawmakers said last week that Merkel is considering easing
Greece’s bailout terms.  Greece’s troika of international creditors -- the ECB, the
European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund  -- will
return to  Athens  in early September to assess progress as the
Samaras administration seeks to hammer out 11.5 billion euros in
budget cuts for 2013 and 2014.  Greece may need to cut as much as 14 billion euros over the
next two years to meet its deficit targets due to setbacks in
planned privatizations and lower tax income, Spiegel reported
separately, citing an interim troika report. An IMF spokeswoman
based in  Washington  declined to comment on the report.  “There’s a process we’re engaged in to evaluate the
efforts made by Greece in recent months, which we know was set
back by elections,” France’s European Affairs Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said yesterday. “It’s important to let the Greeks
express their request clearly, to let the Troika report and then
to hold discussions between European countries to find the right
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  