-- Euro Holds Gain as Leaders Prepare for Debt Crisis Talks
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-20T07:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/euro-holds-gain-as-leaders-prepare-for-debt-crisis-talks.html
The euro rose against the dollar,
extending a gain from last week, amid optimism Europe’s leaders
meeting this week will signal support for  Greece  and outline
fresh measures to combat the region’s debt crisis.  Europe’s shared currency rose toward a six-week high
against the yen after Germany’s Spiegel magazine reported the
 European Central Bank ’s governing council may decide at its next
gathering to set yield limits on each country’s debt. The dollar
fell from the most in more than a month against Japan’s currency
and the Australian dollar climbed against all of its major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg amid stronger demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “The market is concentrating on political news,” said
 Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “There’s a lot of negative news priced in about
Greece and if the politicians sound constructive on that it may
support the euro. There are also a lot of rumors about what the
ECB might do.”  Europe’s shared currency advanced 0.1 percent to $1.2351 at
8:51 a.m.  London  time after climbing 0.4 percent last week. It
added 0.1 percent to 98.19 yen after rising 2 percent in the
five days ended Aug. 17. The dollar weakened 0.1 percent to
79.50 yen after earlier touching 79.66, the strongest since July
12. The Australian dollar rose 0.3 percent to $1.0455.  Rate Cap  The Frankfurt-based central bank may set limits on yields
by pledging unlimited bond purchases, Spiegel reported
yesterday, without saying where it obtained the information. The
policy will be decided at the September governing council
meeting, the magazine said. An ECB official declined to comment
on the report.  A policy that sees the ECB printing money will ultimately
be negative for the euro, Leuchtmann said, predicting the
currency will weaken to $1.20 in three months. The currency will
end the year at $1.21, according to the medium estimate of 53
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, will discuss a
request by Greece’s Prime Minister Antonis Samaras for a two-
year extension to the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment
program when he visits  Athens  on Aug. 22. Samaras travels to
Berlin and Paris on Aug. 24 and 25 after French President
 Francois Hollande  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in
the German capital on Aug. 23.  There is scope for Europe’s shared currency to test the
$1.2440 area after it breached $1.2340,  Marc Chandler ,  New York- 
based global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., wrote in an e-mailed note to clients yesterday.
However, “medium-term participants may want to scale into a
short position as the risks still favor a further euro
decline,” he wrote.  Net Shorts  A short position is a bet an asset will fall. The $1.2440
level was last seen on Aug. 7, when the euro climbed to as high
as $1.2442, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders raised bets that the euro will decline against the
dollar. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds 
and other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared
with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 137,810 on
Aug. 14, compared with net shorts of 131,711 a week earlier,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show.  The euro has declined 8.9 percent in the past year, the
worst performance after the Swiss franc among 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The dollar rose 7.5 percent, while the yen added 1.4
percent.  Fed Minutes  The  Federal Reserve  is due to release on Aug. 22 minutes of
its two-day gathering that concluded on Aug. 1, when officials
refrained from boosting monetary stimulus, a move which may
debase the U.S. currency. Members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  will next  meet  on Sept. 12-13.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
between 2008 and 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing to cap borrowing costs. Policy makers have held the
bank’s  key rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008
and plan to keep it there at least through late 2014.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  economists Neal Soss and Dana Saporta said the probability of the U.S. central bank announcing
another round of asset purchases at its meeting next month has
declined, with the odds of further easing in September now no
better than 50 percent.  “Our assumption remains that the next policy move will be
toward still more accommodation, but the timing of such a
decision has become more uncertain,” the New York-based
economists wrote in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 