-- Federer Secures Record Fifth Cincinnati Title Before U.S. Open
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-08-20T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/federer-tunes-up-for-u-s-open-by-winning-fifth-cincinnati-title.html
Top-ranked  Roger Federer  tuned up
for the U.S. Open by winning the Western & Southern Open in
Cincinnati for a record fifth time in tennis’s Open era.  Federer beat Novak Djokovic of Serbia 6-0, 7-6 (9-7) in
yesterday’s final to tie  Rafael Nadal ’s record 21 titles in
Masters series events, the tier below the Grand Slams. The Swiss
held his service throughout the tournament.  “This was probably the best week ever here in Cincinnati
for me never dropping my serve and all that stuff and beating
Novak in the final,” Federer, 31, said in comments released by
the ATP World Tour. “This was very sweet. No doubt about it.”  The victory gave Federer his third Masters title this year
following Indian Wells and Madrid and ensured he’ll keep the No.
1 ranking after the  U.S. Open , the season’s final major that
begins Aug. 27 at the National Tennis Center in New York.  Federer reclaimed the No. 1 ranking after winning Wimbledon
for a seventh time in July. On July 16, he began his 287th week
as the No. 1 player, eclipsing  Pete Sampras ’s record.  Federer’s win over  Andy Murray  in the Wimbledon final took
his tally of Grand Slam singles titles to a record-extending 17.
He won the U.S. Open five straight times from 2004.  The 25-year-old Djokovic, the defending champion in New
York, has appeared in the final in Cincinnati four times in five
years, losing every time. Federer now leads Djokovic 16-12 in
career meetings.  Li Na of China, the 2011 French Open champion, fought back
from a set and a break down to take the women’s title with a
1-6, 6-3, 6-1 victory against Angelique Kerber of Germany. It
was Li’s first tournament with  Carlos Rodriguez , who helped
 Justine Henin  win seven Grand Slam titles, as her coach.  “I was really hungry for the title,” Li, 30, said. “I
was having lunch and saw Roger after he won, having his photo
taken. I really wanted to do the same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  