-- Finnish Euro Doubts Hide Business Plea to Commit to Currency
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-08-20T10:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/finnish-euro-skepticism-hides-business-plea-to-commit-to-bloc.html
As a growing number of Finnish
voters say they regret  joining the euro 13 years ago , business
leaders in the Nordic country warn that exiting the currency
bloc would devastate  Finland ’s economy.  “Before the euro, we had to use the markka, the ruble and
the dollar,” said Veli Vento, the manager of Well Finland Oy, a
food company based northeast of Helsinki that sells to the
Russian market. “We constantly bumped into unfavorable exchange
rates, whether we were buying or selling. Whenever we tried to
speculate on the rates, we’d always take a loss.”  Finland’s resistance to backing more euro-zone bailouts and
the ascent of the euro-skeptic “The Finns” to become
parliament’s third-biggest party in 2011 elections has prompted
economists such as  Nouriel Roubini  to suggest the nation may one
day quit the currency bloc. About a quarter of voters want to
restore the Finnish markka amid growing taxpayer disgruntlement
with  Europe ’s crisis response, according to a July poll
commissioned by newspaper Kaleva.  Yet those figures don’t tell the whole story. Finland, one
of the 11 founding euro nations, exports about 40 percent of its
output, a third of which goes to the euro area. Trade would
suffer a severe blow if the Nordic country, which unlike Norway
doesn’t have oil wealth to fall back on, restored its own
currency, said Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen .  Speculative Attacks  “The euro helps companies function in the European markets
as well as global ones,” Katainen said in a July 31 interview.
“Euro membership brings stability to Finland’s economy.”  Finland still bears the scars of the economic hardship it
endured following speculative attacks against the markka two
decades ago, according to Markku Kuisma, professor of history at
the University of Helsinki.  “Finland is committed to the euro -- at its core -- and
wants to develop the economic and monetary union in a
constructive spirit,” European Affairs Minister Alexander Stubb
said in a statement in Helsinki today. “There are no wavering
or hidden agendas here. The euro is an irreversible choice for
Finland.”  The yield on Finland’s 10-year bonds rose seven basis points 
to 1.70 percent today, with the spread to similar-maturity German
notes little changed at 13.6 basis points. One basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Carry Trade  In the late 1980s, money flowed into Finland in a so-called
carry trade that was made attractive because of the Nordic
country’s higher interest rates. The Bank of Finland’s base rate
reached 8.5 percent in 1991, compared with 2.75 percent at the
Frankfurt-based Bundesbank at the beginning of that year.  “The abundance of money created both a real estate bubble
and a stock exchange bubble,” Kuisma said in an interview.  When those bubbles burst, which coincided with the collapse
of trade with the former  Soviet Union  after the 1989 fall of the
iron curtain, it triggered a wave of bankruptcies that killed
jobs. Finland started hemorrhaging capital.  “Foreign investors began speculating on the collapse of
the markka while export companies hedged their positions,”
Kuisma said.  Black Wednesday  In the following years, a broader onslaught against
European currencies that had sought to track the Deutschmark
through the  Exchange Rate  Mechanism turned into an outright
currency crisis. On Sept. 16, 1992 -- Black Wednesday -- the
 Bank of England  came under a speculative attack so intense it
was forced to exit ERM. Finland resorted to a free-floating
exchange rate the same month after devaluing the markka.  “The attacks against the markka started in 1991,” Antti Suvanto, head of the general secretariat at the Bank of Finland,
said in an interview. “The second, more international, wave
came in 1992, which led to flotation.”  Before resorting to devaluation, the Bank of Finland had
sought to defend its currency regime by raising the benchmark
 interest rate  as high as 18.45 percent in September 1992. The
years of economic decline that ensued sent Finland into a deep
recession that pushed joblessness close to 20 percent in 1994.  Greek Drama  “Unemployment never went back to the levels of the 1980s,
not to mention the tens of thousands of small enterprises that
never recovered from their foreign debts,” Kuisma said. “That
was the Greek drama of Finland in the early 1990s.”  Between 1984 and 1990, Finnish unemployment had averaged 5
percent, compared with 12.3 percent in the decade that followed.
Since joining the euro, joblessness has averaged 8.3 percent,
according to calculations based on Statistics Finland data.  Finland is one of the few euro members to have complied
with the bloc’s fiscal rules, keeping its budget within a 3
percent deficit limit of gross domestic product every year since
1996. Even in 2009, when the  economy contracted  8.5 percent, the
government managed to uphold the budget rule.  Finland is the only Aaa rated euro member with a stable
outlook at Moody’s Investors Service, thanks to its fiscal
discipline and the government’s insistence on getting collateral
to cover its commitments to euro-zone bailouts. Finland’s
ability to comply with the EU’s budget rules while countries
such as  Greece  continue to negotiate laxer bailout terms has
enraged some voters and weakened support for euro membership.  Clearest Case  Finland would have the “clearest case” for leaving the
bloc,  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Twenty-three percent of Finns want the markka back,
according to a poll commissioned by newspaper Kaleva and five
other regional papers at the end of July. About 65 percent
support staying in the monetary union, down from 74 percent two
years ago, the poll conducted by Taloustutkimus Oy shows.  “For us Finns, the issue with the euro crisis is based on
emotion,” Vento at Well Finland said. “It’s based on fears of
how much we need to spend on bailouts and how much of our money
will disappear into southern Europe.”  The potential losses are far outweighed by the benefits,
according to Timo Korkeamaeki, a professor of finance at the
Hanken School of Economics in Helsinki. Exiting the bloc would
open Finland to speculative attacks again, he said.  “The foreign exchange risk inside the euro area has been
de facto eliminated,” Korkeamaeki said in an interview. “With
a small currency, external pressure and external markets would
make the decisions on monetary policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  