-- Gene DeFilippo Retires as Boston College’s Athletics Director
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/gene-defilippo-retires-as-boston-college-s-athletics-director.html
Gene DeFilippo will retire as  Boston
College ’s athletics director on Sept. 30 after 15 years.  Senior Associate Athletics Director John Kane will take
DeFilippo’s place until a successor is named, the school said on
its website.  “It is the right time for Boston College to have new
leadership in the athletics director’s position,” DeFilippo
said in a statement. “In light of my recent bout with melanoma,
which is treatable, this decision became clearer to me this
summer.”  After taking a brief break, DeFilippo said he will teach
courses in sports management and work as a consultant.  DeFilippo guided Boston College’s athletics programs
through four national championships in men’s ice hockey, 11
national team and individual championships in sailing, and 12
consecutive winning seasons in football. He also directed the
transition to the Atlantic Coast Conference.  Donations to the school’s athletics programs rose to more
than $20 million in 2011 from $5.3 million in 1998.  “Gene devoted himself to building a strong, successful
athletics program, one that reflected BC’s commitment to quality
academics and institutional integrity,” Boston College
President William Leahy said in a statement. “Doing that has
been his passion and joy, and the BC community, particularly our
student-athletes, have benefitted immensely from his care,
advice and hard work.”  DeFilippo fired football coach Jeff Jagodzinski after he
interviewed with the  New York Jets , who were seeking a
replacement for Eric Mangini in 2009. At the time, ESPN reported
that the coach had been warned he would be dismissed for talking
to the Jets.  “I thought we had a coach that wanted to be here for a
long time and that wasn’t necessarily the case,” DeFilippo said
after the firing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  