-- Gillard Says Australia Asylum Policy Change in National Interest
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-08-19T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/gillard-says-australia-asylum-policy-change-in-national-interest.html
Australia’s government changed its
policy on handling asylum seekers because it’s in the national
interest, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.  “We stood on a policy of not having offshore processing
but we’re seeing large numbers of people losing their lives at
sea because they are enticed by people smugglers,” Gillard told
 Sky News ’s Australian Agenda yesterday. “Have I compromised?
Yes I have, and I’ve done that in the nation’s interest.”  Parliament passed laws Aug. 17 to reopen offshore detention
centers on the South Pacific island of  Nauru  and  Papua New
Guinea  for refugees attempting to reach Australia by boat.
Gillard is trying to resolve an issue that has dogged her
government as it battles to claw back from near record-low
approval ratings before elections due next year.  “We’ve got to be very clear with asylum seekers that they
will get no advantage by having paid a people smuggler,”
Gillard said. Refugees could be in the camps for “an extended
period of time” as their applications are processed, she said.  The minority Labor government has come under attack from
the Liberal-National opposition as increasing numbers of
refugees pay Indonesian smugglers to ferry them to  Australia  in
overcrowded boats, resulting in hundreds of deaths.  Almost 1,000 asylum seekers, often from war-torn Middle
Eastern and South Asian nations, have drowned in the waters
between Indonesia and Australia since 2001, former Defense Force
chief Angus Houston said Aug. 13 in delivering a report that was
the catalyst for Gillard deciding to reopen the camps.
Fatalities have accelerated in the past three years, with 604
people losing their lives since October 2009, he said.  Pacific Solution  Processing refugees offshore would mark a return to former
Prime Minister  John Howard ’s so-called Pacific Solution, which
was scrapped after Labor won office in 2007.  While a poll published Aug. 7 showed support for Labor rose
to the highest level in six months, Gillard is still tracking
toward defeat in next year’s elections. Labor’s primary vote
increased five points to 33 percent from two weeks before, while
support for  Tony Abbott ’s coalition dropped one point to 45
percent, the Newspoll for the Australian newspaper showed.  The government has teams in Papua New Guinea and Nauru
assessing the cost of work needed to reopen the camps,
Immigration Minister  Chris Bowen  said Aug. 18.  “There is a considerable amount of work to be done,” he
told reporters. “Those who argued that there was a detention
facility at Nauru ready to go, that could be rebuilt at no or
minimal cost, are incorrect.”  People will stay in the camps for the same time as it would
take to have an asylum application processed by the United
Nations refugee agency UNHCR, Gillard said.  ‘No Advantage’  “The message to people is: If you do get on the boat you
won’t get any advantage,” she said. “It’s a tough policy.”  The government continues to develop education and health
policies, including a disability insurance plan, to be presented
in its budget before the election, Gillard told Sky.  “We will work hard to ensure we are dealing with savings,
dealing with priorities in the government budget so that the
budget is in surplus as promised,” she said. “We live in
limited fiscal times and so you have to be prudent with every
dollar, and we are.”  The government remains in talks on altering the floor price
of carbon, and is continuing to work on business taxation
changes that could lower the company tax rate in a revenue-
neutral way, Gillard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  