-- Golfer McIlroy Faces Olympic Question in Pull of Divided Ireland
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-08-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/golfer-mcilroy-faces-olympic-question-in-pull-of-divided-ireland.html
Rory McIlroy knows he risks losing
some fans as golf returns to the Olympics for the first time in
more than a century at the next games in  Rio de Janeiro .  Barely has the five-ringed flag landed in  Brazil  and
pressure is already mounting on Northern Irish-born McIlroy to
name which country he will represent. Like all competitors born
in the U.K. province, the golfer can choose between Ireland and
Britain. Pat Hickey, president of the Olympic Council of
Ireland, said on Aug. 13 he hoped McIlroy, 23, who won his
second major tournament this month, would choose Ireland.  “Inevitable criticism will come with that decision,” said
Kevin Howard, a lecturer in social studies at  Dundalk Institute
of Technology  halfway between Dublin and Belfast. “There is
this sense of Irishness in an all-island sense.”  McIlroy, a Catholic raised in a predominantly Protestant
area, will turn the spotlight of one of the most complicated
elements of Northern Ireland’s  divided society : sport.  When Ulster rugby players represent the Irish national
team, sport transcends the divisions. At other times, it’s
exposed them, with the Northern Irish Football Association
accusing the Irish Republic of poaching some of its best young
players and with the assassination of Gaelic Athletic
Association members during the violence that afflicted the
region for three decades.  The golfer told website PGA.com earlier this year he plans
to leave the decision until the last minute because “whatever I
say I’m going to upset someone.”  No Discussion  “He hasn’t even thought about the 2016 Olympics as it’s
four years away,” McIlroy’s representatives, Dublin-based
 Horizon Sports Management , said in an e-mail last week. “He
will be 27 when the event is on so it’s not even something he is
interested in discussing at this stage.”  Ireland was partitioned in 1922, with six counties in the
Protestant-dominated north splitting from predominately Catholic
south and remaining in the U.K. In the London Olympics, athletes
from the province won five medals, three for the Great Britain
and  Northern Ireland   team  and two for Ireland.  McIlroy grew up in Bangor, a mainly Protestant seaside town
about eight miles south-east of Belfast. His great-uncle,
Joseph, was shot dead in 1972 by the Ulster Volunteer Force, a
terror group that fought to keep Northern Ireland within the
U.K, according to  Cain , an Internet database at the University
of Ulster. He was shot at his home in east Belfast aged 30.  Violence  While the violence that scarred the region since the 1960s
largely ended after the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, sport has
remained a source of rancour in some areas.  In 2002, Northern Ireland soccer captain Neil Lennon, a
Catholic, left the team after receiving death threats. Lennon,
who at the time played for Glasgow Celtic Football Club,
supported mainly by Catholics, said after he was regularly booed
by Protestant supporters of Northern Ireland.  The Irish Football Association has put a “substantial
amount of work and effort into eradicating sectarianism
associated with some followers of the Northern Ireland football
team in the past,” spokesman Geoff Wilson said by phone.  In 2010, the IFA lost a bid to stop  Darron Gibson , born in
Derry, also known as Londonderry, in the northwest of Northern
Ireland, from playing for the Republic of Ireland soccer team.  “Any player born in a region should play for that region,
that was our case,” said Wilson. “We feel we are being
mistreated. But a ruling has been made and we will abide it.”  Sport Unites  In other cases, sport is a bridge between the two parts of
the island. The Irish  rugby team  draws players and supporters
from nationalist and unionist backgrounds and plays its home
matches at the national stadium in Dublin.  “Sport has worked best on an all-island representative
basis precisely by having nothing whatsoever to do with
politics,” said Eunan O’Halpin, a professor of Irish history at
 Trinity College Dublin . “Rugby, hockey, cricket and horse
racing are clear instances. Even in the darkest days of the
Troubles, Orangemen came to Lansdowne Road to cheer on Ireland
against  England .”  McIlroy has won support across Northern Ireland’s political
divide as his success, and that of fellow Northern Ireland
golfers Graeme McDowell and  Darren Clarke , boost a region where
unemployment has doubled since 2008. Last week, McIlroy won the
U.S.  PGA Championship  by eight strokes. Last year, he won the
U.S. Open with a record score, following on from McDowell’s
success in the same tournament the year before.  “The Good Friday Agreement has changed things,” said
Howard. “The idea of identity isn’t as contentious as it was in
1998. Maybe Rory McIlroy will benefit from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  