-- Indian Rate Cut Will Depend on Inflation Easing, Gokarn Says
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-19T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/indian-rate-cut-will-depend-on-inflation-easing-gokarn-says.html
India can only consider cutting
interest rates when inflation starts to show “very sustainable
signs of moving down,”  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor
Subir Gokarn said.  “Our position on that is very clear,” Gokarn said in Goa
yesterday. “It’s always balancing between inflation risks and
growth risks” and price gains are currently the “dominant”
threat, he said.  The central bank refrained from joining a wave of rate cuts
from  China  to  Brazil  in July as it fights the fastest inflation
among the biggest emerging nations. A moderation in investment
has contributed to the slowest economic  growth  in nine years and
left bottlenecks unresolved, sustaining price pressures.  “We have both oil and food as pressure points that have
re-emerged” Gokarn said in a question and answer session after
a speech to the Forex Association of  India . “We cannot ignore”
that risk, he said. “If we do, there is a likelihood of
inflation resurging very quickly and requires even more
aggressive action. That’s not the scenario we want to take a
chance on.”  Inflation eased to a 32-month low of 6.87 percent in July
yet remains the highest among BRIC economies, the group of
nations comprising Brazil,  Russia , India and China. The plunge
in the rupee and the impact on crops of the weakest monsoon
since 2009 threaten to fan price rises.  Speaking in Bangalore on Aug. 18, Gokarn said there is a
“high risk” that the increase in pulse prices will accelerate.  The rupee has weakened about 18 percent against the dollar
in the past year. It slid 0.8 percent to 55.7450 per dollar in
the week ending Aug. 17.  Elevated Inflation  The BSE India Sensitive Index rose 0.2 percent on Aug. 17,
taking the week’s gains to 0.8 percent. The yield on the 8.15
percent government bond due June 2022 increased seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, for the week to 8.24 percent,
according to the central bank’s trading system.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is struggling to salvage his
development agenda as elevated inflation, graft scandals and
gridlock over attempts to open up the economy deter investment.
Reviving economic expansion is a matter of national security,
Singh said in his annual Independence Day speech on Aug. 15.  Indian gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, the least since 2003.  The Reserve Bank left  interest rates  unchanged for a second
meeting last month at 8 percent. It hasn’t lowered the benchmark
repurchase rate since a 0.5 percentage-point cut in April which
was the first since 2009. The RBI’s next meeting is scheduled
for Sept. 17.  Ratings Downgrade  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said on Aug. 18 he
urged banks to follow the  State Bank  of India which has lowered
retail lending rates. He spoke in  New Delhi  after meeting the
heads of state-run banks.  Risks such as a budget shortfall and a current-account
deficit have led  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings to say they
may strip India of its investment-grade  credit rating .  “Our formal stance is that actions needed to avoid such an
outcome are very clear and we have been pushing for fiscal
consolidation in a systematic way for quite some time,” Gokarn
said yesterday in response to a question on the threat of a
ratings downgrade. “It’s clearly from our viewpoint a factor
that is weakening the transmission of our policy actions. It’s
also a contributory factor to the risk perception.”  India’s budget deficit was 5.8 percent of gross domestic
product in the 12 months ended March, the widest among the
largest  emerging markets . Singh’s administration is seeking to
narrow the shortfall to 5.1 percent in the current fiscal year.  Curb Spending  Forecasters from Citigroup Inc. to Crisil Ltd., the local
unit of Standard & Poor’s, predict the gap will instead widen as
the government fails to curb spending sufficiently.  Moody’s Investors Service has said power blackouts on July
30-31, India’s worst, underscore infrastructure gaps and have a
“credit negative effect” on economic activity.  Officials this year have stepped up the struggle to steady
the rupee. The efforts include boosting the amount of  government
bonds  foreign investors can buy and curbs on trading in currency
derivatives to rein in volatility.  India has also moved to increase the supply of dollars by
cutting the amount of overseas income companies can hold in
foreign currency and raising  interest rates  on non-rupee
deposits.  Sustained growth, a low current-account deficit and low
inflation rate are needed for a stable currency, Gokarn said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  