-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Rise on U.S. Data, ECB
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-19T23:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-u-s-data-ecb.html
Japan and Australian  stock futures 
rose after  consumer confidence  and leading economic indicators
in the U.S. topped estimates and amid optimism the  European
Central Bank  may set limits on government bond yields to contain
the debt crisis.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest
consumer electronics exporter, gained the 0.6 percent. ADRs of
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company, advanced
0.4 percent. Japan’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  may be active after
Heineken NV raised its offer for a controlling stake in Asia
Pacific Breweries Ltd. to S$5.6 billion ($4.5 billion).  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,215 in  Chicago  on Aug. 17, up from 9,190
in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,200 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index advanced 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.2 percent in Wellington.  “The positives are that the economic-data pulse has
improved, beating market expectations, particularly in the
U.S.,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of
investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth management
unit. The Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in assets under
management. “Markets continue to price in additional central-
bank stimulus. The prospect of European quantitative easing
appears very much the base case.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The underlying gauge is less than one point away
from a four-year peak of 1,419.04 set on April 2. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  last week added 67.25 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 13,275.20. On the last day of trading, it touched the highest
level since December 2007.  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly improved in
August, boosting the prospect of stronger household spending
this quarter, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading economic
indicators, a gauge of the outlook for the next three to six
months, climbed more than forecast in July. This helped cap
stock-market gains for the week as  Germany  backed the European
Central Bank’s bond-buying plan.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose last week for a third-
straight week, its longest winning streak since the five days
ended March 2, amid optimism central banks would enact more
measures to promote economic growth. Still, the Asia-Pacific
benchmark has retreated 6.4 percent from a Feb. 29 high amid
concern  China’s economy  is slowing and Europe’s debt crisis is
deepening.  European Debt  The ECB is considering setting limits on yields of euro-
area sovereign debt by pledging unlimited bond purchases,
Germany’s Spiegel magazine reported, without saying where it
obtained the information.  The policy will be decided at the September meeting of the
ECB’s governing council, Spiegel said. The Frankfurt-based
central bank would immediately publish bond purchases after
making them, the magazine added. An ECB official declined to
comment on the article.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the central
bank may buy government debt in unison with the region’s bailout
funds to address elevated yields that are “related to fears of
the reversibility of the euro.” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
backed the ECB’s insistence on conditions for helping reduce
borrowing costs on Aug. 16, saying Germany is “in line” with
the central bank’s approach to defending the euro.  Company Profits  Stocks on the Asian regional benchmark, which includes
companies from emerging countries, were valued at 12.6 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.7 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11.7 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 469 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
 reported quarterly earnings  since May 16, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, about 54 percent have failed to meet
projections.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
climbed 0.4 percent Aug. 17, a fourth day of gains. The London
Metals Exchange Index of six primary metals rose 1.2 percent.  Options traders are charging the  biggest premium  since
March to protect against losses in Chinese companies on signs
that a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy is worse
than economists estimated.  The AlphaShares Chinese Volatility Index, derived from
options on companies listed in  Hong Kong , traded at a premium of
as much as 41 percent over the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index last week, the biggest gap since March 29. The
spread compares with a 10 percent discount a year earlier.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index both fell 0.8 percent last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  