-- Obama or Romney Will Raise Your Taxes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-19T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/obama-or-romney-will-raise-your-taxes.html
Regardless of who wins the
presidential election, if you’re middle class, one outcome is
certain: Your taxes are going up.  This fact goes unmentioned by President  Barack Obama , who
speaks only of tax increases on the wealthy, and is anathema to
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  and his running
mate,  Paul Ryan , who insist they can beat the deficit into
submission by slashing  government spending , cutting taxes and
eliminating unspecified loopholes. A look at the arithmetic
shows neither campaign is on the level.  The scope of the deficit problem is enormous: Federal
spending accounts for 24 percent of the economy, while  tax
revenue  stands at 15 percent. Tax cuts, along with the economic
downturn, have sapped tax receipts at the same time as more
people have resorted to safety-net programs such as food stamps
and unemployment insurance.  This imbalance produces budget-busting deficits that the
Congressional Budget Office  projects  will total $1.2 trillion in
2012. Between 2013 and 2022, the CBO expects $10.7 trillion will
be added to the national deficit if policy makers extend current
policies, including the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts.  U.S. debt  is
expected to total 73 percent of gross domestic product this
year, rising to 93 percent in 2022.  The consensus among economists is that the national debt
must be stabilized so that the U.S. runs a “ primary balance ” --
meaning the budget is balanced except for interest payments --
within a decade. To achieve that goal, annual deficits must be
reduced from more than 7 percent to about 3 percent of GDP.
That, in turn, requires that the U.S. cut its deficit by more
than $4 trillion over the next 10 years.  Big Pie  One way to do that (there are only two) is to reduce
federal spending, which will  total  about $3.7 trillion in 2012.
Yet the pie isn’t as big as it appears. Spending on mandatory
programs, including Medicare and  Social Security , amounts to
about $2.2 trillion.  Judging from last week’s campaign rhetoric, entitlements
will not be curbed anytime soon. Romney promised to “preserve
and protect” Social Security and Medicare, which are the biggest
contributors to the government’s bloated budget tab, while Obama
countered that his new health-care law won’t hurt seniors who
currently depend on Medicare. Both comments suggest that
significant cuts would not occur for at least a decade.  That leaves discretionary spending. But after the roughly
$700 billion share for defense -- spending that is traditionally
hard to cut by any significant amount -- the amount left for
programs such as education, veterans benefits and transportation
is about $610 billion. To reach $4 trillion in cuts over 10
years would require essentially dismantling basic government
services such as border security and food and drug inspection.
As the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission said in  its
2010 report , that’s not going to happen.  Then there is the 2012 Budget Control Act, which is equally
fantastical. The law requires about $1 trillion in across-the-board cuts over the next 10 years and puts $1.2 trillion more on
the chopping block as part an automatic “sequester” that takes
effect if lawmakers can’t agree by January on budget cuts.
The Republican-led House has already moved to protect some
 defense spending . So much for reducing spending.  What about increasing revenue? First, let’s put to rest the
canard that the U.S. can eliminate the deficit through tax cuts
that stimulate economic growth. Lower tax rates do provide
incentives for employment and investment, but the debt hole is
so deep that it would take improbably robust growth for the U.S.
to climb out of it.  ‘Revenue Neutral’  What’s more, the bipartisan Tax Policy Center  noted
recently  that Romney’s plan for “revenue neutral” tax cuts would
undercut the potential for economic growth because it would
“increase the portion of Americans’ income that is subject to
tax, and this would create incentives that would work in the
other direction.” In other words: Romney’s plan will require a
tax increase because it would open up a $360 billion hole
beginning in 2015. The  Tax Policy Center   suggests  he would have
to make up the difference by reducing tax expenditures and
increasing the tax burden on middle- and lower-income households
by at least $41 billion.  Romney is correct to tackle tax expenditures, which  cost 
the U.S. $1 trillion each year. But that should be part of a
bigger conversation about whose taxes should go up and when.
Some tax changes hurt less than others. For example, the U.S.
 should tax  income from  capital gains  and dividends, which
disproportionately benefit wealthy earners, at the same rate as
earned income. That could raise about $1 trillion over 10 years.
More creative and efficient taxes should also be on the table. A
carbon tax, for example,  could bring in  $310 billion by 2050.  The deficit is not irreducible. The Simpson-Bowles report,
for example, lays out a mix of tough spending cuts and
significant tax changes that increase revenue while keeping
progressivity in the U.S. tax code. Every serious  deficit
reduction plan  calls for increased revenue along with spending
cuts.  If they were being honest, both presidential candidates
would likewise acknowledge that taxes must be raised. And
there’s no way to make the arithmetic work without some revenue
from the middle class. So vote for whomever you like this
November. Either way, your taxes are going up.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Putin’s failed show trial ;
William D. Cohan on the  SEC’s treatment of whistle-blowers ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on why  voter turnout  will be critical in
November;  Simon Johnson  on the  real opportunity for
conservatives  this fall; Elena Marks on why even governors in
opposition should set up  state insurance exchanges .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 