-- Obscure Grapes, Small Growers Give Soul to Spanish Wines
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-08-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/obscure-grapes-small-growers-give-soul-to-spanish-wines.html
Wine writer and importer Gerry Dawes
is nothing if not highly opinionated about Spanish wines.  In 2003 Dawes was awarded  Spain ’s prestigious Premio
Nacional de Gastronomia, and Spanish superstar chef Ferran Adria
said of him, “Spain wouldn’t be as known to Americans without
the stories Gerry tells and writes.”  So, when Dawes summoned me to  New York ’s Le Cirque
restaurant for tastings of his  Spanish Artisan Wine Group-Gerry
Dawes Selections , I expected to be as delighted by the wines as
by Dawes’s opinions.  True to form, he began by lashing into how so many
contemporary Spanish wineries are making wines in an
international style.  “These big wineries are losing their souls,” he said.
“Their wines are deliberately made in that overripe, high
alcohol style that the wine media like  Bob Parker  applaud. The
wines are all starting to taste the same and they give you no
sense of their terroir at all.”  “The wines might as well come from anywhere in Spain.
Don’t get me started on what’s happened to most of Ribera del
Duero, Rioja, and Navarra,” he exclaimed.  Obscure Grapes  The 20 wines Dawes was pouring came from small growers,
some of whom just began bottling their wines, grown from their
own clones of unfamiliar grapes like espadeiro, tinta hembra,
hoja redonda, and godello.  There was a remarkable array of whites, and an
extraordinary rosado from the region of Cigales, Hermanos Merino
Vina Catajarros ‘Elite’ 2011 ($14).  With its dark rose color and a blend of 80 percent
tempranillo, five percent garnacha, 10 percent verdejo, and five
percent albillo, the wine really turned heads at our table of
wine media and sommeliers.  “Absolutely delicious,” I wrote next to a rich 100
percent albarino, 2010 made by Adegas Avo Roxo ($25) on just 1.5
hectares of land in O Salnes. Its Burgundy-like power was
achieved without oak aging.  Another white wine (it’s actually golden with a hint of
pink) lush with fruit and dense with minerality was a 2010
Cabaleiro do Val Albarino ($25).  The wine is made by Francisco “Paco” Dovalo Lopez,
founder and president of the Asociacion of Bodegas Artesanas,
who makes his vino de autor (signature wine) in an old granite
farmhouse dating from 1834.  High Vines  Were I enjoying a shellfish lunch on the harbor on
Mallorca, I could find no better match than O Barreiro A
Silveira 2010 ($20). It’s made from 100 percent godello from 30-
year-old vines grown at high altitude in the mountain village of
Seadur above the Sil River Valley.  We tasted five wines made from the mencia grape, which,
“is to ribeira sacra as gamay is to Morgon or syrah is to Cote
Rotie, a grape perfectly matched to its terroir,” said Dawes.  “A few years back mencia showed a lot of promise, but too
many vintners went the high alcohol, in-your-face route, which
is unnecessary because mencia is a big wine with a lot of
character on its own and a distinct aroma,” he said.  Indeed, some of the mencia bottlings had a little funkiness
on first whiff and taste, but they showed varietal distinctions:
the Bodegas Adria Vina Barroca 2010 is very well priced at $15;
the Adegas D. Berna 2011 ($20) had a pleasing minty flavor; and
Don Bernardino Tinto Joven 2011 ($17) reminded me of syrah, with
rich fruit and a slate-like minerality, yet it has only 12.5
percent alcohol.  Flavor Levels  Most impressive of the mencias, Vina Cazoga Tinto 2010
($27), was a blend with other varietals, whose bouquet was
really quite beautiful, followed by layers and layers of flavors
and a strong, long finish. It was the best wine of the day for
me.  I also loved the 2007 Aliaga Garnacha Vieja ($20) made from
old vines whose garnacha grapes undergo a 20-day maceration that
gives it a gorgeous nose, color and depth, without depending on
any oak or high alcohol (the percentage is under 14).  Similar, but with more complexity, was a 2009 Terra Remota
Camino ($29) made from 40 percent garnacha, 30 percent syrah, 20
percent cabernet sauvignon, and 10 percent tempranillo.  Local Consumption  The irony with these artisanal wines is that few ever reach
 Madrid , Barcelona or the rest of Spain, and are available only
to local people and restaurants in their respective regions.  Dawes, however, has edged them into the U.S., at notable
Manhattan restaurants like Picholine, Porter House, and
Tertulia, and outside the city at Blue Hill at Stone Barns in
Tarrytown, and  Crabtree’s Kittle House  in Chappaqua.  “There aren’t a whole lot of these wines being made,”
said Dawes over a closing glass of Aliaga Moscatel. “Many of
these guys are farmers who only made wines for the locals.  But
if you want to taste the Spanish terroir and the handiwork of
the artisans, they are well worth seeking out.”  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books and
 Peter Rainer  on  movies .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 