-- Home Sales and Goods Orders Probably Rose: U.S. Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-19T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/home-sales-and-goods-orders-probably-rose-u-s-preview.html
Home sales and orders for durable
goods probably climbed in July, signaling the U.S. is starting
to strengthen after a second-quarter slowdown, economists said
before reports this week.  Combined purchases of new and existing houses increased to
a 4.89 million annual rate from a 4.72 million pace in June,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Bookings
for long-lasting goods climbed the most this year, another
report may show.  Buoyed by cheaper properties and record-low mortgage costs,
demand for real estate is bolstering the industry that helped
trigger the recession. Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s latest
meeting, also due this week, will be a reminder that policy
makers are monitoring economic data such as housing and business
investment to determine whether more stimulus is needed.  “Things seem to be looking a bit better compared to the
weak second quarter,” said  Omair Sharif , a U.S. economist at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “All the data
point to a sustained improvement in housing.”  The National Association of Realtors will release  existing 
house sales on Aug. 22. Purchases increased 3.3 percent to a
4.52 million annual rate, following a 4.37 million pace in June,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  New Homes  Sales of  new homes , due the next day from the Commerce
Department, rebounded to a 365,000 annual rate in July from
350,000 the prior month, the survey median showed.  Newly constructed properties made up 6.7 percent of the
residential market in 2011, down from a high of 15 percent
during the boom of the past decade. Last year marked the worst
year for the industry in records going back to 1963, as builders
sold 306,000 new homes, down from 323,000 in 2010.  Reports last week added to evidence housing is on the
mend. Residential construction permits, a proxy for future work,
jumped to a four-year high in July even as housing starts fell
from the fastest pace in more than three years. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder
confidence rose in August to the highest level since 2007.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
posted a better-than-estimated profit and a 32 percent jump in
orders in the second quarter.  AV Homes Inc. (AVHI) , which develops
properties in Florida and  Arizona , said it closed on 41 percent
more houses in the second quarter compared to a year earlier,
and contracts signed, net of cancellations, more than doubled.  ‘Gain Momentum’  “The housing market continues to gain momentum,” Allen Anderson, chief executive officer of AV Homes, said on an Aug. 7
earnings conference call. “We are no longer battling the
headwinds of the housing recession.”  The average rate on a  30-year fixed  mortgage dropped to
3.49 percent in the week ended July 26, the lowest in records
dating to 1971, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Companies in related industries also are benefiting.  Home
Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer, reported
second-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates and raised
its forecast for earnings this year as customers spent more on
remodeling projects.  Investors have become more upbeat about housing. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has advanced
61 percent so far this year, outpacing a 13 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   The Fed has said it will “closely monitor” economic data
and financial developments, according to a statement after its
July 31-Aug. 1 meeting, at which policy makers determined they
“will provide additional accommodation as needed” to
accelerate the expansion. Minutes of the gathering are to be
released Aug. 22.  In other data, a Commerce Department report on Aug. 24 may
show durable goods orders rose 3 percent in July, the most since
December, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  