-- Monte Paschi Seen Posting Loss, Handing Stake to Government
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-08-20T07:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/monte-paschi-seen-posting-loss-handing-stake-to-italian-state.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) ,
the world’s oldest bank, may become the first Italian lender
since the 1990s to have the government as a shareholder as the
company weighs further goodwill writedowns.  Monte Paschi, which is borrowing 3.4 billion euros ($4.2
billion) by selling bonds to the state, must give shares to the
Italian Treasury in lieu of interest on the debt if it reports
an annual loss, according to a law approved this month.  Brokerages including Kepler  Capital Markets  and Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux SA  estimate  Monte Paschi, Italy’s third-
biggest bank, will report a net loss of more than 1 billion
euros in the second quarter on writedowns, a shortfall that
would lead to a loss for 2012. The bank, which publishes results
on Aug. 28, said in June that a review of goodwill may lead to
“material” impairments in first-half earnings.  “Very likely the bank will hand a stake to the Treasury at
this stage,” said Fabrizio Spagna, managing director at Axia
Financial Research in Padua, Italy. “I expect, as suggested by
Paschi’s executives, new writedowns on their intangibles, a move
to skip paying interest on aid at a time when the bank is
struggling to make money and raise liquidity.”  Fabrizio Viola, who became chief executive officer in
January, turned to the state for funds after failing to find
private investors to close a 3.3 billion-euro capital shortfall
identified by the European Banking Authority.  Europe ’s banking
regulator instructed the region’s biggest lenders to reach a 9
percent core Tier 1 capital level by the end of June.  Second Time  Italy sold bank holdings in the 1990s as it sought to
improve lenders’ profitability and foster consolidation. The
government is now seeking to sell assets to help cut the euro-
area’s second-largest debt burden. For Monte Paschi, the stock
payment to the state may dilute other investors and intensify
government control.  Monte Paschi’s aid request is its second in three years,
after it obtained 1.9 billion euros in 2009 through the issue of
so-called Tremonti bonds. That debt will be converted into the
new securities and forms part of the total requested.  While the terms of the new bonds haven’t been defined, the
Siena-based bank expects to pay a higher  interest rate  than the
8.5 percent on the Tremonti bonds, Viola said on June 27. The
government has 30 days from the  law’s publication  to set terms.  In case of losses, the shares will be issued to the
Treasury at Monte Paschi’s book value, according to the law. The
bank’s stock trades at about 20 percent of that level.  “We forecast 640 million euros of capital issued to the
government due to two years of losses” in 2012 and 2013, Aldo Comi, an analyst at Cheuvreux, wrote in a July 5 report. The
Treasury would hold about 7 percent of the bank’s capital in
2014, based on Comi’s forecast.  Strategic Choice  “The goodwill writedown may be seen as a strategic choice,
to save money,” said Spagna. “The bill will be paid by the
state and taxpayers. Instead of cash,  Italy  will get shares at
five times their market price.”  A Monte Paschi official declined to comment.  The bank, which fell to a  record low  of 15.68 cents last
month, posted an 18 percent gain, its biggest in 13 years, on
Aug. 17 amid speculation its main investor, Fondazione Monte dei
Paschi, will reduce its holding, opening the way for a shuffle
among shareholders.  The stock rose 10 percent to 23.79 cents, valuing the firm
at 2.9 billion euros as of 9:34 a.m. in Milan. That compares
with the company’s book value of 1.05 euros a share.  Payment Missed  The lender skipped an interest payment of about 160 million
euros on the Tremonti bonds in 2011 because the rules for those
securities permit banks to avoid interest in case of losses.  Monte Paschi has residual  goodwill  of about 2.2 billion
euros after 4.5 billion euros of writedowns last year related to
acquisitions, including its purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA.
The bank posted a 5 billion-euro loss in 2011.  The lender, which was founded in 1472, paid 9 billion euros
to purchase Padua-based Antonveneta from  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in
2007, just before the onset of the global credit crunch.
Goodwill represents the excess purchase price above fair market
value that a company pays in an acquisition, and typically
reflects the value of intangible assets such as a brand name.  “As regards 2012, a coupon miss appears almost inevitable,
with Monte Paschi once more reviewing goodwill positions,” said
 Ronny Rehn , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London .  Monte Paschi, which expects  revenue to fall  1 percent
through 2015, is selling a 60 percent stake in its northern
Italian unit, Biverbanca, for as much as 223 million euros,
closing 400 branches and eliminating 4,600 jobs to curb losses.  Banks in Italy are under scrutiny from investors and
regulators as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis threatens to engulf
the country.  Spain  asked for as much as 100 billion euros of
European loans on June 9 to bail out its banks, which have been
pummeled by real estate losses and a worsening recession.  Monte Paschi’s bailout doesn’t signal wider difficulties
among Italy’s banks, said Angelo Drusiani, who manages about 3
billion euros at Banca Albertini Syz & C. in Milan. “Italian
lenders are definitely in better shape than their Spanish
counterparts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  