-- Monti Says Italy’s Yield Level Caused by External Euro Concerns
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-08-19T17:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/monti-says-italy-s-yield-level-caused-by-external-euro-concerns.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said the country’s elevated bond yields are a result of external
concern about the future of the euro as his budget cuts have
failed to ease investor tension amid a contracting economy.  The Cabinet was aiming for “a quicker drop in yields that
could have helped the Italian economy recover,” Monti said
today in a speech in Rimini,  Italy . That didn’t happen “for a
number of reasons that were not so much about Italy but due to
lower confidence toward a problem-free continuation of the euro,
and without the risk of any country exiting.”  Italy’s  10-year yields  are at 5.79 percent, more than 4
percentage points higher than similar-maturity German bond
yields and almost twice the average for the past year. Monti has
been unable to close the borrowing gap even as he has overhauled
the pension system, revamped  labor laws  and imposed austerity to
bring the deficit within European Union limits this year.  Italy pays 429 basis points more than  Germany  to borrow for
10 years, within 90 basis points of the gap when Monti took
office on Nov. 16.  As  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to push Italy into an
international rescue, Monti is under pressure to demonstrate the
value of his austerity-focused government. Italian gross-
domestic product shrank for a fourth consecutive quarter in the
three months through June as Monti trimmed the budget and
increased taxes.  ‘Particularly Heavy’  Monti said today that over the “last few months there has
been tension in the financial markets, on the government’s
securities and that has been obviously particularly heavy for
our country,” which had a debt-to-GDP  ratio  of more 120 percent
at the end of 2011.  The Italian cabinet held “lengthy” discussions on a
possible request for European bailout funds to buy its bonds,
Education Minister Francesco Profumo said in an Aug. 9 interview
with Bloomberg News. Later that day he issued a press release
saying “there wasn’t a long discussion.”  Monti, with seven months left to serve, is campaigning in
Europe to prevent Italy’s bailout. In June, he joined forces
with Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who’s also resisting
a rescue, to ease requirements on countries that request aid.
Abroad, he has been foiled by German resistance to collective
action and investor speculation that the fate of Italy, the
third-biggest economy in the 17-nation euro area, is tied to
that of the other so-called peripheral countries.  Monti said today that it would be a tragedy if European
leaders are unable to ease tension and bring stability to the
common currency area.  “The euro is the pinnacle of the European construction,”
he said. “It would be a tragedy if it became, because of the
inability of us heads of governments, a factor of disruption
which revives biases of the north against south or the other way
around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  