-- Astros Lose 8-1 in Tony DeFrancesco’s Debut as Interim Manager
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-20T04:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/houston-astros-fire-manager-mills-coaches-barnett-meacham-1-.html
The  Houston Astros  lost their first
game under Tony DeFrancesco, who was appointed the team’s
interim manager after Brad Mills was fired.  The Astros were beaten 8-1 by the  Arizona  Diamondbacks
yesterday at Minute Maid Park in Houston. It was the fourth
straight defeat for the Astros, whose 39-83 record is the worst
in  Major League Baseball . The Diamondbacks (62-59) are third in
the National League West Division.  DeFrancesco was appointed from Houston’s Triple-A affiliate
in Oklahoma City after Mills two days ago became the first major
league manager to be fired this season.  “It didn’t work out the way I wanted it, but it was an
honor to put the Astros uniform on and be part of the
organization,” DeFrancesco told reporters. “It’s been a blur.
When the game started I was in my own place out there. That’s
where I belong.”  Mills led the Astros to a franchise-worst 56-106 mark last
year after going 76-86 in his first season with Houston. Mills
joined the Astros on Oct. 27, 2009, and left with a 171-274
record. Houston also fired hitting coach Mike Barnett and first-
base coach Bobby Meacham, replacing them on an interim basis
with Ty Van Burkelo and Dan Radison respectively.  “I’ve been around these guys for a while now and they
understand the philosophy,” DeFrancesco said of Van Burkelo and
Radison.  No Extension  The team decided a week ago not to extend Mills’s contract
past the end of this season, said Jeff Luhnow, who’s in his
first year as general manager following Houston’s sale to Crane
Capital Group’s  Jim Crane .  “Once that decision was made and thinking through the
logic, it made sense to make these changes sooner rather than
later,” Luhnow said. “The mix just wasn’t working.”  The club doesn’t have a list of candidates for Mills’s
permanent replacement and DeFrancesco will have a chance to get
the job, Luhnow said.  “We need coaches and a manager that can inspire, lead and
teach and get us to be the point where we need to be, which is
to compete year in, year out for the division title,” Luhnow
said.  After losing three games to the Diamondbacks, the Astros
have six road games: three games against the St. Louis Cardinals
beginning tomorrow, followed by three more in  New York  against
the Mets.  “There’s potential in that clubhouse -- the problem is
they’re inexperienced,” DeFrancesco said. “I know every guy in
that clubhouse. They played for me in  Oklahoma City . They gave a
great effort and I was the guy congratulating them on coming up
to the major leagues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  