-- Toyota Faces 20% Drop in Japan Industry Sales as Aid Ends
-- B y   M a   J i e ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-08-20T09:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/toyota-faces-20-drop-in-japan-industry-sales-as-aid-ends.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267)  can thank  government aid  for helping auto industry sales
grow faster in Japan than any major market this year. As state
subsidies are about to run out, so may the euphoria.  Japan vehicle sales, after surging about 53 percent in the
first seven months, will drop as much as 20 percent next quarter
as the payouts expire, analysts at BNP Paribas SA and IHS
Automotive said. Toyota is counting on a cheaper version of the
Prius hybrid to sustain demand, while  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  has said
it will offer support to dealers.  About 88 percent of the 300 billion yen ($3.8 billion)
budgeted for subsidies has been consumed as buyers snapped up
cars, underpinning an economic recovery that economists now
forecast will fade. The end of state aid of as much as 100,000
yen per vehicle will be compounded by the government’s plan to
double the national  consumption tax , prompting additional calls
from carmakers for stimulus measures.  “The government will have to come up with ways to offset
the negative impact of the consumption tax increase,” said
Yoshiaki Kawano, an analyst at IHS Automotive in  Tokyo . Should
the subsidies end by next month, sales in the three months
starting Oct. 1 will drop as much as 20 percent, he said.  History shows carmakers have reason to worry.  After a government rebate ended in September 2010, vehicle
deliveries plunged 29 percent in the following quarter,
according to the  Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association . In
the year ended March 1998, domestic deliveries dropped 14
percent after the nation’s  sales tax  was increased 2 percentage
points to 5 percent in 1997.  ‘Very Worried’  Count Nobuhiro Miyazaki, manager of a Toyota dealership in
central Tokyo, among those concerned.  “Sales are going to plunge for sure,” Miyazaki said.
“We’re very worried that demand may fall as badly as two years
ago when the last subsidies were used up.”  About 37 billion yen remained in the country’s auto-subsidy
fund as of Aug. 14, according to the  website  set up by the
agency in charge of the payments. The program started giving
rebates for energy-efficient vehicles from Dec. 20, and the
portion set aside for heavier trucks and commercial vehicles ran
out early July.  In addition to calling for extended government support for
sales, Japan’s biggest carmakers plan to rely on new models and
customer support programs to draw buyers.  Global Lead  Toyota has introduced the lower-priced Aqua hybrid compact
-- known as the Prius c in the U.S. -- along with some other
models to help drive sales, said Joichi Tachikawa, a spokesman
for the Toyota City, Japan-based company.  Japan accounted for about 27 percent of Toyota’s first-half
sales, based on data compiled by Bloomberg and JAMA. That means
a 20 percent drop in demand in the home market would reduce
deliveries by about 5.4 percent. Growth in other countries,
including the U.S., will probably enable Toyota to stay No. 1 in
global sales, ahead of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   “It would take some kind of pretty major development to
knock them off course at this point,” said  Kevin Tynan ,
automotive analyst for Bloomberg Industries in New York. “In
the U.S. Toyota is still turning product very quickly, and it
gives them enough room to grow sales. They are largely protected
from the downturn in Europe, which is going to hinder GM, Ford
and VW going forward, and they are doing well in  emerging
markets . This gives them an advantage in the global race.”  Toyota raised its forecast for full-year sales this month,
saying deliveries may rise 23 percent to a record 9.76 million.
Along with growth in China and Brazil, Toyota is doing well in
Thailand, Indonesia and  Middle East , said  Efraim Levy , an equity
analyst with Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ in New York.  Overseas Growth  “Slowing in Japan will be more than offset by growth in
those markets,” said Levy, who upgraded Toyota’s American
depositary receipts to buy on Aug. 17.  For Honda and Nissan -- which made 22 percent and 16
percent of their first-half sales in Japan -- a 20 percent drop
in domestic sales would lower deliveries by 4.4 percent and 3.2
percent, respectively.  Honda’s introduction of vehicles including the new N-box
minicar will help support sales after subsidies end, and no
incentives or discounts are planned,  Akemi Ando , a spokeswoman
for the carmaker, said by telephone.  Nissan’s Compact  Nissan will offer support on a model-by-model basis at the
dealer level, including price cuts on car navigation systems,
said Chris Keeffe, a spokesman for the company. He declined to
elaborate on other aid the automaker will offer dealers.  Nissan has repeatedly called on the government to extend
subsidies and is introducing the new Note compact and the Serena
S-hybrid minivan to spur demand.  “This Japanese market needs stimulus to continue to grow
and compete on the world stage,”  Andy Palmer , executive vice
president at Nissan, told reporters in Yokohama, Japan, at a
July 17 event to introduce the new Note. “We sincerely hope
those kind of incentives will be continuing.”  Toyota and Honda are trading at the highest price compared
with earnings among 14 peers in the industry, at about 36 and 23
respectively,  data  compiled by Bloomberg shows. Nissan’s ratio
is 9.7, still higher than Ford Motor Co.’s 7.8 and Detroit-based
GM’s 7.4.  Government payments have helped make Toyota’s Prius and
Tokyo-based Honda’s Fit the nation’s best-selling cars. Toyota
sold 215,028 units of Prius from January to July, about twice
that sold a year earlier. Fit deliveries rose 44 percent to
157,498.  Broader Economy  Norio Miyagawa, an economist at Mizuho Securities Research
in Tokyo, said the looming slump in car sales may extend to the
broader economy.  “Car sales supported gains in durable goods in the second
quarter, but overall consumption was dull,” Miyagawa said.
“ Consumer spending  may decline in the fourth quarter as the
boosts from the government’s incentives will peter out.”  Japan’s mounting government debt, the world’s largest, is
also prompting concern payouts like subsidies for car buyers
won’t be renewed.  A new round of vehicle subsidies isn’t likely to be
introduced soon,  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer of
Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo, said by phone. The
payouts may be revived eventually to offset the negative effect
of legislation approved by Japan’s parliament to increase
consumption taxes, he said.  Japan’s auto association and other industrial groups have
also called for the end of two other levies on vehicles to boost
domestic demand as the strength of the yen makes exports less
profitable. Japanese car buyers pay as many as nine taxes to own
a car, including an acquisition tax and a so-called weight tax.  Taxes on Cars  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s plan to double the
consumption tax to 10 percent in 2015, after an interim increase
to 8 percent in 2014, was approved in the nation’s parliament
earlier this month.  “While we are grateful to have subsidies as short-term
solutions, we need fundamental reviews of the taxes on cars,”
 Akio Toyoda , Toyota president and JAMA chairman, said July 19.
“We hope the government can work to reform the taxation in a
timely manner.”  Nissan Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga said earlier
this month that he believes the government will have to scrap or
reduce the vehicle purchase tax before the sales tax is actually
raised so that domestic sales will not be eroded.  Meantime, dealers including Miyazaki said they are looking
to boost revenue from other sources as car sales drop.  “We will try to make up for the decline of sales by
increasing car maintenance services,” he said. “But from a
longer point of view, with the consumption tax raise in sight,
the business will only get tougher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  