-- Republican Governors Should Want Homemade Exchanges
-- B y   E l e n a   M a r k s
-- 2012-08-19T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/republican-governors-should-want-homemade-exchanges.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  says he
doesn’t want his state to be “an  appendage  of the federal
government when it comes to health care.”  So he, like a handful of other Republican governors, has
publicly refused to set up an insurance exchange, as called for
by the Affordable Care Act.  All the governors in this group -- including Nikki Haley of
South Carolina,  Bobby Jindal  of  Louisiana  and  Rick Scott  of
 Florida  -- are states’ rights advocates. Yet if they don’t
create the exchanges, they will bring about precisely what they
oppose: a federal takeover of a major part of their states’
insurance systems. The federal government will come in and build
an exchange for them, one that will be extremely difficult to
tailor to local needs.  The exchanges are meant to provide private insurance
options for families and small businesses. Even former Senate
Majority Leader  Bill Frist , a Republican who opposes most of the
health-care law, strongly  endorses  state health-insurance
exchanges and is urging governors to set up their own. And Mike Leavitt, who was President  George W. Bush ’s secretary of Health
and Human Services and is now the leader of  Mitt Romney ’s
transition team, is  advising  states on how to set up exchanges.  Nevertheless, along with the four governors who have
publicly rejected exchanges, 15 more have not declared whether
they will set them up.  Contrary to the notion that the exchanges would somehow act
as instruments of federal control, states are allowed plenty of
leeway to create systems that conform to local needs and values.
The exchange that already exists in  Utah , for example, primarily
provides people with the information they need to help them
choose an insurance plan. And Utah law explicitly prohibits any
plan in the exchange from offering coverage for abortions.
Massachusetts and  Vermont , in contrast, impose stiff regulations
on their insurance markets.  Presumably, states such as Texas and  South Carolina , which
lean toward less  government regulation , would prefer an exchange
like Utah’s to a Massachusetts-style system. But governors who
choose not to create their own exchanges will pass up the chance
to decide for themselves how large a regulatory role they want
to play.  Even though the Health and Human Services Department
staffers who are working on plans for the federally imposed
exchanges are trying their best to get input from insurance
officials in every state, they will be hard-pressed to design
unique exchanges for each of the states that refuse to design
their own. It’s more likely that the federally operated
exchanges will have a one-size-fits-all quality. And this will
make the states’ health-insurance systems more difficult and
costly to administer.  Consider, for example, that the federally run exchange will
need to operate alongside the existing private-health-insurance
market, which is already regulated by the state. That means
there will be two sets of officials setting rates and benefits
and creating a variety of administrative rules. This is an
invitation to inconsistency and confusion for everyone involved.  One underpublicized function of health-insurance exchanges
is to help people figure out which plans are available to them.
Each one will need a mechanism to determine which people qualify
for, and should be enrolled in, Medicaid or the Children’s
Health Insurance Program. Since each state already has its own
system of administering Medicaid and CHIP enrollment, it would
be much more efficient if the same state agency could manage
enrollment through the exchange.  States that have expressed resistance to creating exchanges
have yet to come up with workable alternative ways to help
people understand their choices. They will be under some
pressure to do so -- especially from the health-insurance
industry, which has  urged states  to  manage  their own exchanges.
In Texas alone, a state where 25 percent of residents are
uninsured, about 2 million people would be eligible for health
insurance in an exchange. ( Nationwide , about 20 million are
expected to be covered through the exchanges, according to
projections from the  Congressional Budget Office .)  It’s not too late for any state to start building its own
exchange. However, in order to do so, it must let the federal
government know by Nov. 16 -- and begin operation on Jan. 1,
2014. Some governors might understandably have philosophical or
practical reasons for wanting to limit federal involvement in
their health-insurance systems. In that case, they should
quickly grab the opportunity to set up their own exchanges.  (Elena Marks, a lawyer and the former director of health
and environmental policy for the city of Houston, is a scholar
in health policy at  Rice University ’s Baker Institute for Public
Policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Putin’s failed show trial  and
on how your  taxes are going up ; William D. Cohan on the  SEC’s
treatment of whistle-blowers ;  Albert R. Hunt  on why  voter turnout 
will be critical in November;  Simon Johnson  on the  real
opportunity for conservatives  this fall.  To contact the writer of this article:
Elena Marks at  Elena@markshouston.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  