-- Ryan on Ticket Focuses Both Campaigns on Turnout
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-08-19T15:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/ryan-on-ticket-focuses-both-campaigns-on-turnout.html
The selection of  Paul Ryan  to be the
Republican vice-presidential candidate has galvanized both
parties’ bases. The Wisconsin congressman is Velcro for his side
and Teflon for Democrats.  That enthusiasm is critical in an election that will be
awash in cash from the well-heeled campaigns and the outside
groups unleashed by court and political decisions. Voters in
Columbus,  Ohio , or  Orlando , Florida, will be carpet-bombed with
television commercials. The volume of ads will be overwhelming -
- it’ll be like underlining every paragraph in a book -- and
many are likely to tune out.  Another aspect of this  U.S. presidential election  is a
closely divided electorate with a smaller-than-usual bloc of
uncommitted or persuadable voters, maybe in the high single
digits.  That suggests both sides will place a premium on turnout.
That’s what has been known as the ground game, old-fashioned
shoe leather to identify and enlist supporters, except this time
it’s lubricated by cutting-edge technology: social media,
databases, micro-targeting and micro-listening.  Michael Whouley, the storied Democratic ground-game guru,
and Curt Anderson, who helped mastermind President  George W. Bush ’s successful voter mobilization in 2004, say getting voters
to the polls will be even more critical this time.  Obama’s Infrastructure  President  Barack Obama ’s forces have started with an
advantage: an extensive infrastructure built on the foundation
of the 2008 effort. They say they’ve been further aided by the
selection of Ryan, the House Budget Committee chairman, whose
policies are anathema to most core Democratic constituencies.  Republicans counter that Ryan energizes their base to turn
out heavily in November. In addition, outside groups, funded by
fat cats such as the Koch brothers, are also working to turn out
conservatives.  Contrasting the demographic vote in linchpin states in
2008, when Obama was victorious, and those where Republicans
triumphed in the 2010  congressional elections , underscores the
importance of turnout. The figures are from the national exit
polls.  In the last presidential race, 18 percent of the turnout
consisted of voters ages 18 to 29 who went for Obama by better
than two to one. Senior citizens -- 65 and older -- were a
slightly smaller bloc and backed the Republican candidate,
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona . By contrast, in 2010, the senior
vote dwarfed the youth vote in Ohio, Florida,  Iowa ,  Pennsylvania 
and  Colorado , among other states.  The Obama campaign’s biggest challenge probably will be to
come close to the  2008 result  with the youth vote. The
environment is tougher -- Obama captured the imagination of many
young voters last time and that will be hard to replicate with
an economy that is now punishing that age group.  The campaign says its efforts this time are more extensive
and sophisticated -- targeting 16 million potential first-time
young voters.  “We’re making far more use of social media,” says Buffy Wicks, the Obama campaign’s national director of Operation Vote.
“Last time, we sent out only a handful of tweets; now this is a
major vehicle to communicate with voters, especially young
voters.”  Another question is whether Democrats can muster the same
intensity among the president’s most loyal constituencies,
African-Americans and Latinos.  Black Vote  Four years ago, Obama carried  Florida  by less than 240,000
votes of 8.4 million cast; he got 96 percent of the votes of
African-Americans, who represent 13 percent of the state’s
electorate, and won handily among Latinos, one out of seven
Florida voters.  In 2010, turnout among both blacks and Latinos was 2
percentage points lower than in 2008. If all else stays the same
and minority turnout is like 2010, Obama loses Florida.  Most Democrats are optimistic that black voters will turn
out to re-elect Obama. They are more worried about a drop-off
among Hispanics.  The flipside for Republicans is the white evangelical vote,
about a quarter of the electorate in 2008 and one-third two
years later. In  Virginia , white evangelicals accounted for 28
percent of the vote in 2008 and went 4 to 1 for McCain. In the
gubernatorial race a year later they were 34 percent of the
electorate. That would have virtually wiped out the Democrats’
235,000-vote victory margin in the state in 2008.  Republicans are focusing heavily on this core constituency.
The Faith and Freedom Coalition, run by Ralph Reed with the
backing of wealthy conservative donors, is budgeting $10 million
to turn out religious conservatives.  Reed, a legendary political operative in the evangelical
community, says they expect to reach 18 million religious social
conservatives, about a quarter of them Catholics. Via the
Internet, e-mail and mobile phones, Faith and Freedom plans to
make 121 million contacts with these overwhelmingly Republican
voters.  With $1 billion of  television advertising  saturating major
markets in battleground states, Reed thinks there will be a
return of sorts “to how elections used to be determined. You
got lists of voters and turned out your vote.”  Richard Nixon  said the way to win the presidency was to
mobilize the base, or the true believers, in the primary. Then
rush to the center, where most voters are, in the general
election. This election may be more about which side better
mobilizes those true believers.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 