-- Saudi Arabia Oil Output Tops Russia in June, Jodi Data Show
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-08-19T12:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/saudi-arabia-pumps-oil-at-3-decade-high-exports-rise-jodi-says.html
Saudi Arabia  pumped crude at the
highest level in more than three decades in June, overtaking
 Russia  as the world’s largest oil producer during the month,
according to the Joint Organization Data Initiative.  The desert kingdom’s output rose 3 percent to 10.1 million
barrels a day in June from May as it exported the most in a
month since November 2005, according to statistics the
government submitted to OPEC and posted on JODI’s  website  today.  Russia pumped 9.9 million barrels a day of crude oil in the
same month, according to the initiative known as JODI. The
Russian data exclude natural-gas liquids, JODI said.  Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the 12-member
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, put 272 million
barrels of crude oil in storage inside the country in June, 2.2
percent less than in May, the data show. The world’s biggest oil
exporter shipped 7.84 million barrels a day in June, an increase
of 2.3 percent from a month earlier. The data for output and
exports include condensates and exclude natural-gas liquids.  JODI calculated a different barrel-per-day figure for
Russia using data in metric tons that the country submitted to
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, and compared that
with information from other sources, it said.  JODI is supervised by the Riyadh-based  International Energy
Forum  and compiles data provided by member governments. The IEF,
a group of nations accounting for more than 90 percent of global
oil and natural-gas supply and demand, was established as a
forum for producing and consuming countries to discuss  energy
security . The U.S.,  China  and the European Union are among the
IEF’s members, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  