-- Seagrove Faces Love Triangles, Volcano in Coward Play
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-08-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/seagrove-faces-love-triangles-exploding-volcano-in-coward-play.html
Jenny Seagrove is back on the London
stage in a production that promises much.  “Volcano” is an intriguing long-lost play by  Noel Coward ,
which he wrote in 1956 and then suppressed because he thought it
would alienate the friends it was based upon. There are love
triangles galore and a barrage of witty one-liners.  The playwright was living in tax exile in  Jamaica  and was
inspired by an affair between his friend  Ian Fleming , author of
the James Bond novels, and a plantation-owning society beauty.  Coward gave the drama an extra twist by setting it in a
fictional British colony called Samolo, in danger from spewing
lava and ash. As one character dryly says, it’s disconcerting
when marital infidelity is mixed up with volcanic eruptions.  Seagrove is the estate owner Adela, who is in love with the
charming Guy (played with raffish cool by Jason Durr). It’s no
wonder that Coward thought twice about this portrait of Fleming.  Guy, a cross between 007 and Don Juan, lives to seduce any
woman he meets. He is usually urbane but “as subtle as a fire
engine” when it comes to sex.  Adela’s younger friend Ellen arrives. Guy is soon chatting
her up. Then his steely wife Melissa (Dawn Steele) flies in from
 London : she is well accustomed to his serial romances.  “I know I behave badly,” he admits as they briefly embrace.  So far, so very genteel. The raging passions are hidden by
English stiff-upper-lip reserve. The comedy of class and manners
is shaken or stirred only slightly, probably less than the
endless Martinis and cups of iced tea being drunk.  Cocktail Party  “Volcano” is like a slightly edgier version of T.S. Eliot’s
“The Cocktail Party.”  Coward’s sophisticated sparring comes with plenty of raised
eyebrows and understated jokes: “the most beautiful thing about
having people come to stay is when they leave.” (The writer’s
visitors at his hillside home included  Laurence Olivier  and
 Katharine Hepburn .)  The repartee threatens to get dull until the volcano starts
rumbling. Designer Simon Scullion does an impressive job with
crashing beams and flickering lights. The terrified house guests
face tough choices: Run? Stay? And with whom?  The only problem is whether the audience really cares much
who pairs with who, or who survives.  Rating: ****  “Volcano” is at the Vaudeville Theatre, 404 Strand, WC2R
0NH, through Sept. 29. Information: +44-844-579-1975 or
 http://www.nimaxtheatres.com/vaudeville-theatre/volcano .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  John Mariani 
on wine and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 