-- Sergio Garcia Has One-Stroke Lead Into Final Round of Wyndham
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/sergio-garcia-takes-1-stroke-lead-after-three-rounds-of-wyndham.html
Sergio Garcia  has a one-stroke lead
at 14-under 196 going into the final round of the PGA’s Wyndham
Championship, the final event before the FedEx Cup playoffs.  Garcia, who is seeking his first tour win since the 2008
 Players Championship , shot a 4-under 66 yesterday at Sedgefield
Country Club in Greensboro, North Carolina.  Garcia said winning the title today is “definitely one of
the goals.”  “Eighteen pars are not going to win it,” he told
reporters. “Fourteen-under par is not going to win it. You have
to make some birdies out there.”  Garcia has been in the lead after 54 holes in seven PGA
Tour events, and has converted that advantage to victory twice.  “I’m trying to shoot the lowest score I can and hopefully
that would be good enough to have a good solid chance at winning
the tournament,” Garcia said. “I’d love to have a crystal ball
and tell you exactly what I need to shoot, but unfortunately, I
can’t.”  Bud Cauley’s 66 put him in a tie with  Tim Clark  for second
place at 13-under.  Jason Dufner , with a round of 7-under 63,
shares fourth at 12-under 198 with Carl Pettersson and Harris
English.  Clark was paired with Garcia during yesterday’s play.  “On the back nine we started to make some birdies, which
was nice,” Clark said. “He’s obviously playing really well
right now and seems to be in control of his game, too. It was a
good pairing.”  Second-round leader Jimmy Walker tallied a 1-over 71 to
share seventh place at 11-under with U.S. Ryder Cup captain
 Davis Love III  and Matt Every.  Defending champion and U.S. Open winner  Webb Simpson  also
carded a 71 to finish 54 holes at 10-under 200.  “I got to figure out a way to get it done tomorrow. I got
to figure out a way to score and make putts,” Simpson said.
“At least I’m four back, I guess. So four back is a lot better
than five back.”  The top 125 golfers in points will qualify for the FedEx
Cup competition that begins next week with the Barclays on the
Black Course at Bethpage State Park in Farmingdale,  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  