-- Shirakawa Dismissed by Yen Traders on Missed Price Target
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-08-20T14:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/shirakawa-dismissed-by-yen-traders-on-missed-inflation-target.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, who set the nation’s first inflation goal six months
ago to halt a decade-long struggle with deflation, has failed to
produce the weaker currency craved by exporters.  The yen slid as much as 8.8 percent against the dollar in
the weeks after the BOJ shocked markets in February by
announcing a 1 percent inflation target and expanding its asset-
buying fund. The relief for exporters was fleeting, as the
central bank refrained from expanding stimulus since April and
the currency resumed its climb toward a postwar record. Futures
traders raised bullish bets to a five-month high as consumer
prices continued their decline.  Blocking Shirakawa’s path to a weaker currency is the
popularity of Japanese government bonds, which returned more
than U.S., U.K and German debt after adjusting for inflation,
attracting overseas demand for the securities and the yen needed
to buy them. Battered by the stronger  exchange rate , Sony Corp.,
Sharp Corp. and Panasonic Corp. have cut employees, earnings
forecasts or both. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  is calling for
more measures from the central bank to stem gains.  “The BOJ did not deliver as much easing as was initially
expected, and as a result, the yen also didn’t depreciate as
much,” said  Frederic Neumann , the co-head of Asian economic
research in  Hong Kong  at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The BOJ is seen as
being very timid.”  Pressure Mounts  The central bank pioneered so-called quantitative easing a
decade ago, buying bonds and other assets to support market
prices and stimulating the economy through low  interest rates .
With benchmark borrowing costs near zero, the central bank’s
primary policy tool in recent years has been its asset-purchase
fund, which it has expanded to 45 trillion-yen ($566 billion).
BOJ members left the fund unchanged at the Aug. 9 meeting,
rejecting calls by lawmakers for more action.  Japan  has been caught in a vicious circle since the mid
1990s, with slow growth causing persistent price declines which
make even low-yielding government bonds attractive. The yen’s
 nominal effective exchange rate , or relative value measured to
major peers, has risen about 30 percent during the period, while
 consumer prices  fell at a monthly average of 0.1 percent.  “The risk of additional easing by the BOJ continues to
simmer, though it’s unlikely to weaken the yen against the
dollar,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , who worked at the central bank
for a decade and is now chief currency strategist at Barclays
Plc in  Tokyo .  Exchange Rates  Since falling to an 11-month low of 84.18 per dollar March
15, the yen rallied to 77.91 this month, approaching the post-
World War II record of 75.35 reached Oct. 31.  Analysts now expect the yen to end 2012 at 79 per dollar,
compared with a forecast of 85 in April, according to the median
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. HSBC is among the most
bullish, expecting it to strengthen to 74, the data show.  The yen declined 1.6 percent last week and today touched
79.66 per dollar, the weakest since July 12. It’s averaged 79.54
in 2012, stronger than last year’s record 79.71 level.  Further gains may fan speculation Japan will intervene in
 currency markets . Finance Minister Azumi said July 31 he stands
ready to act “decisively” on excess foreign-exchange moves.  The nation sold 14.3 trillion yen in 2011, the third-
largest annual sum, according to Ministry of Finance data going
back to 1991. The daily record was 8.07 trillion yen on Oct. 31
last year, which sparked a drop of as much as 5.5 percent on
that day.  Intervention Risk  “Once we start to see more substantial yen appreciation,
the risk of intervention rises,”  Todd Elmer , a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore , said in an interview
on Aug. 14. “Looking at the experience of the past, the 75-76
region would be a level which looks more consistent with strain
on the exporters that would force intervention.”  The yen may strengthen toward 76 per dollar, he said.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased the
number of contracts betting on an advance in the yen compared to
those foreseeing a drop to 32,254 on July 31, the most since
Feb. 7, according to figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. So-called  net longs  were at 30,704
on Aug. 14 after being net short, or expecting a decline, as
recently as May.  Foreign Buying  The BOJ’s desire for a weaker yen is being thwarted in part
by a global thirst for safety. As Europe’s debt crisis enters
its third year and monetary easing by central banks drives bond
yields to record lows, international investors have piled into
Japan’s government securities as a haven.  Foreigners bought a net 5.55 trillion yen of Japanese debt
this year through Aug. 11, figures from the Ministry of Finance
show, after acquiring 20.9 trillion of the securities last year,
the most ever, up from 6.68 trillion yen in 2010.  Ten-year Japanese government debt  yields  1.04 percentage
points more than the inflation rate, the highest real interest
level after Italy among the Group of Seven industrialized
nations, Bloomberg data show. Treasury yields are 0.4 percentage
point more than U.S. inflation.  Inflows continue even with Japan’s ratio of debt to gross
domestic product at 235 percent, the highest globally and
compared with 163 percent for Greece and 107 percent for the
U.S.,  estimates  from the International Monetary Fund show.  Fitch
Ratings  downgraded Japan’s local-currency issuer rating in May
by one level to A+ with a negative outlook.  Too Little  “Japan’s bonds have an advantage from the perspective of
real yields,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-based senior
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $76 billion. “Investors who are
concerned about a global slowdown are buying government bonds in
the countries that have a high  credit rating  or have some
resilience despite their lower credit profiles, such as Japan.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond
climbed 1.5 basis points to 0.85 percent today, after falling to
a nine-year low of 0.72 percent on July 23.  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign capital to fund its  budget deficit .  Policy makers’ efforts to boost inflation and weaken the
yen haven’t succeeded. Even as the government intervened in
currency markets and the BOJ flooded the financial system with
cash,  consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.2 percent in
June from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in Tokyo
last month, defying the BOJ’s goal of 1 percent inflation.  Market Doubts  Japan’s CPI is expected to grow 0.1 percent this year and
next, after falling 0.28 percent last year, according to
government data and forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The BOJ’s monetary easing hasn’t prompted companies to
increase borrowing and expand business.  Bank loans  fell 26
percent from a record in 1996. Wages have declined 7 percent
from a peak in 1998, prompting consumers to cut spending and
deepening deflation.  “The market sort of realized that the BOJ hasn’t put its
heart behind its words,” Takatoshi Ito, a former Ministry of
Finance official and now an economics professor at the
 University of Tokyo , said in a telephone interview on Aug. 15.
Following the surprise stimulus in February, “the market was
disappointed that the BOJ didn’t follow up on the announcement
with purchases of other things,” he said.  This failure is slowing economic growth. A stronger
currency reduces repatriated profits at domestic exporters and
makes their goods pricier than those of overseas competitors.  Exporters Squeezed  Japanese exporters can remain profitable as long as the yen
is at 82 per dollar or weaker, according to an annual government
poll released in February. The currency has been stronger than
that level since April, while the  Topix index  of more than 1,600
Japanese shares has slumped more than 10 percent since early
that month.  Sony, the nation’s biggest-consumer electronics exporter,
cut its full-year  profit forecast  by 33 percent earlier this
month, citing slowing demand and the strong yen. The company
lost money the four previous years. Panasonic may cut the number
of staff at its headquarters to “a few hundred” from about
7,000, President  Kazuhiro Tsuga  told reporters in July.  Sharp widened its annual  loss  forecast while announcing its
 first layoffs  since the 1950s amid competition from rivals, such
as South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co.  ‘Completely Lacerated’  The number of corporate bankruptcies caused by the yen’s
strength more than doubled to 68 during the January-July period
from a year earlier, a  survey  by Teikoku Databank Ltd. showed on
Aug. 13. The failures soared six-fold to 85 cases last year from
2008, the Tokyo-based database provider for corporate credit
said.  “The electronics sector has been completely lacerated by
yen appreciation,” said  Yasuhide Yajima , chief economist at NLI
Research Institute in Tokyo., a unit of Nippon Life Insurance
Co., Japan’s biggest life insurer. “The strong yen is one of
the sources of pain for Japanese companies.”  Falling profits at exporters hurts the broader economy.
Japan’s  gross domestic product  increased an annualized 1.4
percent in the three months through June, according to
government data on Aug. 13, short of the 2.3 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  ‘Bare Minimum’  Japan’s economic expansion is projected to slow to 1.3
percent next year, compared with the average of 1.5 percent for
the Group of 10 countries, according to economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. may grow 2.1 percent in 2013
while China expands 8.4 percent.  Shirakawa remains sanguine, saying on Aug. 9 that Japan’s
inflation rate may reach his 1 percent target in the 12 months
through March 2015. The time horizon for traders tends to be
shorter than that of monetary policy, he  told reporters .  “The Bank of Japan has tended to disappoint,” Citigroup’s
Elmer said. “I’m not sure there’s going to be any change to
that pattern where they do the bare minimum to satisfy the
government as well as the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  