-- South Africa Presses for Victory to Take Cricket’s No. 1 Ranking
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-08-20T00:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/south-africa-306-7-at-tea-leads-england-by-300-runs-in-test.html
South Africa  can take Test cricket’s
No. 1 ranking from England today by sealing a series victory on
the last day of their best-of-three contest.  Needing 346 to win the match, draw the series and stay top
of the  International Cricket Council ’s  elite rankings , England
will resume at 16-2 at Lord’s in London after losing  Alastair Cook  and Andrew Strauss leg-before-wicket to Vernon Philander.  The South Africans need to avoid defeat on the final day to
end England’s yearlong stay in the No. 1 spot and go back atop
the rankings for the first time since November 2009. Play is
scheduled to resume at 11 a.m. local time.  “Victory is the first thing on our minds,”  Hashim Amla ,
who scored 121 to help South Africa post 351 in its second
innings yesterday, said in a news conference. “We’re going for
the win. We are not the ones that have to make the play so that
gives us a lot of opportunities to get wickets.”  Only three teams have successfully chased more than 200 in
the fourth innings to win a Test match at Lord’s. The touring
team is the 1-2 favorite to win with England the 16-1 outsider,
according to U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH) , which rates the
draw a 7-4 chance.  “England will need a miracle to hang on to the number one
ranking,” said William Hill spokesman Rupert Adams.  South Africa, which won the opener by an innings before a
the second Test was drawn, was all out after tea yesterday.  Amla, who was dropped on a difficult chance by Matt Prior
when on two, completed his second century of the series before
AB de Villiers (43), Philander (35) and JP Duminy, 26 not out,
helped lift the total above 350. England fast bowler  Steven Finn 
took 4-74 to give him eight wickets for the match.  Openers Out  Philander then trapped both England openers lbw before the
close of play, leaving Jonathan Trott on 6,  Ian Bell  on 4 and
the home team needing another 330 runs to win. South Africa
requires eight wickets to seal its second straight Test series
victory in England.  “The two guys that are in have performed fantastically
well for England for a long time,” Finn told reporters. “We
hope they can build a big, long partnership. It’s up to the
batsmen to really knuckle down and get us into a position where
we can win the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  