-- Speculators Hold Wagers at an 11-Month High: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-08-20T19:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/speculators-hold-wagers-at-11-month-high-amid-rally-commodities.html
Speculators held wagers on rising
commodities near the highest in 11 months as speculation that
 China  will act to bolster its economy and signs of improving
U.S. growth boosted prices for a third consecutive week.  Money managers’ net-long  position  across 18 U.S. raw
materials was little changed at 1.2 million futures and options
in the week ended Aug. 14, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. Investors increased bets on costlier corn,
soybeans and cattle amid the worst U.S. drought in 56 years,
reduced wagers on a rally in crude oil and became more bearish
on the outlook for copper.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said there’s “growing room for
monetary policy operation” amid easing inflation, state
television reported Aug. 15. Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly improved in August and an index of leading
indicators climbed more than forecast in July, separate reports
showed Aug. 17. China is the world’s biggest consumer of
everything from copper to pork to soybeans, and the U.S. is the
largest user of crude and corn.  “China saying they’re going to have more economic stimulus
is going to have as much of an effect on commodities as actually
doing it,” said Jeffrey Sica, the Morristown, New Jersey-based
president of SICA Wealth Management who helps oversee more than
$1 billion of assets. “It’s going to psychologically increase
where people think commodities should be priced.”  Feeder Rally  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
gained 1.7 percent last week, the most since July 20. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities advanced 0.7 percent, and
the dollar added 0.1 percent against a measure of six major
trading partners. Treasuries lost 0.8 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index showed. The GSCI gauge rose 0.3 percent to 669.25 at
3:25 p.m. in  New York .  Thirteen of the 24 commodities tracked by S&P rose last
week, led by crude and heating oil. Feeder-cattle futures jumped
1.9 percent, the most since mid-May.  The People’s Bank of China may cut benchmark  interest rates 
before altering the required reserve ratios for lenders, because
the latter tends to act for a longer period, the  Securities
Times  reported Aug. 17. The country decreased the reserve-
requirement ratio for banks three times since November and
lowered interest rates in June and July while accelerating
approvals for investment projects.  U.S. building permits, a proxy for future construction,
increased to an 812,000 annual pace in July, the most since
August 2008, the Commerce Department said Aug. 16. Production at
factories, mines and utilities increased 0.6 percent in July
following a 0.1 percent gain the prior month, Federal Reserve
data showed Aug. 15.  ‘Bad Block’  While U.S. economic data has improved, the world is still
“a risky place” as  Europe ’s fiscal and banking crisis worsens,
said  Vincent Reinhart , the chief U.S. economist at Morgan
Stanley. “We’re the best house on a bad block,” he said in a
Bloomberg Television interview Aug. 15. The bank cut its outlook
for this year’s global growth to 3.2 percent from 3.5 percent on
Aug. 16, and to 3.5 percent from 3.8 percent for 2013.  The 17-nation euro-area’s economy contracted 0.2 percent in
the second quarter as a worsening debt crisis and budget cuts
drove at least six countries into recession, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said Aug. 14.  European Demand  “World economies are a driver of demand and European
demand in general is down,” said Steve Kahler, the chief
operating officer at Teucrium Trading LLC, who helps oversee
$140 million of assets. “Anytime you have a macro-economic
situation like you have in Europe, it’s going to impact their
overall demand.”  Investors pulled $53.1 million from commodity funds in the
week ended Aug. 15, the first outflow in three weeks, according
to data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows.  “There’s definitely been an August slowdown,” said  Brad Durham , a managing director for EPFR. “That’s why these numbers
are not particularly decisive in either direction.”  Investors cut their bullish oil bets by 7.2 percent to
152,222 contracts, the biggest drop since May 8, the CFTC data
show. Prices jumped 3.4 percent last week, the third consecutive
gain, as improving U.S. economic data boosted the outlook for
demand amid rising political tension in the  Middle East .  Oil Production  The region was responsible for 33 percent of global oil
production last year and held 79 percent of proved reserves,
according to data from London-based  BP Plc. (BP/)   Bullish platinum wagers dropped 17 percent, the most since
May 22, to 7,096 contracts, the CFTC data show. Prices rallied
5.2 percent last week, the most since January, on concern that
clashes between police and striking miners will spread in  South
Africa , the biggest producer of the metal. Police killed 34
striking workers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine on Aug. 16.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
increased bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 0.6
percent to 851,875 contracts, the ninth gain in 10 weeks.  Money managers raised corn holdings for a 10th consecutive
week, by 6 percent to 303,178 contracts. That’s the longest
stretch of gains since at least June 2006, when the data starts.  Corn has surged 63 percent since June 15, reaching a record
$8.49 a bushel in  Chicago  on Aug. 10, as the drought parched
millions of acres of U.S. cropland and pasture.  “Even modest demand growth in the current tepid
environment will be sufficient to tighten markets,”  Jeffrey Currie , the head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in New York, said in an interview Aug. 14. “We see
commodity prices rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  