-- Steven Fox Wins Golf’s U.S. Amateur in Playoff After Comeback
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/steven-fox-rallies-to-win-golf-s-u-s-amateur-title-in-playoff.html
Steven Fox captured golf’s U.S.
Amateur Championship by winning the final three holes of his
match-play final against Michael Weaver.  Fox, 21, trailed by two holes with two remaining in
yesterday’s 36-hole final at Cherry Hills Country Club in Cherry
Hills Village,  Colorado . He made a 10-foot birdie putt at the
17th hole to pull within one and the match went to a playoff
when Weaver’s five-foot par attempt for the win at the 18th hole
caught the back of the cup and looped out.  Fox, a 21-year-old senior at the University of Tennessee at
Chattanooga, sealed the win with an 18-foot, downhill birdie
putt at the first playoff hole. He pumped his fist and shouted
as the ball dropped and then hugged his father in celebration.  “I fought all day,” Fox said in a televised interview.
“I had to keep pushing and just try and make birdie. This is
amazing. This is a dream come true.”  Fox joins a list of U.S. Amateur champions that includes
 Bobby Jones ,  Arnold Palmer  and  Jack Nicklaus  and, more recently,
players such as  Tiger Woods ,  Phil Mickelson , Ryan Moore,  Ricky Barnes ,  Matt Kuchar  and Justin Leonard.  Weaver, a 21-year-old junior at the University of
California-Berkeley, knelt next to the first green with tears in
his eyes and his head in his hands following the loss.  “That’s golf,” Weaver said in quotes distributed by the
U.S. Golf Association. “I hit a good putt, hit my line. For it
to lip out like that, I would rather just hit a bad putt.”  It was the first time the U.S. Amateur’s final match went
to a playoff since 2003, when Nick Flanagan beat Casey
Wittenberg on the first extra hole at Oakmont Country Club in
Pennsylvania.  Second-to-Last Seed  Fox was seeded  63rd out of 64 players  to reach the match
play portion of the competition and then won six straight
matches to capture the title. He beat  Chris Williams , the
world’s  top-ranked  amateur, in the quarterfinals.  Both Fox and Weaver had been among the 17 players who
competed in a playoff for 14 spots in the match-play bracket
following 36 holes of  stroke-play qualifying .  With the win, Fox receives an exemption into the 2013
British Open while both finalists qualify for next year’s U.S.
Open -- provided they remain amateurs -- and may also get
invites to the 2013 Masters Tournament.  “It doesn’t even feel real,” Fox said. “The whole week
is like a dream to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  