-- U.K. Home Prices Fall on Economic, Olympic Distractions: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-20T09:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/u-k-august-home-prices-fall-on-economic-olympic-distractions.html
U.K. home sellers cut  asking prices 
by a record for the month of August after the London  Olympic
Games  and an uncertain economic outlook distracted potential
buyers, according to  Rightmove Plc. (RMV)   Average asking prices in  England  and  Wales  fell 2.4 percent
to 236,260 pounds ($371,282) from July, when values declined 1.7
percent, the operator of Britain’s biggest  property website  said
in an e-mailed report in London today. Values dropped 1.2
percent in London.  The  Bank of England , which cut its growth forecasts this
month, is trying to kick-start lending to bolster the economy
after the recession deepened in the second quarter. Still, the
housing market may remain under pressure as weak  consumer
confidence  and the euro-area debt turmoil undermine demand.  “We’ve got weak confidence and the unemployment numbers
may get worse before they get any better,” said  George Buckley ,
an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “We’re looking at
either a flat or a slight contraction in underlying growth so,
however you cut these numbers, you’re looking at a very weak,
poor recovery. You can’t rule out more stimulus from the Bank of
England, especially with uncertainty over events in  Europe .”  European stocks were little changed after reaching a 13-month high last week, as leaders prepare a series of meetings to
discuss the euro-area’s debt crisis. U.S. index futures and
Asian shares were also little changed.  ‘Autumn Selling Season’  Rightmove said that seasonal trends mean its U.K. home
selling-price measure has dropped in August from the previous
month eight times in the past 10 years, with an average decline
of 1.1 percent.  “With buyers distracted by sport and the economic
backdrop, sellers will now have to compete hard to win their
attention in the upcoming autumn selling season,” said  Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove. “While the main
Olympic distractions have passed, many other market challenges
remain for sellers to overcome.”  Nine out of the 10 regions in England and Wales tracked by
Rightmove posted monthly price drops in August, with declines
led by the southeast and the West Midlands. Values were
unchanged in the northwest. From a year earlier, prices
nationally rose 2 percent, according to today’s report. In
London, they were up 8.8 percent.  Seasonal Trends  Rightmove also said that in the London borough of Newham,
where the Olympic stadium is located, property owners have yet
to see a “tangible benefit in terms of an Olympic ‘house-price
legacy.’” Asking prices in the district have risen 26 percent
since London was awarded the games in 2005, compared with an
average London increase of 60 percent.  U.K. gross mortgage lending rose 8 percent in July from the
previous month, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said today in an
e-mailed statement. Lending was also up 2 percent from a year
earlier to 12.7 billion pounds, the CML said.  The  British Retail Consortium  said visits to U.K. stores
fell in the three months through July as wet weather and
financial strains deterred consumers. The number of shoppers in
malls and town centers declined 2.3 percent from a year earlier,
the London-based industry group said.  Lloyds TSB said conditions “remained tough” for consumers
last month, partly due to low wage growth. It said Britons’
discretionary spending power was unchanged in July from a year
earlier after increasing 0.7 percent in June.  ‘Weak Income Growth’  “Even though inflation is falling, weak income growth has
prevented that from leading to a significant improvement in
spending power,” Lloyds Chief Economist Patrick Foley said in a
statement. “But if inflation falls further over the next year,
as we expect, spending power should continue its gradual upward
trend.”  In  Asia ,  Thailand  signaled growth in the second half of
this year may be weaker than previously forecast as a global
slowdown hurts exports from Southeast Asia’s second-biggest
economy.  Gross domestic product is forecast to expand 5.5 percent to
6 percent, compared with a previous growth range of 5.5 percent
to 6.5 percent, Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of
the National Economic and Social Development Board, said in
Bangkok today. It reduced the forecast for export growth to 7.3
percent from 15.1 percent on concern Europe’s crisis will damp
demand, he said.  Two-Year Extension  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, will discuss a
request by Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras for a two-year
extension to the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment program
when he visits Athens on Aug. 22, state-run Athens News Agency
reported. Samaras travels to Berlin and Paris on Aug. 24 and 25
after French President  Francois Hollande  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  meet in the German capital on Aug. 23.  Europe’s leaders are returning from vacation with agreement
still elusive on measures to support Greece and to prevent Spain
and Italy being shut out of sovereign debt markets. Spain urged
unlimited European Central Bank support over the weekend after
its 10-year bonds last week advanced for the first time this
month, as Merkel signaled conditional support for the ECB’s plan
to help reduce indebted countries’ borrowing costs.  In the U.S. today, the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
releases its national economic activity  index  for July, which
draws on 85 indicators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  