-- Villa Scores in Return as Barcelona Wins Liga Opener; Real Draws
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-08-19T23:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/villa-scores-in-return-as-barcelona-wins-liga-opener-real-draws.html
David Villa  scored in his comeback
from injury to help Barcelona rout Real Sociedad 5-1 as Real
Madrid began the defense of its Spanish soccer title with a 1-1
home draw against Valencia.  Villa, playing his first competitive match since breaking
his leg at December’s Club World Cup, completed the scoring last
night after two goals from  Lionel Messi  and one each from Carles Puyol and  Pedro Rodriguez  put Barca 4-1 up at halftime in its
first La Liga match under new coach Tito Vilanova.  “It is important to start with a win,” Vilanova said in
comments on Barcelona’s website. “Villa’s return gives us a big
morale boost.”  Gonzalo Higuain earlier gave Real Madrid the lead against
Valencia after 10 minutes. Jonas made it 1-1 before half time.  Elsewhere, Real Betis squandered a 3-0 lead at Athletic
Bilbao, before late goals from Alex Pozuelo and Jorge Molina
secured a 5-3 victory.  Atletico Madrid  and Levante drew 1-1 in
yesterday’s late game.  In France, Lyon, Marseille, Bastia and Bordeaux lead the
standings with six points from two matches. Paris Saint-Germain
is in 12th place following last night’s scoreless draw at
Ajaccio, during which coach  Carlo Ancelotti  was sent to the
stands for kicking out at a water bottle.  Champion Montpellier has one point after allowing two
injury-time goals to lose at Lorient two days ago. Emanuel
Herrera put the visiting team 1-0 up after 37 minutes before
Alain Traore and Jeremie Aliadiere gave Lorient a 2-1 win.  FC Twente  leads the Dutch standings with six points after a
1-0 win at  NAC Breda . Champion Ajax is one of five clubs on four
points after a 6-1 win at  NEC Nijmegen  yesterday.  Cup Upsets  Six Bundesliga teams were upset by lower-league clubs in
the first round of the German Cup. Hoffenheim lost 4-0 to
fourth-division Berliner AK, while Greuther Furth, promoted to
the top league, lost 2-0 at Kickers Offenbach. Hamburg and
Werder Bremen had 4-2 losses against Karlsruhe and Preussen
Munster, respectively.  Nurnberg went down 3-2 at Havelse and Eintracht Frankfurt
lost 3-0 at Erzgebirge Aue. Elite-level clubs including Borussia
Dortmund, Stuttgart and  Bayer Leverkusen  advanced.  Bayern Munich 
plays tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  