-- When Wall Street Watchdogs Hunt Whistle-Blowers
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-08-19T22:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/when-wall-street-watchdogs-hunt-whistle-blowers.html
You’ve probably never heard of Peter
Sivere, a former compliance officer at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Yet his distressing story shows -- on a personal level --
that for all the tough talk about better enforcement of
financial wrongdoing, just how tightly government regulators are
aligned with the big Wall Street banks they are supposed to keep
an eye on.  In January 1998, Sivere joined JPMorgan as a surveillance
analyst in the compliance department of the fixed-income group.
In December 1999, Sivere was promoted to vice president and then
again to be the “team leader” of electronic-communications
compliance. On Sept. 26, 2003, Sivere received his annual review
and a rating of 9.63, or “great,” according to the bank’s
evaluation scale.  “I consider Peter to be a brilliant surveillance
analyst,” one of his colleagues wrote. “Peter is highly
motivated and diligent individual with an exceptional work
ethic.”  Despite that review and the promotions, things had actually
started going off the rails, careerwise, for Sivere earlier that
month, when then-New York State Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer 
 filed a complaint  against Canary Capital Partners LLC, a (now
defunct) New Jersey hedge fund and a big client of JPMorgan. The
suit held that Canary had engaged in “late trading” of mutual
funds -- that is, it was allowed to buy shares of mutual funds
at the day’s final price even though the market had closed.
Canary’s late trading was akin to getting tomorrow’s Wall Street
Journal today.  Responsive E-Mails  The next day, the Securities and Exchange Commission
started its own investigation into late trading and asked for
documents and e-mails from JPMorgan. Sivere was put in charge of
a group of four internal lawyers searching for documents to
provide the SEC. Several weeks later, the bank’s litigation
department removed the four lawyers from the project, allegedly
because they failed to find all the “responsive e-mails”
called for in the SEC’s subpoena.  Sivere contests that claim. “I observed that the attorneys
had discovered a number of E-mails” that JPMorgan’s litigation
department “had not identified,” he wrote in an affidavit. A
few weeks later, a new set of four lawyers was hired -- also to
be supervised by Sivere -- to resume the document production for
the SEC’s investigation.  According to court documents and an investigation by the
 Occupational Safety and Health Administration , on Nov. 18 one of
the new lawyers, Sarah Kelleher, found an e-mail that showed
that JPMorgan had provided a $105 million line of credit to
Canary Capital that Canary used to facilitate its late trading
in mutual funds. Sivere forwarded the e-mail to three of the
leaders of the compliance department. The next day Sivere and
the second set of lawyers were removed from their roles finding
documents to send to the SEC.  They were replaced by a team from the  law firm  Davis, Polk
& Wardwell. This was odd, as Davis, Polk had an apparent
conflict related to its providing legal advice in setting up
financing vehicles to trade mutual funds for JPMorgan clients.  Sivere’s wife gave birth to the couple’s first child on Jan.
21, 2004, and because of complications with her health, Sivere
took medical leave between March 2 and April 21. On April 23,
Sivere had a conversation with his supervisors who told him they
were “not happy” with his performance. Throughout May 2004, as
news accounts started appearing about the late-trading scandal
involving Canary, Sivere became increasingly concerned that
JPMorgan was not cooperating fully with the SEC’s investigation.
He told his immediate boss about his growing concerns. Sivere
contacted the firm’s compliance department to find out what e-
mails had been turned over to the SEC, but did not receive a
reply.  Internal Investigation  On June 1, Sivere was given the choice of either leaving
the firm immediately as a result of his “insubordination” or
continuing to work at the firm under a “final written warning”
agreement. On June 4, Sivere told a compliance officer at the
bank that he thought he was being retaliated against for
questioning the firm’s cooperation with the SEC investigation.
JPMorgan opened an internal investigation, and placed Sivere on
paid leave, with no access to his computer, pending its outcome.  On June 13, Sivere contacted an SEC lawyer, George Demos,
by e-mail, seeking to become a whistle-blower. Sivere asked if
he would be able to collect whatever “bounty” the law
permitted for trying to do the right thing. (He used the
indelicate e-mail address  Bountyman04@aol.com .)  Demos informed Sivere that no bounty was available; yet
Sivere decided to turn over e-mails he had come across in his
investigation to the SEC anyway. Sivere believed the e-mails
showed JPMorgan had violated securities laws. (Sivere also later
filed a complaint with OSHA, claiming that he had been
discriminated against for turning over e-mails to the SEC.)  Not surprisingly, Sivere was demoted from team leader when
he returned to work on July 19. But he continued to monitor e-
mails about the SEC’s investigation into late trading. In early
October, he accessed more e-mails from JPMorgan executives
relating to the firm’s relationship with Canary, including one
dated Oct. 4, from  Jamie Dimon , now the chairman and chief
executive officer. Dimon’s missive asked Joan Guggenheimer, co-
general counsel, to tell him the “exact timing” of the firm’s
involvement with Canary and the loans that were made to help
Canary finance its late trading of mutual funds.  On Oct. 7, JPMorgan fired Sivere for inappropriate use of
the firm’s e-mail. OSHA eventually determined that JPMorgan had
retaliated against Sivere and ordered him reinstated. Instead,
Sivere and the bank settled for $350,000. After an arbitration
hearing, JPMorgan was ordered to change the description of
Sivere’s firing on his U-5 form from “mutual consent” and
“for accessing e-mails without authorization” to “a
disagreement regarding the scope of his authority.” Sivere
struggled to find work, but is now with Barclays Plc in  New York .
“Today, I believe my past experience and desire to do the right
thing should be an asset,” he told me recently. “Wall Street
executives talk about ’tone at the top’ and ’culture’ but,
unfortunately, the people who  monitor those things are at risk
more than most people realize.” (As I have said before, I too
worked for JPMorgan and unsuccessfully took it to arbitration
over my firing in 2004.)  Aiding Lawyers  That would be the end of the horrific story, except that as
part of the OSHA investigation, Sivere discovered in May 2005
that Demos, the SEC lawyer, had informed JPMorgan’s lawyers that
Sivere had asked the SEC for a bounty as a whistle-blower. Demos
also gave permission and “actually encouraged” that this bit
of information be used in the lawsuit between JPMorgan and
Sivere.  This was, of course, blatantly in violation of SEC rules.
The SEC’s inspector general investigated the matter and
 corroborated that Demos had ratted out Sivere , but the agency
took no disciplinary action against Demos.  As usual, truth is stranger than fiction. The epilogue to
the story is that early this year, Demos announced he was
seeking the Republican nomination for a seat in the U.S. House
from an eastern Long Island district. His slogan: “Fighting for
Freedom.” In May, Demos gave up his fight, claiming that he
wanted to spend more time with his fiancee.  With a little luck, the SEC will adopt Demos’s unused
slogan in what little effort it makes these days to crack down
on Wall Street wrongdoing.  (William D. Cohan , the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard Freres,
Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 