-- Tynes Kicks 4 Field Goals in Giants’ Preseason Win Over Jets
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-19T05:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/tynes-kicks-4-field-goals-in-giants-preseason-win-over-jets.html
Lawrence Tynes  kicked four field
goals as the defending Super Bowl champion  New York  Giants
routed the New York Jets 26-3 in a National Football League
preseason game.  Jayron Hosley, the Giants’ third-round draft pick, added a
second-quarter touchdown on a 77-yard interception of Jets
quarterback  Mark Sanchez .  “It was an all-around good play, an 11-man machine,”
Hosley told reporters. “Good pressure up front, which allowed
me to stick to my man. The quarterback threw it when he didn’t
want to.”  Rookie free agent Joe Martinek scored on a 14-yard pass
from Ryan Perrilloux with 6 minutes, 41 seconds left to play in
the game last night at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,  New
Jersey .  “There are still a few things we can fix, a few mistakes
here and there,” Giants quarterback Eli Manning told reporters.
“Couldn’t get a touchdown and had to settle for field goals so
that always kind of leaves a bad taste in your mouth. We wish we
can finish drives.”  Manning completed seven of 14 passing attempts for 62 yards
and one interception for the Giants (1-1).  ‘Great Defense’  “I thought we had a couple good drives and moved the
ball,” Manning said. “Whenever you play the Jets, you’re
always going against a great defense.”  Josh Brown kicked a 30-yard field goal in the third quarter
for the Jets’ only score.  “We have a lot more to fix than the Giants do, clearly,”
Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said.  Sanchez completed nine passes for 59 yards and one
interception. He was sacked three times.  “Mark threw the ball well tonight, but it’s hard to throw
when you’re flat on your back,” Ryan said.  Quarterback  Tim Tebow , who was picked up by the Jets after
he was released by the Denver Broncos, passed for 69 yards on
five completions and was sacked four times.  The Jets have failed to score a touchdown in their two
preseason losses.  Giants backup middle linebacker Mark Herzlich left the game
with a hip injury and defensive end Adrian Tracy had a hamstring
injury. Starting halfback  Ahmad Bradshaw  suffered a right-hand
injury, and Hosley injured his foot which will be examined today,
the team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  