-- Zuma Police Bungles Exposed by South Africa Mine Killings
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-08-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-19/zuma-police-bungles-exposed-by-south-africa-mine-killings.html
South Africa ’s most lethal police
action since the end of apartheid in 1994 has highlighted
President Jacob Zuma’s failure to get to grips with security in
a country where 43 people are murdered every day.  “It’s too late for Zuma to do anything meaningful to
restore people’s trust in the police,”  Frans Cronje , deputy
chief executive officer of the South African Institute of Race
Relations, said in a Aug. 17 phone interview from Johannesburg.
“All that he can do is to act decisively on those who were
responsible.”  Police shot dead 34 striking workers and injured 78 others
on Aug. 16 after six days of violence between rival unions at
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s platinum mine in the North West province. Police
Commissioner Riah Phiyega, appointed by Zuma two months ago, has
no experience in criminal justice. She replaced Bheki Cele, a
Zuma ally whom the president was forced to fire in the wake of a
corruption scandal.  Zuma is struggling to maintain public trust in the security
services as he prepares to seek re-election as head of the
ruling  African National Congress  in December. South Africa’s
murder rate is 31.9 per 100,000 people, more than six times
higher than in the U.S. That’s in part being fueled by a 25
percent jobless rate, the highest of more than 60 nations
tracked by Bloomberg.  Team Zuma  Since taking office in May 2009, Zuma has fired two police
chiefs implicated in graft, while the head of crime intelligence
has been suspended while he is being investigated for abusing
state funds. Zuma’s decision to appoint allies to key posts in
the security ministries regardless of whether they are capable
of doing the job has now backfired, said Paul Hoffman, a lawyer
who heads the Institute for Accountability in Southern Africa.  “Everybody leading the criminal justice system is part of
team Zuma,” Hoffman said in an Aug. 17 phone interview from the
southern city of East  London . “The question that begs is what
did Zuma think he was doing to let the management of the police
get into such a state that this kind of response to provocation
was necessary?”  Mac Maharaj , Zuma’s spokesman, didn’t answer two calls to
his mobile phone seeking comment. Zuma cut short a trip to
 Mozambique  on Aug. 17 to visit the scene of the conflict, which
the government initially described as a labor dispute. He said a
commission of inquiry will be appointed to investigate and urged
the nation against seeking blame and recrimination for the
police’s actions.  Automatic Weapons  The shootout, triggered when police tried to disperse
crowds of striking workers armed with spears and machetes, was
broadcast on television. The images of police using automatic
weapons and rifles against the workers drew widespread
condemnation, including from opposition political parties, human
rights groups and labor unions.  “The high number of deaths and injuries after police
opened fire on protesting mine workers is shocking and shows an
appalling disregard for human life,” Noel Kukutwa, southern
Africa director for  Amnesty International , said in an e-mailed
statement on Aug. 17. “The circumstances leading to the resort
to prolonged firing of automatic weapons and live ammunition has
to be urgently investigated.”  The killings may hurt Zuma’s chances of retaining control
of the ruling party and by extension a second term as the
nation’s president in 2014. The ANC’s youth wing has been
leading a campaign for Zuma to be replaced by his deputy Kgalema Motlanthe.  Corruption Allegations  “This incident is likely to be used against  Jacob Zuma  in
the run-up to the political contest” to lead the ANC, Nic Borain, a Cape Town-based political analyst at BNP Paribas Cadiz
Securities said on his weblog. “It might not be strictly fair,
but the narrative is compelling, and Zuma’s enemies and
competitors will make everything they can of his vulnerability
here.”  Platinum for immediate delivery gained 5.3 percent to
$1,474.25 an ounce last week, the biggest weekly increase since
January. Lonmin shares plunged 15 percent to 639.5 pence in
London in the same period as output was disrupted, while the
rand dropped 2.7 percent.  Zuma, a former intelligence operative, was fired as the
nation’s deputy president in 2005, after he was accused of
graft. He staged a political comeback to win control of the
ruling African National Congress in 2007 from  Thabo Mbeki . He
was appointed president in May 2009, three weeks after
prosecutors abandoned an eight-year bid to charge him for taking
4.07 million rand in bribes.  ‘Poorly Equipped’  Policing shortcomings under the Zuma administration are
illustrated by high crime levels. In the 12 months through March
2011, there were 15,940 homicides and 56,272 rapes.  “The police’s top leadership is poorly equipped to deal
with these kinds of protest action,” Piet Croucamp, a politics
lecturer at the University of Johannesburg, said in an Aug. 17
phone interview. Zuma “doesn’t take leadership responsibility
and doesn’t understand the complexities of modern politics.”  Zuma will need to act decisively by firing Phiyega and
Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa, Cronje said.  “I cannot see how, in a civilized society, a police
commissioner and police minister can keep their jobs after more
than 40 people died,” Cronje said. Zuma “isn’t showing
leadership.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  