-- L’Oreal Shares Fall as Sales Miss Estimates on North America
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-31T09:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/l-oreal-revenue-misses-estimates-on-euro-strength-u-s-weakness.html
L’Oreal SA (OR)  slid in Paris trading
after the world’s largest cosmetics maker reported sales that
missed analysts’ estimates amid the weakest performance in North
America since 2009.  Revenue fell 0.8 percent to 5.48 billion euros ($7.5
billion), Paris-based L’Oreal said yesterday after markets
closed. Analysts predicted 5.56 billion euros, according to the
average of 10  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 4.1
percent, excluding currency shifts and acquisitions, less than
the average prediction for 4.9 percent growth.  “We feared a weak quarter, but this is weaker than
expected,” said Eamonn Ferry, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
in  London . “North America is the trouble spot.”  L’Oreal  shares  retreated as much as 2.6 percent to 124.1
euros. They were down 1.7 percent to 125.20 as of 10:02 a.m.,
the  second-biggest drop  in the French benchmark  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)   L’Oreal gets about a quarter of revenue from North America,
where a market slowdown and inventory reductions by distributors
exceeded company expectations. Like-for-like sales growth in the
region slowed to 0.6 percent in the third quarter from 4.5
percent in the previous three months, the worst performance
since the fourth quarter of 2009 when sales fell 0.8 percent.  In addition to the market slowdown and destocking, growth
in North America may have been affected by “strong promotional
activities by some of L’Oreal’s competitors,” said Andrew Wood,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York.  Procter & Gamble Co., the Cincinnati-based maker of Gucci
fragrances and Pantene Pro-V shampoos, last week reported 2
percent organic revenue growth in the U.S.  ‘Some Uncertainties’  While the U.S. market has barely grown in the past four
weeks, “we don’t think it will last,” Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Paul Agon said on a call with analysts. “Things will
rebalance themselves, but for the moment it’s a slow period.”  L’Oreal remains confident of outperforming the global
beauty market in 2013 as well as improving sales, results and
profitability, financial communications director Thierry Prevot
said on a call with reporters. The global beauty market will
expand closer to 3.5 percent than 4 percent in 2013 as sales
slow in the second half of the year, Prevot said, citing a
previous estimated range for growth.  “The economic context remains subject to some
uncertainties about the market trend and to the negative impact
of currencies,” Agon said in the statement, while confirming
the company’s full-year targets.  Currency Impact  The weakness of currencies such as the dollar, Brazilian
real, Japanese yen, Indian rupee and Argentinian peso against
the euro reduced sales by 6 percent in the third quarter and 3.1
percent in the nine months through Sept. 30, the company said.  Unfavorable currency fluctuations will have a negative 3.6
percent impact on full-year revenue, L’Oreal Chief Financial
Officer Christian Mulliez said in August.  L’Oreal joins European companies including brewer  Heineken
NV (HEIA)  and  Adidas AG (ADS)  that have said earnings will be affected by the
strength of the euro. The currency has gained 4.3 percent
against the dollar so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  