-- A Third of Clinical Trials Aren’t Published After 5 Years
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-30T10:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/a-third-of-clinical-trials-aren-t-published-after-5-years.html
Almost a third of clinical trials
remain unpublished five years after completion, researchers
said, in a finding that may add to pressure on drugmakers to be
more open about the outcomes of medical studies.  Of 585 trials registered on a U.S. website to track drug
research, as many as 171, or 29 percent, remained unpublished
five years after concluding, according to a search of scientific
literature databases by researchers led by Christopher Jones at
Rowan University in Camden,  New Jersey . The study was  published 
today in the medical journal BMJ.  The finding comes as pharmaceutical companies face demands
to be more open about their research. BMJ, formerly known as the
British Medical Journal, is part of a  campaign  to push for all
trials to be registered and their results published. Doctors and
regulators need to know test outcomes to make decisions about
treatments, the  activists leading the AllTrials.net effort say .  U.S. law requires that many trials involving human
participants be registered and their results posted on the
largest clinical trial website  ClinicalTrials.gov . Non-publication was more common among trials that received industry
funding than those that didn’t, according to the study.  The AllTrials campaign says that trial results that show a
drug doesn’t work are much more likely to be hidden, leading to
so-called publication bias, in which only favorable outcomes are
reported.  The lack of availability of results from trials
“contributes to publication bias and also constitutes a failure
to honor the ethical contract that is the basis for exposing
study participants to the risks inherent in trial
participation,” the authors said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  