-- Adcock Largest Shareholder Undecided On $1.3 Billion Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-10-31T08:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/adcock-says-almost-half-of-investors-back-cfr-takeover.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) ’s
largest shareholder said it won’t decide whether to support a
$1.3 billion takeover proposal from Chilean drugmaker  CFR
Pharmaceuticals SA (CFR)  until Nov. 4 at the earliest.  “The Public Investment Corp. has not made a decision yet,
the transaction is still under consideration,” PIC’s Chief
Investment Officer Daniel Matjila said by text message today.
“We’re doing our utmost best to have a position on Monday.”  Adcock, South Africa’s largest supplier of hospital
products, said yesterday shareholders representing about 45
percent of its shares had backed the cash and shares deal. As
many as 75 percent of investors will have to vote in favor for
the takeover to succeed, Khotso Mokhele, chairman of Adcock’s
independent board, said Sept. 11. The PIC, which oversees the
pension funds of South African government workers, has a 14
percent stake in Adcock.  “The PIC vote will be crucial,” Wayne McCurrie, a
portfolio manager at Momentum Asset Management in Johannesburg,
said by phone today. “I don’t see why the deal won’t go through
at this stage, I just think some shareholders will wait until
the last minute to commit.”  CFR,  Chile ’s largest drugmaker, said in July it would pay
12.6 billion rand ($1.3 billion) in cash and shares for Adcock
as it seeks to expand in other  emerging markets . The company
said last month it will settle as much as 51 percent to 64.3
percent of the purchase through cash and the balance with new
CFR shares. The transaction works out at 73.51 rand per Adcock
share, according to both companies.  Agreements Struck  Adcock  shares  gained 0.2 percent to 71.35 rand as of 10:52
a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 12.5
billion rand. CFR rose 0.1 percent to 130 pesos at the close of
trading in Santiago yesterday.  The PIC would be willing to consider a strategic partner or
investor if a cash offer is for 50 percent plus one share
control of Adcock, Matjila said on July 17. He said in May the
PIC would prefer a South African company to buy the maker of
Panado painkillers and Corenza cold medicine.  CFR struck agreements with Adcock’s Swiss partner Baxter
Healthcare SA regarding the licensing, distribution and supply
of Adcock’s hospital products and with Adcock’s black
empowerment partners in South Africa, according to yesterday’s
statement.  Actis Competition  “This is a high level of support given the fragmented
nature of the company’s shareholder base,” Adcock said in the
statement. “Only a limited number of requested shareholder
undertakings are still to be received.”  CFR has faced competition from London-based private equity
firm Actis LLP and  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , a Johannesburg-based food
and car sales company, in the battle to control Adcock.  CFR, which sold shares to the public in Santiago in 2011,
bought Laboratorio Franco Colombiano Lafrancol SAS in December
for $560 million, giving it the biggest share of the Colombian
market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  