-- Madoff Trustee Wins Ruling Easing Suits Against Banks
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2013-10-30T15:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/madoff-trustee-wins-ruling-easing-suits-against-banks.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s investment company to repay victims won a court ruling
easing his ability to sue customers of feeder funds that
profited from the con man’s $17 billion Ponzi scheme.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , doesn’t need specific rulings
against the funds in order to go after banks to which the funds
transferred their Madoff cash, according to U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in New York. Picard also didn’t miss a two-year
deadline to file such lawsuits, Rakoff said.  The decision, initially made in December in a two-page
ruling, was clarified yesterday by Rakoff in an order obtained
today by Bloomberg News.  Affiliates of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch were among
financial institutions that sought the dismissal of dozens of
Picard’s lawsuits. The dispute was one of several sent to Rakoff
from bankruptcy court for clarification. His ruling returns the
cases to  bankruptcy court  for further proceedings.  Picard is suing the banks for being subsequent recipients
of money stolen from Madoff customers. In a typical situation,
the banks received money from customers and invested the funds
with feeder funds that in turn invested with Madoff.  Often unable to identify the banks’ ultimate customers,
Picard sued the banks under a provision in bankruptcy law known
as Section 550(a), which says in substance that a subsequent
recipient like the banks must pay money back if Madoff’s initial
payment to the feeder fund was a fraudulent transfer.  Fraudulent Transfer  Rakoff distributed his opinion yesterday to parties in the
case, explaining why Picard can sue the subsequent recipients
although he never obtained a fraudulent transfer judgment
against Fairfield Sentry Ltd. and Kingate Global Fund Ltd., the
customers that received the initial transfers.  The subsequent recipients contended that the language in
Section 550(a) barred lawsuits against them because Picard only
settled with the two feeder funds and didn’t obtain a fraudulent
transfer judgment.  The issues before Rakoff in the Madoff case are In re
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 12-mc-00115, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  