-- Madoff Money to Japan Mob Ties Breed Banks’ Global Pains
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/madoff-money-to-japan-mob-ties-breed-banks-global-pains.html
Japanese regulators said they’re
looking for loans to gangsters by the nation’s three biggest
banks. The 115-year-old Dutch lender Rabobank Groep was fined
more than $1 billion for rigging interest rates.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Germany  and Switzerland’s biggest lenders, both
said they’re facing investigations into currency manipulation.  It was another day in global banking.  Those headlines, all from yesterday, arrived after the six
biggest U.S. banks had passed the $100 billion mark for legal
costs since the financial crisis. The largest, JPMorgan Chase &
Co., is in talks with prosecutors to resolve allegations it
helped facilitate  Bernard Madoff ’s crimes, as it tries to
complete a proposed $13 billion settlement of cases related to
its mortgage business.  “People just started picking the rock up a little bit, and
they found a lot of snakes,” said Michael Greenberger, a former
Commodity Futures Trading Commission trading director who
teaches law at the University of  Maryland . “We’ve got one
scandal after another.”  Rabobank Chairman Piet Moerland resigned.  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411)  President Yasuhiro Sato gave up six months of pay for
failing to stop loans made to yakuza crime syndicates. Takashi Tsukamoto will also forgo a half year’s compensation and give up
his role as chairman of Mizuho Bank Ltd., keeping his post at
the parent company.  Pain, Shame  No leading bank executives have been jailed since the
global financial crisis. The largest lenders are so big that
criminal charges could threaten the global economy, U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder said in a Senate hearing this
March, saying that made it “difficult for us to prosecute.”  Executive-suite alterations, docked pay and company fines
need to be paired with criminal prosecutions, according to
 Jennifer Taub  at Vermont Law School.  “You have to have some kind of pain,” she said, “and
some kind of shame.”  Banks have been punished too much, according to Phil Gramm.
The former Republican senator who co-authored the 1999 U.S. law
that ended Depression-era restrictions on banking said it’s the
amount the largest U.S. lender is being forced to pay and not
the company itself that’s criminal.  “Had the fines levied on JPMorgan been levied in a
developing country we would have called it extortion,” Gramm, a
UBS vice chairman until last year, said in a phone interview
from  Japan . “I think everybody knows it’s true.”  ‘Long Way’  Lenders in countries including Canada and Australia have
avoided major legal troubles.  Stock prices  of most of the
world’s largest banks, including the top six in the U.S., are up
this year. JPMorgan has climbed 20 percent and Zurich-based UBS
has advanced 25 percent.  Gramm’s former firm was in the news for a separate reason
yesterday, when UBS said it’s taking measures against employees
as investigators examine currency markets.  At the same time,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  put Matt Gardiner,
a senior foreign-exchange dealer, on leave because of
allegations that don’t relate to his work there, said a person
with knowledge of the matter. Gardiner worked at Barclays Plc
and UBS before joining London-based Standard Chartered, which
last year agreed to pay more than $600 million after regulators
alleged it violated U.S. sanctions with  Iran .  “Some of this is just old deeds coming home to roost, and
it’s taken this amount of time,” Thomas F. Cooley, the former
dean of New York University’s Stern School of Business, said
about the recent onslaught of fines. Cooley, who now teaches
economics there, said he wonders if the global banks have the
right oversight and compliance now.  “We’re a long way from there yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in  New York  at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  