-- Aflac’s Amos Laments Wall Street Staff Buying Japan Bonds
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-30T20:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/aflac-s-amos-laments-wall-street-staff-buying-japan-bonds.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL)  Chief Executive Officer
Dan Amos, who hired dozens of Wall Street professionals to
improve investment returns, lamented that they’re now buying
some of the lowest-yielding debt:  Japan  government bonds.  About half of cash flow this year from the supplemental
health insurer’s Japan unit will be invested in yen-denominated
securities, the Columbus, Georgia-based company said yesterday
on a conference call with investors. Next year, that figure
could climb to 80 to 90 percent of cash generated in Japan, the
company’s largest market, the insurer said.  “Is the staffing-up for us to buy 80, 90 percent of our
business in JGBs? The answer is, ‘no,’” Amos, 62, said on the
call. “Don’t take this as, ‘We like it.’ We would much rather
be much more diversified.”  Aflac retreated this year from a plan that called for
increasing yield in the investment portfolio by buying U.S.
corporate securities and hedging them to the yen. The change in
allocation is designed to lower volatility in a gauge of
solvency monitored by Japanese regulators and free capital so
that it can be brought to the U.S. and returned to shareholders.  Lower yields on JGBs and less  cash flow  from the Japan
operations will reduce investment income by about 6.9 billion
yen ($70 million), Aflac said on the call. Yields on  10-year
Japanese government debt  averaged about 0.77 percent in the
third quarter. Similar maturity U.S. investment-grade corporate
bonds averaged 4.24 percent in the period, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Goldman, BlackRock  Speculation about when the  Federal Reserve  will begin to
taper its record stimulus has caused  interest rates  to climb
this year, lowering valuations for bonds pegged to the dollar.
Yields on 10-year  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  have surged more than 70 basis
points, or 0.7 percentage point, since Dec. 31.  Amos hired Eric Kirsch in 2011 from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to oversee Aflac’s investment portfolio, after the insurer
was burned by privately negotiated investments in European banks
that issued debt in yen. Kirsch has since hired professionals
from companies including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The team has been able to wind down European investments
and is positioned to take advantage of new opportunities when
they arise, Amos said.  Aflac has about $11.5 billion in its corporate bond
program, Kirsch said on the call. Those funds are already
helping boost investment income after including hedging and
staffing costs, he said.  “If not for the build-out we probably would have had that
money primarily in JGBs,” he said.  Balance Sheet  Aflac’s debt portfolio was valued at $103.3 billion as of
Sept. 30, according to a presentation on the insurer’s  website .
The securities back obligations to policyholders. Since Japan is
the insurer’s top market, the company works to minimize risks
tied to fluctuations between the yen and dollar.  The return on average invested assets in the Japan unit’s
portfolio was 2.88 percent in the third quarter, up from 2.78
percent in the same period a year earlier.  Evaluating results from the investment team doesn’t “boil
down to, ‘Is your return higher than it used to be,’” Kirsch
said. The group is also focused on “the health and the future
of our balance sheet.”  The insurer dropped 3 percent to $65.02 in  New York  trading
yesterday, the biggest decline since April. Aflac on Oct. 29
posted third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates as
net income slipped 31 percent to $702 million.  Aflac has advanced 22 percent this year,  trailing  the 47
percent gain in the seven-company Standard and Poor’s 500 Life &
Health Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  