-- African Barrick Gains as Gold Production Rises, Costs Fall
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-10-30T09:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/african-barrick-jumps-in-london-as-gold-output-rises-costs-fall.html
African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) , Tanzania’s
biggest gold producer, rose the most in more than a month after
output increased and costs fell.  The  shares  climbed as much as 8.8 percent to 185 pence, the
steepest intraday gain since Sept. 19., and traded at 178.5
pence by 9:39 a.m. Third-quarter gold output rose 11 percent to
164,719 ounces and full-year production will exceed a 600,000-ounce target, the company said in a statement. Cash costs fell
28 percent from a year earlier.  “We’re obviously delivering on performance and developing
some consistency of results which is very, very pleasing,”
Chief Executive Officer Brad Gordon said in an interview.  African Barrick is reviewing its operations and seeking to
cut costs. The company has been dogged by operational setbacks
since it was spun off from Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  in
2010 and has struggled to meet production targets. Gordon was
appointed CEO in August after the shares  slumped  73 percent
under his predecessor.  “First decent quarter for a while so, while still not
without its risks, the plans appear to be making some good
effect,” Numis Securities Ltd. said in a note to investors.  The company, which is targeting $185 million in cost
savings, said it’s on track to achieve $100 million of that this
year and may exceed its goal as it reduces costs at its
Bulyanhulu mine.  Stake Sale  “We’ll more than achieve on where we’ve said we’ll be next
year,’” Gordon said. “The real opportunity I see is at
Bulyanhulu, which hasn’t been factored into any of the numbers
as yet.”  Barrick Gold, the world’s biggest producer, sought to sell
its 74 percent  stake  in African Barrick last year to China
National Gold Group Corp. before talks broke down in January.
Gordon said improving the assets will increase the chances of
selling the business.  “Barrick are obviously very happy with the way the
business is going,” he said. “The best thing we can do to
increase the options for their exit is to get the share price
up.”  Net income for the quarter fell 25 percent from a year
earlier to $17.8 million, while sales declined to $221.1 million
from $264.9 million, the company said. The average gold price
dropped 20 percent to $1,326 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  