-- Thai Protest Against Amnesty Law May Attract 10,000 in Bangkok
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-10-30T09:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/thai-protest-against-amnesty-law-may-attract-10-000-in-bangkok.html
Thailand ’s biggest opposition party
said as many as 10,000 people will join a protest tomorrow
against efforts to pass a law that it claims will benefit former
leader  Thaksin Shinawatra . Stocks fell to a  three-week low .  Parliament’s lower house will begin the second of three
debates tomorrow on a bill that would give amnesty to people
convicted of crimes linked to political clashes since the 2006
coup that ousted Thaksin. Protesters will gather at 6 p.m. local
time in Bangkok, said Suthep Thaugsuban, a member of parliament
for the opposition Democrat party.  The SET Index slid on concern the amnesty push may lead to
a renewal of unrest that has killed more than 100 people since
the coup. The government has said the law is needed to heal
social divisions, while its opponents say it is designed to
exonerate Thaksin as well as politicians who ordered a deadly
crackdown on pro-Thaksin demonstrators in 2010.  “When they no longer listen to us in parliament, we need
to use our right to protest to communicate directly with the
public,” Democrat party Deputy Leader Korn Chatikavanij said
today in a statement. “We will not resort to violent means, but
will need the support of the public at large to pressure the
government to reconsider this bill.”  The threat of renewed protests “worries investors, so they
are  getting out of the market  now,” said Prapas Tonpibulsak,
who helps manage about $5.5 billion as chief investment officer
at Krungsri Asset Management Co. in Bangkok.  Stocks Slide  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  slumped 1.3 percent as of 3:45 p.m. in
Bangkok, the largest decline among Asian stock benchmarks today.
The SET has fallen 10 percent in the past six months, the worst
performance among major global stock gauges.  Central Plaza Hotel (CENTEL)  Pcl slid 2.5 percent, Erawan Group Pcl
fell 4 percent, Laguna Resorts & Hotel Pcl dropped 2.8 percent
and  Shangri-La Hotel Bangkok (SHANG)  Pcl lost 1 percent on concern that
political instability may reduce tourist arrivals.  Thailand’s Internal Security Act, which gives authorities
greater power to control crowds and search for weapons, has been
in force around parliament and Government House since Oct. 9.
Previous demonstrations by groups opposed to government efforts
to change the post-coup constitution have failed to attract
widespread support.  A parliamentary committee expanded the scope of the draft
amnesty law earlier this month to include people accused of
crimes by organizations or groups established after the coup, as
well as soldiers, protesters and government officials who
oversaw a crackdown on demonstrations in 2010.  ‘No Anchor’  The opposition has said the law will exonerate Thaksin, who
fled a jail sentence stemming from graft charges filed by an
army-appointed body after his ouster. Parties linked to Thaksin
have won the past five elections on support from rural areas,
including the 2011 vote that brought his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, to power.  “If we let Yingluck’s government and the Pheu Thai party
continue using its majority to do bad things, the nation will
have no anchor and will drown under this dictatorial government
that aims only to benefit its family and friends,” the Democrat
party’s Suthep said.  Suthep and Abhisit Vejjajiva, the opposition leader and
former prime minister, face charges of authorizing soldiers to
use live ammunition on pro-Thaksin demonstrators -- known as  Red
Shirts  -- in 2010. They would also receive amnesty under the
proposed law, something Abhisit has said he is opposed to.  Red Shirts  The legislation is also opposed by some members of the Red
Shirts, who say soldiers and government officials should be
punished for killing demonstrators in 2010. Red Shirts who
oppose the amnesty law plan to hold a mass rally on Nov. 10, the
Bangkok Post  reported  yesterday. Tomorrow’s rally may draw as
many as 10,000 people, the newspaper reported today, citing
Issara Somchai, a deputy leader of the Democrats.  The Democrat party “has come out to play street
politics,” Suporn Atthawong, Yingluck’s deputy secretary-general, told reporters today. “Withdrawing the amnesty bill is
not the government’s business, it’s up to the parliament. If you
want to pressure anyone, you should pressure parliament, not the
government.”  Authorities will set up checkpoints to prevent protesters
from smuggling weapons into the rally site near Bangkok’s Samsen
railway station, Suporn said. Abhisit’s government in 2010
blamed armed elements within the anti-government protest group
for instigating violence that prompted the crackdown that killed
more than 90 people.  “The government has no policy to disperse protesters or
use war weapons to kill people,” Suporn said. “The prime
minister will focus on negotiating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  