-- Aimco Pension Fund Says BlackBerry Proposals Still Not Concrete
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-30T19:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/aimco-pension-fund-says-blackberry-proposals-still-not-concrete.html
Alberta  Investment Management Corp.,
the Canadian pension fund, has been approached by at least four
groups, including  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , to invest in
BlackBerry Ltd. though it hasn’t seen a solid business plan yet
for the smartphone maker.  “There have been four or five different groups trying to
do something here and nothing has gelled so far,” Leo de Bever,
chief executive officer of Alberta Investment said in an
interview on Business News Network television today in Toronto.
“All the usual suspects on the investment side -- including my
fund and other pension funds -- have been approached about this
but there has been nothing concrete that would allow anybody to
put money down.”  Fairfax, the Toronto-based holding and insurance company,
announced Sept. 23 its offer to take the struggling smartphone
maker private with a group of investors. It hasn’t announced
those partners or financing details for the bid. BlackBerry co-founders  Mike Lazaridis  and Douglas Fregin said this month
they’re also considering a bid. Cerberus Capital Management LP,
a New York-based private equity firm, also is said to be
weighing an offer.  Aimco hasn’t committed capital to any of the groups as the
Nov. 4 deadline for the Fairfax bid approaches, de Bever said in
a separate phone interview with  Bloomberg News .  “Nothing has come down to something that you can transact
on,” he said in the phone interview. “As far as I know, we’re
all being approached and we’re all scratching our heads and
saying ’well, ok, what is the strategy?’”  Circling Around  De Bever declined to name the groups looking at BlackBerry,
saying only that they are similar to Fairfax.  “No one has really committed themselves to any group
because none of the people that have been circling around
BlackBerry has come up with a definitive business plan,” said
de Bever, who oversees the fund managing C$68.6 billion ($65.5
billion) out of  Edmonton , Alberta.  Aimco isn’t discounting making an investment in the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company, de Bever told the network.  “I invest money for return and I’m waiting for a good
business plan to invest in any solution that might be
emerging,” he said.  BlackBerry fell 1 percent to $8.23 at 3 p.m. in  New York .
Fairfax’s tentative bid is for $9 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  