-- Taiwan’s Five-Year Bonds Snap Two-Day Drop on Fed Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-30T08:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/taiwan-s-five-year-bonds-snap-two-day-drop-on-fed-stimulus-bets.html
Taiwan’s five-year bonds snapped a
two-day drop on speculation the Federal Reserve will maintain
its record stimulus that has buoyed emerging-market assets.  The Fed will decide to keep its pace of bond buying at $85
billion at the end of a two-day meeting today, and taper it only
in March, a Bloomberg survey of economists showed. BlackRock
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, who on Oct. 17
predicted the stimulus may not be cut until June, said yesterday
the policy is contributing to “bubble-like markets.” U.S.
 consumer confidence  fell more than forecast this month, data
showed yesterday, while an Oct. 22 report revealed employment
growth slowed in September.  “Investors are making their moves ahead of the Fed’s
decision,” said Daniel Wu, a Taipei-based bond trader at EnTie
Commercial Bank. “Recent U.S. economic data hasn’t been that
great, and some reports have suggested tapering will begin as
late as next June, so stocks and bonds have been bullish.”  The yield on the 1.25 percent government notes due October
2018 slipped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
1.082 percent, the lowest level in a week, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The Taiex  Index (TWSE)  advanced 0.5 percent today to
close at a two-year high.  Five-year  interest-rate swaps  dropped two basis points
today to 1.22 percent, the lowest since July 3.  Currency Market  Taiwan’s dollar was little changed today at NT$29.475
against the greenback, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. The
currency was trading at NT$29.397 before weakening 0.3 percent
in the last 22 minutes of trading amid suspected central bank
intervention. The monetary authority has sold the local dollar
in the run-up to the close on most days since March 2012,
according to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.1 percent to
NT$29.345 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, increased five basis points
to 3.27 percent.  The  Taiwan  Stock Exchange revoked a foreign institutional
investor’s registration for not investing funds in securities as
declared, the bourse said Oct. 28 without disclosing the
investor’s identity. Authorities won’t allow illicit currency
speculation, central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan told
legislators the same day.  Taiwan’s economic growth isn’t as strong as earlier this
year due to weaker exports in Asia and changes in  China ’s
economic policy, Perng said Oct. 28. A report tomorrow will show
the island’s economy expanded 2.6 percent in the third quarter,
compared with 2.5 percent in the previous three months,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady at 0.385
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  