-- Alabama Concedes Immigration Law Limits in Settling Suits
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-30T00:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/alabama-concedes-immigration-law-limits-in-settling-suits.html
Alabama’s government, citing a U.S.
 Supreme Court  ruling last year, told a federal trial court the
state’s laws don’t authorize police to detain or arrest people
for the purpose of learning their immigration status.  The concession came in a joint filing today by lawyers for
the state and civil-rights groups that sued it. The two sides
asked U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in
Birmingham to enter a final order closing out a 2011 lawsuit.  Groups including the Southern Poverty Law Center and
 American Civil Liberties Union  sought to block legislation
making it a crime for undocumented immigrants to not carry
registration papers and forcing schools to determine students’
legal status as they enroll. The U.S. also sued, accusing the
state of infringing federal supremacy over immigration policy.  “We have a duty to follow the law as set forth by the
courts,” state Attorney General Luther Strange, a Republican,
said today in a statement. “The filings made today inform the
trial court of which claims must be dismissed and which
provisions of our law cannot be enforced because of the Supreme
Court’s and Eleventh Circuit’s rulings.”  The state also agreed to pay the rights groups that sued
$350,000 to settle their claims for attorneys fees.  Blackburn, in a 2011 decision, said the state couldn’t
enforce provisions that barred undocumented people from applying
for jobs or working in the state and prohibited such people from
being harbored or transported.  ‘Reasonable Attempt’  At the same time, she said police could make “a reasonable
attempt” to learn the immigration status of a person otherwise
detained or arrested when there’s a reasonable suspicion to do
so.  The Supreme Court in June 2012 invalidated  Arizona 
restrictions barring those illegally in the U.S. from seeking
work or being in the state without proper identification. The
justices also struck down a provision allowing police to arrest
people they suspected were eligible for deportation.  In twin rulings issued two months later, an Atlanta-based
federal appeals court scaled back Alabama’s similar legislation,
saying states cannot pursue policies that undermine federal law.  “We conclude most of the challenged provisions cannot
stand,” the panel said, ordering the requirement to carry
papers enjoined in one ruling and the school enrollees’
background checks blocked in the other.  “Today’s settlement should remind legislators in both
Montgomery and  Washington  that a person’s constitutional rights
may not be legislated away,” Linton Joaquin, general counsel
for the National Immigration Law Center -- one of the
organizations pressing the litigation -- said in a statement.  The cases are Hispanic Interest Coalition of  Alabama  v.
Bentley, 11-cv-02484, and U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-cv-02746,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  