-- Alcoa Vows to Cut Power Use in Quebec as Power Rates Rise
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-30T20:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/alcoa-to-cut-power-use-at-quebec-plants-ahead-of-price-increase.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum maker, plans to cut electricity use at three smelters
in  Quebec  starting in November 2014 after objecting to a planned
increase in energy prices.  Alcoa notified Hydro-Quebec, which is owned by the Canadian
province, that it will reduce consumption in November and
December next year, New York-based Alcoa said today in an e-mailed statement. The new price due to take effect starting in
2015 would make the plants uncompetitive, Alcoa said.  “The government of Quebec is in discussions with Alcoa at
the highest level,” Quebec Premier Pauline Marois said today in
the provincial legislature in  Quebec City , in comments broadcast
by  Canada ’s RDI television.  Alcoa has already cut output this year in Quebec as well as
the U.S. and  Brazil  as it tries to reduce costs. The company is
evaluating 460,000 metric tons, or about 11 percent, of its
annual smelting capacity for curtailment or permanent closing by
the end of 2014. The price of aluminum has fallen 8.7 percent
this year amid a global oversupply.  Alcoa’s operations in Quebec include the Baie-Comeau,
Becancour and Deschambault smelters, which have a combined
production capacity of 1.06 million tons, according to a
September company filing. That’s equal to 22 percent of
companywide capacity. Alcoa closed two production lines at Baie
Comeau representing 105,000 tons of capacity in August.  Market Conditions  The company’s announcement today signals it may idle more
output in Quebec if a new power contract doesn’t have favorable
terms, said Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in
Richmond, Virginia. Less power use means less metal, he said.  “Power usage and production translate directly,”
O’Carroll said in a telephone interview. “You can put in more
efficient  light bulbs  but 99.5 percent of the electricity used
in the smelters is used” to make aluminum.  As an alternative to cutbacks, Alcoa could use the threat
of withholding future expansion in Canada as leverage for a more
favorable contract, he said.  “A competitive power rate is needed that allows Alcoa to
continue to invest in its operations and maintain its important
economic impact in Quebec,” Alcoa said in the statement. “The
rate must be competitive on a global scale and flexible enough
to adapt with changing aluminum market conditions.”  Danielle Chabot, a Hydro-Quebec spokeswoman in  Montreal ,
didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment.  Risk-Sharing  Hydro-Quebec charges industrial customers that use more
than 5,000 kilowatts a price of 3.04 Canadian cents (3 U.S.
cents) per kilowatt hour, or what it calls the L rate, according
to the utility company’s  website.   Alcoa’s current power contract, which is indexed to the
price of aluminum, should be extended, said Nicolas Dalmau, a
company spokesman. Switching to the L rate would increase
Alcoa’s costs by $220 million annually, he said today in an
interview on RDI television.  “We are not asking for a lower rate or a drop in the L
rate,” he said in the interview. “We think the formula that
was set up 25 years ago in Quebec, which is called the risk-sharing formula, is a winning formula and we think it can be
modernized.”  Alcoa uses 13 million to 17 kilowatt hours per ton of
aluminum produced, according to company filings. Electricity
accounts for about 26 percent of its primary aluminum production
costs, filings show.  Alcoa fell 0.8 percent to $9.46 at in  New York .  The shares 
have increased 9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  