-- Allstate Profit Slides 57% on Loss Tied to Unit Sale
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-30T22:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/allstate-profit-slides-57-on-charge-tied-to-unit-sale.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. auto and home insurer, said third-quarter profit
declined 57 percent as it booked a loss tied to the sale of a
 life-insurance  business.  Net income fell to $310 million, or 66 cents a share, from
$723 million, or $1.48, a year earlier, the Northbrook,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement. Operating
profit, which excludes some investment results, was $1.53 a
share, beating the $1.44 average  estimate  of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson , 56, has been seeking
to minimize risk from life insurance and retirement products as
low interest rates pressure returns. He sold a variable-annuity
business in 2006 and in July struck a deal to divest Lincoln
Benefit Life Co. as the insurer works to expand its larger, more
profitable auto-and-home unit.  “When Allstate’s doing its best, they tend to focus on
their core operations,” Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP, said in an interview before results were
announced. He recommends buying the stock.  Allstate fell less than 1 percent to $52.50 at 4:27 p.m.
today in extended trading in New York. The insurer had advanced
32 percent through today’s close, compared with the  24 percent 
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Unit Sale  The sale of Lincoln Benefit to Clive Cowdery’s Resolution
Life Holdings Inc. resulted in a loss of about $475 million in
the quarter. Allstate has said that the transaction will free
about $1 billion of capital.  Allstate’s  book value , a measure of assets minus
liabilities used by analysts and investors, rose to $43.49 a
share from $41.63 at the end of June. The insurer said in July
that it was cutting some retirement benefits for employees and
that the change would lead to an increase in the figure.  Margins at the insurer’s home business have improved in
recent quarters as the company bought reinsurance, raised rates
and exited some markets after severe weather boosted claims
costs. Those changes hurt sales of Allstate’s namesake brand of
auto insurance, because the products are often bundled together,
Wilson has said.  That trend is starting to reverse. The number of Allstate-brand standard auto policies in force climbed to 17 million as
of Sept. 30 from 16.9 million a year earlier, according to  data 
posted on the insurer’s website. The count also climbed
sequentially for the second straight quarter.  “We have made most of the progress we needed to make on
fixing our homeowners business,” Wilson said in a phone
interview after the announcement. “You’re starting to see the
beginnings of growth, which is what our shareholders have been
looking for.”  The insurer made 10 cents for every premium dollar in its
property and liability unit compared with a profit of 9.8 cents
a year earlier. Catastrophes cost the company $128 million in
the quarter, down from $206 million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  