-- Alsacia Bonds Tumble as Fitch Warns of Default: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-10-30T20:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/alsacia-bonds-tumble-as-fitch-warns-of-default-santiago-mover.html
Bonds of distressed Chilean bus
operator Inversiones Alsacia SA tumbled the most in two months
after  Fitch Ratings  cut the company’s credit rating by three
levels to CC, indicating a default appears “probable.”  Alsacia’s $383 million of bonds due in 2018 fell 3.81 cents
to 71.39 cents on the dollar at 4:44 p.m. in  New York , sending
the bid yield up 1.45 percentage point to 16.95 percent. The
extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy the debt instead
of U.S. Treasuries rose to 15.71 percentage points.  Alsacia, which operates about 1,494 buses under a
concession from the city of Santiago, said Aug. 5 that it hadn’t
generated enough cash to meet commitments to bondholders. Since
then the company has negotiated a waiver of some of its bond
covenants and a more generous subsidy from the government as
long as it meets operational commitments for the rest of this
year. Alsacia needs that subsidy, payable from January 2014, as
well as a cash injection from its owners to make its $51.6
million February 2014 debt payment, Fitch said.  “There are a number of factors in play for the company to
make it to February with enough cash to make its payment,”
Astra Castillo, Fitch’s lead analyst for Alsacia, said by phone
from Mexico City. “The company is very confident it won’t need
an equity contribution from the owners, but we dont’t agree 100
percent with their projections and think it’s very likely
they’ll need support.”  Closely-held Alsacia is owned by Global Public Services SA,
a Panamanian company controlled by Carlos and Javier Rios and
members of their family, according to a prospectus for the
bonds.  Credit Ratios  The bonds had rallied last month after the government
agreed to raise payments by about 4 percent per rider and make a
$2 million transfer to the company. The bus operator’s Colombian
owners also agreed to contribute $5 million to boost its credit
ratios, supporting a pledge to get back into line with a
requirement that it maintain an account with cash equal to 1.1
times upcoming debt payments.  Alsacia’s cash flow dropped after the number of paying
passengers on its buses fell 4.8 percent in 2012 from a year
earlier and declined a further 4.6 percent in the first half of
this year from the same period of 2012. Alsacia expects
passenger numbers to drop 3 percent this year.  Ridership has been falling as more Chileans buy vehicles
instead of using public transportation, or just choose to skip
fares.  Despite Alsacia spending $7 million to crack down on fare
dodgers, evasion remains widespread on public transport in
Santiago. About 19 percent of passengers didn’t pay to ride the
Santiago bus system during the second quarter, the federal
Transportation Ministry said Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  