-- AMR-US Airways Said Talking With U.S. Over Antitrust Suit
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/amr-us-airways-said-talking-with-u-s-over-antitrust-suit.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  are in exploratory talks with the U.S. about settling
the government’s lawsuit seeking to block their proposed merger,
two people familiar with the matter said.  The discussions are taking place between lawyers for the
airlines and top officials at the Justice Department’s antitrust
division, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
conversations are confidential. The airlines are offering to
divest gates and landing and takeoff rights at Washington’s
Reagan National Airport as part of a settlement package, one of
the people said.  The talks are still preliminary may not lead to settling
the suit, the people said.  “Any discussions about settlement to resolve this
litigation, whether internal, with DOJ directly or through the
mediator would be private and we are not going to comment on
them in any way,” Jill Zuckman, a spokeswoman for  US Airways ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The airlines and the Justice Department said on Oct. 28
that they agreed to submit the lawsuit to mediation as suggested
by U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who’s overseeing
the case. A trial is set to begin Nov. 25.  Rich Parker, an attorney for US Airways, declined to
comment on the mediation or settlement prospects when he spoke
with reporters yesterday outside federal court in Washington
following a status hearing in the case.  “We have always said that our side is open to discussions
but I’m not going to talk about any aspect of settlement,”
Parker said. He said Kollar-Kotelly “asked for a mediator. When
the judge asks us to do that, we do that.”  Largest Airline  The  Justice Department  sued American parent AMR Corp. and
US Airways in August, claiming the planned merger, which would
create the world’s largest airline, would reduce competition and
lead to higher prices.  The U.S. said in its complaint that the merged airline
would control 69 percent of Reagan’s take-off and landing
rights, known as slots, almost six times more than its closest
competitor, effectively blocking other airlines from entering or
expanding there to increase competition. A carrier that wants to
begin or expand service at Reagan must buy or lease slots from
another airline.  Court Protection  American, which has been in bankruptcy since November 2011,
was set to exit court protection by merging with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways when the Justice Department and a group of
states sued to block the deal Aug. 13.  AMR, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , would have to start over
in its reorganization if the U.S. wins a court order stopping
the tie-up, the committee representing the carrier’s unsecured
creditors said in a court filing Oct. 28.  American’s Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said reaching
a “reasonable settlement” of the case would be better for both
sides than going to trial, speaking at a conference in  New York 
Oct. 29.  “It’s incumbent on us to make a very strong case and be
ready to help bring about a sensible settlement,” Horton said,
without elaborating on what an accord might entail. “I think
there’s a way to do that.”  The airlines tried to reach a settlement with the U.S.
before the lawsuit was filed, said Ed Stewart, a US Airways
spokesman.  ‘Competitive Concerns’  “The concessions we were willing to offer were designed to
address competitive concerns that DOJ had raised during the
investigation,” Stewart said in an e-mail.  Michael Trevino , a spokesman for American, declined to
comment on a settlement.  “We have been saying and continue to say we remain open to
a settlement but we can’t comment any further than that,” he
said.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, also
declined to comment on settlement talks with the airlines.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in Washington at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 