-- Spurs Defeat Hull in League Cup Shootout, Manchester City Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-31T00:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/manchester-city-tottenham-advance-to-league-cup-quarterfinals.html
Tottenham Hotspur beat Hull City 8-7
on penalties to advance to the quarterfinals of English soccer’s
League Cup along with Manchester City, which scored twice in
extra time to defeat Newcastle United 2-0.  Spurs and Hull went to penalty kicks following a 2-2 tie at
the end of extra time at White Hart Lane in  London . After each
team missed one of its first five efforts, the shootout went to
sudden death and  Brad Friedel  saved Ahmed Elmohamady’s spot kick
with his legs to send Spurs into the last eight, where they’ll
face fellow London club West Ham.  Last night’s draw also paired Manchester City with
 Leicester City  and  Manchester United  with  Stoke City . Chelsea
will face the winner of next week’s remaining fourth-round
contest between Sunderland and Southampton. The quarterfinals
will take place the week of Dec. 16.  Gylfi Sigurdsson put Tottenham ahead in the 16th minute
before Friedel fumbled the ball into his own net to leave the
teams tied 1-1 at the end of regulation. Paul McShane’s header
nine minutes into extra time gave the visitors the lead for the
first time, before substitute Harry Kane’s low shot sent the
game to penalties.  Hull’s Aaron McLean and Spurs forward Erik Lamela were the
only players to miss in the first 17 attempts, before Elmohamady
put his shot too close to Friedel. It was Tottenham’s first
shootout success since 1994, ending a run of seven straight
defeats.  Manchester City  needed extra time to get past Newcastle
following a scoreless 90 minutes at St. James’ Park in which it
failed to get a shot on target until the 78th minute.  Edin Djeko set up fellow striker Alvaro Negredo for the
opening goal in the 99th minute before doubling the lead six
minutes later.  LEAGUE CUP QUARTERFINAL DRAW:  Leicester City             vs     Manchester City  Stoke City                 vs     Manchester United  Sunderland/Southampton     vs     Chelsea  Tottenham Hotspur          vs     West Ham United  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  