-- Angola Steps Up Oil-Drilling Under Salt to Emulate Brazil
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-10-30T13:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/angola-steps-up-oil-drilling-under-salt-to-emulate-brazil.html
Oil explorers in  Angola ,  Africa ’s
largest crude producer after Nigeria, will drill almost half of
their offshore wells next year beneath a layer of salt under the
seafloor, according to state energy company  Sonangol EP .  The explorers want to test the theory that the geology off
Angola’s coast mirrors that off Brazil, where multibillion-barrel finds have been made, Domingos Cunha, head of integration
at Luanda-based Sonangol, said today in an interview.  Brazil’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  found crude trapped under a
layer of salt deep below Brazil’s seabed in 2007. Drillers are
betting that recent discoveries off Angola will reveal similar
structures to those on the other side of the Atlantic, where
Petrobras is now developing the Western Hemisphere’s largest oil
finds in three decades, estimated at 20 billion barrels.  There are 32 wells planned off Angola in 2014 including 15
in the so-called pre-salt rock strata, Cunha said in Luanda, the
capital. That compares with only two pre-salt wells this year.
“The average number of wells from 2014 to 2022 is going to be
around 25 a year overall, not just pre-salt,” he said.  The deepwater drilling campaign is the country’s biggest,
according to consultants Wood Mackenzie Ltd., which said in
August that explorers will invest at least $3 billion in wells
off Angola next year.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are
among companies there seeking to replicate Brazil’s success.  The South American and African continents began to separate
120 million years ago and seismic data show similar oil-bearing
structures under miles of ocean and seafloor, Dilo Sa, a
geophysicist at BP, said today at a Luanda conference.  Bidding Rounds  “Results we have so far show similar oil quality in Angola
and Brazil,” Cunha said.  Angola will hold a bidding round for 12 mostly deep and
ultra-deep offshore blocks in the southern Namibe basin in 2015,
he said. Administration for bidding on 15 onshore blocks in the
Kwanza basin south of Luanda is under way and Sonangol will
determine soon if a roadshow to market the round will occur this
year, before concessions are awarded in 2014, he said.  Angola’s oil output could double within 15 years if the
pre-salt area takes off, Tako Koning, a geologist at Gaffney,
Cline & Associates, said last year. By mid-to-end 2014, there’ll
be a “strong indication” of whether that’s achievable, Koning
said today at the conference.  The length of Angola’s pre-salt area is similar to  Brazil ’s
at about 700 kilometers (435 miles), he said. Angola produced
1.78 million barrels of oil a day last year, according to BP’s
statistical review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  