-- Angola Turns to Space to Spearhead Wireless Development
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-10-30T09:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/angola-turns-to-space-to-spearhead-wireless-development.html
Angola  is investing in improved
phone and wireless networks on land, sea and in space to attract
foreign investment and diversify away from oil, National
Director of Telecommunications Eduardo Sebastiao said.  The southwest African nation’s biggest projects include a
$300 million Russia-built satellite scheduled for 2017 and a
$200 million sub-sea cable across the Atlantic Ocean to  Brazil 
that will start to be laid next year, Sebastiao said in an Oct.
28 interview in Luanda, the capital. Angola also wants to add
fiber optic cable to increase mobile-phone coverage to 85
percent of the population from 60 percent within two years,
Sebastiao said.  “We encourage international companies to join with local
companies and we’re ready for investors to set up operations
now,” the Director of Telecommunications said. “This will
create not only financial wealth but social wellbeing through
increased jobs and by fighting poverty.”  Angola, recovering from a 27-year civil war that ended in
2002, is rebuilding infrastructure to diversify away from the
crude oil that accounts for 97 percent of exports and 75 percent
of government tax revenue. The government wants to promote
opportunities in mining, industry and agriculture while
improving the efficiency and competitiveness of its
telecommunications industry.  Foreign investment this year in Angolan industries
excluding oil was $1.9 billion by the end of September, compared
with $2.3 billion for all of last year, Maria Luisa Abrantes,
chairwoman of the  National Private Investment Agency , said in an
interview on Oct. 1.  Expand Networks  Four landline operators, including state-owned Angola
Telecom and MS Telecom, a subsidiary of state oil company
Sonangol EP, will be allowed to compete with mobile operators
Movicel Telecommunications SA and  Unitel SA  in both landlines
and mobiles as part of the investment plan, Sebastiao said.  “It’s still being analyzed to see if companies will pay a
fee for the frequency spectrum or for a universal license,” he
said. “We still need to work on the legislation so it’s too
early to say when it will be implemented.”  Movicel was spun off from Angola Telecom in 2010 with a 40
percent share going to closely held Portmill Investmentos e
Telecomunicacoes, which is run by army generals. Unitel is
partly owned by  Portugal  Telecom and Isabel dos Santos, daughter
of Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos. Portugal Telecom
anticipates revenue of $280 million from its stake in Unitel
this year, while Angola’s  Central Bank  has approved the delivery
of about $94 million to date, the company said on an Aug. 14
conference call.  Satellite Project  Angola’s fixed-line and mobile operators are part of a
consortium called Angola Cable that will operate the 6,000-kilometer (3,730-mile) sub-sea cable to Fortaleza, Brazil, and
talks are under way to arrange financing, Sebastiao said. Brazil
was Angola’s fourth-largest trading partner last year, behind
Portugal,  China  and the U.S., according  trading economics.com.   Russia’s state-controlled VTB Bank has arranged financing
for Angola’s first satellite while Russian technicians are
training Angolans to operate the craft, Sebastiao said. The
satellite will help Angola provide better connections in areas
of high-volume data transmission, such as when  oil companies  are
prospecting and drilling, he said.  “The satellite will also give national operators
independence from one another and they will have cheaper
service, which will lead to lower costs for consumers,” the
director said. “The government is subsidizing, but in the long
term there will be recovery.”  Moscow backed Angola’s struggle for independence from
colonial ruler Portugal in 1975 by supporting the  Popular
Movement  for the Liberation of Angola, the political party that
has governed since then.  Angola’s telecommunications sector has also collaborated
with companies from China,  Sweden ,  Japan  and Portugal, and is
seeking to connect networks with neighboring  Namibia , Zambia and
the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Sebastiao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  