-- Atheist Dawkins Turns Hate Mail Into YouTube Comedy
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/atheist-dawkins-turns-hate-mail-into-youtube-comedy.html
The world’s foremost atheist devotes
a lot of time and resources to believers.  Teaching little kids they’re worthless sinners headed for
hell is child abuse, said Richard Dawkins over lunch at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  The evolutionary biologist was here to talk about “An
Appetite for Wonder: The Making of a Scientist,” in which he
describes growing up in  Africa , his intellectual awakening at
 Oxford  and the publication of “The Selfish Gene.”  Lundborg: What are the best things you remember about
growing up?  Dawkins: Smells, sights, colors, nothing very coherent. It
was just where my family lived. We had a very spoiled life, I
suppose: It was like England in Edwardian times -- servants,
meals cooked, beds made.  I was sent away to boarding school at a very young age
which is probably not ideal, but I think I had a good education.
I didn’t come away with much of a naturalist view of Africa,
though. I don’t think I ever saw an elephant or a giraffe or a
lion.  Lundborg: In your teens, you were a big Elvis fan -- he
gave you religious inspiration?  Child Abuse  Dawkins: It came as a blinding Damascus experience when I
saw this album by Elvis called, “I Believe.” I thought this
was a call from God that I should devote my life to propagating
not actually Christianity -- I’d seen through Christianity by
then -- but some kind of deism.  It was my moment of thinking there was some kind of
creative force behind the universe.  Lundborg: And then what happened?  Dawkins: I saw the light -- the Darwinian light.  Lundborg: You’ve since decided to combat religion -- how is
it child abuse?  Dawkins: For one, telling children they’re going to hell,
which is, of course, totally harmless if they don’t believe it.
There’s a kind of law of inverse horribleness that the more
implausible a threat is, the more horrible it has to be.  The threat that you’re going to roast forever in hell is so
implausible it has to be made really horrible. That’s abuse
because you are threatening a child with unspeakable horrors
that never end.  Lundborg: You have two  foundations , one in  England  and one
in the U.S.  Dawkins: More than 40 percent of the American people
according to Gallup polls believe the world is less than 10,000
years old. That’s a very serious figure. It’s like believing
North America is less than 10 yards wide.  We do mostly education, producing DVDs, YouTube films,
sponsoring lectures and things like the  Clergy Project .  Atheist Clergy  Lundborg: Yes, for ministers who have lost their faith.  Dawkins: They’ve become atheist, but have kept quiet about
it because they can’t bear the thought of losing their jobs and
their families in some cases, their social networks, their
social respect.  So, we set up a website with a high degree of
confidentiality for these clergymen and clergywomen to meet each
other online to discuss their common problems, cry on each
other’s shoulders and eventually encourage each other to come
out, which they’ve now started doing.  Lundborg: You travel around saying a lot of inflammatory
things about God. What’s the reception like?  Dawkins: I go out of my way to visit the Bible belt.
Everywhere you go in the Bible belt, they claim to be the
buckle.  My experience is you get a warmer reception there than you
do somewhere like New York or San Francisco. The people who come
are beleaguered and threatened and then they see that there are
a couple of thousand others there and they get encouragement
from that. I serve the purpose of bringing them together.  Hate Mail  Lundborg: You must get a lot of hate mail?  Dawkins: Yes. My policy is to turn it into comedy and post
it on  YouTube . We had a log fire and I was in a dressing gown
and slippers. I read out this appalling noxious hate mail to the
accompaniment of laughter from the film crew.  There were things like: “I hope you get a painful
cancer,” and “I hope you get run over by a church van.”  Lundborg: Is it always anonymous?  Dawkins: There was one from Ann Coulter, who said it was
impossible to imagine not laughing at the thought of Dawkins
roasting in hell.  Lundborg: I expect there’s no point in trying reason with
faith or with sentiment like that?  Dawkins: Reason may not always be the thing -- but in this
case ridicule works.  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  Dining  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  Gadgets .  To contact the writer on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 