-- Kiwi Touches to Four-Week Low on Moody’s; Aussie Little Changed
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-30T06:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/aussie-drops-to-two-week-low-as-yield-gap-to-treasuries-narrows.html
New Zealand ’s dollar fell to a four-week low after Moody’s Investors Service said it considered
stripping the nation of the top  credit rating .  The Australian dollar touched its weakest since Oct. 14 as
the extra yield the nation’s bonds offer over U.S. counterparts
shrank to the narrowest this month. The Aussie declined this
week against most major peers that came after Reserve Bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the currency is likely to be
“materially lower” in the future.  “If Moody’s did cut New Zealand’s AAA rating it would be
in line with the other two agencies, so you might see a little
bit of weakness in the kiwi dollar but it shouldn’t be a huge
surprise to the market,” said Emma Lawson, the Sydney-based
senior currency strategist at National  Australia  Bank Ltd.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 82.62 U.S. cents
at 5 p.m. in Sydney and touched 82.13, the least since Oct. 2.
It was at 81.13 yen. Australia’s currency was little changed at
94.91 cents after falling as low as 94.59. It was at 93.19 yen
and slid 0.5 percent yesterday to 93.07.  New Zealand’s reliance on overseas investors means it can
face difficulties when crises such as the Christchurch
earthquakes and Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s contaminated
milk scare occur,  Steven Hess , Senior Vice President at Moody’s
in  New York , said in an interview in Wellington today.  Moody’s is the only one of the three main ratings companies
to still rate New Zealand AAA after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings each lowered their local-currency rankings one level on
Sept. 29, 2011, sending the kiwi dollar plunging and spurring
bond yields to their steepest climb in a year.  Yield Gap  Australia’s yield  differential  for two-year bonds over
similar-maturity Treasuries dropped to 231 basis points today,
the least since Sept. 30.  The “interest-rate differential is moving away from the
Aussie dollar,”  Paresh Upadhyaya , the Boston-based director of
currency strategy at Pioneer Investment Management Inc., said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “There’s still room,
especially if inflation surprises on the downside, for the RBA
to cut again.”  Swaps traders increased bets that the RBA will lower the
record low benchmark rate of 2.5 percent with policy makers
balancing currency strength as a record mining boom ends with
signs of a pick up in  house prices . The probability of a 25
basis point cut in May rose to 38 percent today from 30.5 last
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Home Sales  Sales of newly-built homes in Australia rose 6.4 percent in
September from the previous month, led by a 20 percent increase
in unit sales, a Housing Industry report showed today.  The Aussie may also extend declines before data in the U.S.
forecast to show private employers added 150,000 positions in
October, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the ADP
Research Institute report due today.  The  Federal Reserve  will also end a two-day meeting today
with a Bloomberg survey showing analysts expect policy makers
won’t announce a paring of stimulus until March.  “If we see improvements in U.S. economic data, that would
increase the likelihood of U.S. tapering leading to dollar
strength and causing the Aussie to weaken,” said David de
Ferranti, a Sydney-based market analyst at  FXCM Inc. (FXCM) , a currency
broking group. The currency will find buyers near the 94-cent
level, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  