-- Australia Risks Trailing U.S. on Emissions Target, CCA Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-10-30T05:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/australia-risks-trailing-u-s-on-emissions-target-adviser-says.html
Australia  risks falling behind the
U.S.,  China  and other nations in cutting  carbon emissions  unless
it raises its target for a 5 percent reduction by 2020, the
government’s climate change adviser said.  “The scale and pace of international action suggests that
Australia should be pursuing a stronger target,” the Melbourne-based Climate Change Authority said today in a  preliminary
report .  Greg Hunt ,  environment minister  under Prime Minister  Tony Abbott ’s newly elected government, said the report won’t change
plans to review emissions targets before a global summit in
2015. The government says its so-called Direct Action plan will
achieve Australia’s 5 percent goal by subsidizing projects that
cut  greenhouse gases .  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition has said it will commit
A$1.55 billion ($1.47 billion) over three years to an emissions-reduction fund. The Climate Institute is among research groups
skeptical the government will reach even the 5 percent goal.  “We will make our judgment on the targets in the lead up
to the 2015 conference,” Hunt told reporters today in
Queensland state. “We have a commitment to the current targets,
and we will assess any change in the context of what the world
is doing.”  Carbon Price  The government plans to abolish the Climate Change
Authority as part of draft legislation to eliminate the law that
sets a carbon price in Australia.  Australia, the biggest emitter per capita among the world’s
richest nations, has pledged to cut greenhouse gases by at least
5 percent by the end of the decade compared with 2000 levels.
While the Climate Change Authority isn’t scheduled to make its
final recommendation until February 2014, it said reductions of
15 percent and 25 percent are in line with other nations’
policies.  Abbott has said the carbon price introduced by former Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  in 2011 has driven up energy costs.
Gillard’s program set a fixed rate for three years starting in
July 2012 at A$23 a ton. The law calls for market-based pricing
and a link to the European Union trading system starting in
2015.  Australia would need to reduce emissions rapidly after 2020
if the country is to help meet the global target of limiting
temperature gains since industrialization to 2 degrees Celsius
(3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), the climate authority said.  “With such a slow start, Australia would be hard pressed
to contribute a fair share,” Bernie Fraser, chairman of the
Climate Change Authority, told reporters today on a call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  