-- Euro Weakens as Gold, Treasuries Retreat With U.S. Stocks
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-31T20:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/australian-equity-index-futures-drop-on-fed-as-silver-declines.html
The euro weakened the most in six
months versus the dollar as inflation in the region slowed more
than forecast and improving U.S. economic data fueled
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will taper stimulus in coming
months. Treasuries, gold and U.S. stocks retreated.  Europe’s shared currency slid 1.1 percent to $1.3581 at 4
p.m. in  New York . The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of
the currency against 10 major peers, increased 0.4 percent.
Rates on 10-year Treasury notes rose for a second day, adding
one basis point to 2.55 percent. Gold futures slid 1.9 percent
and silver sank 4.9 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
which fell from a record yesterday, decreased 0.4 percent to
1,756.54 after rising as much as 0.3 percent earlier.  Inflation in the euro region slowed to a four-year low of
0.7 percent and unemployment held at a record 12.2 percent,
fueling speculation the central bank will cut rates. The Fed
maintained its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases yesterday,
while saying the economy shows signs of “underlying strength.”
U.S. data today showing the biggest jump in a gauge of business
activity in more than three decades and a drop in jobless claims
added to speculation the central bank will consider tapering
stimulus at upcoming meetings.  “The market is re-rating expectations to maybe earlier Fed
tapering than consensus,” Andres Garcia-Amaya, New York-based
global market strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s mutual funds
unit, said in a phone interview today. His firm oversees $400
billion. “It gave the market a chance to remember that nothing
is set in stone and the Fed could actually taper in December or
January.”  Euro Weakens  The euro declined against 14 of its 16 major counterparts,
sliding 1.3 percent versus the yen, while the dollar
strengthened against 13 of 16.  The median forecast in a survey of 42 economists was for
the euro-area inflation rate to stay at 1.1 percent. The data
mark the ninth straight month that the rate has been less than
the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling, and prompted BNP Paribas SA and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to forecast an interest-rate cut by the ECB
in December. The central bank, which will publish new economic
projections that month, has said there is a “subdued outlook”
for inflation in the 17-nation euro area.  “There was a big downward surprise for inflation numbers
in the  euro zone ,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a phone
interview. “It was a very dovish signal for the  European
Central Bank . Markets built up long positions in the euro too
quickly.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise in value.  Currency Swings  The yen rose for the first time in five days versus the
dollar while Sweden’s krona sank for a fourth day against the
U.S. currency before a report tomorrow forecast to show
manufacturing slowed.  A measure of  price swings  among the currencies of Group of
Seven nations increased to the highest in two weeks. The
JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index  rose 3.9 percent, the most since
July, to 7.97. The 2013 average is 9.38 percent.  Fed policy makers yesterday signaled diminishing concern
over higher borrowing costs. The central bank refrained from
providing stronger signals of prolonged stimulus and limited its
comment on the costs of budgetary wrangling in  Washington  to the
observation that “fiscal policy is restraining” growth.  Economic Data  The MNI Chicago Report business barometer jumped to 65.9
from 55.7 in September, the biggest monthly increase in more
than three decades and the index’s highest reading since March
2011. Readings above 50 signal expansion in business activity.
The index exceeded the most optimistic estimate in Bloomberg
survey, in which the median projection was 55. A gauge of orders
advanced to the highest level in nine years.  First-time applications  for U.S. jobless benefits decreased
to 340,000 in the week ended Oct. 26, Labor Department figures
showed. That compared with a median estimate of 338,000 in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Economists at Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc said
yesterday’s Fed policy statement opens the possibility of
reduced bond purchases as soon as December. The odds of a taper
in January rose to 45 percent, from 25 percent before the
decision, according to Citigroup. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 had predicted the Fed would begin paring
stimulus in March.  Tapering ‘Inevitable’  “Tapering is inevitable, and that’s what you read from
last night’s statement,” said  Donald Williams , the Sydney-based
chief investment officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.,
which manages about A$1.6 billion ($1.5 billion). “When they do
start tapering, that will be in a context that the economy is
looking good and likely to strengthen further, which should be
good for earnings and equities. You can see equity markets
correcting, but it’s more negative for gold and commodities.”  Among stocks moving today,  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  plunged 22
percent, the most since 1999, after the cosmetics company posted
a quarterly loss amid bribery probes. JDS Uniphase Corp. tumbled
11 percent as the electronic testing and measurement company’s
sales forecast trailed analysts’ estimates. Visa Inc. lost 3.5
percent after the bank-card network said revenue rose less than
projected. Expedia Inc. rallied 18 percent after posting
earnings that exceeded estimates.  Per-share profit has beaten analysts’ estimates at  76
percent (SPX)  of the 358 companies in the  S&P 500  that have announced
their latest results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The S&P 500 is up more than 23 percent in 2013, challenging 2009
for its best yearly gain in a decade. It traded for about 16.8
times reported earnings at its last record two days ago, the
highest valuation in more than three years.  Divergent Views  Two of America’s best known investors are moving in
opposite directions in the stock market, with Laszlo Birinyi
predicting more gains as  David Einhorn  takes a more cautious
approach.  Holdings that profit if stocks gain at Einhorn’s Greenlight
Capital Re Ltd.’s exceeded short bets by 35 percentage points as
of Sept. 30, compared with about 42 percentage points three
months earlier, he said today on a conference call.Birinyi,
president of Birinyi Associates Inc., said the S&P 500 will
reach 1,820 by February and bought calls that profit from a
rally in equity benchmark.  The Stoxx 600 gained 3.8 percent in October in its second
monthly advance.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s biggest oil
company,  lost  3.5 percent in London trading, the most since
August, as profit missed analyst estimates. Novo Nordisk A/S
fell 7.4 percent as earnings for the world’s biggest insulin
maker trailed projections. Alcatel-Lucent SA surged 19 percent
as the French network-equipment maker said it will beat its
cost-cutting target.  Italian 10-year rates fell six basis points to 4.13
percent. Spain’s dropped three basis points to 4.03 percent,
after touching 3.98 percent, the lowest since May 3.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for the first time in
four days, losing 1 percent. The gauge has gained almost 5
percent in October in its first back-to-back monthly advance
since January. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent as
 China  Minsheng Banking Corp.’s earnings missed estimates.
Benchmark gauges in  Indonesia ,  South Korea  and  Turkey  slid more
than 1 percent.  China’s top four banks posted their biggest increase in
soured loans since at least 2010. Nonperforming loans at
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China Construction
Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China
Ltd. rose 3.5 percent in the three months to Sept. 30 from June
to a combined 329.4 billion  yuan  ($54 billion), according to
data compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Gold futures for December delivery slid 1.9 percent to
$1,323.70 an ounce, the biggest drop in three weeks. Silver lost
4.9 percent to $21.867 an ounce, the biggest drop since Sept.
20.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 0.8 percent,
capping a monthly decline of 1.6 percent after falling 3.8
percent in September. Copper dropped 0.8 percent. The metal used
in wires and pipes lost 0.7 percent in October, the first
monthly drop since June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  