-- Tax Concern Has U.S. Economy Mired at 2% Growth, Greenspan Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-30T17:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/tax-concern-has-u-s-economy-mired-at-2-growth-greenspan-says.html
The  U.S. economy  is mired at about 2
percent growth due to concern about the level of U.S. taxes
required to fund the cost of government, according to former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan .  Growing social benefits spending and budget deficits may be
the primary cause of business trepidation for the long run
because it opens the question as to how the government will fund
itself, Greenspan said at a conference in  New York  hosted by The
Economist.  “We’re stuck at a 2 percent growth, maybe 2.5 percent,
maybe a little less, but all-in-all, well below potential, and
we’ve been in that position for quite a significant period of
time,” Greenspan said. Business “uncertainty tends to come to,
when you press them, inability to make a judgment as to what the
tax rates will be in the long-distant future.”  Greenspan said the cost of government is set to rise as a
percentage of gross domestic product, fueled by programs
including  Social Security , Medicare and Medicaid, leading to
larger federal deficits. During the current economic recovery,
businesses are willing commit to shorter-duration projects, he
said, while investment for more than 20 years, mostly
structures, “has come back only marginally.”  Political Challenge  “It is very difficult politically to resolve this issue
and what we’re seeing is it’s turning into a form of gridlock,
which we saw in the shutdown, and probably going to shut down
again,” Greenspan said.  Greenspan, 87, who preceded  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman of
the central bank, served at the Fed during an era dubbed the
“Great Moderation” for its economic stability. In the final
years of Greenspan’s 1987-2006 time at the Fed, a massive
housing bubble developed as  home prices  more than doubled.  The bursting of that bubble led to a financial crisis that
toppled companies such as Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and sent the nation’s  unemployment  soaring to 10
percent. It has since fallen to 7.2 percent.  After leaving the Fed, Greenspan founded the consulting
firm Greenspan Associates and has been a consultant or adviser
to Deutsche Bank AG, Pacific Investment Management Co. and hedge
fund Paulson & Co. President  Barack Obama  nominated Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  as the next head of the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  