-- Maxcom Chairman Plots Growth as Industry Poised for Mergers
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-10-30T20:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/maxcom-chairman-plots-growth-as-industry-poised-for-mergers-1-.html
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB’s 3
billion-peso ($233 million) lifeline from shareholders gives the
Mexican telephone company a chance to benefit from the
industry’s growth and potential mergers, its chairman said.  Maxcom, which has piled up losses for five straight years,
is on track to generate “robust and consistent growth,” said
Enrique Castillo, the former Ixe Banco SA executive who helped
engineer a takeover of Maxcom this year. Favorable regulation
and upgraded networks will help the carrier compete against the
biggest companies in the sector, such as  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , he said.  Earlier this month, shareholders including Castillo’s
private-equity firm, Ventura Capital Privado SA, agreed to raise
the fresh capital to help the company gain subscribers beyond
Mexico City and the four other cities where it mainly operates.
That followed a bankruptcy filing this year as the company
renegotiated with lenders.  Companies in the industry will probably also combine to
take on bigger rivals, Castillo said in a phone interview.  “Right now our only focus is for the company to operate
well and to generate value for our shareholders,” Castillo
said. “But in this world, particularly in telecommunications,
we look ahead and keep seeing consolidation, so we’ll either be
consolidators or consolidated.”  Castillo didn’t discuss any specific merger plans. Maxcom
has less than 5 percent of the landline phone market in Mexico,
compared with about 80 percent for  America Movil . It also sells
Internet and television service, putting it in competition with
 Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) ’s cable and satellite businesses.  ‘Different Companies’  Maxcom slid 4.1 percent to 3.25 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The shares have risen 12 percent this year.  “You are looking at two different companies before and
after the capital restructuring,” said Andres Audiffred, an
analyst with Grupo Financiero Ve Por Mas in Mexico City. “If
you add the restructuring of the bonds, the company has a more
comfortable maturity profile with lower  interest rates , so it’s
in a much stronger financial position.” He advises buying the
shares.  Earlier this week Maxcom announced that Chief Executive
Officer Rene Sagastuy resigned after less than a month on the
job. Sagastuy had previously held the same position for a period
ending in 2008. Castillo said a new CEO would be selected in a
matter of days.  While Sagastuy helped Maxcom emerge from its process of
bankruptcy and recapitalization, his departure for personal
reasons coincided with the company’s desire to find a leader
that fit with its strategy, Castillo said.  Sagastuy’s departure won’t hinder Maxcom because of the
experience of Castillo and his team from Ventura, Audiffred
said. Sagastuy couldn’t be reached for comment.  “We will start fresh. This company has endured many
problems in the past couple of years,” Castillo said. “We want
to give it stability and we see this as a way to compete in a
hugely changing business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  Mexico  City at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  