-- Babylon Has Record Plunge as Google Deal Ends: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-30T15:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/babylon-has-record-plunge-as-google-deal-ends-tel-aviv-mover.html
Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  tumbled the most on
record after the Israeli translation software provider said
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  decided not to renew a partnership following
customer complaints.  The shares of the company that got more than 40 percent of
its revenue from the collaboration, plunged 62 percent, the most
since they started trading in  Israel , to 7.40 shekels at the
close in Israel. That pared Babylon’s market value to 369
million shekels ($105 million). Tel Aviv-based  Perion Network
Ltd. (PERI) , a digital media company, dropped 9.9 percent to 39.67
shekels.  Google told Babylon it won’t renew the contract ending Nov.
30 following complaints about the Or Yehuda, Israel-based
company’s toolbar, according to a statement to the  Tel-Aviv 
Stock Exchange. The end to the deal could wipe out most of
Babylon’s revenue as  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  reconsiders its partnership
with the company on similar complaints, according to Beni Dekel,
an analyst at Tel Aviv-based  Union Bank of Israel  Ltd.  “This is a catastrophe for the company,” Dekel, who had a
buy rating on the shares until the Yahoo! discord emerged
earlier this month, said by telephone. “Without Google, and
with the Yahoo! partnership on shaky grounds, how can the
company possibly recover?”  Babylon, whose controlling shareholders include online
gaming entrepreneur Noam Lanir, last year planned a U.S. public
offering of shares to raise $115 million. The company put those
plans on hold as it entered talks to merge with IronSource Ltd.,
an Israeli online software distributor.  Industry Threatened  Offering free toolbar services, such as language
translation, the software makers split advertising revenues with
 search engines . If Google and Yahoo question the benefits of
these toolbars as customers complain, that jeopardizes the
lifeblood of these companies, said Dekel.  Google’s decision threatens the whole industry, Babylon’s
Chief Executive Officer Alon Carmeli said. “We are the first to
experience these events,” he said in a statement to the
exchange. The company is studying the implications and working
to adapt to the new reality, Carmeli said.  “This could mean a change in the toolbar model and this is
bad for the industry,” Dekel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  