-- Bafin Seeks Update on ECB Rules as Deutsche Bank Plans Debt
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-10-30T17:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/bafin-seeks-update-on-ecb-rules-as-deutsche-bank-plans-debt.html
Germany ’s banking regulator said it
wants the European Central Bank to provide more information on
what types of debt will qualify as capital as Europe’s biggest
lenders prepare to sell notes to strengthen finances.  “I hope very much that the ECB will make further
announcements by year end,” Elke Koenig, president of Bafin,
told reporters in Frankfurt today. “Banks want to prepare and
know what the rules of the game will look like.”  European officials have entrusted the ECB with overseeing
the region’s financial system to prevent a repeat of the turmoil
that set off the euro area’s worst recession since World War II.
Banks in the bloc, unlike competitors in Switzerland, don’t yet
know what kind of debt their regulator will allow them to count
toward reserves to help weather losses.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, said yesterday
that it plans to issue 5 billion euros ($6.9 billion) of debt
securities through 2015 to help increase Tier 1 capital and
reduce leverage.  The bank expects to “be put in a position to execute
transactions” before the end of the year, Stefan Krause,
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s chief financial officer, said
yesterday on an earnings conference call with analysts.  “There are still many legal hurdles in individual
countries,” Bafin’s Koenig said. “This is an issue you’re not
going to be able to deal with definitively in two months, but
hopefully we’ll see first steps.”  Swiss Banks  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s biggest
banks, are required to sell securities that would convert into
shares or be written off if their common equity ratios fall
below pre-set levels.  Koenig spoke after addressing a conference on retail
banking organized by German newspaper Boersen-Zeitung today. She
concluded her remarks by addressing the ECB’s plan for assuming
supervision of the euro area’s biggest banks next year, which
will follow a three-stage review of their assets.  “I don’t expect any giant surprises for Germany from the
balance sheet assessment,” she told bankers at the conference.
“Banks have prepared, they know the issues and if you’re not
prepared by now, I can’t help you either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  