-- Baidu Rises on Earnings as NQ Advances: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-30T22:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/baidu-rises-on-earnings-as-nq-advances-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose for a second day
in New York after  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s profit beat analyst estimates and
 NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  took additional steps to become more transparent.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. added 0.5 percent to 103.13, poised for a
fourth monthly gain. Baidu,  China ’s biggest web search engine,
rose to a one-week high. NQ Mobile jumped 11 percent, rebounding
from a 62 percent tumble that followed Muddy Waters LLC’s Oct.
24 report alleging it inflated sales. Suntech Power Holdings Co.
climbed after saying it may get a $150 million equity investment
from a state-backed company.  Jefferies Group LLC and Brean Capital LLC raised their
 recommendations  on Baidu to buy yesterday after the company’s
third-quarter net income exceeded the average projection of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Baidu-controlled travel website
Qunar Cayman Islands Ltd. increased the price of a planned
initial public offering by as much as 26 percent. NQ continued
to transfer cash deposits to  Standard Chartered  Plc.  “On top of fairly good earnings, Baidu’s growth in mobile
app users and a pickup in mobile monetization are the bright
spots,” Tan Chiheng, an analyst at Granite  Point Capital Inc. (PTCI) ,
which invests in Chinese equities, said by phone from  Boston .
“ Muddy Waters ’ allegations on NQ should be perceived as an
individual case, and it won’t have big impacts on the sector or
upcoming Chinese IPO deals.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 1.4 percent to $37.54 in
New York in a third day of gains. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 0.5 percent after the  Federal Reserve  fueled bets
it will begin to cut stimulus even as it maintained the pace of
monthly bond buying as expected.  Revenue Forecast  American depositary receipts of Baidu added 3.5 percent to
$164.93. Trading volume was almost four times the daily average
of the past 90 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Beijing-based company said Oct. 29 that third-quarter
net income rose 1.3 percent from a year earlier to 3.05 billion
 yuan  ($498 million). That beat the 3 billion-yuan average of 10
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Baidu forecast fourth-quarter
revenue of as much as 9.5 billion yuan, surpassing a 8.92
billion-yuan average of 15 analysts’ estimates.  NQ Mobile, also based in Beijing, jumped to $12.25. The
mobile-services provider transferred an additional $25 million
of deposits formerly held at Industrial Bank Co. to Standard
Chartered, according to a statement yesterday. The company
transferred $16.4 million on Oct. 29.  Suntech Investment  Suntech, the world’s largest solar-panel maker by shipments
in 2011, climbed 10 percent to $1.40, set for the biggest gain
this month.  Wuxi Guolian Development Group may combine other solar and
related businesses it owns with Suntech, possibly as joint
ventures, the panel producer said yesterday in a statement
announcing it had received an investment letter of intent from
Wuxi Guolian.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  jumped
2.4 percent yesterday to 10,640.89, the largest gain in two
months. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.5 percent to
2,160.46, rising the most in a week.  The yuan fell for a fourth day yesterday, the longest
losing streak since July, as the central bank cut the currency’s
reference rate amid a rally in the dollar. The People’s Bank of
China cut its fixing, which limits the yuan’s daily moves to 1
percent on either side, by 0.06 percent to 6.1412 per dollar,
the weakest since Oct. 17.  The U.S. Treasury Department said in its semi-annual
currency report to Congress released in Washington yesterday
that the yuan is “significantly undervalued” and hasn’t
strengthened as fast as needed, while declining to name the
country a currency manipulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  