-- Bankers Join Insurers Asking IRS for Bad-Debt Flexibility: Taxes
-- B y   A l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/bankers-join-insurers-asking-irs-for-bad-debt-flexibility-taxes.html
Banks and insurers are urging the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service to give them a break when it comes
to dealing with write downs of bad debt, particularly mortgage-backed securities that have little or no value.  At issue is when a financial institution can count a
written-off debt as a tax loss. Currently, accounting rules
stipulate the point at which a debt must be discounted for
bookkeeping purposes, while IRS rules on timing aren’t as clear.  The lack of agreement has led to longer and more expensive
regulatory examinations, the Consortium of Insurance Industry
Associations says. The group this month urged the IRS to
“reduce uncertainty” for the industry by permitting companies
to take a tax deduction for structured securities when they’re
written off as losses. Bank groups say it boils down to the tax
agency following the lead of industry regulators.  “Banks aren’t trying to game the system,” Fran Mordi, tax
counsel for the  American Bankers Association , said last week.
“If a loan is bad, it’s bad. IRS wants us to re-prove that it’s
bad. If the loan is bad on the books, take it for tax today.”  Much of the uncollectible debt stemming from the financial
crisis that peaked from late 2008 to early 2009 involved real
estate, where loans went sour by the thousands. Insurers and
banks that held mortgage-backed securities faced billions of
dollars in losses. The IRS began considering a change in its
rules after modifications in bank regulatory standards.  Evaluating Debts  Banks and other businesses regulated by state or federal
authorities were allowed to apply a “conclusive presumption of
worthlessness” to bad debts in the early 1990s, letting them
use the same standards in writing down bad debts for both book
and tax purposes, Marc Levy, global banking and capital markets
tax leader at Ernst & Young, said in May. Changes in accounting
rules and banking regulations have led to situations where it
wasn’t clear how to apply the IRS methods, Levy said.  Last year, the IRS negotiated a partial resolution with the
 insurance industry  on how to treat securities judged partly or
completely worthless, in terms of accounting and regulatory
rules. By then, the issue had become the single largest audit
concern for many insurers, according to the consortium. The
banking industry is negotiating for a similar IRS directive.  Both industries have been in separate talks with the IRS
over this often-contentious issue for years.  The agency may also lay out a more permanent solution to
guide financial companies on when they can count such write
downs as deductions. Recently, the IRS sought comments on
whether it should change the current standards for presuming
debts to be worthless.  Regulatory Conformity  Insurers have urged the IRS to conform to the rules
governing the accounting treatment of the debts, according to
Pete Bautz, vice president for taxes and retirement security for
the  American Council of Life Insurers  in  Washington . He said
that would keep taxpayers from having to prove a debt couldn’t
be collected as an accounting matter and again for tax purposes.  Under the current practice, taking a tax deduction hinges
on whether companies can obtain specific written orders from
state regulators verifying that a debt had to be written down
for accounting purposes, Bautz said. “Those letters are
difficult to get,” he said.  Insurers have asked the IRS to apply on a broader scale the
same approach it agreed to in last year’s partial resolution. In
the 2012 directive, the agency offered a safe-harbor provision
allowing companies to have the tax treatment of their debts
mimic the accounting handling in some cases, if the obligations
had to be written down because of adverse financial conditions.  Self-Certifying Losses  Insurers have also urged the tax agency to let companies
self-certify losses, subject to “robust third-party review” by
independent auditors or state insurance examiners, instead of
requiring written confirmation from state regulators.  The industry is seeking two other changes in the way the
IRS treats bad debts. The agency should let taxpayers take a
deduction in the year the obligation becomes partly worthless,
as long as there has been a related book charge-off in the
current or a previous year, according to the consortium.  The other change sought by insurers would deal with
situations where the adjusted tax basis of an asset exceeds its
book basis. In this case, a partial bad-debt deduction should be
measured by the higher adjusted tax basis, the letter said. The
IRS should clarify that the deduction is the amount equal to the
book basis after the charge-off, the consortium said.  Broader Directive  Banks are hoping to get industry-specific guidance from the
IRS by late November or early December, even as the agency
considers how to handle a broader range of related issues. That
sort of directive may take much longer to devise.  “We’re hoping to get the directive as soon as possible,”
said the ABA’s Mordi. “A lot of banks are currently under
examination.”  Yet bankers hope the IRS will offer a broader directive
that one just dealing with mortgage-backed securities or other
types of real-estate lending and investment, Mordi said.  “We don’t want to limit it to any particular types of
loans,” she said. “That becomes very complicated for banks.”  The insurance industry consortium’s letter was signed by
representatives of organizations including the American Council
of Life Insurers, the  Property Casualty Insurers Association of
America  and the Reinsurance Association of America. The letter
from the ABA was also signed by a representative of the Clearing
House Association LLP, which counts  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  among its members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Bennett in Washington at  abennett@bna.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Ferguson at  bferguson@bna.com . 