-- Bank Credit Risk Declines to Lowest in Three Years in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-30T11:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/bank-credit-risk-declines-to-lowest-in-three-years-in-europe.html
The cost of protecting bank bonds
against losses dropped to the lowest in three years in  Europe 
before the  Federal Reserve ’s policy announcement.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell 1 basis point to 117 basis points at
10:40 a.m. in  London , the lowest since October 2010. Default
swaps on subordinated bank debt also declined to a three-year
low, dropping 2 basis points to 175 basis points.  Economists expect the Fed will keep its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases today, even as BlackRock Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink warned stimulus is
contributing to “bubble-like markets.”  Spain ’s exit from a
two-year recession in the third quarter helped boost investor
confidence.  “Tapering expectations continue to be pushed to a later
date, perhaps March next year,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a
Paris-based credit strategist at Societe Generale SA. “We’ll
look for clues in today’s Fed meeting, but if ongoing liquidity
conditions remain as expected, that’s positive and compounded by
the fact there’s no major macro threat at the moment with the
sovereign crisis contained.”  The average yield investors demand to hold euro-denominated
bonds from financial companies fell 14 basis points this month
to 2.1 percent, the lowest since June 5, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Contracts on non-financial corporate bonds held at a 3 1/2-year low, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings unchanged
at 83 basis points.  New Issuance  In the new issue market today,  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) ,
the third-largest independent bottler of the soft drink, is
selling 350 million euros ($482 million) of 10-year notes to
yield about 70 basis points more than the mid-swap rate,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The Atlanta-based company may use the proceeds to refinance commercial paper
and debt, the person said.  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , Spain’s biggest utility, is planning to sell
500 million euros of bonds maturing in January 2022 at a spread
of about 150 basis points, according to another person.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-biggest luxury automaker, is
seeking to raise 250 million pounds ($402 million) from four-year notes yielding about 95 basis points more than U.K.
government bonds with a similar maturity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  