-- Barrick Gold Said to Mull Options Including Stake Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/barrick-said-to-mull-options-including-stake-sale-to-raise-funds.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  has explored
cash-raising options ranging from a strategic equity investment
to a sale of part of its copper business during a months-long
effort to cut debt, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The company also has examined the sale of part of its $8.5
billion Pascua-Lama mine on the Argentina- Chile  border, said the
people, who asked not to be named as the deliberations are
private. Barrick has yet to settle on any options, and there’s
no certainty a deal will occur, the people said.  Barrick, the world’s largest gold producer, has come under
pressure this year as the price of the metal fell 19 percent and
debt increased. The Toronto-based company, led by Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky, has considered selling stakes
in either itself or Pascua-Lama, which has some of the world’s
biggest gold and silver deposits, to state-backed Chinese
investors, the people said.  Sokalsky already has announced a series of measures to
counter the gold-price decline and rising costs, including the
sale of some mines and energy assets. His efforts to prioritize
investment returns over production volumes have marked the end
of three decades of expansion under founder  Peter Munk .  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick, declined to comment on
what the company is considering.  China Connections  Barrick, which is scheduled to report third-quarter
 earnings  today before the start of regular trading, last year
appointed  John Thornton , a former president of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., as co-chairman alongside 85-year-old Munk. Thornton
is a professor and director of the global leadership program at
 China ’s Tsinghua University and sits on the board of companies
including China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  The 59-year-old also is a member of the international
advisory board of China Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign
wealth fund. Munk highlighted Thornton’s ties to China at
Barrick’s annual shareholder meeting in April, saying the
country will provide an important source of capital for the
 mining industry .  Barrick rose 3.7 percent to $20.50 at the close yesterday
in  New York , giving the company a market value of $20.52
billion. The shares have declined 41 percent this year.  The sale of a stake in the company to a strategic investor
may be negative for current shareholders because they would be
diluted, said Caesar Bryan, manager of the Rye, New York-based
Gabelli Gold Fund, which has about $220 million under
management.  Gold Writedowns  “I’m not sure that selling a lot of equity at the moment
is the way to go,” he said.  Barrick already has written down the value of Pascua-Lama
by more than $5 billion amid delays and ballooning expenses, and
the company has said  capital costs  for the project may exceed
its latest estimates.  Other gold producers including  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the
world’s second-largest by sales, have announced billions of
dollars of writedowns after the price of the metal plunged. Gold
producers are slashing budgets and cutting output to focus on
mining the most profitable ounces.  Barrick has sold off some costlier mines to hold down
expenditures. Meanwhile, long-term  debt  has surged 19 percent
from the end of last year to $14.4 billion. The debt burden,
coupled with spending tied to Pascua-Lama, may raise concern
about Barrick’s liquidity if gold prices keep dropping, TD
Securities Inc. analyst  Greg Barnes  said earlier this year.  Debt Payments  Sokalsky said last month that in spite of the increase in
debt, Barrick doesn’t have an issue with repayment. The
company’s scheduled repayments of $1.3 billion through 2015 are
less than its operating cash flow in the first half of this
year, he said. Barrick, which has cut its  dividend  this year,
has $2.4 billion in cash and an undrawn $4 billion credit
facility, he said then.  It may make sense for Barrick to sell part of its copper
business to increase the percentage of revenue from gold,  David West , a Vancouver-based analyst at Salman Partners Inc., said in
a phone interview.  “They’re a gold company, they should stay a gold
company,” he said.  Barrick owns the Zaldivar copper mine in Chile, the Lumwana
copper mine in Zambia and the Jabal Sayid copper project in
 Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  