-- Bega Cheese Bid for Warrnambool Can Proceed, Says Regulator
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-30T23:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/bega-cheese-bid-for-warrnambool-can-proceed-says-regulator.html
Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) , the underbidder in
the battle for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co., won
Australian regulator approval for its A$407 million ($396
million) offer for the diary producer.  The approval makes Bega the only of three bidders for
Warrnambool to be cleared, as  Saputo Inc. (SAP) ’s A$449 proposal is
being reviewed by Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board
and Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co. seeks regulatory clearance
through the Australian Competition Tribunal. Bega is considering
its options over improving its offer, Executive Chairman Barry Irvin said Oct. 21 in an interview.  “A merged Bega and Warrnambool Cheese & Butter would
continue to be constrained by other dairy manufacturers that
they compete more closely with in the acquisition of raw milk,
including Murray Goulburn,” Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission Chairman Rod Sims said in the statement.  Montreal-based Saputo won support from Warrnambool’s board
with an improved offer of A$8 a share made last week, topping a
A$7.50 per share cash proposal from Murray Goulburn Cooperative
Co. and above Bega’s cash and shares offer. Bega closed
yesterday in Sydney at A$4.39, making its offer of 1.2 shares
and A$2 cash for each Warrnambool share worth A$7.27.  Warrnambool fell 0.8 percent to A$8.29 at 10:25 a.m. in
Sydney trading.  Dairy Demand  The contest for Warrnambool, which makes brands including
Sungold milk and Great Ocean Road cheese, comes as bidders
attempt to raise production and add export infrastructure amid
rising demand in Asia.  China , the world’s most populous nation,
is setting records for milk-powder imports to fill its milk
production deficit, while dairy demand is rising in  India ,
 Indonesia  and  Vietnam , the Victoria-state based company said in
an Oct. 9 presentation.  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s largest beverage maker, bought
a 9.99 percent stake in Warrnambool on Oct. 29, the company said
in a statement. Kirin’s Australian unit Lion, which has a
contract with Warrnambool to manufacture cheese for its Coon and
Cracker Barrel brands, may be seeking to block a Saputo
takeover, according to Canaccord Genuity Group Inc.  Bega Cheese  holds 18 percent  of Warrnambool and Murray
Goulburn holds 17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  