-- Bharti Surges as Revenue Beats Analyst Estimates
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-10-30T10:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/bharti-surges-as-revenue-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, surged the most in more than a month in
Mumbai trading after posting sales that beat analyst estimates.  The  stock  rose 5.5 percent to 360 rupees at the close of
Mumbai trading, the biggest jump since Sept. 10. Revenue rose
9.9 percent to 213.2 billion rupees ($3.5 billion) in the three
months ended Sept. 30, New Delhi-based Bharti said in a
statement today. That beat the 209.3 billion-rupee median of
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Billionaire Chairman Sunil Mittal’s carrier benefited from
a gain in subscribers, especially in  Africa  where net  revenue  in
dollar terms increased 6.2 percent from a year earlier. The
carrier increased its market share in India to 28.5 percent last
quarter, widening its lead over  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s unit, which
had 22.9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Africa did better than expected, it’s the clear revenue
driver for Bharti this quarter,” said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst with Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd. “Expectations were
flattish and they came up pretty big, which will continue to
support the company’s growth going forward.”  Growth in Africa along with an increase in data consumption
in India, the world’s fastest-growing smartphone market, helped
Bharti boost global sales in a traditionally soft quarter for
Indian operators, Shah said. Data accounted for 9.2 percent of
mobile revenue in India, up from 5.2 percent a year earlier, as
traffic volume on the network more than doubled to 33.6 billion
megabytes, according to the statement.  Mobile Engine  “Mobile Internet is now a major engine of growth for
Airtel across all geographies,” Mittal said in the statement.
“The revenue growth in Africa reflects the inherent potential
in the world’s most promising continent.”  Net income in the period fell 29 percent to 5.12 billion
rupees as the rupee’s decline led to foreign exchange losses,
Bharti said. Profit trailed the 7.9 billion-rupee median of 31
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharti had a currency-related loss of 3.42 billion rupees
in the quarter, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  