-- Biggest Danish Pension Fund Girds for End to Crisis Stimulus
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-10-30T12:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/biggest-danish-pension-fund-girds-for-end-to-crisis-stimulus.html
Denmark’s biggest pension fund said
investors need to brace themselves for potential disruptions
once central banks start withdrawing the measures that have been
propping up the global economy.  “When the time for normalization of the monetary policy
stance comes, investors may be faced with huge challenges,”
ATP, based north of Copenhagen, said today in a statement on its
website. “It is important to maintain a patient and flexible
investment strategy in order to achieve positive returns.”  Unprecedented stimulus from the world’s biggest central
banks has supported prices in “risky” markets, including
equities, ATP said. The fund, which had a total of 705 billion
kroner ($130 billion) in assets at the end of the third quarter,
warned that monetary policy isn’t a long-term solution to
economic weakness and that central banks can only “buy time”
as governments, companies and households adjust.  The investor reaction to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
decision to shelve a tapering of stimulus it had signaled might
come as early as September showed how fragile markets remain,
ATP said.  “Central banks have been buoying financial markets,” the
fund said.  Oil Fund  ATP isn’t the first large institutional investor in
 Scandinavia  to warn that asset prices may be artificially high
because of extraordinary stimulus. Norway’s $810 billion
sovereign wealth fund, the world’s biggest, said last week it is
bracing itself for a “correction” in stock prices after
equities soared last quarter.  The MSCI World Index of stocks rose 7.7 percent last
quarter and has surged a further 12.9 percent since the end of
June. That puts the gauge on course for its biggest quarterly
gain since the third quarter of 2010, when it rose 13.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ATP said the uncertain investment environment, and its
effect on inflation and  interest rates , is forcing it to cut its
target. The fund predicts it will reach 9.7 billion kroner this
year from its hedging and investment business, according to its
third-quarter report released today. At the end of June, the
target was 10.8 billion kroner.  “This is still considered an ambitious target,” ATP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  