-- Blue Bird Said to Kick Off Biggest Indonesia IPO in Three Years
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-10-30T03:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/blue-bird-said-to-kick-off-biggest-indonesia-ipo-in-three-years.html
Blue Bird Group, attempting
 Indonesia ’s largest initial public offering in almost three
years, started gauging investor demand for its about $450
million sale, said two people with knowledge of matter.  Blue Bird, the country’s largest taxi operator, will begin
taking orders from investors early next month, said the people,
who asked not to be identified as the information is private.
The offering includes new stock and shares being sold by
existing investors, they said.  At $450 million, Blue Bird would be Indonesia’s largest IPO
since state-owned airline PT Garuda Indonesia’s $524 million
sale in January 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
First-time offers have raised $1.4 billion on the Indonesia
Stock Exchange this year, up from $679 million in the same
period of 2012, the data show.  Blue Bird President Director Purnomo Prawiro declined to
comment in an e-mailed reply to questions.  The company, majority-owned by the Djokosoetono family,
operates about 28,900 vehicles, more than three times its
closest rival  PT Express Transindo Utama. (TAXI)  Shares of Express
Transindo, which has a market value of 3.3 trillion rupiah ($297
million), have jumped 79 percent this year, outperforming the
Jakarta Composite Index’s 5.7 percent gain.  Blue Bird, which started in 1972 with 25 taxis, is named
after a European fairy tale about a girl and a blue bird who
worked tirelessly to find happiness, according to its website.  Credit Suisse Group AG, UBS AG and Danareksa Sekuritas are
managing the IPO, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  