-- Boehner Ally Cole Signals Compromise in U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-10-30T15:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/boehner-ally-cole-signals-compromise-in-u-s-budget-talks.html
Oklahoma  Republican Tom Cole isn’t
just a member of a House-Senate conference committee assigned to
negotiate the U.S. budget.  The six-term lawmaker, widely viewed as a voice of partisan
restraint on fiscal issues, is Speaker  John Boehner ’s choice to
put a less polarizing face on the House Republican caucus that
was defined by the anti-government Tea Party wing during the 16-day partial federal shutdown this month.  “This is public-relations positioning; he’s trying to get
the branding back,” Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist and
former House and Senate leadership aide, said of Boehner in an
interview. “By putting a pragmatic conservative like Tom Cole
on the committee, it ensures that reasonable voice in the mix.”  The government shutdown, spurred by the insistence of
Republicans who control the House to eliminate funding for
Obamacare, led to a record-low 28 percent favorability rating
for the party, according to a  Gallup Poll . In seeking to improve
the public image of his caucus, Boehner is turning to Cole as an
agent for such a shift.  “There’s a middle way to be found,” Cole said in an
interview.  “John Boehner’s been looking for that middle for a
long time.”  Changing ‘Perception’  Cole’s appointment to the negotiations “certainly should
change the perception, and it should change the whole tone of
the debate,” Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican,
said in an interview. King called Cole “reasonable, pragmatic
and a person who has a sense of history.”  FreedomWorks, an ally of the Tea Party movement, has a
different view, with Dean Clancy, the vice president for public
policy, saying the group is “concerned” about Cole
representing  House Republicans  on the conference committee.  “He seems to us to be someone prone to a preemptive
surrender,” Clancy said in an interview. “He’s not likely to
be a fighter for sound fiscal policy.”  The budget panel created by the Oct. 16 measure that ended
the shutdown and raised U.S. borrowing authority has a little
more than six weeks to reconcile differences over taxes and
spending. Both parties have been lowering expectations for a
deal to trim the nation’s $17 trillion debt.  The Boehner-Cole alliance started in 1992 when Boehner, an
 Ohio Republican , was in his first congressional term and Cole
was executive director of the  National Republican Congressional
Committee , the party’s House campaign arm. Boehner then was part
of a group of freshmen who were taking on their party’s
establishment.  2002 Election  Cole was elected to Congress in 2002. He has a lifetime
rating of 73 percent from the Club for Growth, a group that
advocates for limited government. Since the arrival of  Tea Party 
and libertarian-backed House Republicans in 2010 and 2012, Cole
and Boehner have come to represent the middle of the party.  Clancy of FreedomWorks says while Cole’s “lifetime score”
for that group is 71, on this year’s votes it’s 33, which he
says is “a territory occupied usually by Democrats.”  A part of Boehner’s leadership team as deputy vote counter,
Cole has gone on television to say some House Republicans are
willing to negotiate. Cole had at least 10 television
appearances in the run-up to and during the partial shutdown,
which he opposed and called a “big mistake.”  Republican Roots  A member of the  Chickasaw Nation , Cole has deep roots in
the  Republican Party ’s operations and also in Oklahoma. He was
the party’s state chairman, served as secretary of state in
Oklahoma, and was chief of staff for the  Republican National
Committee  during the 2000 election cycle.  On the conference committee, Cole will work alongside
Representative  Paul Ryan , the House Budget Committee chairman
and his party’s most sought-after voice on fiscal issues. Ryan,
the Republican 2012 vice presidential nominee, voted against the
Oct. 16 measure to end the shutdown, while Cole and Boehner
voted for it.  The other two Republican conferees,  Tom Price  of  Georgia 
and Diane Black of  Tennessee , also opposed the legislation.  “We are here because we want to get an agreement,” Ryan
said at the start of the first conference meeting today.  Boehner cast floor votes 16 times this congressional
session. Cole sided with him 15 times, missing the other vote.  Because of that alliance, Cole’s selection for the panel is
“no question” a smart move by the speaker, said Representative
Steve Womack, an Arkansas Republican.  “I can’t think of a better spokesman and advocate for what
we are doing who can also offer the type of wisdom that promotes
our values,” Womack said in an interview.  ‘Common Sense’  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said Cole comes to the
negotiations as a “problem solver.”  “He’s a strong conservative but he also has a very good
dose of Midwestern common sense,”  Van Hollen  said in an
interview.  During the often bruising fiscal fights of the past few
years, Cole has made some attempts at compromise. Late in 2012
when Congress was approaching the so-called fiscal cliff of $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases, Cole was the first
Republican to back continuing tax cuts for most Americans while
letting lower tax rates for high earners expire.  When Tea Party-backed Republicans scuttled Boehner’s
proposal, called Plan B, Cole said it offered “a chance to make
85 percent or 90 percent of the Bush tax cuts permanent for 99
percent of the American people.”  Additional Revenue  Instead, Republicans ended up accepting tax increases for
those households making $450,000 and up.  In a Bloomberg Television interview last week, Cole said
that as part of spending negotiations, he’s willing to consider
additional revenue, such as generating money from U.S.
companies’ untaxed overseas profits and tax-code revisions.  When House Republicans delayed disaster funds for the
victims of  Hurricane Sandy , Cole urged passage.  “There is a federal responsibility to act,” he said in
January. “We have a national interest in getting this region on
its feet as quickly as possible.”  Cole also opposed his party on the Violence Against Women
Act, calling for its adoption and voting in favor of the measure
backed by Senate Democrats.  Cole hasn’t always been Boehner’s ally. He backed  Roy Blunt 
of  Missouri , now a senator, over Boehner for the minority leader
post.  When Cole was the head of the Republican campaign committee
in 2008, he tussled with Boehner. The group’s money woes and
lack of strategy to win back the House majority prompted Boehner
to call for the firings of NRCC staff and for Cole to say he’d
resign over Boehner’s interference.  In the end, Cole complimented Boehner for being an ally and
backer of the House Republicans’ campaign arm. Cole has since
become one of the speaker’s most loyal followers.  “He’s willing to do the right thing,” Representative
Devin Nunes, a California Republican, said in an interview. “At
this point we just need people who would to the right thing for
the right reasons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  