-- Boeing Assigns Much of 777X Design Work Away From Seattle
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-30T20:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/boeing-assigns-much-of-777x-design-work-away-from-seattle.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  assigned much of the
design work for its upgraded 777X wide-body jet away from the
Seattle area, where the planemaker historically has done most of
its engineering and production.  Design tasks on Boeing’s biggest twin-engine jet will be
split among five engineering centers in South Carolina,  Alabama ,
 California ,  Pennsylvania  and Missouri, supported by a facility
in Moscow, the company said in a memo to employees. No decision
has been made on Seattle-area design or production, Boeing said.  “Our goal is to leverage skills from across the Boeing
enterprise,” according to the memo today from Mike Delaney,
commercial airplanes vice president of engineering, and Scott Fancher, vice president of airplane development. “We are
leveraging lessons learned on 787 and 747-8 to ensure continuity
across the 777X program to accomplish the key design work.”  Boeing is trying to avoid the delays that plagued the 787
Dreamliner and the latest version of the 747 jumbo jet as it
modifies the 777, the company’s top seller among its current
twin-aisle  models . Chicago-based Boeing is targeting the 777X
for a commercial debut near decade’s end.  Dubai Airshow  “The announced structure will allow for an efficient use
of resources and enable Boeing to resolve design issues
effectively the first time,” the memo said.  The 777X may garner as many as 255 orders worth $87 billion
during an expected introduction at the Dubai Airshow next month,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Boeing closed little changed at $129.68 in New York. The
stock has gained 72 percent this year, three times the increase
of 24 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  A 787 assembly plant that opened in North Charleston, South
Carolina, in 2011 was Boeing’s first new commercial airplane
production site outside of Washington state’s Puget Sound
region, where the company was founded in 1916.  Boeing, one of the principal employers in the  Seattle  area,
met resistance from its machinist union over the factory’s
location in South Carolina and the National Labor Relations
Board filed a complaint against the company in April 2011.
Boeing and the NLRB reached an agreement in December 2011 that
included assurances a new version of its 737 single-aisle jet
would be built in Puget Sound.  Experience Center  Engineers in Seattle should maintain their pivotal role in
airplane design for the 777X, said Ray Goforth, executive
director of the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in
Aerospace, the company’s engineering union.  “Puget Sound is Boeing’s center of experience in
commercial aircraft design,” Goforth said in an e-mailed
statement. “As engineering tasks are shared with other talented
engineering groups, we fully expect Puget Sound to play the key
integrating role needed to avoid a replication of the problems
experienced by the 787 program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  