-- Bombardier CSeries 2014 Debut at Risk as Test Flights Lag
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-30T21:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/bombardier-cseries-debut-seen-at-risk-as-test-flights-lag.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the world’s third-biggest aircraft maker, risks missing a target of delivering the
first unit of its new CSeries next year, after the jet was 8 1/2
months late taking off.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Turan Quettawala and AltaCorp Capital
Inc.’s  Chris Murray  are among at least five analysts predicting
shipments won’t start before 2015. Bombardier executives, who
have repeatedly said they expect the plane to enter service
about one year after its Sept. 16 first flight, may address the
issue tomorrow when the company reports third-quarter results.  Bombardier is depending on the CSeries to almost double
annual  revenue  toward decade’s end, garnering $5 billion to $8
billion to bolster sales that totaled $16.8 billion in 2012. The
Montreal-based company said unspecified “issues” with
suppliers stalled the first flight of the jet, which will have
as many as 160 seats and be its biggest aircraft.  “Do we expect entry into service to move to 2015? Yes,”
Murray said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “Is it going
to be material? No, as long as the costs stay under control. As
long as that’s the case, a delay doesn’t bother me. If the costs
moved much past $4 billion, that would be a problem.”  In September Bombardier revised the CSeries program’s costs
to $3.9 billion -- a 15 percent increase from the original $3.4
billion projection. New accounting standards mean that
Bombardier has to include interest and amortization expenses,
Marc Duchesne, a spokesman for the company, said at the time.  Bombardier’s Class B shares fell 0.8 percent to C$5.28 in
Toronto. They have risen 40 percent this year, beating the
Standard & Poor’s TSX Composite Index’s 8.2 percent gain.  Behind Boeing  A Bombardier CS100 aircraft -- the smaller of the two
versions of the CSeries -- took off earlier today from Mirabel
airport north of  Montreal  for its fourth test flight, Marianella
de la Barrera, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. Rob Dewar, the program’s general manager, told reporters last month
that Bombardier was planning 2,400 hours of flight tests.  Six weeks into its flight testing program, Bombardier is
running behind the pace set by  Boeing Co. (BA)  when it tested its 787
Dreamliner jet, Darryl Genovesi, an analyst at UBS AG in  New
York , said in an Oct. 28 note to clients. Bombardier has logged
eight flight test hours, the analyst said, trailing the 45 that
UBS estimated would have been completed at this stage.  Boeing, which had initially planned a nine-month, 2,400-hour program, needed 21 months to complete 2,800 hours of flight
tests, Genovesi said.  Timely completion of the flight-test program is “critical
to achieving the cash flow improvement Bombardier is calling
for,” Genovesi said.  Too Optimistic  National Bank Financial’s  Cameron Doerksen ,  Canaccord
Genuity ’s David Tyerman and Tim James of TD Securities all
assume entry into service will be pushed out to 2015, based on
interviews and research reports.  Entry into service in 2014 “is likely too optimistic,”
Doerksen said in an Oct. 9 note to clients. “A more realistic
date is the first quarter of 2015.”  A delay until the first half of 2015 “is almost a
certainty,” Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Quettawala said in an Oct. 25
report.  Philippe Poutissou, a vice president of marketing at
Bombardier’s commercial aircraft unit, told  Bloomberg News  in
July that the company would “reassess where it is we are with
respect to the entry into service” after first flight.  In an Oct. 17 interview in Ottawa, Poutissou said
Bombardier is continuing to work under the assumption that the
flight-test program will take about a year.  No Date  “We haven’t fixed a date for when we come out and give
guidance on the entry into service,” he said. “We’ve designed
the program to take 12 months, and that’s still what we’re
working on.”  Bombardier has said the CSeries, which features the new
geared turbofan engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt &
Whitney , will cost about 15 percent less to operate, cut fuel
burn by about 20 percent and produce less noise.  Each flight allows Bombardier to collect data on about
14,000 parameters, and initial results suggest the plane will
probably meet the company’s expectations on variables such as
speed and altitude, Poutissou said.  Bombardier will probably need another four to six months to
compile “concrete” performance data -- including  fuel
efficiency  and noise performance -- on the aircraft, David Newman, an analyst at Cormark Securities in Toronto, said in a
note published Oct. 22.  Bombardier will report third-quarter results tomorrow
before trading opens on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Excluding
some costs and gains, the company is expected to earn 10 cents a
share in the period, the average estimate in a Bloomberg  survey 
of 21 analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  