-- Booz Allen’s McConnell: Snowden Gave ’Playbook’ to Foes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   A l l a n   H o l m e s
-- 2013-10-30T14:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/booz-allen-s-mcconnell-snowden-gave-playbook-to-foes.html
Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) ’s
vice chairman said former employee Edward Snowden provided a
“playbook” to enemies and did a “great disservice” to the
U.S. by leaking top-secret documents about electronic
surveillance.  “The sources and methods that he compromised, it is a
playbook for those who we would consider adversaries,” John
“Mike” McConnell said.  McConnell, national intelligence director under President
 George W. Bush , spoke at Bloomberg Government’s cybersecurity
conference today in Washington.  “What was compromised will cause loss of life and great
disadvantage, not only for the  United States  but for our
allies,” McConnell said.  Booz Allen , the McLean, Virginia-based consulting company
majority owned by Washington-based private-equity firm Carlyle
Group LP, employed Snowden as a contractor to the National
Security Agency.  Booz Allen fired Snowden, 30, in June, after news reports
based on the information appeared in the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper and the Washington Post. Snowden had been employed as
a technical assistant in  Hawaii . He is now in  Russia  on
temporary asylum.  Booz Allen is the No. 13 federal contractor, receiving $4
billion in awards in the 2012 fiscal year, according to
Bloomberg Government. U.S. government awards were the source of
almost all its $5.76 billion in revenue in the year ended March
31, according to a regulatory filing. Some 23 percent, or $1.3
billion, of its fiscal 2013 revenue was from intelligence
agencies.  Merkel Eavesdropping  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shouldn’t be surprised that
her phone calls were monitored, McConnell said.  “The No. 1 target on the globe is the president of the
United States by everyone,” he said. “All nation-states do
this.”  He said the U.S. is engaged in a “cyberwar now and we’re
losing,” adding it will “take a cyber-Pearl Harbor” before
the U.S. takes the steps necessary to protect computer systems
controlling critical infrastructure.  Efforts to get businesses to agree to voluntary steps to
protect against hackers have failed because companies are
concerned they could be subject to lawsuits from customers or
business partners, McConnell said. They want the government to
provide liability protection as an incentive to participate, he
said.  In addition, privacy advocates want to limit the
information the government can collect, he said.  Iran Attacks  McConnell called President  Barack Obama ’s executive order
on cybersecurity “necessary but insufficient.” The president
in February ordered the development of voluntary standards for
power grids, air-traffic control and other vital systems.  Obama yesterday met with corporate leaders from consumer,
utility and defense companies to discuss the new standards.  “We’ll get it right but it will be messy,” he said. “We
have the capability. We do not have the legal framework and we
do not have the will.”  McConnell, in an interview, said Iranian hackers have
probably infiltrated networks of major banks during cyber-attacks that started in January 2012.  Economic sanctions are “hurting them and and hurting them
badly,” he said. “ Iran  is looking for options to give them the
ability to punch back in a big way.”  He said the hackers were looking for vulnerabilities “and
I think they probably found some.”  One of Booz Allen’s large banking clients doubled security
spending to $300 million a year from $150 million, he said. When
the bank learned it was being attacked by a nation-state, not a
hacking group, the bank official wondered why the U.S.
government didn’t retaliate, he said.  The Obama administration’s position is that the
consequences “are not severe enough yet,” McConnell said.
“They have the position, ‘You deal with it.’ ”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes in Washington at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  