-- Boston Mayoral Hopefuls Spar on Casino Jobs, Pitfalls
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/boston-mayoral-hopefuls-spar-on-casino-jobs-pitfalls.html
Boston mayoral candidates John
Connolly and Martin Walsh sparred over quality-of-life effects
and new jobs that a proposed casino would bring in a debate last
night, their final meeting before election day next week.  They batted around questions about the proposal barely a
week after would-be operator  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  pulled
out, punching a hole in the plan that will go before voters Nov.
5 in the neighborhoods most affected.  “Would I like a casino in my neighborhood, directly next
to my house? Probably no,” City Councilor Connolly, 40, said
when asked whether he supports the measure to bring a gaming
establishment to the East Boston neighborhood, near Logan
International Airport. He said he’s “deeply troubled” that
Caesars is being probed for violations of money-laundering laws.  “A casino helps with jobs,” State Representative Walsh,
46, said in stressing the economic benefits of the proposal,
whose backers haven’t found a new operating partner.  The competitors for the city’s first open mayoral seat in a
generation sparred in the televised debate over issues including
racism in the police department, housing, negative campaigning
and jobs. They commented on gambling after Caesars left the
casino plan for the Suffolk Downs horse track as a background
investigation flagged the federal money-laundering probe.  Mayor’s Role  With the local casino group in flux,  Boston ’s next mayor
will play a role in structuring a reshaped plan, if voters favor
the idea. The winner will take the reins from Mayor Thomas M. Menino, who turns 71 in December, and said in March he wouldn’t
seek an unprecedented sixth term amid mounting health concerns.  The hour-long debate, hosted by a local media group that
includes Bloomberg Radio, was “not a game changer” said Mary
Anne Marsh, a Democratic consultant with the Dewey Square Group
in Boston. Marsh isn’t working for either campaign.  “Walsh walked in with the advantage and he walked out with
it,” Marsh said after the debate. “Marty has the momentum.”  Connolly’s attacks throughout the event show he’s trying to
get back into the driver’s seat, Marsh said.  Connolly repeatedly called out Walsh for his background as
a union leader to raise questions about whether he would be
independent enough to protect taxpayers. Accusations included
that Walsh filed legislation that “would have damaged the
fiscal health” of Boston by reducing the City Council’s role in
approving labor contracts.  Tough Stance  Walsh countered that his relations with union leaders will
let him extract tough concessions in contract negotiations. “I
have the trust from the other side of the table,” he said.  The two also traded jabs over who is at fault for
campaign’s negative tone in recent weeks. Connolly said Walsh
“opened the door” for attack advertisements when he refused an
agreement to bar outside spending and said he and his family
were “savaged” by a flier that highlighted his Harvard
University education and described him as part of the elite.  The debate was sandwiched between two evenings where Major
League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox are playing in the World Series
against the St. Louis Cardinals. The  New York  Times reported
about 14.4 million people watched the Sox win the Oct. 28 game.  Walsh got in the debate’s final words, saying “Go Sox!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  