-- Brazilian Swap Rates Decline After Inflation Report; Real Slips
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-10-30T12:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/brazilian-swap-rates-decline-after-inflation-report-real-slips.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell as slower-than-forecast inflation damped speculation that the central bank
will raise borrowing costs to 10 percent next month as the
currency’s two-month rally curbs import price increases.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 dropped
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 10.51 percent at
10:21 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real depreciated 0.1 percent to
2.1877 per dollar.  The Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-M index of wholesale,
construction and consumer prices increased 5.27 percent in the
12 months through October, less than the 5.33 percent median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The real has
rallied 11 percent, the most among the world’s dollar
counterparts, since Brazil announced on Aug. 22 a program of
swaps and credit lines to buoy the currency.  “The dollar has been weakening, and this had a direct
impact on the IGP-M,” Andre Alirio Barbosa, a fixed-income
trader at Banco Fator SA in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a sign that we may have weaker inflation, and
that reinforces the drop in rate futures.”  Swap rates also fell on speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve will refrain from curtailing monetary stimulus at the
conclusion of its two-day meeting today, Barbosa said.  Brazil’s policy makers signaled Oct. 9 that they will
maintain the pace of increases in borrowing costs to curb
inflation as they raised the benchmark rate to 9.50 percent,
marking the fourth straight time they boosted it by 50 basis
points. The annual rate of consumer price increases slowed to
5.75 percent through mid-October, still more than a percentage
point above target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  