-- Brazil Government Weighs Mixing More Biodiesel With Diesel Fuel
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-10-30T15:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/brazil-government-weighs-mixing-more-biodiesel-with-diesel-fuel.html
Brazil  proposed raising the amount
of biodiesel that’s blended with diesel from 5 percent as
producers of the renewable fuel contend with a supply glut.  “We’ve already sent to the Presidency a proposal to
increase the mixture of biodiesel with diesel,” Energy Minister
Edison Lobao told reporters today in Brasilia. “There’s still
been no decision taken.”  The world’s second-biggest biodiesel industry is operating
at 50 percent of capacity, Jeronimo Goergen, president of a
parliamentary lobby group for the renewable fuel, said today in
a telephone interview.  Goergen said the blend rate may rise to 7 percent and then
expand again to 10 percent in 2020. Lobao didn’t give a figure
for the proposed increase.  Brazil started requiring distributors to blend 2 percent
biodiesel with diesel in 2008, and initially planned to increase
that to 5 percent in  2013 , the Ministry of Mines and Energy said
on its  website .  The 5 percent blend was pushed forward to 2010 after
companies brought sufficient capacity online to meet demand and
the industry has been lobbying for a higher mix for two years,
according to Goergen, who’s also a member of the lower house
representing the Progressive Party for  Rio Grande  do Sul.  Brazil produced 2.7 billion liters (712 million gallons) of
biodiesel last year, fuel regulator Agencia Nacional do
Petroleo, Gas Natural e Biocombustiveis said on its website.  The U.S. has the world’s biggest biodiesel industry with
10.3 billion liters of production capacity, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  