-- Brazil Soybean-Export Delays May Worsen in 2014, Cordonnier Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-30T12:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/brazil-soybean-export-delays-may-worsen-in-2014-cordonnier-says.html
Brazil’s delays loading soybeans for
 export  may worsen in 2014 due to a bigger crop and as some grain
facilities are used for sugar shipments, crop analyst Soybean &
Corn Advisor Inc. said.  Waiting times for  vessels  may give U.S. soybean exporters a
longer selling window and potentially lift U.S. export volumes,
Michael Cordonnier, president and owner of the Hinsdale,
Illinois-based firm, wrote in an online report today.  Brazil is forecast to harvest a record 88 million metric
tons of soybeans in 2013-14, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
forecasts. A fire at the port of Santos on Oct. 18 that
destroyed sugar warehouses may mean some grain facilities will
be used for exports of the sweetener, Cordonnier wrote.  “A good analogy for the infrastructure problems in  Brazil 
is an hour glass,” Cordonnier said. “In 2014, the top of the
hour glass is going to get bigger with a record large soybeans
crop and the restricted part of the hour glass, which are the
ports in Brazil, is going to get a little smaller in 2014 due to
the fire at Santos.”  Brazil may export 1 million tons of soybeans by the end of
February after early planting was delayed by a week, and the
“real logistical problems” will start in March as the record
crop starts heading to the ports, according to Cordonnier.  “The real choke-point in Brazil’s infrastructure is the
capacity to load grain at the ports,” the analyst wrote.  Shipping problems and delays are “inevitable” because all
of Brazil’s ports were already working at capacity, and the fire
means a significant part of capacity at the port of Santos will
be out of order for many months, the analyst said.  “The result could be longer waiting times for  vessels  and
more congestion all throughout the system all the way back to
the local grain elevators in the interior,” Cordonnier wrote.
“If a vessel is forced to wait 60, 70, 80 days to load soybeans
from Brazil, it could end up being cheaper getting the soybeans
from the U.S. even if the price of the commodity is a little
higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  