-- British Newspapers Lose Court Bid to Halt Press Regulations
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-10-30T15:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/british-press-ask-court-to-halt-irrational-regulation-plan.html
Representatives of the British
newspaper industry lost a last-ditch court bid to stop new rules
governing the press from being implemented.  The  Press Standards Board of Finance  failed to win an
injunction preventing the rules from being handed to the Queen’s
advisers, the Privy Council, for approval today.  “I don’t accept the procedure adopted can have unfairly
prevented the claimant from putting forward its case,” Judge
Stephen Richards said. “All concerned were well informed of the
issues.”  The U.K.’s main political parties agreed to a so-called
Royal Charter to create an independent newspaper oversight body.
The move followed a yearlong inquiry by Judge Brian Leveson into
the industry after a phone-hacking scandal that led to the
closing of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid.  The Newspaper Society and other industry bodies said they
would take the case to the court of appeal. “We are deeply
disappointed with this decision,” they said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Press Standards board told a panel of judges at the
hearing today that newspapers weren’t properly consulted. Its
members oppose the Royal Charter because it doesn’t want
government control of the media and is seeking a legal review of
the plans.  Irrational Process  The process was “wholly unfair and irrational” and “has
the potential to profoundly affect the nature of press
regulation,” the group’s lawyers said in court documents.  The application was “an attempt to re-argue issues that
were considered at great length by Sir Brian Leveson,” the
government’s lawyers said in court documents. The Royal Charter
contains safeguards against government interference and should
proceed to the Privy Council for approval today, they said.  The U.K. government on Oct. 8 rejected the alternative
plans proposed by the press for a system of self-regulation,
saying it would lack independence from newspapers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  