-- Brooks at Center of News Corp. Hacking, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   R i c h a r d   A l l e y n e
-- 2013-10-31T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/brooks-active-in-hacking-at-news-corp-paper-prosecutor-says.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former head of
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, was at the center of phone-hacking and
bribery practices that were commonplace at two company
newspapers for a decade, prosecutors said on the first day of a
criminal trial in  London .  Brooks, 45, oversaw hacking as the editor of the weekly
News of the World and bribes to public officials when she moved
to the daily Sun, prosecutor Andrew Edis told jurors yesterday.
Three former News Corp. journalists and a private investigator
have pleaded guilty to intercepting voice mails, he said.  Brooks is one of eight people on trial on a variety of
charges stemming from wrongdoing at News Corp. newspapers.
Rupert Murdoch, the company’s chairman, closed the News of the
World in July 2011 in a bid to defuse the scandal, which was
sparked by public outrage at the phone hacking of a missing
teenager, Milly Dowler, who was later found murdered.  “The investigation and discoveries resulted in the closure
of the News of the World,” Edis said. “That came about because
of the discovery that the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler had been hacked.”  Brooks, who became chief executive officer of News Corp.’s
U.K. unit in 2009, and Andy Coulson, another former editor of
the News of the World, are the two most prominent figures on
trial over the reporting practices at the paper. Both sat in the
court as the trial began, taking notes.  “Between 2000 and 2006 there was phone hacking done for
the benefit of” the News of the World, Edis said. “It started
when Rebekah Brooks was the editor, but continued when Andy
Coulson took over.”  Free Press  Edis said that rather than an attack on a free press, the
case was about making sure journalists don’t break the law.
Possible victims of phone hacking included actors Jude Law and
Sienna Miller, and former Beatle Paul McCartney, he said.  “The News of the World was a Sunday newspaper,” he said.
“It was not ‘War and Peace.’ It was the sort of document that
if you are its editor you could take an interest in its content
without too much trouble.”  Coulson, who became a media adviser to David Cameron in
2007, and Brooks both approved bribes to public officials during
their tenures, Edis said. Coulson, 45, signed off on payments to
get phone books with private information about the royal family
that could later be used to intercept voice-mail messages, he
said.  Brooks personally gave the go ahead to payments of 40,000
pounds ($64,000) to a “highly placed” Ministry of Defence
official, Edis said.  The other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former managing editor of the News of the World, and Ian
Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor, who are both
accused of phone hacking. The newspaper’s one-time royal
reporter, Clive Goodman, 56, is charged with conspiring to
commit misconduct in a public office.  Purse Strings  Brooks, Coulson and Kuttner controlled “the purse
strings” at the News of the World and approved the payments to
officials, Edis said.  Brooks’s husband, Charlie, her former assistant Cheryl
Carter, and the U.K. unit’s former head of security, Mark Hanna,
face charges of conspiring to pervert the course of justice.  All eight have pleaded not guilty to the charges. Their
lawyers will present arguments later in the trial.  Ex-News of the World Chief Reporter Neville Thurlbeck and
former Assistant Editors Greg Miskiw and James Weatherup pleaded
guilty earlier this year to charges they conspired to hack
phones, Edis said.  Glenn Mulcaire , the private detective who
conducted much of the phone hacking at the tabloid has also
pleaded guilty to interception charges, including those relating
to Dowler.  “These pleas, and the evidence on which they were based,
shows that there was frequent phone hacking at the News of the
World, done by Mulcaire and Goodman,” Edis said.  Mulcaire was paid around 100,000 pounds a year by News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, Edis said, “though they were conspicuously
silent about what they got for their money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  