-- Budget Deficit in U.S. Narrows to 5-Year Low on Record Revenue
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-10-30T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/budget-deficit-in-u-s-narrows-to-5-year-low-on-record-revenue.html
The U.S. posted its smallest budget
deficit in five years as employment gains helped propel revenue
to a record.  Spending exceeded receipts by $680.3 billion in the 12
months ended Sept. 30, the narrowest gap since 2008, compared
with a $1.09 trillion shortfall in fiscal 2012, the Treasury
Department said today in  Washington . In September, the U.S.
recorded a $75.1 billion surplus, little changed from the
surplus in the same month a year earlier.  Stronger hiring has helped reduce the country’s deficit as
a share of gross domestic product by more than half in the past
four years, narrowing it from a record $1.42 trillion in 2009.
Bolstering revenue this year were higher payroll taxes Congress
allowed in January, while spending growth has been limited by
across-the-board cuts known as sequestration that lawmakers
failed to prevent in March.  “We’ve made a lot of fiscal progress in the U.S. because
of the sequester cuts, tax rates going back to historic norms
and the economy improving,” said Bricklin Dwyer, an economist
at BNP Paribas in  New York . “Politicians have, thus far,
avoided the most difficult choices -- addressing unsustainable
spending on entitlements such as Medicare and Medicaid.”  Revenue jumped 15.2 percent to $301.4 billion in September
from a year earlier, bringing the annual figure to $2.77
trillion, today’s report showed. Spending increased 21.5 percent
to $226.4 billion last month, contributing to a 12-month total
of $3.45 trillion, it showed.  ‘Fiscal Responsibility’  The  unemployment rate  fell to an almost five-year low of
7.2 percent in September, the Labor Department reported last
week. Payrolls have grown by 1.6 million workers so far this
year.  “Our deficits are getting smaller,” President  Barack Obama  told high school students in  Brooklyn , New York, on Oct.
25, as he campaigned for his budget goals. “We don’t have to
choose between growth and fiscal responsibility; we’ve got to do
both.”  Congress is working toward a new budget agreement after a
battle between Tea Party-allied Republicans and the Obama
administration over limiting debt led to partial suspension of
federal operations earlier this month.  The agreement reached after the 16-day government shutdown
set a Dec. 13 deadline for budget negotiations.  The mandatory cuts don’t touch benefit payments for
programs such as  Social Security , Medicare and Medicaid. Many
Republicans want to replace the automatic cuts with reductions
in spending on these entitlement programs that account for most
of the nation’s long-term debt. Democrats including Obama have
indicated they’re open to some of these ideas as long as they
are paired with new  tax revenue , which Republicans oppose.  ‘Pro-Jobs’ Budget  “Congress must build on this progress by crafting a pro-jobs and pro-growth budget agreement that strengthens the
economy while maintaining fiscal discipline,” Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a statement today.  The Treasury said the 2013 deficit amounted to 4.1 percent
of GDP. The shortfall was forecast to be 3.9 percent of GDP this
year, according to Congressional Budget Office projections last
month, down from 10.1 percent in 2009.  A short-term shrinkage of annual budget deficits isn’t
enough to reverse the 25-year growth of  U.S. debt  that requires
Congress to choose among spending cuts, tax increases or a
combination of both.  The CBO estimates rising spending on Medicare and Social
Security will widen the deficit to 6.5 percent of GDP in 2038,
greater than any year between 1947 and 2008. Economists
including former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder  say
the change in the entitlements system is necessary.  “Unless that happens, the budget deficit as a share of GDP
and therefore the national debt as a share of GDP is headed off
for the wild blue yonder,” Blinder said in an Oct. 17 Bloomberg
Radio interview. “And that is what we need to stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  