-- Caesars Set for Distressed Debt Exchange, CreditSights Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-10-30T19:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/caesars-poised-for-distressed-debt-exchange-creditsights-says.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
casino operator with more than $24 billion in debt, will
probably need to coerce bondholders to exchange their holdings
for new securities to cut its borrowing costs and avoid
bankruptcy, according to researcher CreditSights Inc.  The owner of Caesars Palace and Harrah’s Las Vegas, which
hasn’t had a  profitable  quarter since at least 2010, may seek to
swap a portion of its  operating unit ’s second-lien debt for
payment-in-kind, or PIK, securities, analysts led by Chris Snow
wrote today in a report. PIK notes allow borrowers the ability
to pay interest with additional debt.  “Our base case is that an exchange occurs, which will free
up cash flow” and “stabilize the bleed,” the analysts wrote.
“An inability to execute an exchange will potentially increase
the odds of a filing.”  The largest owner of casinos in the U.S. said yesterday
that its net loss widened to $761.4 million after the company
wrote down properties in Atlantic City and gambling revenue
shrank. Caesars is  burning through cash  almost six years after
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital took the company
private in 2008. It sold shares to the public in February 2012.  Caesars Entertainment Operating Co.’s $3.3 billion of 10
percent, second-lien bonds due 2018 traded at 50 cents on the
dollar to yield 29.5 percent at 1:55 p.m. in New York, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes have plunged from 70.5
cents in January.  “We have made considerable progress in improving our
capital structure in recent months” including refinancing
mortgage debt and issuing new equity, Gary Thompson, a spokesman
for Las Vegas-based Caesars, said in an e-mail. “We are
constantly exploring additional opportunities to further
strengthen the company’s balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  