-- California Coverage Cancellations Show Obamacare Price Increases
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/california-coverage-cancellations-show-obamacare-price-increases.html
San Francisco  writer Lisa Buchanan
said she and her husband got notices that they’ll have to pay
almost twice as much for health insurance because their current
coverage doesn’t comply with Obamacare.  In  Mill Valley , California, retiree Diane Shore got a
letter saying her plan is being eliminated and she’ll be moved
to a new one with higher premiums.  “Here we are now being told that individual contributors
will have a major change in their care and have to pay a higher
premium,” Shore said in an interview. “The government either
was totally misleading, or someone was not clear on exactly how
this plan would affect individuals who are currently insured.”  Shore and Buchanan are among as many as 700,000
Californians being notified by insurance carriers that their
plans don’t conform to the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act of 2010, President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-care
overhaul. The letters are a surprise to many in California, home
to 12 percent of the  U.S. population  and the biggest state to
embrace the law with its own insurance exchange.  Individually insured consumers from coast to coast will be
affected, according to state insurance departments. As many as
250,000 Pennsylvanians are seeing their health coverage plans
discontinued due to the law’s requirements, said Rosanne Placey,
a spokeswoman for the state agency. In  Indiana , about 108,000
may be affected, Chief Deputy Commissioner Logan Harrison said.  New Coverage  Nationwide, as many as 80 percent of people without a
company-hosted plan or insurance through the Medicare or
Medicaid government programs may have to find new health
coverage, said  Robert Laszewski , an insurance-industry
consultant in Arlington, Virginia.  The law sets a floor of “essential benefits,” such as
maternity and dental care, caps out-of-pocket costs and bans
insurers from denying coverage based on medical conditions, all
features that can push up the cost of policies.  The cancellation notices are aimed at people who buy their
own insurance coverage, such as independent contractors and
small-business owners, rather than those who are insured through
their employers.  “The insurance companies have to notify their members that
their policies are not going to be compliant with the Affordable
Care Act,” said Gerald Kominski, director of the Center for
Health Policy Research at the  University of California  at  Los
Angeles . “It’s obviously causing concern among people who are
receiving the letters.”  Taxpayer Subsidies  In California, about a third of the estimated 600,000 to
700,000 affected will get taxpayer subsidies or qualify for
Medi-Cal, the state’s health coverage for the poor, Peter V. Lee, executive director of Covered California, the state’s
exchange, said in an Oct. 28 interview.  “The deck is stacked right now against anybody who has the
misfortune to be ill and we’re leveling the playing field,”
UCLA’s Kominski said. “The benefit for some people will come
later when they get an illness and they keep their insurance
instead of being threatened with losing it or threatened with
their premiums going up by five- or six-fold.”  California  alone has an estimated 1.86 million people who
are individually insured, according to James Scullary, a Covered
California spokesman. Nationally, there are about 14 million
such people, Kominski said.  Not all of them will get cancellation notices. Plans
purchased before March 23, 2010, when the law was enacted, can
stay in effect under a “grandfather” clause if they haven’t
changed significantly.  Caught Unaware  Consumers receiving cancellation notices have been caught
unaware because of assurances from Obama that they wouldn’t lose
their plans under the law, said Bill Hammett, president of
Hammett Health Inc., a La Mesa, California-based insurance
broker.  “They took the president at his word,” Hammett said in a
telephone interview. “This is very much out of left field.”  Obama’s public statements on the point were clear:  “If you like your health-care plan, you can keep your
health-care plan,” he said in an August 2009 teleconference
with the Washington-based National Council of Churches.
“Nothing that we’re doing obligates you to choose any plan
other than the one that you have.”  “If you like your doctor, you can keep seeing your
doctor,” Obama said. “We’re not going to interfere with
that.”  The president, his staff and Democratic activists “knew
that wasn’t true,” U.S. Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a
California Republican, said by telephone. “They just pushed
this over on the American people, trying to make them believe
they’re going to get something for nothing.”  ‘Substandard Policies’  The health-care law eliminates “substandard policies that
don’t provide minimum services,” said  Jay Carney , a White House
spokesman. The “80-plus percent” of Americans with employer
plans or covered by government programs are unaffected.  Shore, of Mill Valley, pays $685 a month for coverage from
Blue Shield of California, which sent her a letter saying her
plan would be eliminated and she’ll be transferred to a
comparable plan costing $45 more. The letter didn’t offer
details on the new plan, she said.  Buchanan, 53, the San Francisco writer also insured by Blue
Shield of California, and her 62-year-old husband, who is
covered by Oakland-based  Kaiser Permanente , pay a combined $681
in monthly premiums. Their insurers offered comparable plans
that would increase their payments to about $1,130 a month.  Losing Doctors  Beyond the financial blow, Buchanan said she was concerned
she could no longer see her present doctors.  “It’s more than likely that we’ll change plans because of
the premiums,” Buchanan said in a telephone interview. “I’m
probably going to lose those relationships because I’m not going
to want to pay the premiums to keep them.”  Many plans that don’t comply with the law fail to cover
hospitalization and have other gaps in coverage, said Sean
Barry, a Blue Shield of California spokesman.  “While rates might be higher for some members under these
new plans, we believe the added consumer protections will be
appreciated when health insurance is needed most,” Barry said
by e-mail.  About 160,000 Kaiser customers received notices that their
current plans would no longer be available, said another
spokesman, Won Ha.  The law sets higher standards for coverage that will
protect people from financial distress and give them adequate
coverage if they fall ill, Covered California’s Lee said.  “It means they have security going forward,” Lee said.
“Everyone has plans that they can rely on.”  -- With assistance from Alex Nussbaum in  New York , Amanda
Crawford in Phoenix, Mark Niquette
in Columbus,  Ohio , and Romy Varghese in Philadelphia. Editors:
Jeffrey Taylor, Pete Young  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 