-- Canada Pensions Need Reform, Ontario Teachers’ Leech Says
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-30T12:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/canada-pensions-need-reform-ontario-teachers-leech-says.html
Canada ’s politicians and business
leaders need to reform the pension system or the country could
be staring into the “abyss” as a wave of workers retire, the
country’s third-largest pension fund manager said.  “The worst case scenario is that we just keep digging
ourselves into a bigger hole and when we hit that final crisis
the pain will be significantly greater because you’ve got a
shorter time frame to do it,” James Leech, chief executive
officer of  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , said yesterday in
Toronto.  Leech, 66, co-authored “The Third Rail: Confronting our
Pension Failures”, in which he highlights problems facing the
country: Canadians aren’t saving enough for retirement, they’re
living longer, and generating lower investment returns.  Leech cited Nortel Networks Corp. and the city of  Detroit 
as examples of what can go wrong when a crisis hits and pensions
aren’t prepared.  Nortel, once  North America ’s largest telephone-equipment
maker, filed for bankruptcy in January 2009, leaving an
underfunded pension plan. Detroit filed the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy with about $18 billion in debt, and said it
didn’t have enough to pay its retirees, bondholders, and
employees.  “The guarantee’s only as good as the solvency of the
guarantor, and in some cases that can be threatened,” Leech
said.  Third Rail  The ratio of  elderly  to working-age citizens will probably
rise 16 percent over the next two decades, Canada’s finance
ministry said in a 2012 report.  Even without a financial downturn or company default,
pension issues should be addressed now before it’s too late,
Leech said. The government needs to work with companies and
pensions to stem the decline of defined benefit plans such as
the Ontario Teachers’ fund; enhance the  Canada Pension Plan , and
make it mandatory for the self-employed to invest for
retirement, he said.  “Pensions are the third rail, the electrified rail on the
subway system,” said Leech, who joined the fund in 2001 and
became CEO in December 2007. “You touch it, you get killed.
It’s so much easier for all leaders -- business, labor,
political to say ’I’m going to let another generation worry
about that and I’m just going to kick the can down the way.’”  Leech faces his own retirement soon, leaving the C$129.5
billion ($123 billion) Toronto-based fund on Jan. 1. Ron Mock,
currently senior vice president of fixed income and alternative
investments, will succeed him.  Ontario Teachers’ earned 13 percent on investments in 2012,
according to its annual report. That beat the 9.4 percent  median 
return of Canadian pension funds, according to a Jan. 29 report
by Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Investor Services unit.  Ontario Teachers’  fund  had 97 percent of assets needed to
meet liabilities as of Jan. 1, 2013. It’s been facing funding
shortfalls since 2003 as future pension costs increase faster
than plan assets due to low  interest rates  and increasing life
expectancy, according to the annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  