-- Canadian Dollar Reaches Seven-Week Low as Fed Maintains Stimulus
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-30T21:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/canadian-dollar-gains-from-two-month-low-before-federal-reserve.html
The Canadian dollar fell to a seven-week low after the  Federal Reserve  maintained its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases while leaving open the possibility for
future reductions by saying economic growth persists.  The currency weakened versus most of its 16 major peers as
the U.S. central bank removed a sentence from the previous
policy announcement that had said tighter financial conditions
could slow the improvement in the economy,  Canada ’s largest
export market. Canada’s dollar posted its biggest weekly drop
against the greenback in four months last week after the Bank of
Canada lowered economic growth estimates and removed language
about the need for higher  interest rates  it had kept in every
policy statement for more than a year.  “In view of the fact they see growth continuing without
any major red lights, it’s conceivable they could look to cut
back on the bond buying in December,” said Don Mikolich,
executive director of foreign exchange sales at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, by phone from Toronto. “So where the
market really started to push off tapering into the new year,
the suggestion it could happen sooner did evoke a bit of a
reaction.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to C$1.0479 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It rose as much as 0.3 percent
before falling C$1.0497, the weakest level since Sept. 6. One
loonie buys 95.43 U.S. cents.  Fed Reaction  “The market has been running a bit short-dollar ahead of
the meeting, and there was nothing obviously more dovish than
expected, so we’re seeing a bit of a squeeze up in dollar-CAD,”
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto, said by phone. “With the
Fed out of the way now, we may see more U.S. dollar strength
coming through.” A short position is a bet that an asset will
decline in value.  The Canadian currency is down 1.6 percent this month and
off 5.3 this year versus the greenback, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Against its 16 most-traded counterparts,
the loonie lost the most this month against  Norway ’s krone and
gained the most this year versus the South African rand.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell, pushing
the yield up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.42
percent, after touching the lowest level since July 22. The 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 13 cents to C$92.16.  The  Bank of Canada  will provide details tomorrow about a
five-year note auction scheduled for Nov. 6.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for one-month options on Canada’s dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart fell to 5.6 percent from this year’s
high of 9.4 percent in June. The measure is used to set option
prices and gauge the expected pace of currency swings. The
average for this year is 6.6 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options on the
U.S.-Canada dollar exchange rate amounted to $1.4 billion or
about 4 percent of trades, according to data reported by U.S.
banks to the Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by
Bloomberg. Yesterday, U.S.-Canada dollar trades were $9.7
billion, or 20 percent of volume.  A  report tomorrow  is projected to show economic growth in
Canada slowed in August to 0.1 percent from 0.6 percent the
previous month, according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg
survey of 18 economists.  “I think GDP will get some interest, but anything that at
least shows a positive number will, I don’t think, get too much
of a  market reaction,” CIBC’s Mikolich said. “But if we’re
negative on growth for a particular month, that could push
Canada a bit weaker.”  The Canadian dollar has posted the second biggest drop the
past six months among nine developed nation currencies tracked
by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The loonie has
fallen 3.9 percent, compared with the Australian dollar’s 9.1
percent loss. The U.S. dollar has increased 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  