-- CapitaLand Quarterly Profit Falls on Lower Portfolio Gains
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-10-31T09:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/capitaland-quarterly-profit-falls-8-7-on-lower-portfolio-gains.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest developer, said third-quarter profit fell 8.7 percent on
lower gains from investment property sales, sending the shares
to their biggest drop in four weeks.  Net  income  declined to S$135.5 million ($109 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30, from S$148.5 million a year
earlier, the Singapore-based developer said in a stock exchange
statement today. Sales rose 53 percent to S$1.05 billion.
Portfolio gains, which were mainly from the divestment of
CapitaLand’s stake in three U.K. properties, dropped 79 percent
to S$15.7 million, the company said.  Prices and transaction volumes of Singapore residential
properties are expected to moderate for the rest of the year due
to the cumulative impact of government property measures, the
developer said in the statement.  Home prices  in the island-state
had the slowest growth in six quarters in the three months ended
Sept. 30 after the government acted to cool prices. Home sales
also fell 52 percent in September from a year ago, signaling
that the government curbs are working.  “In the near term, the Singapore cooling measures will
impact sales at developers,” Vikrant Pandey, an analyst at UOB
Kay Hian Pte in Singapore, said in a telephone interview today.  Stock Drops  Excluding the impact of portfolio and revaluation gains,
the core nine-month operating profit of S$343.1 million is below
expectations, accounting for 48 percent of UOB’s full-year
forecast of S$717 million, according to a note from the
brokerage after the earnings.  CapitaLand  shares  dropped 1.3 percent to S$3.12 at the
close of Singapore trading, the biggest decline since Oct. 3.  CapitaLand sold 468 residential units in the island state
in the quarter, while its  China  business sold 707 units, the
developer said today. Its two core markets of Singapore and
China accounted for 77 percent of the group’s profit before
interest and tax as of Sept. 30, the company said.  Record home prices amid low  interest rates  raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the Singapore government to
widen a campaign that started in 2009 to curb speculation in the
 property market . The city unveiled new rules in June governing
how financial institutions grant property loans to individuals,
in addition to previous curbs including new taxes and higher
down-payments.  The developer may alter the size of its apartments as it
seeks to improve affordability to combat government measures,
Lim Ming Yan, president and chief executive officer at
CapitaLand, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on July 25.  CapitaLand started marketing its Sky Vue project, about 15
kilometers (9.3 miles) away from the central business district,
selling 433 of 505 units marketed, it said today. It will
continue to bid for land sites in well-located areas, the
developer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  