-- Cenovus Energy Trails Peers as Refining Riches Shrink
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/cenovus-energy-trails-peers-as-refining-riches-shrink.html
Energy companies with refineries
such as  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  were the darlings of  Canada ’s oil
patch a year ago. Now they’re out of favor with some investors
as a 15 percent rise in crude prices squeezes refining profits.  Increasing shipments of oil by rail and new pipeline
capacity are boosting supply to the U.S. Gulf Coast, easing a
glut of crude oil and lifting prices and refinery costs for
Canadian companies with U.S. Midwest facilities such as Cenovus.  “The margins aren’t what they were” for companies with
refining divisions,  John Stephenson , a portfolio manager at
First Asset Investment Management Inc. who owns shares in
Cenovus, said in a phone interview on Oct. 28. “In general, I
prefer the names that aren’t as integrated right now,” he said,
including  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)   Cenovus, an energy producer that owns stakes in refineries
that process oil into products such as gasoline, is the third-worst energy stock this year among companies with a market value
of more than C$2 billion ($1.9 billion), according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Calgary-based company  has declined  6
percent, compared with an 8.4 percent gain on Canada’s S&P/TSX
Energy Index.  Canadian Natural, the nation’s largest producer of heavy
oil which doesn’t own a refinery, has returned 17 percent  this
year .  Weaker Profitability  Cenovus is forecasting 2014 will bring weaker profitability
for its refining unit, which had a 75 percent drop in third-quarter operating cash flow, Cenovus Chief Executive Officer
 Brian Ferguson  said Oct. 24 in a telephone interview after the
company reported results. One reason is that prices are no
longer being suppressed by a glut of oil in a key oil-storage
hub in  Oklahoma .  “You’ve had a big increase in pipeline takeaway capacity
out of Cushing down to the southern tier of the U.S.,” Ferguson
said.  Cenovus said its drop in refinery returns was due to higher
feedstock costs and lower crack spreads, a measurement of the
difference between the prices of crude and products derived from
it such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. The company owns half
of two U.S. refineries operated by Houston-based Phillips 66:
one in Roxana,  Illinois , and the other in Borger,  Texas .  Cenovus reported a 28 percent increase in third-quarter
profit to C$370 million on Oct. 24, helped by rising production
and unrealized hedging gains.  Revenue  increased 17 percent to
C$5.08 billion.  Slimmer Returns  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , another Canadian producer with U.S.
refineries, is forecasting that slimmer returns from its
division that includes refining and upgrading of crude into
higher-value products will continue for the rest of this year,
Chief Financial Officer Alister Cowan said on an Oct. 24
conference call.  Net income in the unit fell 76 percent to C$89 million in
the third quarter from a year earlier, Husky said the same day.
The downstream division accounted for 17 percent of total profit
for the period, compared with 70 percent a year earlier.  Husky, which has gained 1.5 percent this year, owns a
refinery in  Lima ,  Ohio , and has a stake in BP Plc’s Toledo, Ohio
refinery.  Narrowing Spreads  Rising North American  oil prices  are narrowing the spread
between the international Brent benchmark that’s used to set
gasoline and diesel prices. West Texas Intermediate, the U.S.
benchmark, climbed 15 percent to $105.81 a barrel in the third
quarter from a year earlier, while Brent increased 0.2 percent
to $109.65 and Canadian heavy oil rose 8.3 percent to $83.10 a
barrel.  The U.S.  margin  on processing crude oil into fuels such as
diesel and gasoline fell 43 percent to an average of $17.54 a
barrel in the quarter from a year earlier.  Cenovus, which has plans to more than quadruple oil-sands
output in the next decade, chooses an integrated model to shield
itself from commodity price swings, Brett Harris, a company
spokesman, said by phone yesterday.  “Because we own both upstream and downstream assets, that
gives us the best opportunity to achieve the secure  cash flow  we
need to fund those growth plans,” Harris said.  “Husky’s focused integration strategy helps to mitigate
market volatility by capturing world pricing for our heavy oil
and Western Canada production,” Kim Guttormson, a spokeswoman
for Husky, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Refining Earnings  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest producer by market
value, is poised to report C$309 million in after-tax refining
and marketing operating earnings in the third quarter, Greg Pardy, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in an
Oct. 25 note. Suncor, which is scheduled to release results
after the close of trading in  North America  today, reported
record downstream earnings of C$708 million a  year earlier .  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  is poised to report C$166 million in
after-tax downstream earnings tomorrow, Pardy said in a separate
Oct. 25 note. Canada’s second-largest producer by market value
brought in C$536 million in the unit a year earlier.  Imperial has gained 7.6 percent this year, while Suncor is
up 16 percent.  Integrated energy companies can often make up for lower
refining profits with bigger returns on production. Cenovus and
Husky have underperformed partly because of expectations for
slower oil production growth in the so-called upstream division
amid higher prices, Sam La Bell, an analyst at Veritas
Investment Research in Toronto, said yesterday by phone.  ‘Upstream Volume’  “The biggest returns come from upstream volume growth,”
La Bell said, noting Cenovus is also suffering from costs tied
to credits in the U.S. biofuel blending program known as
Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs.  “The argument that pure-play producers will be favored by
investors since they can capture better prices in a high oil
price market is flawed,” Sneh Seetal, a spokeswoman for Suncor,
said yesterday by e-mail. Suncor can “capture value” in its
upstream or marketing and refining divisions depending on market
dynamics, Seetal said, noting the company has historically
captured on average 93 percent of the global oil price thanks to
the integrated model.  Pius Rolheiser, an Imperial Oil spokesman, said by phone
yesterday the company has no comment and will provide
information about third-quarter refining results tomorrow.  While integrated stocks are currently out of favor, now may
be the time to buy them as refining profits are poised to rise
next year as U.S. oil prices have fallen in recent weeks
relative to Brent, Todd Kepler, an analyst at Cormark Securities
Inc. in Calgary, said in a phone interview on Oct. 28.  ‘Looking Forward’  “The market should start looking forward,” Kepler said.  There’s a risk that wider refining margins won’t last, said
Jennifer Stevenson, vice-president and portfolio manager at GCIC
Ltd. in Calgary, who owns shares in Suncor.  Though oil supply costs have eased in recent weeks as
refineries go offline for maintenance and reduce demand, those
facilities are scheduled to return this quarter and drive up WTI
prices again, trimming profitability for refineries, Stevenson
said in an e-mail on Oct. 28.  “I haven’t been adding to the Canadian integrateds as this
is a headwind for them going forward,” Stevenson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  