-- Cetip Turns to Home Appraisals as Brazil Auto Loans Slow
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-10-30T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/cetip-turns-to-home-appraisals-as-brazil-auto-loans-slow.html
Cetip SA-Mercados Organizados (CTIP3)  is
offering banks the ability to appraise homes electronically for
the first time, a step toward a national database needed to
develop Brazil’s nascent mortgage-backed securities market.  The company, Brazil’s biggest clearinghouse, is rolling out
an appraisal platform this week for  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,
the country’s largest lender. Built in partnership with FNC
Inc., the system will standardize and automate appraisals that
are now based on informal surveys and take about 90 days. Rio de
Janeiro-based Cetip plans to turn the platform into a lien
registration business, replicating its strategy for vehicle
loans, which generated 35 percent of second-quarter  revenue .  “For our business, which is to create integration
platforms for the financial system, it’s a market that has a lot
of opportunity to be explored,” Chief Operating Officer Mauro Negrete said in an interview at Cetip’s  Sao Paulo  office.  Home lending in Brazil, which grew twice as fast as all
credit in the past year, is poised to spur banks to securitize
mortgages to meet  capital requirements . Cetip’s product will
help develop that market because appraisal data for securitized
collateral will be centralized, according to Banco Safra SA,
while producing crucial new revenue as auto lending declines.  A central bank resolution published in May 2012 requires
banks to register home liens in a nationwide database. No
deadline has been set. The central bank said the topic is under
discussion, declining to elaborate. Itau didn’t return phone and
e-mail requests for comment.  BM&FBovespa Competition  Cetip is likely to face competition from  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  in
mortgage lien registration, according to Negrete. BM&FBovespa
runs the stock and futures exchanges and also provides
registration, clearing and settlement services. The Sao Paulo-based company declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Because of Cetip’s work with home loan appraisals, it’s a
strong candidate to register real estate liens in a nationwide
database, Carlos Macedo, a Sao Paulo-based analyst at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in a telephone interview. It’s unclear
when the business will generate meaningful revenue, he said.  Cetip fell 2.1 percent in Sao Paulo this year through
yesterday, compared with an 11 percent drop for the Ibovespa
benchmark index. BM&FBovespa declined 7.6 percent. Nine analysts
 rate Cetip’s stock  a buy, four have it as a hold and one says
sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mortgage Boom  Home loans are expanding at a rate of about 40 percent a
year thanks to  economic growth  that brought 36 million people
into the middle class from 2002 to 2012 and a government housing
program called Minha Casa Minha Vida. Residential mortgages
totaled 560,000 last year, compared with 7 million car loans.  As home loans expand, financial institutions from Itau to
 Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Latin America ’s second-largest bank by market
value, have been reducing auto lending after payments overdue
more than 90 days reached a record 7.2 percent in June 2012,
according to the central bank.  For the first time, outstanding home loans in Brazil last
year passed those of vehicles, with 255.4 billion reais ($116.9
billion) versus 210.9 billion reais for cars, the central bank
data show. Car loans fell about 4.2 percent to 233.2 billion
reais in September from a year earlier, according to the data.  Asset-Backed Market  “At some point, banks won’t be able to carry home loans at
their books and will have to securitize a portion of those,”
said Marcelo Michalua, a partner at Sao Paulo-based RB Capital
Securitizadora SA, which has sold 12.6 billion reais in real
estate-backed securities since 2001. “Cetip’s new tool will
help to disseminate real estate-backed securities in Brazil as
it helps the secondary market to gain in efficiency.”  Revenue growth from the home appraisal business will
accelerate once Cetip can create a base upon which to structure
asset-backed securities tied to homes, COO Negrete said. Real
estate-backed securities, including  mortgage loans  and lease
receivables, rose 35 percent to 40.3 billion reais as of Oct.
28, according to Cetip.  Home appraisals can take as long as 90 days to complete
because paperwork must pass through the notary system known as
cartorios, and appraisal tools such as databases are lacking,
Negrete said. Standard evaluation forms are complemented by
informal steps to determine home values, such as surveys of
doormen, neighbors and owners of nearby bodegas.  Reducing Inefficiency  Cetip’s initiative is promising because it would help banks
cut costs, said Francisco Kops, an analyst at Banco Safra, said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  “There is an enormous amount of inefficiency in
communication between banks and cartorios,” said Kops, who
rates the shares the equivalent of a buy. “Sometimes you have
three different appraisals in the same building being done by
three different banks.”  FNC, Cetip’s U.S. partner, wants to replicate in  Brazil  the
work it has done domestically, from helping banks process
mortgages to developing databases and creating analytics,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bill Rayburn said.  Itau, based in Sao Paulo, is the only bank participating so
far. Cetip and Oxford, Mississippi-based FNC expect at least one
other bank to join the platform by the end of this year and
another four to be signed on in 2014, Rayburn said.  “We have great visibility into the data underlying
transactions,” Rayburn said in a telephone interview. “Our
goal is to help the banks build that in Brazil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  