-- Chairmen Ready to Propose New Medicare Doctor Fee Plan
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-10-30T23:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/chairmen-said-to-propose-new-medicare-doctor-fee-plan.html
The chairmen of the U.S. House Ways
and Means and Senate Finance committees want to phase in over a
decade a new system for paying doctors who treat Medicare
patients, lawmakers in both parties said.  Republican Representative Dave Camp of  Michigan  and
Democratic Senator Max Baucus of  Montana  are proposing to give
physicians an incentive to get their Medicare reimbursements
under alternative payment models.  The proposal would freeze physician payment rates for 10
years and give doctors bonuses for agreeing to accept certain
percentages of Medicare revenue through the alternative payment
methods. Doctors would get a 5 percent bonus each year from 2016
through 2021 if “a significant share of their revenues” come
from these alternatives, according to a committee discussion
draft distributed by Washington Council Ernst & Young.  After 2023, doctors who opt for alternative payment systems
would get a 2 percent increase in reimbursement each year,
according to the draft. Doctors who opt to continue to be paid
according to Medicare’s fee-for-service system would get a 1
percent annual increase in reimbursement.  “It’s looking for better value, less emphasis on volume,
more emphasis on quality, which is good,” Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, said after a Senate
Finance Committee briefing on the Baucus-Camp plan.  Senator John Thune, a South Dakota Republican, said the two
chairmen are “using this as an opportunity to get some quality
incentives” into Medicare.  Coming after partisan disagreements so great that the U.S.
government was partially shut down earlier this month, the
cross-party cooperation by the two chairmen increases the
prospects of the plan’s success.  Their goal is to replace the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR),
a formula enacted as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to
curb the growth in health-care costs.  That formula has led Congress to vote each year since 2003
-- and sometimes more than annually -- on a “doc fix” that has
prevented decreases in Medicare’s physician reimbursements,
which would discourage doctors from participation. Medicare is
the government’s health-care program for people 65 and older and
for people under 65 with certain disabilities.  As described by lawmakers, the Baucus-Camp payment
alternatives would be available alongside the standard fee-for-service model in 2017, after a three-year transition period.  Camp and Baucus aren’t including in their proposal any
additional mechanism to offset additional government costs,
lawmakers said.  CBO Estimate  The Congressional Budget Office estimated in February that
it would cost $138 billion in the next 10 years to keep
reimbursement rates at the current level. Lower health-care
costs have reduced the agency’s 10-year estimate, which was $245
billion last year -- one reason that permanently fixing the
formula has become more popular.  Under the SGR, Medicare’s reimbursements for medical care
are scheduled to be reduced by  more than 24 percent  on Jan. 1,
2014, according to the Department of Health and Human Services.  There were 215,919 primary-care physicians in the U.S.
treating Medicare fee-for-service patients in 2012, according to
the  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , which is part of
HHS. The average primary-care physician got about 25 percent of
his or her revenue from Medicare patients in 2012, according to
the American Academy of Family Physicians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  