-- ICBC Profit Misses Estimates as Bad Loans Rise in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-30T11:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/china-s-agbank-profit-rises-on-lending-as-economy-rebounds-1-.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. (1398) , the world’s most profitable lender, posted the
slowest earnings gain in more than four years as nonperforming
loans increased while lending and fee income growth slowed.  Net income climbed to 67.2 billion  yuan  ($11 billion) from
62.4 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based lender said
in an exchange filing today, missing the 69.4 billion-yuan
average  estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Profit at  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the third-largest,
and  Bank of China Ltd.  matched analyst estimates.  The increase in soured debt follows efforts by Premier  Li
Keqiang  to cut capacity in industries that have ballooned during
a five-year lending boom. China’s biggest state banks are
trading near record-low valuations as investors price in a surge
in nonperforming loans and weaker profitability amid an economic
slowdown and the government’s push for deregulation.  “There’s intensifying profitability pressures for the
sector on a quarter-on-quarter basis” amid margin pressure,
higher NPLs and slower lending growth, said Ismael Pili, head of
Asia bank research at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The
question is how the banks will fare going forward in a tougher
environment.”  ICBC shares rose 2.4 percent to HK$5.47 before today’s
announcement, narrowing this year’s loss to 0.6 percent. The
 stock  is valued at 1 times its estimated book value for 2014.  Soured Debt  Unprecedented credit growth in  China  since late 2008 has
led to overcapacity in industries from steel and solar power to
shipbuilding. Rising interest payments have overwhelmed some
borrowers, pushing nonperforming loans up for seven straight
quarters through June, according to data from the China Banking
Regulatory Commission.  ICBC had 87.4 billion yuan of bad loans as of Sept. 30,
according to today’s statement, an increase from 81.8 billion
yuan at the end of June. The lender’s third-quarter  earnings
growth  was the slowest since the second quarter of 2009, when it
posted a decline. Profit missed analysts’ estimates for the
first time in five quarters.  Agricultural Bank posted a 15 percent increase in third-quarter profit to 45.6 billion yuan. That compared with the 44.1
billion-yuan average  estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Bank of China , the nation’s fourth-biggest
lender, reported quarterly net income of 39.5 billion yuan, in
line with the 38.9 billion-yuan estimate of 10 analysts.  Policy Meeting  Bank of Communications Co. , China’s fifth-largest, posted a
3.4 percent increase in profit to 13.9 billion yuan, missing the
15 billion-yuan average estimate of 11 analysts.  The nation’s top leaders will meet next week to map out
economic policies. Gross domestic product growth may slow to 7.1
percent in 2014 from 7.6 percent this year as the government
focuses on rebalancing the economy and implementing reforms,
according to a Barclays Plc report on Oct. 18.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty on where policy will be
heading next year, such as interest-rate reform,” said Liu Jun,
a Wuhan-based analyst at Changjiang Securities who has a
“hold” recommendation on the industry. “That will reduce the
appeal of banking shares even though their earnings growth is
quite stable and valuations are low.”  China’s central bank continued liberalizing  interest rates 
this year by removing a floor on what banks can charge for
loans. Policy makers will probably wait at least two years
before requiring lenders to pay market rates on deposits because
officials will avoid disrupting the financial system as the
economy slows, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News said last
month.  New Lending  Chinese banks advanced 2.2 trillion yuan of new loans in
the third quarter this year, 18 percent more than the same
period a year earlier, according to  data from the central bank .
The government in June signaled a determination to make better
use of existing credit to revive the economy.  The nation’s debt-to-GDP ratio, excluding central
government and financial debt, widened to 207 percent at the end
of the third quarter from 190 percent a year earlier as credit
growth continued to outpace productivity gains,   Mike Werner , a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said this
month.  The  yield  on AAA-rated five-year commercial bank bonds has
climbed by about 80 basis points to 5.55 percent since the end
of June, according to an index from Chinabond, the government
debt clearinghouse, signaling growing concern that  defaults  may
rise and liquidity will be tightened.  Fee Income  China’s  benchmark money-market rate  rose to a four-month
high even after the central bank injected funds for the first
time in almost two weeks yesterday.  ICBC’s net interest income rose 4.1 percent to 111.7
billion yuan in the third quarter, compared with 5.8 percent
growth in the first half. Fee and commission income from
services such as sales of wealth management products increased
13 percent to 28.1 billion yuan, slowing from a 23 percent
increase in the first half.  Combined profit at the four lenders may grow by 10 percent
this year to $129 billion, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg News, the slowest rate since at least
2009, the earliest year comparable figures are available. That
would still exceed the $66.7 billion total earnings estimated
for their four U.S. counterparts.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  