-- China Pushes Breastfeeding Amid Medical Bribe Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-30T07:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/china-pushes-breastfeeding-as-health-bribe-crackdown-intensifies.html
China  intensified a crackdown on
medical staff and tightened advertising rules for the infant-formula industry as companies including Danone face allegations
they paid bribes to boost sales.  China “strictly bans” hospitals from receiving benefits
from baby-formula makers and requires staff to retain receipts
for milk powder products purchased, according to a  statement  on
the central government’s website today. Baby-formula makers are
also required to emphasize the benefits of breastfeeding in
their labeling, it said.  China is tightening regulations after food-safety concerns
as well as bribery and price-fixing claims prompted the
Communist Party to overhaul an infant-formula industry that’s
expected to expand more than 70 percent to 133.5 billion yuan
($22 billion) by 2015. The new rules ban baby milk companies
from marketing in hospitals and medical staff from promoting
milk powder to pregnant mothers and their families.  “What infant-formula companies have to do now is make sure
their agents are playing by the rules, and strengthen the
message that they need to play by the rules,” said Matthew
Crabbe, Asia Pacific director of research at Mintel Group.  Any impact on the sales of baby-milk companies is likely to
be on the “periphery,” as producers mainly sell in retail
channels, not in hospitals, Crabbe said in a telephone
interview.  Internal Probes  The country’s hospitals will also strongly promote
breastfeeding to mothers, according to the statement issued
jointly by China’s  Food and Drug Administration , the National
Health and Family Planning Commission and State Administration
for Industry & Commerce.  The  World Health Organization  recommends breastfeeding
babies exclusively for the first six months and says promoting
formula can undermine young children’s health by misleading
mothers into thinking it’s the healthier alternative.  Global baby nutrition companies have faced road blocks in
their China expansion this year. At the request of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission,  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) 
said this month it started an investigation into whether bribes
may have been paid by its Chinese unit, in violation of Chinese
and U.S. law. Mead Johnson, China’s largest baby formula company
by market share, gets almost a third of sales from China.  Danone (BN) ’s Dumex baby nutrition unit also said this month it
will take disciplinary measures and strengthen governance in
China after a government body and state media accused it of
paying doctors to drum up sales. An official investigation found
that 116 employees in 85 medical institutions had broken rules
since 2011 and accepted payments from the French formula maker,
according to the northern Chinese city of Tianjin.  Consolidation  The Paris-based company, which also sells its Nutricia
formula on the mainland, has cut its full-year forecasts after a
product-safety scare and regulatory problems in China slowed
sales growth.  Glenview, Illinois-based Mead Johnson and Danone were among
the six dairy companies being fined in August for price fixing
and violating anti-monopoly laws.  China is looking to consolidate its baby formula industry
to raise product standards amid food safety concerns and aims to
groom as many as five local companies with sales of more than 5
billion  yuan  by the end of 2018, the China Securities Journal
reported in August, citing unidentified people. The government
is also requiring domestic infant milk producers to own their
milk source.  Chinese consumers’ distrust of local milk has driven them
to source products overseas or turn to foreign brands after milk
powder tainted by chemical melamine killed six infants in China
in 2008.  Mead Johnson is ranked first in China’s milk-formula market
with a 14 percent share last year and Hangzhou Beingmate Group
was No. 2 with 10 percent, according to researcher Euromonitor
International. Danone was third with a 9.2 percent market share.  China is cracking down on possible misbehavior by
companies. In July, four senior GlaxoSmithKline Plc executives
were accused of crimes involving 3 billion yuan of spurious
travel and meeting expenses as well as trade in sexual favors.
Alcon, the eye-care division of Novartis AG, said it is probing
reports that its China employees paid doctors to boost sales.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net  