-- China Money Rates Jump as Cash Squeeze Spurs Record Bond Yield
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-30T09:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/china-s-swap-money-market-rates-advance-to-four-month-highs.html
China ’s money-market rates jumped to
four-month highs as corporate tax payments tied up funds amid
uncertainty over the central bank’s policy stance. The one-year
government bond yield climbed to a record as demand weakened at
a sale of the securities.  The People’s Bank of China injected funds into the
financial system using reverse-repurchase agreements yesterday,
after suspending use of the contracts for two weeks. The 13
billion yuan ($2.1 billion) added compares with a net 102.5
billion yuan  drained  by the central bank in the last two weeks.  “The policy signal from yesterday’s reverse-repo
operations I believe is to calm  market sentiment , but the amount
is very small, so this caused some confusion,” said Zhang Guoyu, an analyst at Orient Futures Co. in  Shanghai . “That may
be contributing to the increase in rates.”  The one-year  interest-rate swap , the fixed payment needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo, rose four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.23 percent as of 5:13 p.m. in
Shanghai. It touched 4.27 percent earlier, the highest level
since June 24, and reached a record 5.06 percent in June as a
cash crunch fanned concern some banks would struggle to meet
debt payments.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, rose 55 basis points to 5.55
percent, according to a daily fixing by the National Interbank
Funding Center. That was the 10th increase in a row, the longest
run of gains since 2007. The  overnight repo rate  jumped 53 basis
points to 5.21 percent.  ‘Seasonal Increase’  The latest rise in interbank rates is likely to be partly
because of fiscal deposits parked with the central bank, which
tend to increase most in October owing to corporate sector tax
payments, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report today.
Money-market rates will retreat from this week’s highs once the
corporate tax payments are completed, even if the central bank
refrains from acting to ease the cash squeeze, economist  Yu Song 
wrote in the report.  The seven-day repo rate opened four basis points lower
today, and subsequently jumped 65 basis points to 5.69 percent,
according to a  volume-weighted average price .  “The surge in money rates and the very volatile intraday
trading shows the market is totally confused about the PBOC’s
intentions,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB. Rates may remain choppy until the market
gets further clues from the PBOC’s open-market operations
tomorrow, she said.  The central bank asked lenders to submit orders for 14-day
reverse repos, 28-day repurchase contracts and 91-day bills for
tomorrow as usual, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. Reverse repos involve short-term asset purchases that add funds to the financial system.  Bond Auction  The Ministry of Finance sold 28.25 billion  yuan  of one-year
bonds today at 4.01 percent, and the bid-to-cover ratio was 1.2,
according to two traders who participate in the auctions. That
compared with a ratio of 1.4 at an auction of similar-maturity
securities on July 3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s 3.48 percent bonds due July
2014 jumped 30 basis points to 4.10 percent today, according to
data provided by the Interbank Funding Center. That’s the
highest for a benchmark  one-year sovereign debt  since at least
2007. The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due
August 2023 declined one basis point to 4.23 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  