-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in Week on Reform Speculation, Earnings
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-10-30T07:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-sinopec-vanke-report-profit.html
China’s  stocks  rose, with a gauge of
utilities surging the most in two years, on speculation the
government will introduce measures to boost economic growth at a
Communist Party meeting and after the largest oil companies
reported increased profit.  Datang International Power Generation Co. led a rally for
power producers after profits jumped. A measure of consumer-discretionary shares climbed the second most among 10 industry
groups, as companies ranging from  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. (000651) 
to SAIC Motor Corp. surged at least 3 percent. PetroChina Co.
gained the most in four months after posting a 19 percent
increase in profit.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  jumped 3.5
percent as Morgan Stanley said shares may “re-rate” after the
company’s earnings beat estimates.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index rose 1.5 percent to 2,160.46
at the close, the biggest gain since Oct. 21. The Communist
Party said a key meeting to discuss economic-policy reforms will
run for four days through Nov. 12. Politburo member Yu
Zhengsheng has said reforms to be discussed will be
unprecedented.  “With the dates set for the plenum, there would be more
hopes for reforms soon so that will support the market from
falling too much,” said  Zhang Gang , strategist at Central China
Securities in Shanghai. “Company earnings are not performing
too badly.”  The Shanghai measure rebounded from a seven-week low and
pared this month’s loss to 0.7 percent. It has slumped 4.8
percent this year on concerns a slowing economy will hurt profit
growth and the government will introduce measures to curb
property-price gains. The index trades at 8.5 times projected
profits for the next 12 months, lower than the seven-year
average of 15.4. The ChiNext index of small companies added 0.9
percent, paring this month’s drop to 6.9 percent.  Reform Hopes  The CSI 300 Index rose 1.5 percent to 2,407.47 today, while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.3 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index gained 1.7 percent in New York
yesterday. Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 19 percent
below the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News this month said
policies flowing from the Communist Party meeting will reduce
the odds of a severe slowdown or financial crisis and are most
likely to include changes in financial markets and local-government funding.  The government may announce measures to boost domestic
consumption at the meeting, benefiting auto, dairy and home-appliance companies, said Lilian Leung, who manages almost $1
billion at JPMorgan Asset Management in Hong Kong.  Consumer Companies  SAIC Motor, the biggest automaker, jumped 3.8 percent to
14.42  yuan . Gree Electric surged 6.2 percent to 31.26 yuan.
Suning Commerce Group Co., the largest electronics retailer,
added 3 percent to 11.89 yuan.  Premier Li Keqiang has championed urbanization as a “huge
engine” for growth as he seeks to shift the country toward a
model that relies on consumption rather than investment and
exports.  A gauge of utility stocks in the CSI 300 jumped 4.3
percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Datang International
Power Generation surged 4.4 percent to 4.56 yuan after reporting
a third-quarter net income of 1.79 billion yuan, compared with
the median estimate of 1.3 billion yuan.  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (902)  rose 5.2 percent to 5.85 yuan.  China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, advanced 3.5 percent to
4.49 yuan after it reported a 20 percent jump in net income to
22 billion yuan ($3.6 billion) yesterday. Sinopec shares are
likely to “re-rate” after “decent”  earnings (SHCOMP) , Morgan Stanley
analysts Andy Meng and Daisy Li wrote in a note.  Money Rates  PetroChina gained 2.2 percent to 7.78 yuan after it posted
a 19 percent gain in profit to 29.8 billion yuan. The energy
companies increased profit in the third quarter as a new policy
helped them raise fuel prices, foreshadowing Premier Li
Keqiang’s plan to reduce state intervention in the economy.  The nation may also allow private capital to invest in oil
and gas resources currently controlled by several large oil
companies with monopoly power, the China Securities Journal
reported today, citing unidentified people.  Earnings at the 199 companies in the Shanghai gauge tracked
by Bloomberg that reported results so far this quarter have
trailed analyst estimates by 6.4 percent.  China ’s benchmark money-market rate rose to four-month
highs even after the central bank injected funds for the first
time in almost two weeks yesterday.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, climbed 38 basis points to
5.42 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 5.43 percent, the
highest since July 1. The overnight repo rate jumped 53 basis
points to 5.11 percent.  Liquidity may remain tight and balanced in the fourth
quarter and the nation may mainly adopt short-term adjustments
in its monetary policy, according to a front page commentary in
the China Securities Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  