-- China, Germany Criticized by U.S. for Account Imbalances
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-10-30T23:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/china-germany-criticized-by-u-s-for-current-account-imbalances.html
The U.S. reiterated its complaints
that  China ’s  yuan  hasn’t strengthened as fast as needed and
criticized  Germany  for its current-account surplus in a report
yesterday.  The yuan is “significantly undervalued,” the Treasury
Department said in a twice-yearly review of currencies and
economic policies, in which it declined to name China or any
major trading partner a currency manipulator.  The Treasury targeted “countries with large and persistent
surpluses” in the euro area, which “need to take action to
boost domestic demand growth and shrink their surpluses.”
 Germany  has “maintained a large current-account surplus
throughout the euro-area financial crisis, and in 2012,
Germany’s nominal current-account surplus was larger than that
of China,” the department said.  The U.S. criticism comes less than a month after a
political logjam in  Washington  drove the world’s largest economy
close to a default, led to a partial government shutdown and
triggered criticism from officials from China to  Europe , who
pointed to it as single largest threat to global economic
growth.  “You target Germany as a way to get at the euro area as a
whole,” Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington, said in an
interview after the report was released. “Now is really the
time to finger Germany” if the U.S. wants to have an impact on
economic policies that are being negotiated by lawmakers there,
he said.  German Surplus  Germany’s surplus grew to $238.5 billion in 2012 from
$223.3 billion in 2011 and was the largest among the countries
for which the  World Bank  has data, according to its website.
China’s current-account surplus rose to $193.1 billion from
$136.1 billion and was the second largest among the countries
tracked by the World Bank.  Germany’s “anemic pace of domestic demand growth and
dependence on exports have hampered rebalancing at a time when
many other euro-area countries have been under severe pressure
to curb demand and compress imports in order to promote
adjustment,” the Treasury said. “The net result has been a
deflationary bias for the euro area, as well as for the world
economy.”  On Japan, the Treasury said it will “closely monitor” the
government’s policies “and the extent to which they support the
growth of domestic demand.”  Calibrate Pace  To support potential economic growth,  Japan  should
“calibrate the pace of fiscal consolidation to the recovery in
domestic demand and take ambitious and effective steps to
increase domestic demand,” the Treasury said. “Monetary policy
cannot offset excessive fiscal consolidation or be a substitute
for structural reform.”  The Treasury said it will urge  South Korea  to limit its
foreign-exchange interventions “to the exceptional
circumstances of disorderly market conditions and to commit to
transparency with respect to foreign exchange intervention.”  China’s yuan “is appreciating, but not as fast or by as
much as needed,” the Treasury said. “The evidence that China
has resumed large-scale purchases of foreign exchange this year,
despite having accumulated reserves that are more than
sufficient by any measure, is suggestive of actions that are
impeding market determination and a currency that is
significantly undervalued.”  The  yuan  fell for a fourth day yesterday, the longest
losing streak since July, as the central bank cut the currency’s
reference rate amid a rally in the dollar. The People’s Bank of
China cut its fixing, which limits the yuan’s daily moves to 1
percent on either side, by 0.06 percent to 6.1412 per dollar,
the weakest since Oct. 17.  Pot, Kettle  “It looks like a bad case of the pot contemplating
criticism of the kettle,” Kit Juckes, global strategist at
Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-mail. “Fed policy
has delivered a number of overvalued currencies and a smattering
of asset bubbles around the world. The Chinese pay more at
Starbucks for coffee but the U.S. would like a weaker dollar.”  The report’s “strong focus” on China’s reserves “is
probably appropriate,” said  Nicholas Lardy , a China specialist
and senior fellow at the Peterson Institute. China’s foreign-exchange reserves were $3.66 trillion on Sept. 30 and rose by
$166 billion in the third quarter, according to People’s Bank of
China data.  The Treasury also chided China for not disclosing its
intervention in foreign-exchange markets and said the government
should do so “to increase the credibility of its monetary
policy framework and to promote  exchange rate  and financial
market transparency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  