-- Clariant Sells Leather Unit to Wendel’s Stahl Ending Overhaul
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-30T06:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/clariant-sells-leather-unit-to-wendel-s-stahl-ending-overhaul.html
Clariant AG (CLN) , the Swiss maker of
speciality chemicals, agreed to sell a leather-treatment unit to
 Wendel SA (MF) ’s Stahl to mark the end of an overhaul that began last
year.  Under the terms of the proposal, Clariant will receive 85
million francs ($94.5 million) and a 23 percent stake in the
enlarged supplier of treatments, dyes and coatings. The
transaction values Clariant’s leather unit at about 7.5 times
earnings before interest taxes, depreciation and amortization,
the company said in a statement today.  “Through this planned transaction, Clariant will achieve
its goal to actively participate in the consolidation of the
leather chemicals industry by creating the global leader,”
Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann said in a statement,
adding that it “marks the last big step” in repositioning
Clariant’s portfolio.  The deal creates an enlarged leather-chemical company with
total sales of about 616 million euros ($846 million) and scope
to cut costs and target more clients in industries spanning
shoes, bags and luxury car upholstery. It also boosts Chief
Executive Hariolf Kottmann’s drive to exit commodity chemicals
and focus on more profitable areas like agrochemicals and
ingredients for shampoos and moisturizers.  Clariant said the transaction could be finalized in 2014,
and Wendel would remain the principal Stahl shareholder with a
70 percent stake. Clariant’s Leather business generated 266
million francs in reported sales and Ebitda before exceptional
items of 24 million francs in 2012. The business employs 550
employees, mostly in Germany, India and  Italy .  Third-quarter sales from continuing operations fell 3
percent to 1.4 billion francs, weighed down by the weakness of
the Brazilian real, Japanese yen and Indian rupee against the
Swiss franc. Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and
depreciation of 203 million francs met analyst expectations.  Clariant confirmed a target of sales growth in local
currencies and a improved profitability for 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  