-- Clarin Plunges as Court Upholds Media Limits: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-10-30T19:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/clarin-plunges-as-court-upholds-media-limits-buenos-aires-mover.html
Grupo Clarin SA,  Argentina ’s biggest
media company, tumbled the most on record after the country’s
 Supreme Court  upheld a 2009 law that limits ownership of cable
franchises and television and radio stations.  The  shares  plunged 32 percent to 17.9 pesos as of 3:13 p.m.
 Buenos Aires  time, the most since the company’s 2007 initial
public offering.  Investors are dumping the shares on concern that Clarin
will be forced to sell some of its licenses at unfavorable terms
to comply with the law, said  Christian Reos , head of research at
Buenos Aires-based brokerage Allaria Ledesma & Cia. The seven-member court voted yesterday to overturn an April ruling by an
appeals court that the media law was unconstitutional.  “Nobody knows what will become of the company right now,”
Reos said in a telephone interview. “It’s very hard to value
because they may be forced to divest quickly. There’s no way of
knowing if they will find buyers, if they’ll have to take low
prices for the assets or if they will be compensated by the
government.”  In the 392-page ruling, the Supreme Court said the
government should compensate license owners for the loss of
their rights.  Clarin said in a statement on its website yesterday that
the ruling “openly violates acquired rights.” The company said
it’s evaluating its options, including seeking remedies through
an international court.  Reducing Share  According to Clarin’s statement, its cable operator
Cablevision SA would have to reduce its 158 licenses in
Argentina to 24 and pare its market share to 35 percent from 47
percent.  Clarin also owns 10  radio stations , four broadcast TV
channels and an Internet provider.  The government has no current plans for an expropriation or
intervention, Martin Sabbatella, head of the media regulator,
told reporters in Buenos Aires yesterday.  “We’re not planning an expropriation or intervention,”
Sabbatella said. “If someone doesn’t follow the law, the state
has to act and guarantee that it’s upheld.” He didn’t mention
Clarin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  