-- Colorado Officials Tell Casino to Cut Ties to Gansevoort Backer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/colorado-officials-tell-casino-to-cut-ties-to-gansevoort-backer.html
Colorado  gaming officials  ordered a
casino to discontinue a relationship with an investor who
figured prominently in a Massachusetts licensing investigation
of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)   Big Jim’s Gambling Hall & Saloon in Cripple Creek,
Colorado, was told to end its association with Arik Kislin by
Dec. 20 or lose its license, according to minutes of a June 20
meeting of the Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission. The
decision was unrelated to the Massachusetts investigation,
Brenda Davis, director of administration for Colorado’s division
of gaming, said in an interview.  Kislin, an investor in Gansevoort Hotel Group, has been
linked to various members of Eurasian organized crime by the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation , according to a Massachusetts
Gaming Commission report released on Oct. 23. Caesars dropped
out of a proposed $1 billion resort in East  Boston  and ended a
licensing deal to use the Gansevoort name on a remodeled hotel
on the  Las Vegas Strip  after Massachusetts investigators
recommended the company be denied a license in the state.  Kislin denies any relationship to organized crime, said
Juda Engelmayer, a spokesman with 5W Public Relations. Big Jim’s
hasn’t met performance targets, and as a result, Kislin didn’t
want to pay for a casino license, he said in an Oct. 28
telephone interview. Kislin is looking to recover his investment
in  Big Jim’s , according to Engelmayer.  “No legal authority has ever accused him of any wrongdoing
in connection with his businesses,” Engelmayer said in an e-mail. “The German court documents referenced in some media
reports never mention Arik Kislin and never linked him to any
criminal activity, and other reports are decades old, stemming
from a time when Arik Kislin was in his early 20s and did
business with individuals in the former  Soviet Union .”  Colorado Application  Gansevoort’s flagship hotel is in  New York ’s Meatpacking
District.  Katherine Gulotta, an FBI spokeswoman in Boston, had no
comment yesterday.  James Druck, general manager of Big Jim’s and a minority
investor, said in a telephone interview the casino had
underperformed financially and that it was working to comply
with the commission’s order.  “I’ve never met him, never spoken to him,” Druck said of
Kislin, adding that he had “no opinion” on why Kislin didn’t
seek a license.  Kislin, 45, lent money to the majority owner of a casino in
Cripple Creek and considered applying for a gaming license in
Colorado, according to the  report  from Massachusetts regulators.  Suitability Finding  Casinos in  Colorado  must report persons who lend money to
them, and the director of the gaming commission may require
those investors to supply information about their backgrounds
and source of funds, Davis, the state gaming official, said in
an e-mail.  The division asked Kislin to apply for a finding of
suitability in the state and he elected not to, according to
Davis, who described the request as standard procedure.  The  commission , a five-member panel that supervises the
state’s casino industry, then ordered Big Jim’s to “discontinue
any and all business agreements with Mr. Kislin, including debt
agreements,” she said.  The Massachusetts Gaming Commission met yesterday to
consider the license application of Suffolk Downs race track,
Caesars’ former partner in the East Boston project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  