-- Comcast Reaches Deal Allowing Astros to Seek Network Deal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-10-30T22:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/comcast-astros-reach-accord-allowing-team-to-seek-network-deals.html
Major League Baseball’s Astros were
authorized to find a carrier for Houston Regional Sports Network
LP, which televises the team’s games, after a judge ruled the
club could act as lead negotiator in developing a business plan
for the future of the network.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Marvin Isgur at a hearing yesterday
in Houston declined to rule on the validity of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
bid to force the network into involuntary bankruptcy, a move
opposed by the Astros.  The judge also withheld a decision on the Astros’ request
to have the bankruptcy request dismissed, in hopes that the
network’s owners -- Comcast, the baseball team and the  National
Basketball Association ’s Rockets -- can reach an amicable
resolution to turn its fortunes around. The judge closed the
hearing to the public more than once yesterday to foster
negotiations among the cable operator and the sports teams.  “The order is a pretty extraordinary order,” Isgur said
at the end of the hearing, which spanned two days. The judge
required the consent of the parties to add a provision that
“the assumption and assignment of the media rights carriage
agreement will no longer require the unanimous consent of all
the parties.”  The ruling allows the Astros, acting on behalf of the
network, to shop the media rights agreement to other carriers,
such as Fox Sports or  DirecTV (DTV) , through assumption and assignment
of the contract.  Weekly Calls  The baseball club will hold weekly calls with Comcast and
the Rockets regarding the negotiations and may bring them into
the discussions as well, according to the ruling.  The judge will hold a hearing for an initial update on the
status of the bankruptcy case on Nov. 13, with another scheduled
to follow on Dec. 12, when his ruling giving the Astros the
right to lead the negotiations is set to expire, court papers
show.  “We are abating for a while” on whether the Comcast
creditors’ attempt to put the network in bankruptcy should be
granted as well as holding off on the question of “whether we
should be in bankruptcy at all,” Isgur said at the end of the
hearing.  Thomas A. Clare and Harry Perrin, lawyers for the Astros,
didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment on the accord.  Chapter 11  Creditors, including affiliates of Philadelphia-based
Comcast, filed an involuntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition
against Houston Regional Sports on Sept. 27 “to avoid the
destruction of the network’s substantial value,” according to
court filings.  Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable operator, claimed it’s owed
more than $100 million and the network hasn’t been paying its
debts as they come due.  While the Rockets supported Comcast, the Astros called the
involuntary bankruptcy filing a power grab by the cable giant.
 Major League Baseball  also opposed the bankruptcy, citing the
Astros’ and its own control over intellectual property and media
rights.  ‘Transparent Attempt’  The involuntary filing was “a transparent attempt to
acquire the network and gain control over the Astros’ most
valuable asset, the media rights to televise their own Major
League Baseball games,” the Astros said in court papers filed
Oct. 7.  Comcast asked the court to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee to
take over control of the company and oust management, with which
it had reached a “debilitating deadlock” in a disagreement
over the direction and management of the network, according to
court documents.  Comcast, which owns NBCUniversal LLC, said in filings that
it’s willing to buy the network’s assets, which have
“significant value.”  “Comcast/NBCUniversal and its affiliates are pleased with
Judge Isgur’s order, and believe that it preserves CSN Houston’s
assets and ability to provide its valuable programming,” Tim
Buckman, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail today. “We
welcome the Astros’ efforts as lead negotiator to serve the
Network’s best interests and look forward to an improved future
for all partners.”  The case is In re Houston Regional Sports Network LP, 13-bk-35998,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  