-- Community Health Negotiating End to U.S. Billing Probe
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-10-31T20:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/community-health-negotiating-end-to-u-s-billing-probe.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , the
second-largest U.S. hospital system, is negotiating with the
Justice Department to resolve investigations into five years of
admissions and a hospital in Laredo,  Texas .  While a deal isn’t complete,  Community Health  took a third-quarter charge of $98 million, or 65 cents a share, for a legal
reserve to cover the claims and expenses in connection with the
probes, the Franklin, Tennessee-based company said yesterday in
a statement.  Community Health, with 135 hospitals in 29 states, is
acquiring  Health Management Associates (HMA) , of Naples,  Florida ,
which operates 71 U.S. hospitals in 15 states, mainly in non-urban areas. Like others in the sector, the hospital chain has
been grappling with declining patient volume and higher-than-anticipated bad debts that have helped to stall revenue growth.
The investigations into admissions and billing practices,
disclosed in 2011, also have hung over the company, analysts
said.  The legal costs announced yesterday reduced  net income  from
continuing operations to $21.6 million, or 4 cents a share, from
$58.8 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier. Revenue increased
less than 1 percent to $3.2 billion as admissions for the
hospital chain fell 6.8 percent. Adjusted same-hospital
admissions declined 3.9 percent from the period a year earlier.  “This is highly anticipated at this point,” said Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
 Tennessee , referring to the admissions decline in an interview
before the earnings were released.  Estimates Topped  Excluding one-time items, earnings per share were 72 cents,
topping by 4 cents the average of 21 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The hospital company’s shares rose 1.8 percent to $43.63 at
the close in  New York . Community Health has  gained  59 percent in
the past 12 months.  Community Health was subpoenaed in 2011 by federal
investigators seeking documents related to billings for
Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly and disabled, and
Medicaid, the government program for the poor. The company said
in July it received an additional subpoena relating to the
investigation.  The negotiations with the  Justice Department  concern short-stay hospital admissions from 2005 to 2010 and an investigation
into the Laredo hospital, Community Health said in the
statement. The legal reserve doesn’t cover claims related to an
investigation from Tricare, Medicaid or other legal expenses,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  