-- Convicted Madoff Trader Testifies Against Ex-Colleagues
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-30T22:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/convicted-madoff-trader-testifies-against-ex-colleagues.html
David Kugel, who was hired as a
trader by  Bernard Madoff  in 1970 and pleaded guilty to fraud two
years ago, told a jury he helped create fake trades with two ex-colleagues accused of aiding Madoff’s $17 billion Ponzi scheme.  Kugel, who joined Madoff’s firm a year after graduating
from Pace University in New York, engaged in securities fraud
for three decades with two of the trial’s defendants, Annette Bongiorno, who ran the investment advisory unit at the center of
the fraud, and Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts, he
testified today in federal court in Manhattan.  “I gave historical information to create fake trades,
fabricated trades” starting in the mid 1970s, Kugel said under
questioning by Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Schwartz.
Bongiorno and Crupi used his data to create false trade
confirmations and account statements for Madoff’s customers, he
said.  Kugel, born in Cleavland and raised in  Brooklyn , New York,
agreed to cooperate with prosecutors as part of a November 2011
guilty plea, and hasn’t been sentenced. He’s the first witness
to testify to admit involvement in the fraud that unraveled with
Madoff’s arrest on Dec. 11, 2008.  The other defendants on trial, accused of conspiring to
trick customers and regulators for years, are Daniel Bonventre,
who oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary trading operations
where Kugel worked; and computer programmers George Perez and
Jerome O’Hara, who allegedly automated the creation of millions
of fake documents. All five have pleaded not guilty.  Mortgage Fraud  Kugel said today he pleaded guilty to mortgage fraud for
putting false investment information on loan paperwork. He said
Madoff and Crupi were also involved in that scheme. Kugel is
scheduled to continue his testimony tomorrow.  Lawyers for the former Madoff workers said in their opening
statements on Oct. 17 that Kugel and other ex-employees who have
pleaded guilty in the case -- about half a dozen of them -- are
willing to lie and implicate their former colleagues to get less
time behind bars when they’re sentenced.  The defense lawyers also told the jury that Madoff duped
their clients, hiring them when they were young and
inexperienced. Even regulators couldn’t tell what Madoff was up
to after numerous audits, they said.  Industry experts, fraud examiners and former administrative
assistants at Madoff’s company have testified until now in the
trial, now in its second week. It’s the first criminal trial
stemming from the world’s biggest Ponzi scheme, which deprived
investors of $17 billion in principal and about $47 billion in
fake profit they believed to be in their accounts.  Trading Data  During his plea hearing two years ago, Kugel said Bongiorno
first approached him in the early 1970s for the trading data,
which he said he obtained from the Wall Street Journal and other
sources to mimic real trades. In the 1990s, he supplied the same
type of information for Crupi, he said.  Bongiorno, who joined Madoff’s company straight out of high
school and worked for him for 40 years, claims Madoff
manipulated her for years and she didn’t know she was part of a
fraud. Crupi, who joined Madoff straight out of college in 1983,
made a similar argument.  Kugel’s son, Craig Kugel, who worked in Madoff’s human
resources department, pleaded guilty in June 2012 to a tax
scheme that paid salaries and benefits to people who weren’t
employees, including Bonventre’s son. Craig Kugel hasn’t been
sentenced and is also expected to testify at the trial.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain said the trial may
last as long as five months. Madoff is serving a 150-year
sentence at a federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  