-- Crazy Elektra Dances When Mother Dies, Parisians Cheer
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-10-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/crazy-elektra-dances-when-mother-dies-parisians-cheer.html
Matricide is having a great time in
 France .  The “Elektra” by director Robert Carsen at the Bastille
Opera follows hard on the heels of the acclaimed production by
Patrice Chereau at the Festival d’Aix-en-Provence, the last he
directed before his premature death on Oct. 7.  Chereau had staged Richard Strauss’s opera as a Freudian
drama with a vaguely Oriental background.  Carsen and his choreographer Philippe Giraudeau almost turn
it into a ballet.  Michael Levine’s set is an empty space with dark walls and
a crack in the ground through which people appear and disappear.
The atmosphere is created by lighting effects (Peter Van Praet).  The entire cast is dressed in black except for the
murderous couple: Klytaemnestra (Waltraud Meier) in a white
nightgown, Aegisth (Kim Begley) a white bathrobe.  At the beginning, Elektra (Irene Theorin) lies, sleeping or
brooding. At the end, when her thirst for revenge is quenched,
she adopts the same dignified pose.  Victory Dance  The victory dance is done by Elektra’s entourage -- two
dozen girls who follow her at every turn and imitate her
movements. The naked body of Agamemnon, Elektra’s murdered
father, pops up and is carried away by her retinue -- like the
dead Siegfried in the final act of Wagner’s “Gotterdammerung.”  Later, it’s Elektra’s turn to be transported by her
attendants.  Carsen loves those mirror effects. Everything he does is
tasteful, elegant and picturesque. The only thing missing are
the goose bumps a less stylized “Elektra” can produce.  We seem to be watching a beautiful tableau vivant.  Conductor Philippe Jordan doesn’t quite solve the problem
of how to balance the sound created by 100 musicians in the pit
and the limits of the human throat.  Theorin, though a compelling actress, isn’t quite up to the
task. Most of what she sings is unintelligible.  Meier’s Klytaemnestra, a ravishing lady rather than the
usual half-crazed hag, and Ricarda Merbeth as her second
daughter Chrysothemis have the same problem: You only
intermittently guess that they have lovely voices.  The only singer on whose every word you hang is Evgeny
Nikitin’s sonorous Orest.  At the curtain calls on opening night, everybody involved
was showered with thunderous applause and, rarity of rarities
in Paris, not a single boo.  Rating: ***.  “Elektra” is in repertory at the Bastille Opera through
Dec. 1. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr/en/ .  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Lance Esplund 
on U.S. art,  Greg Evans  on U.S. television,  James Russell  on
architecture and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 