-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Reach 2-Week High as Fed Maintains Stimulus
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-30T21:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-procter-gamble-plans-benchmark-sale.html
A measure of U.S. company credit
risk rose to the highest level in two weeks as the  Federal
Reserve  said it needs to see more evidence that the economy will
continue to improve before reducing monetary stimulus.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps gauge that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.9 basis
points to 73 basis points at 5:26 p.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level for the
index since it closed at 73.6 basis points on Oct. 16.  Investors are interpreting the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s mention of economic growth since the Fed’s bond-buying program began as a signal that the central bank may cut
back stimulus sooner than anticipated, according to  Scott MacDonald , head of research at  Stamford , Connecticut-based MC
Asset Management Holdings LLC. The FOMC won’t reduce the pace of
purchases until its March 18-19 meeting, according to the median
estimate of an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “Maybe people are reading that this might indicate the
FOMC might move sooner than March, but we have a ways to go
here,” MacDonald said in a telephone interview. The statement
was “slightly more hawkish than people anticipated, especially
considering the downtick in economic data lately.”  ‘Evidence’ Awaited  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal
retrenchment over the past year, the committee sees the
improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions
since it began its asset purchase program as consistent with
growing underlying strength in the broader economy,” the FOMC
said in a statement released at 2 p.m. New York time.  The Fed repeated that it will “await more evidence that
progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace” of its
purchases, which will remain divided between $40 billion a month
of mortgage bonds and $45 billion in  Treasury securities .  The central bank left unchanged its statement that it will
probably hold its target interest rate near zero “at least as
long as” unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent, so long as the
outlook for inflation is no higher than 2.5 percent.  Procter & Gamble  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-products
maker, sold $2 billion of bonds in three parts.  The maker of Crest toothpaste and Tide detergent issued $1
billion of three-year notes, split evenly between 0.75 percent,
fixed-rate debentures to yield 20 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and floating-rate debt to yield 8
basis points more than the three-month London interbank offered
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also sold $1
billion of 1.6 percent, five-year debt at a relative yield of 40
basis points.  The bonds are expected to be rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, Bloomberg data show.  The next wave of company defaults isn’t likely to reach the
rate triggered by the financial crisis five years ago, according
to a report from Moody’s.  “We’ll get a longer default cycle, but not as sharp,”
David Keisman, lead author of the report, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  The speculative-grade default rate in the U.S. will be
“relatively stable” over the next year after ending the third
quarter at 2.6 percent, according to a Moody’s report dated Oct.
16.  Default Rate  The credit rater forecast a high-yield default rate at
year-end of 2.7 percent, declining to 2.6 percent by September
2014, according to the Oct. 16 report. The rates compare with a
cyclical peak of more than 14 percent in late 2009 and a 20-year
average of 4.5 percent.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, increased 8.6 basis points to 354 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries fell 0.7 basis point to 124.7 basis
points, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  