-- Cyclone Delays India Rare Earth Facility as China Limits Exports
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-10-30T07:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/cyclone-delays-india-rare-earth-facility-as-china-limits-exports.html
Phailin, the most powerful cyclone
to hit  India  in 14 years, has delayed a plan to start production
of rare earth elements to help boost supplies after  China 
limited exports.  The commissioning of Indian Rare Earths Ltd.’s 5,000 metric
ton oxide unit in the eastern state of Odisha has been pushed
back by at least four months to February after Cyclone Phailin
damaged the factory and its surrounding areas, Chairman and
Managing Director R.N. Patra said in an interview. The new unit
is about 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from Gopalpur where the storm
made landfall on Oct. 12.  India is seeking to boost its own rare earths supply after
China, the supplier of over 90 percent of the world’s
requirement, imposed export quotas beginning 2007 to conserve
resources and protect the environment. The delay will affect
customers such as Japan’s  Toyota Tshusho Corp. (8015) , a part of the
Toyota Group, which will buy half of Indian Rare Earths’ produce
from the monazite ore it plans to mine at the site.  “India’s dependence on rare earths will increase as the
focus on renewable energy sources of power rise and as higher
income drives demand for high-tech flat televisions and
phones,” Patra said. “Supplies to Toyota Tsusho, which is part
of a government-to-government agreement, can start as soon as we
start production.”  The U.S., European Union and Japan complained in March last
year to the  World Trade Organization  about China’s limits on
shipments of rare earths, a group of 17 chemically similar
elements also used in color television panels, defense
equipment,  wind turbines  and hybrid cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  