-- Czech Election Winner Sees Cabinet Talks Delayed Until Feud Over
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-10-30T13:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/czech-election-winner-sees-cabinet-talks-delayed-until-feud-over.html
The Czech Social Democrats, who won
a snap parliamentary vote last week on vows to revive the
 economy  after a record-long recession, said they must overcome
an internal revolt before starting talks over a new cabinet.  Chairman Bohuslav Sobotka is facing calls to resign as the
party secured victory with a record-low tally. He’s refused to
quit, saying today that “detailed” talks with potential
partners will only start after a Nov. 10 meeting of the Social
Democrats’ central executive committee.  “What the Social Democrats need now is to tidy up inside
so that the party can act as a united partner in the
negotiations,” Sobotka told reporters in Prague. “So far, no
coalition has been created. The path may be complicated in terms
of finding agenda overlaps and a realistic program for a stable
future government.”  The post-communist European Union member is locked in a
stalemate after voters elected a record seven parties to
parliament. The Social Democrats want to undo the previous
government’s austerity drive and are seeking support from
billionaire-backed runner-up ANO and the Christian Democrats,
which oppose plans to raise taxes and boost spending.  While the three parties would have a majority of 111 votes
in the 200-seat parliament, pro-business ANO isn’t planning to
enter government and founder Andrej Babis said its 47 deputies
may “tolerate” a minority cabinet led by the Social Democrats.
ANO leaders will meet today to debate a plan for the talks.  The yield on 10-year  koruna  bonds, the lowest in emerging
Europe, fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.29
percent as of 1:21 p.m. in  Prague , 20 basis points below
comparable U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
koruna gained 0.1 percent to 25.734 per euro.  “The market will give the politicians some time, but
patience will be gradually waning,” Helena Horska, head of
research at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said yesterday in a
note. “If the negotiations don’t lead to a stable government,
it will be reflected in the value of the koruna and Czech
bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  