-- Defense Fights Sequestration Eisenhower Couldn’t Predict
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/defense-fights-sequestration-eisenhower-couldn-t-predict.html
Defense industry lobbyists are
bearing down on members of Congress in a bid to avert $52
billion in automatic spending cuts, part of a series of
reductions that threaten to reshape military programs and
contractors’ profits for years.  U.S. lawmakers have been barraged with phone calls, letters
and visits in the biggest lobbying campaign by military
contractors in recent history, as a special congressional
committee begins meeting today in an effort to produce a budget
accord replacing cuts approved in 2011, known as sequestration.  For the defense industry, this is a potentially
transformational moment in its relationship with Congress, where
 defense spending  long was accorded special status as a matter of
national security and hometown jobs -- reinforced by campaign
contributions.  John McCain  of Arizona, a leading Senate voice on
defense, said military spending is no longer sacrosanct, even
among fellow Republicans.  “It’s a new generation of conservatives that may not have
the same concern for national security as previously,” McCain
said yesterday. “A lot of them have never served, many of them
are new in the Congress and many of them campaigned committed to
cutting spending.”  The Aerospace Industries Association, a trade group that
counts top contractors  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  as
members, said it is waging its largest campaign in years against
sequestration.  ‘New Normal’  The mandated defense spending cuts will take about $52
billion from the Pentagon’s request of $526.6 billion, excluding
war costs, for the current fiscal year. A key deadline is Dec.
13, when congressional negotiators are to propose a budget
before a temporary spending bill expires a month later.  While the contractors want to avoid the next round of cuts,
they also want to avoid a “new normal where lower defense
spending is acceptable,” said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of
history and public affairs at  Princeton University  in  New
Jersey . Defense programs would be reduced by about $500 billion
over nine years from planned levels if sequestration stays in
place.  “They want to counteract the perception that lower
spending won’t actually endanger the nation,” Zelizer said.  That’s proving to be a tougher sell than when the U.S. was
confronted with the demands imposed by the Cold War or the
post-9/11 wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The emergence of the Tea
Party movement within Republican Party ranks has altered what
has been a reliable bloc of support for defense spending.  Pentagon Protection  In his 1961 farewell address, President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  warned Americans to “guard against the acquisition
of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the
military-industrial complex.”  While the complex that arose hasn’t threatened personal
liberties in the way that Eisenhower cautioned, it has become a
sophisticated and voracious recipient of  government spending .
The military, for example, accounts for more than two-thirds of
the roughly $500 billion federal contracting market.  McCain,  Senator Lindsey Graham  and Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
are among Republicans who have protected the Pentagon, said
 Robert Levinson , a senior defense analyst with Bloomberg
Government in Washington.  The Tea Party movement has “figured out that the Pentagon
is also part of the big government that they don’t like and they
certainly aren’t losing any sleep over additional cuts” for the
Defense Department, Levinson said. “They see the sequester as
the one spending-reduction victory that they can hang on their
wall and aren’t about to give it up.”  Cold War  While the defense industry has faced deep budget cuts after
every major war, this time is different, said an official from a
major contractor who requested anonymity to discuss the
situation. Now, the nature of warfare itself is shifting away
from state-on-state conflicts that require expensive weapons to
cyberwarfare and special operations that rely on technology
rather than large-scale force, the official said.  In addition, the official said, there no longer is an enemy
like the Soviet Union. The end of the Cold War, along with the
departure of some key legislators such as former Missouri
Democratic Representative  Ike Skelton , who died this week, also
has eroded bipartisan political support for defense spending in
Congress, the official said.  So far, the military’s top contractors have cut their way
to profitability as sales have declined. That strategy may not
last. Profits may begin to fall in a year, as the Defense
Department begins targeting larger programs, said Brian Ruttenbur, an analyst with CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut.  Supply Chain  “They’re going to have to cut some of these big
platforms,” Ruttenbur said in a phone interview. “It’s going
to show up first in decreasing backlogs.”  Sequestration’s “impact on the industrial base and
national supply chain has eroded our ability, not only to create
new jobs, but to maintain our current intellectual human
capital,” Marion Blakey, the aerospace association’s president,
and the chief executive officers of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  said in Oct. 23 letters to
lawmakers including Senator  Patty Murray , chairwoman of the
Senate Budget Committee.  “The impact on national security is dangerous, and the net
effect on our national economic growth rate is negative,” they
wrote.  Both McCain and Graham, of South Carolina, said the defense
industry is facing an uphill fight to escape sequestration.
 Gordon Adams , professor of foreign policy at the American
University School of International Service, calls defense
spending “a drive-by shooting victim of budget politics.”  ‘Political Turf’  “Jobs, the economy, debt and deficit have become the
issues,” said Adams, a former White House budget official.
“Once you’re in that political turf, you’re not on the defense
turf any more. Defense just becomes another part of the
puzzle.”  The Aerospace Industries Association, based in Arlington,
Virginia, is drafting letters to all 50 governors, letting them
know how many jobs in their states are tied to the defense
aerospace industry and how many are at risk under sequestration.
The group plans to bring small business owners to the Capitol
for a day of lobbying next month.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has warned that the budget
cuts, if implemented, would force the Pentagon to buy “fewer
ships, planes, ground vehicles, satellites and other weapons”
and result in “serious damage to our military capabilities.”  Budget Debate  Appeals by Hagel and top military leaders, along with
warnings from defense companies about a shrinking industrial
base, haven’t proven strong enough to shift the partisan budget
debate. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said yesterday that any deal for a rollback in defense cuts
would need to include revenue increases.  “The issue is going to be that Republicans don’t want to
replace spending cuts with revenue,” Graham said.
“Sequestration was a bipartisan agreement to cut spending.”  While the Defense Department has tried to shelter its
costliest weapons systems, led by Lockheed’s F-35 jet, pressure
is growing for reductions in weapons accounts.  “Our modernization forecasts are bleak” if sequestration
continues into fiscal 2015, William LaPlante, the Air Force’s
principal deputy assistant secretary for acquisition and
management, told a House defense subcommittee last week.  Spending Caps  The U.S. Budget Control Act of 2011 set discretionary
spending caps and created a process that resulted in automatic
cuts known as sequestration. The reductions began March 1, and
if no action is taken, they will cut $1.2 trillion in defense
and non-defense spending over nine years.  The first round of defense cuts under sequestration sliced
$37 billion from planned spending in fiscal 2013.  Those initial cuts had mainly affected short-term contracts
and areas such as services, analyst Ruttenbur said. That will
change over time, he said.  “We owe it to our customers to have it understood what
capability goes away when funding goes away,” Ellen Lord, CEO
of Textron Systems, the defense subsidiary of Providence, Rhode
Island-based  Textron Inc. (TXT) , said in an interview.  Nine of the 10 biggest U.S. contractors boosted their
political action committee contributions to $8.3 million in the
first nine months of the year, almost one-third higher than the
$6.3 million during the same period two years ago, Federal
Election Commission filings show. Defense industry employees
made $27.6 million in campaign donations for the 2012 elections,
with 60 percent going to Republicans, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics.  Business ‘Uncertainty’  On Oct. 15, the aerospace association held a conference
call with about 100 chief executive officers who were asked to
reach out to U.S. lawmakers.  “I spend a lot of time on  Capitol Hill  talking to
lawmakers about the uncertainty of our business,” Lockheed CEO
Marillyn Hewson told reporters Oct. 22 after the company
released third-quarter earnings.  One of the association’s letters went to Representative
Chris  Van Hollen  of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House
Budget Committee and one of the budget negotiators. Lockheed,
based in Bethesda, is in his district.  “Last year, you saw a lot of the subcontractors being
squeezed,” Van Hollen said in an interview. “But the longer
this goes on, the greater impact up and down the contracting
tiers. You’re going to see not just the subcontractors feeling
the pressure but prime contractors.”  Industry representatives have stepped up visit and calls,
said Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican and Budget
Committee member.  “They’re in the office all the time,” said Cole, whose
district includes Fort Sill and Tinker Air Force Base.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  