-- Dendreon Grasps for Bid as Main Drug Burns Cash: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-10-30T21:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/dendreon-grasps-for-bid-as-main-drug-burns-cash-real-m-a.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  is facing an uphill
battle in its search for a buyer willing to take on the steep
expenses and disappointing sales growth of its prostate-cancer
drug Provenge.  Dendreon is working with JPMorgan Chase & Co. to find a
suitor, Bloomberg News reported last week, as high costs for the
company’s only product drain its cash and analysts reduce
revenue forecasts. The drug’s sales are  projected  to jump 65
percent to $538 million by 2017, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, far short of the more than $4
billion they were forecasting three years ago.  The $423 million company, which already has the highest
 debt-equity ratio  in the biotechnology industry, may struggle to
find suitors because of intensifying competition among prostate-cancer drugs and less  cash  available to repay borrowings,
Barclays Plc said. Maxim Group LLC said Dendreon’s treatment
could be profitable in the hands of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  or
 Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  and justify a $10-a-share offer. If an
acquirer does emerge for the $2.68 stock, Credit Suisse Group AG
cautions investors to expect a lower takeover premium.  A buyer “would be taking on a lot of hairy issues,”
 Joseph Pantginis , a New York-based analyst at Roth Capital
Partners LLC, said in a phone interview. “It would have to pay
a lot of money to try to fix the business. There are still many
hurdles to overcome.”  A spokesman for Dendreon declined to comment on any sale
process.  $93,000 Therapy  Provenge is a $93,000  therapy  that trains the body’s immune
system to attack cancer cells as it would a virus. It involves
extracting white blood cells from a patient, mixing them with
vaccine components and delivering the combination as an
infusion.  Provenge competes with the oral drugs Xtandi, for which
Astellas and  Medivation Inc. (MDVN)  split profits, and J&J’s Zytiga.  Marketing Provenge has been a challenge for Dendreon
because the process of administering it is more cumbersome than
a pill or injection and requires training doctors. The infusion
also is more expensive to produce than pill treatments.  Dendreon is  burning  through its cash and has $546 million
of convertible bonds coming due in January 2016, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. When Dendreon offered the debt two
years ago with a conversion price of $51.24 a share, its  stock
price  was about $37. The shares closed yesterday at $2.68.  Today, the stock fell 2.6 percent to $2.61.  Cash Decline  Dendreon’s total debt was almost 17 times its  shareholders’
equity  at the end of 2012, a higher  ratio  than all other
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with market values
larger than $100 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  It had $207 million of  cash  and equivalents as of June 30,
down from $432 million the prior year, the data show. Dendreon
also had long-term investments of $73 million as of that date.
The company’s cash has dwindled for six straight quarters.  “We view the hiring of JPMorgan and solicitation of bids
for a possible sale as an act of desperation,” Joel Sendek, a
New York-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., wrote in an
Oct. 28 report. He doesn’t expect the company to succeed in
finding a buyer.  The stock surged as much as 19 percent on Oct. 28, after
 Bloomberg News  reported the sale process, citing people familiar
with the matter. The shares were still  down  49 percent this year
through yesterday.  ‘Breakthrough Product’  Despite Dendreon’s struggles, an acquirer would gain a drug
approved in both the U.S. and  Europe  that may have sales of $370
million next year and $538 million by 2017, according to
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Provenge is a “breakthrough product” and can be
successful in the hands of the right acquirer, according to
Jason Kolbert, a New York-based analyst at Maxim. He pegs
Dendreon’s  stand-alone value  at just $3 a share, or $10 if it
were bought by a larger maker of oncology drugs.  Dendreon’s  cost of goods sold  was 64 percent of sales in
the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That far
exceeds costs at other biotechnology companies, which are
typically about 10 percent, Kolbert said.  A larger drugmaker such as J&J or Astellas, which already
have sales forces and promotional systems in place, could lower
Provenge’s costs to 40 percent of sales and achieve
 profitability , he said.  Tax Benefit  “Provenge is a good product, but Dendreon lacks the
resources, quite honestly, to promote it,” Kolbert said in a
phone interview. With the right acquirer, “you could see
significant free  cash flow  generated from the sales of
Provenge.”  Ernie Knewitz, a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, said the company doesn’t comment on takeover
speculation, when asked whether it’s considering a bid for
Dendreon. Akiko Tanabe, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Astellas,
also declined to comment.  While it makes sense for the company to attempt a sale
given its deteriorating financial position, investors shouldn’t
expect a large premium or bidding war, said Lee Kalowski, an
analyst at Credit Suisse in New York. He said a buyer would
probably only be interested because Provenge faces little risk
of generic competition or because Dendreon’s net operating
losses could be used to reduce the acquirer’s taxes.  “The bottom line is, I don’t think any other company could
make Provenge more cheaply,” Kalowski said in a phone
interview. “There are major commercial hurdles that anyone
selling this product would be facing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  