-- Detroit Bankruptcy-Eligibility Trial Spills Into November
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/detroit-bankruptcy-eligibility-trial-spills-into-november.html
The judge overseeing Detroit’s
bankruptcy trial extended the case into the first week of
November after pressing the city’s emergency financial manager
to speed up his testimony.  “We’re going to be here a really, really long time if you
insist on going on and on,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes
told Kevyn Orr, the emergency manager, yesterday. Orr has spent
about eight hours on the witness stand over three days,
interrupted by Monday’s testimony from Governor  Rick Snyder , who
recommended his appointment in March.  Attorneys for retired city employees and unions spent more
than six hours questioning Orr about what he did before his
appointment and in the weeks leading to the city’s $18 billion
bankruptcy filing in July. The workers and retirees want Rhodes
to dismiss Detroit from bankruptcy, where it’s protected from
lawsuits and other actions that may threaten a restructuring.  The trial will continue Nov. 4, when Orr, 55, is expected
to finish testifying and the unions and retiree groups begin
calling their witnesses. Before the trial started, the objectors
said they should have about 15 witnesses.  The bankruptcy’s opponents are trying to show that Orr and
state officials, including Snyder, acted in bad faith in filing
the case under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which
covers municipalities.  Borrowed Court  When the trial began Oct. 23, Rhodes had scheduled it to
end yesterday. Rhodes yesterday told the objectors that when
they return to court next week, he wants an estimate of how long
they will need to present their witnesses. He said if they go
beyond Nov. 7, he will have to find a new courtroom, because
he’s borrowing space in the U.S. District Courthouse in Detroit.  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must show that it’s
insolvent, that it’s entitled under state law to file for
bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate with creditors or was
unable to do so, and that it intends to file a plan to adjust
its debts.  Retirees and unions say Orr never tried to negotiate with
them and that Snyder violated the state constitution by
authorizing a bankruptcy that could cut payments to the city’s
pension system.  Orr was questioned repeatedly yesterday about whether he
asked Snyder for money from the state to help fund the city’s
pension system. Orr said that in meetings with state officials,
including Snyder, it was clear that no state money would be used
to solve the city’s problems.  Before breaking for lunch yesterday, Rhodes asked Greg Shumaker, an attorney for the city, to tell Orr to answer yes-or-no questions without elaborating, or to say he couldn’t
answer. Orr apologized to the judge.  ‘My Advice’  “I will accept your apology if you will accept my
advice,” Rhodes said.  When Orr returned to the witness stand, he kept his answers
shorter. More than 50 times in two and half hours following
lunch, he responded by saying either that he could not recall or
that he didn’t know the answer to a question.  Snyder on Monday defended  Detroit ’s filing as a necessary
last resort, telling Rhodes that he spent two and a half years
trying to resolve the city’s fiscal crisis.  City unions demanded that Snyder, 55, testify, making him
the first governor to take the witness stand in a municipal
bankruptcy, according to lawyers who specialize in government
insolvency cases.  The governor declined to answer some questions, citing his
right to not reveal information he received in meetings where
legal strategy may have been discussed. Rhodes has ruled that
such meetings are covered by the attorney-client privilege.  Privilege Invoked  Orr and Snyder, a Republican, have both invoked the
privilege to avoid providing details of what they may have
discussed related to cutting pensions, the decision to file for
bankruptcy or changes to the emergency manager law made last
year.  William A. Wertheimer, an attorney representing retired
city workers, and Peter DeChiara, an attorney for the  United
Auto Workers , both asked in several different ways whether
Snyder talked to Orr about how much payments to the pension
system would have to be cut.  “That may be subject to attorney-client privilege,”
Snyder said. In one six-minute period, the governor invoked the
privilege four times.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Detroit federal court at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  