-- Dollar Holds Gains Versus Euro Before Jobs, Factory Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-31T02:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/dollar-gains-versus-euro-before-jobs-fed-cites-rebound.html
The dollar held a three-day gain
against the euro before U.S. data forecast to show jobless
claims decreased and manufacturing expanded.  The greenback was still poised for monthly declines against
most major peers as concern the partial government shutdown will
affect the economy underpins the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
keep buying $85 billion of bonds a month. The yen held near a
two-week low ahead of a Bank of  Japan  meeting today at which
policy makers are expected to maintain record stimulus. New
Zealand’s dollar fell after the central bank signaled that
currency strength may provide scope to delay interest-rate
increases.  “The people who were expecting a more dovish statement
from the Fed are unwinding their positions,” said Yuki Sakasai,
a foreign-exchange strategist in  New York  at Barclays Plc. “The
dollar was bought back, but whether it can sustain those gains
will depend on the economic data.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.3733 per euro as of
11:39 a.m. in  Tokyo  from yesterday, after having strengthened
0.5 percent in the previous three sessions. It was at 98.43 yen
from 98.51 yesterday, when it reached 98.68, the highest since
Oct. 17. For the month, the greenback was set for a 1.5 percent
drop against the 17-nation euro and a 0.2 percent advance versus
the yen.  Japan’s currency added 0.1 percent to 135.17 per euro from
yesterday.  New Zealand ’s kiwi dollar fell 0.2 percent to 82.53
U.S. cents from yesterday, when it touched 81.93, the weakest
level since Sept. 17.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which monitors the
greenback against 10 major counterparts, was at 1,006.93 from
1,007.37 yesterday, the highest close since Oct. 16.  Recovery Signs  First-time  applications  for jobless benefits probably
decreased to 338,000 in the week ended Oct. 26 from 350,000 the
previous week, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  ahead of the data today.  Economists in a separate Bloomberg poll  estimate  the
 Institute for Supply Management  will say tomorrow its
manufacturing index was at 55 in October from 56.2 last month,
which was the highest since April 2011. Readings above 50
indicate growth.  Weaker Inflation  Weaker-than-forecast consumer-price data yesterday gave the
central bank more flexibility to maintain stimulus. The cost of
living rose 1.7 percent in the 12 months through September,
excluding food and energy, the Labor Department reported. A
Bloomberg survey estimated a 1.8 percent increase. The Fed’s
inflation target is 2 percent.  The Federal Open Market Committee yesterday kept unchanged
its monthly purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities, saying in a statement it
saw “improvement in economic activity and labor market
conditions.”  It repeated it will “await more evidence that progress
will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its purchases.”  Economists forecast no change to the Fed’s bond buying
yesterday. The FOMC won’t reduce the pace of purchases until its
March 18-19 meeting, according to an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg
survey.  The 10-year Treasury yield was little changed at 2.53
percent from yesterday, when it rose three basis points. The
yield on equivalent Japanese  government bonds  slid to 0.585
percent, the lowest since May 9.  “The market got ahead of itself expecting a dovish Fed and
now it’s taking a breather after the decision,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in
Tokyo.  BOJ Stimulus  The BOJ buys more than 7 trillion yen ($71 billion) of
Japanese government bonds every month in its bid to stoke annual
inflation of 2 percent. The central bank will also release
updated forecasts on Japan’s growth and inflation.  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his policy board  forecast  in
July that consumer prices excluding fresh food will climb 1.3
percent in the year starting April 2014, once the effects of a
planned sales-tax increase are stripped out. The 5 percent
consumption levy is scheduled to rise to 8 percent in April and
to 10 percent in 2015.  “The BOJ is likely to take the stance that they are
preparing the economy for the planned sales-tax increase,” said
Gaitame’s Gervaise. “That is largely priced in by the market,
so unless there is a clear signal that the BOJ will be ahead of
the curve in easing policy, the yen reaction may be quite
limited.”  Biggest Decline  The yen has fallen 2.9 percent in the three past months,
the worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes after the
Canadian dollar’s 4.3 percent drop. The euro has gained 1.3
percent in the same period, while the  New Zealand dollar  has
risen 1.4 percent.  In New Zealand, the central bank left the  official cash
rate  unchanged at a record-low 2.5 percent today, in line with
economists’ estimates. Sustained strength in the kiwi holding
inflation in check gives the bank “greater flexibility as to
the timing and magnitude of future increases” in  interest
rates ,  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said
in a statement released in Wellington today.  “The statement, particularly the exchange-rate rhetoric,
strongly hints at the possibility of a delay in RBNZ tightening
expectations,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank
of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “This may weigh on the New
Zealand dollar.”  -- With assistance from Yuko Takeo in Tokyo, Candice Zachariahs
in Sydney and Mika Otsuka in New York. Editors: Jonathan
Annells, Naoto Hosoda  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  