-- Draghi Seeks Liquidity Tools to Fit ECB Rate Policy: Euro Credit
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-10-30T07:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/draghi-seeks-liquidity-tools-to-fit-ecb-rate-policy-euro-credit.html
Mario Draghi ’s quest for new
liquidity tools is proving more complex than two years ago.  When the European Central Bank president decided in 2011 to
provide euro-region banks with three-year loans to ease a credit
crunch, liquidity and  interest-rate  policies were separate
issues. Now, cheap funding has the potential to affect the ECB’s
interest-rate guidance and prompt banks to shore up their
balance sheets rather than boost lending to companies and
households as they undergo a review of their accounts.  ECB officials are drawing up plans to keep money flowing to
banks to head off a liquidity squeeze when the first round of
emergency long-term loans comes due in early 2015. A technical
committee tasked by Draghi to consider solutions has entered a
second week of talks with no pressure for results, according to
two euro-region central bank officials familiar with the matter
who asked not to be identified because the talks aren’t public.
An ECB spokesman declined to comment on the meeting.  “We are no longer in crisis mode, which gives the ECB more
time to think about new measures without a big urgency to act,”
said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan. “But at the end of the day more liquidity
will come and the next injection will probably take a different
form than the last time around.”  Nurturing Growth  The ECB is trying to nurture a nascent economic recovery by
preventing short-term money-market rates from rising so fast
they weaken banks and deter lending. Draghi told the European
Parliament on Sept. 23 he’s “ready to use any instrument” to
keep interbank borrowing costs at a level appropriate for the
inflation outlook.  The  rate  banks expect to charge each other overnight by the
ECB’s rate meeting next October stood at 0.21 percent today, up
from 0.01 percent in mid-May. The yield on German  two-year bunds 
has climbed to 0.18 percent from minus 0.03 percent over the
same period.  New liquidity measures could comprise longer-term
refinancing operations with fixed or floating rates, different
maturities or rules on how banks must use the cash. Other
possible measures include changes to reserve or collateral
requirements; the suspension of liquidity-absorbing operations;
or the extension of full-allotment loans.  Only Words  “It is the intention of the Governing Council to provide
liquidity insurance for banks and the banking system in
 Europe ,” Draghi said on Oct. 2. “Nobody wants to have a
liquidity accident occurring between now and the recovery.”  So far, the council’s intention has been reflected in words
alone with Draghi’s pledge to ensure banks have sufficient
liquidity. That might change if the U.S. Federal Reserve starts
tightening its monetary policy, pushing global money-market
rates higher, or the euro continues to appreciate, said  Janet Henry , chief European economist at HSBC Bank Plc in London.  Market rates surged in June after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may start reducing its $85
billion-a-month of bond purchases this year. Policy makers, who
conclude a two-day meeting today, will probably delay the
tapering until March, according to the median of 40 responses in
a Bloomberg survey this month.  A stronger currency can depress prices and erode exports,
slowing economic growth. The euro has gained 2.6 percent against
a basket of currencies since early September and 4.8 percent
against the dollar.  On the Cards  “More liquidity doesn’t seem to be on the cards anytime
soon,” said Henry. “But there’s still a reasonably good chance
we could see more loans being provided in the course of 2014,
most likely in response to tapering by the  Federal Reserve  or a
continued currency appreciation.”  While financial institutions have made use of an option to
repay most of the ECB’s loans early, some banks in the periphery
may struggle when the debt matures. That means any new loan
would have to overlap the expiration date for the existing LTROs
to address what economists have dubbed the refinancing cliff.  Another area to explore would be the rate charged on the
loans. So far, the ECB has provided long-term liquidity at an
interest rate tied to the average of its benchmark rate over the
life of the loan. While that works alongside the ECB’s pledge to
keep the refinancing rate at the current level of 0.5 percent or
lower for an extended period, it doesn’t insure banks against an
eventual rate increase.  Alternative Options  An alternative would be to cap the interest rate on the
loans, bringing funding conditions in line with the ECB’s
guidance on borrowing costs. The ECB could even fix the rate at
which banks can take out money. If that’s done at the benchmark
rate, it effectively closes the door on future cuts in policy
rates.  “A fixed-rate LTRO over a two to three-year period” would
signal a “real commitment from the ECB to keeping rates low for
a prolonged period of time,” said Michala Marcussen, global
head of economics at Societe Generale SA in  London . “It would
be far more powerful than any verbal forward guidance” and
could “potentially help oil the wheels of lending to the real
economy.”  The risk is that cheap loans are extended too far into the
future. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann warned in June that
accommodative policy must be withdrawn “at the right time” so
that generous liquidity provision isn’t offered when a
recovering economy stokes inflation pressures.  Less Drama  Another challenge is to prevent banks using new funds to
strengthen their balance sheets rather than lend. The ECB will
assess financial institutions next year to identify any capital
shortfalls before it takes over as the euro-area’s single bank
supervisor. Policy makers including Draghi have said liquidity
should not be used to repair balance sheets.  “The situation this time around is much less dramatic than
two years ago,” said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at
Berenberg Bank in London. “If you want to target interest-rate
expectations, you should choose a rather generous tool. But if
your goal is to give banks an incentive to become healthier,
LTROs are not the right tool.”  Klaas Knot, the Dutch representative on the ECB’s Governing
Council, said on Oct. 15 that it might be “worthwhile” to
explore whether some kind of conditionality might be introduced
in future euro-area refinancing operations to support the
economy.  Conditional Loans  “The provision of additional liquidity could be made
conditional on strict asset-quality reviews or efforts to build
up adequate capital,” Knot said in a speech in  Mexico . “This
would contribute directly to restoring the health of the
financial system.”  Long-term loans aren’t the only option for the ECB to
increase funding supply to financial institutions. The central
bank has already committed through the middle of next year to
provide unlimited liquidity in operations with a maturity of as
long as three months.  It could extend that pledge until after the existing LTROs
expire to assure banks they will get the funding they need, said
Mark Wall, chief euro-area economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London.  “It’s worthwhile to give the market a sense of security,
and unlimited allotment signals certainty,” he said. “An
extension of the unlimited allotment will play into the
credibility of the ECB’s forward-guidance regime.”  Controversial Tools  Other choices include removing the ECB’s requirement for
financial institutions to hold deposits at their national
central banks, and stopping the sterilization of bond purchases
conducted under the now-terminated Securities Markets Program,
Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam, said in
an Oct. 11 note. The ECB re-absorbs the liquidity injected
through the SMP program to ensure its monetary stance isn’t
affected.  The two options combined would free up as much as 290
billion euros ($398 billion), van Vliet calculated. That would
more than double the excess liquidity currently in euro-area
money markets, which stood at 181 billion euros on Oct. 28.  “Such non-standard measures, however, would be rather
controversial,” he said. “Instead, the ECB might opt to take
the path of least resistance and cut the refi rate, though this
might require a downgrade of the inflation outlook, which seems
less likely in the near term given the signs of recovery in
euro-zone economic activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  