-- Drones Delivering Pizza? Venture Capitalists Wager on It
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/drones-delivering-pizza-venture-capitalists-wager-on-it.html
Commercial drones will soon be
populating U.S. airspace, and venture capitalists like Tim Draper are placing their bets.  Draper, an early investor in Hotmail, Skype and Baidu Inc.,
is now backing  DroneDeploy , a startup that’s building software
to direct unmanned aircraft on land mapping and the surveillance
of agricultural fields. Draper even expects drones to one day
bring him dinner.  “Drones hold the promise of companies anticipating our
every need and delivering without human involvement,” Draper,
55, wrote in an e-mail. “Everything from pizza delivery to
personal shopping can be handled by drones.”  Venture investors in the U.S. poured $40.9 million into
drone-related startups in the first nine months of this year,
more than double the amount for all of 2012, according to data
provided to Bloomberg News by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the
National Venture Capital Association. Drones are moving from the
military, where they’ve been used to spy on and kill suspected
terrorists, to a range of civilian activities.  Congress has directed the Federal Aviation Administration
to develop a plan to integrate drones into U.S. airspace by 2015
and to move faster on standards for drones weighing less than 55
pounds.  It’s not just startups that are anticipating the changes.
 ConocoPhillips  says that drones could be used to monitor ice
floes and marine mammals in the Arctic. Entrants could also
include established drone makers  AeroVironment Inc. (AVAV) ,  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s Insitu unit and Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, according to Bloomberg Government.  Growth Coming  Sales of civilian unmanned aerial vehicles, or UAVs, will
reach $8.2 billion within the decade, up from nothing today,
according to  Phil Finnegan , director of corporate analysis at
researcher Teal Group, which tracks aerospace and defense.  “There’s going to be a lot of growth in this market,”
Finnegan said.  While the capital invested in drone-related startups has
surged, it’s still concentrated in just a few companies. Three
startups account for all of the money raised in the first nine
months of this year, compared with five in all of 2012.  Draper backed DroneDeploy through his Menlo Park,
California-based firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson. Airware, a
startup in Newport Beach,  California , raised $13.3 million
earlier this year from investors including Andreessen Horowitz,
Google Ventures and First Round Capital to develop customizable
autopilots for UAVs that cost about $4,500 to $7,500, according
to the company’s website.  Airware found it much easier to attract the attention of
venture capitalists this year after testing the product with
customers, said Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Downey.  Funding Environment  “We’d looked at raising money last year, and it was very
different,” said Downey, who plans to move the company to San
Francisco in January.  The business of drones still carries plenty of risks. UAVs
will have to occupy parts of the airspace not used by airplanes,
and investors don’t yet know what the rules will be. Concerns
over privacy are most notable given the history of drones as
tools used by the government and military.  The American Civil Liberties Union has warned of the
possibility of a “surveillance society” spurred by drones.
“The only way to avoid this dystopian future and prevent mass,
suspicionless searches of the general population is to ensure
that information collected by drones for one purpose cannot be
used for another purpose,” Allie Bohm, a strategist for the
ACLU, wrote in an August  blog post .  Declining Costs  Andy Wheeler, a partner at Google Ventures, said drones are
moving into the mainstream because of the steep drop in the cost
of sensors, which have been mass produced for smartphones. The
plunge in costs helped convince Google Ventures to invest in
Airware as well as another drone-related startup, Wheeler said,
declining to say which one.  “We are talking orders of magnitude lower than military
technology,” Wheeler said, referring to the prices for
commercial equipment.  While DroneDeploy is building software and Airware is
developing systems, some startups are focusing on services.
Matternet Inc., funded by Andreessen Horowitz, aims to use
drones for delivery of items such as mail and medical supplies.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  Firefighters and law enforcement officials are likely to be
some of the early beneficiaries of the drop in costs, said  Kent
Goldman , a partner at First Round Capital in San Francisco.  “I see a bright future for non-military applications,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  