-- The Kurds Get a Second Chance in Syria
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-10-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/the-kurds-get-a-second-chance-in-syria.html
More than 200,000 Syrian Kurdish
refugees  have moved  into  Iraqi Kurdistan . They have crossed an
international border to be sure, yet it is, in the Kurdish world
view, a passage from one part of their homeland to another. The
Kurds disregard these frontiers, imposed on the Fertile Crescent
almost a century ago by Anglo-French power.  No Kurd is  lamenting  the erosion of the borders in this
tangled geography. The partition of the successor states of the
 Ottoman Empire  brought the Kurds grief and dispossession. The
Persians, Turks and Arabs secured their own states. Indeed, the
Arabs were bequeathed several states in the geography of
“ Turkish Arabia ” that runs from the Iraqi border with Iran to
the Mediterranean.  Kurdistan was singularly betrayed, its people divided among
Turkey, Iran,  Iraq  and  Syria . Kurdish history became a chronicle
of thwarted rebellions. According to a deeply felt expression,
the Kurds had no friends but the mountains.  Yet a new life is stirring in Kurdistan. Erbil, the capital
of  Iraqi Kurdistan , once a forgotten fortress town, is a booming
city of shopping malls, high-rises and swank hotels. Oil and
natural gas have remade the city, as has its political
stability, remarkable when set against the mayhem of the rest of
Iraq.  The Kurds are shrewd. They aren’t about to claim Erbil as
the capital of a restored greater Kurdistan, but it has pride of
place in their world. It is the home of  Massoud Barzani , the
president of the Kurdish regional government, and of almost 5
million people, who are officially part of Iraq but in reality
belong to an independent nation.  Peril Remains  The realists among the Kurds know the power and
ruthlessness of the nations that have divided and ruled their
world, yet they are determined to make the best of this moment
when borders and attachments are suddenly in flux.  It is the fate of  Western Kurdistan  -- Rojava in Kurdish --
that has given rise to this new sense of urgency. The war
between the Damascus regime and the principally Sunni rebels
presents peril and possibility for the 2 million to 3 million
Kurds within Syria.  The Kurds inhabit fragments of Syria by the Turkish and
Iraqi borders, in the northeast; their lands contain the bulk of
Syria’s oil. Arab nationalism, the creed of the authoritarian
Syrian state, was avowedly racist in  its treatment of them ,
denying them the most basic and cherished right: use of their
own language. The regime of the Assads, father and son, has been
cunning and devastating in the way it pitted the Kurds against
one another.  Yet in the civil war that erupted in 2011, the Syrian
opposition has troubled the Kurds, too. The leaders of the Sunni
Arab rebellion were committed to creation of their own
centralized state.  Turkey ’s  sponsorship  of the rebels created
suspicions as well. The foreign jihadists who made their way to
Syria were yet another source of anxiety.  The Kurds had a small volunteer force of their own, but it
was no match for  Jabhat al-Nusra , or the Nusra Front, whose
Islamist warriors had weapons aplenty, money and unchecked zeal.
The group was determined to impose its rule in areas the regime
had left. In mid-July, clashes broke out in Kurdish towns and
have erupted intermittently since. Thousands of Syrian Kurds
have made their way to Iraqi Kurdistan, where they receive help,
even as the authorities in Erbil don’t want to encourage an
 exodus  from Syria.  Turkey casts a large shadow. The line that separates the
Syrian and Turkish Kurds is artificial. As the prominent Turkish
columnist Cengiz Candar observes, the Kurds don’t speak of
Turkish and Syrian communities. For them the line of separation
was a simple railroad track that allowed them to move to and
fro, with ease and freedom.  Turkish Dilemma  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  faces a
dilemma. He is invested in a  peace process  at home with the
Kurdish Workers’ Party, or PKK, and its imprisoned leader,
Abdullah Ocalan. And Turkey has a flourishing relationship with
Iraqi Kurdistan, whose oil and natural gas it needs desperately.
Yet the permissive attitude of the Turkish state toward the
jihadists battling the Syrian Kurds has been a source of trouble
for Erdogan. He has gone a long way toward keeping the jihadists
at arm’s length.  The dream of greater Kurdistan is just that. History has
given the Kurds a second chance in Iraq and Syria, while Turkish
democracy gives them a voice in the country’s direction. Matters
are stagnant in  Iran , where the oppression of the Kurds is of a
piece with the tyranny of a theocracy.  The Kurds can’t erase all the hurts of their modern history
and those who choose to stay in Syria remain embattled, yet the
isolation that had been their lot is now in the past. At the
foot of those once sheltering mountains, a new and a safer life
has sprung forth.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution. He is the  author  of “The Syrian
Rebellion,” published by Hoover Press.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 