-- Italian Banks Seen by Visco Considering Deeper Writedowns
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-30T12:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/ecb-s-visco-disputes-that-italian-banks-have-large-capital-needs.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council Member Ignazio Visco said Italian banks may write down
more bad loans as lenders from  Rome  to Berlin prepare to open
their books to ECB oversight.  Tax rules regarding the deductibility of bad loans are set
to be modified in the Italian government’s 2014 budget, removing
what Visco called a disadvantage for Italian banks compared to
European rivals.  The changes “should prompt banks to adopt more prudent
writedown policies for bad loans, rendering their balance sheets
even more transparent,” Visco, who also is the governor of the
 Bank of Italy , said today, according to the text of a speech
delivered in Rome.  While analysts at  France ’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and the
U.K.’s Barclays Plc said Italian banks are vulnerable to further
writedowns, Visco disputed that they need large capital
increases.  “The opinion that the Italian banking system today has
strong need of recapitalizations is baseless,” Visco said.  The European Union’s push toward a banking union is setting
the standards by which the largest lenders from one country to
the next will be judged. ECB President  Mario Draghi , who will
oversee the bank exams, said on Oct. 23 that he won’t hesitate
to fail lenders whose books don’t meet the standards. Draghi
preceded Visco as Bank of Italy governor.  ‘Hot Spot’  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, No. 2  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  and their smaller rivals have been hurt by the country’s
two-year recession. In a report last month,  Societe Generale 
said Italian banks will be a “hot spot” for the ECB’s review
because they are the most vulnerable in  Europe  in terms of
impaired loans. UniCredit and Intesa may need to set aside an
extra 5 billion euros ($6.9 billion) for bad loans, Antonio Rizzo, an analyst at Barclays, said in a Sept. 27 report.  Visco, 63, praised Italian banks for raising capital in
recent years and weathering the financial crisis. Still,
operational costs are higher in  Italy  than the European average
and must come down, Visco said. He said adjustments to the
compensation for top executives must be part of this process.  “It’s hard to imagine a significant increase in bank
revenue,” Visco said. “In the short term, decisive action on
costs is needed to recover profitability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  