-- Ecobank Chairman Lawson to Step Down Amid Governance Allegations
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-10-30T08:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/ecobank-chairman-lawson-to-step-down-amid-governance-allegations.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) , the most
geographically-diverse lender in Africa, said Chairman Kolapo Lawson will step down amid allegations of fraud that are being
investigated by  Nigeria ’s capital markets regulator.  Lawson, who denies any wrongdoing, will retire on Dec. 31
and hand over immediately to interim chairman André Siaka,
Jeremy Reynolds, a spokesman for the Lome, Togo-based lender,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Nigeria’s Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating Ecobank after executive director of risk and
finance, Laurence do Rego, told the regulator in August that
Lawson and Chief Executive Officer Thierry Tanoh planned to sell
assets below market value. Do Rego also said she had been
pressured to write off debts owed by a business headed by Lawson
and manipulate the bank’s results last year.  “I am very conscious of the uncertainty that current media
speculation has cast over the institution,” Lawson said in
today’s statement. “I therefore wish to take the necessary
steps to bring this to an end.”  Tanoh also denied any allegation of wrongdoing last month.
Still, the bank said he’ll forgo a $1.14 million bonus for 2012
as it appointed external advisers to review corporate
governance.  Lawson, Ecobank chairman since 2009, is also chairman of
Acorn Petroleum Plc and Agbara Estates Ltd., according to
Ecobank’s 2012 annual report. Lawson has been an Ecobank’s non-executive director since 1993, according to the annual report,
and also chief executive officer of a diversified industrial and
trading group with operations in the U.K. and West  Africa .  “The last few months have seen huge pressure on the
organization, and on me personally, in the media,” said Lawson.
“These have culminated in allegations, which are untrue, made
to the Nigerian SEC on issues of corporate governance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  