-- EDF Says Saudi Partner Seeks Arbitration in Nuclear Dispute
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   J o s h   B a s s e t t
-- 2013-10-30T17:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/edf-says-saudi-partner-seeks-arbitration-in-nuclear-dispute.html
Electricite de France SA , the
biggest nuclear operator, said it’s locked in a dispute with
Saudi Arabia’s  Soroof International  over the scope of an energy
partnership.  Soroof, a trading company run by Bander Bin Abdullah Al-Saud, a member of the royal family, sought arbitration at the
International Chamber of Commerce last month, EDF said in a
statement to Bloomberg News today. The claim is “unfounded”
and the utility will “defend its interests,” it said.  Nobody at Soroof’s office in Khobar in Saudi Arabia was
available to comment after normal business hours.  The conflict comes as EDF and nuclear reactor builder  Areva
SA (AREVA) , which are both controlled by the French state, prepare for a
tender in Saudi Arabia for the first in a series of planned
atomic generators. EDF doesn’t agree with Soroof on whether
their partnership includes provisions for development of atomic
power.  EDF signed an agreement with Soroof in May 2010 to study
possible cooperation for electricity transport and thermal
generation, according to the French utility.  Soroof describes its joint venture with EDF as handling a
wider range of power generating installations including
“nuclear, hydraulic or thermal,” according to its website.  For its part, Areva and the Saudi construction company
Binladin Group signed a partnership in January 2011 covering the
nuclear and solar industries. The deal was announced by former
Areva Chief Executive Officer Anne Lauvergeon at a press
conference in  Riyadh .  When Lauvergeon reached that deal for Areva, relations with
EDF’s chief executive Henri Proglio were rocky. The two nuclear
companies’ working relations have since improved after Luc
Oursel was appointed to succeed Lauvergeon. Earlier this month,
they reached a deal along with Chinese partners to develop two
reactors in the U.K. for 16 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Josh Bassett in Bahrain at 
 jbassett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  