-- Hedge Funds Urge Consumer Bureau to Probe Firm They Short
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/hedge-funds-urge-consumer-bureau-to-probe-firm-they-short.html
Hedge funds  betting against shares
of  World Acceptance Corp. (WRLD)  have been pressing the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to investigate the installment-loan
firm, according to people briefed on the discussions.  The overtures from funds including New York-based Kase
Capital Management and Boston-based North Run Capital make the
bureau the latest target of investors trying to prod Washington
regulators and policy makers to take actions that could benefit
their trading strategies.  Some funds also have met with congressional aides and
consumer advocacy groups to encourage them to focus on World
Acceptance, the people said.  A. Alexander McLean, chief executive officer of Greenville,
South Carolina-based World Acceptance, said in an interview that
he has no reason to believe his company is under investigation
by the consumer bureau.  “We are under constant attack from the self-serving short
sellers,” McLean said in an interview. The portrayal circulated
by the hedge funds is “not representative of the company we
are,” he said.  Hedge funds have told officials that the lender is preying
on low-income borrowers through unfair practices and should be
investigated, according to the people briefed, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the sessions weren’t public.  Staying Short  Another fund, operated by Crosslink Capital Inc. of San
Francisco, used the Freedom of Information Act to request
consumer bureau documents about World Acceptance, the agency’s
records show.  Sam Gilford, a spokesman for the consumer bureau, declined
to comment on the agency’s contacts with hedge funds.  Whitney Tilson , managing partner of Kase Capital, which had $95.5
million in gross assets under management at the end of last
year, said in an interview the fund remains short on the stock.
Doug Smith of North Run, which had $1.6 billion under management
in its most recent filing, declined to comment, as did Cody Shevitz of Crosslink, a hybrid investment firm that reported
$1.6 billion in assets in its latest filings.  World Acceptance offers small loans to customers who may
not have access to other forms of credit, such as credit cards.
The loans, offered in 14 states, average about $1,200 and are
paid off in monthly installments. They contrast with so-called
payday loans, which generally must be paid in full over a
shorter term with one postdated check.  Largest Lenders  While the consumer bureau oversees payday lenders, “we
haven’t reached any conclusions in the installment-lending space
yet,” Eleanor Blume, an official with the agency’s research
division, told analysts on Oct. 21.  World Acceptance is one of the largest U.S. installment
lenders. Competitors include  Springleaf Holdings Inc. (LEAF) , an
Evansville, Indiana-based lender partly owned by  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  that sold shares to the public for the
first time Oct. 16. Others are closely held Security Finance
Corp. of Spartanburg,  South Carolina , and Republic Finance LLC
of Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  Since the consumer bureau started work in July 2011, World
Acceptance shares have  risen  about 53 percent from $68.53 to
$104.60 at the close of trading in New York yesterday as its
business has expanded and the firm repurchased stock. Earnings
per share grew 37 percent in the past two years from $5.76 to
$7.88.  About  32 percent  of shares have been borrowed and sold on
bets that the price will fall and the borrower can buy them back
at a lower price, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with a weighted average of 3.45 percent for the companies in the
 S&P 500 Index . It is the second most-shorted stock of U.S.
consumer finance companies after Atlanta-based  Atlanticus
Holdings Corp. (ATLC) , another retail lender, according to the data.  Action ‘Likely’  Tilson, of Kase Capital, told investors in a July 1 letter
that the fund held a short position on World Acceptance and
predicted that consumer bureau action against the company is
“likely.”  Kase Capital has publicized other short plays. Tilson said
on Oct. 25 that he was betting against the stock of  Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  on the grounds that it faces
rising competition, and has also shorted weight-management
product purveyor  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)   Hedge funds long have provided tips to regulators including
the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in recent years have
been increasingly visible in Washington as lobbyists. For
example, firms including Paulson & Co. Inc. have pushed Congress
to recapitalize  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  while they buy up
their preferred stock, long considered worthless.  Credit Insurance  The hedge-fund criticism of World Acceptance centers on its
marketing of credit insurance on its loans, which covers
payments during an unforeseen event such as job loss. Consumer
advocates say the product is unduly expensive mainly because
lenders don’t let clients shop around for it.  World Acceptance is vulnerable because credit insurance
could represent more than half of its net income, according to a
May 14 report by Los Angeles-based Citron Research, a stock
commentary site, which said it analyzed financial statements
from the company and from Fortegra Financial Corp., which
provides the credit insurance World Acceptance sells.  Citron noted the consumer bureau already fined  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  and  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  over allegedly
deceptive sales practices for similar add-on credit products.
The bureau didn’t challenge the companies for offering the
products, just for the way they are sold.  ‘Regulatory Threat’  The “regulatory threat” to World Acceptance is rising and
its shares are “one-of-a-kind: a true sub-sub-sub-prime
investment,” the Citron report said.  Andrew Left, Citron’s owner and founder, said in an
interview that hedge funds have passed his research to the
consumer bureau. Left said he holds a short position on World
Acceptance.  McLean, the World Acceptance CEO, said in the interview
that the company doesn’t deceive customers about credit
insurance. He said the products are voluntary and borrowers
always “sign off on what they are getting.”  Hedge funds also have attempted to get lawmakers interested
in the company. North Run, the Boston-based fund, organized
meetings with Capitol Hill aides and consumer advocates this
summer, according to a person involved.  Dodd-Frank Authority  At a July 24 congressional hearing, Senator  Ron Wyden , an
Oregon Democrat, asked David Silberman, an associate director of
the consumer bureau, whether the agency was reviewing World
Acceptance and other installment lenders. Wyden cited a  story  by
ProPublica, a nonprofit investigative journalism group, which
concluded the company’s loans can carry effective  interest rates 
as high as 182 percent.  Silberman didn’t mention specific companies, telling Wyden
that the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that created the consumer bureau
gave it the authority to review products such as installment
loans.  In her discussion this month with analysts, the bureau’s
Blume said the agency can decide to supervise companies on an ad
hoc basis if there is a risk to consumers. If it decided to
issue a regulation, typically a yearlong process, it could
examine large installment lenders on a regular basis, Blume
said. There are currently no plans to do so, she said.  Still, Blume said, while it isn’t looking at individual
installment companies, the agency is scrutinizing add-on
products such as credit insurance “whether that comes with a
credit-card account or an installment-loan account.”  ‘Drain Borrowers’  She said the bureau is trying to determine whether “the
product is simply designed to drain borrowers of cash without
delivering some sort of value.”  Ira Rheingold , president of the National Association of
Consumer Advocates, said funds including  Mangrove Partners  of
New York, which has $420 million under management, have visited
consumer groups in Washington to argue that World Acceptance has
a flawed and unfair business model.  Among other groups contacted by the funds were Boston-based
 National Consumer Law Center , the Durham, North Carolina-based
 Center for Responsible Lending  and the  Consumer Federation of
America  in Washington, two people briefed on the talks said. The
hedge funds also suggested that pending changes in military
lending rules by the  Department of Defense  could affect World
Acceptance’s business.  “They want to pick our brains, and we have some measure of
common interest here,” Rheingold said.  Deepak Gupta , formerly the senior counsel for enforcement
strategy at the consumer bureau, said the short-sellers’
interest, properly disclosed, is a good thing when deployed in
the name of consumer protection.  “Consumer advocates are perennially short on resources,”
Gupta, now a lawyer at Gupta Beck Pllc, said in an e-mail. “We
should welcome the help from resource-rich hedge funds or other
wealthy investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  