-- El-Erian Says Market Will Focus on Fed’s Economic Assessment
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-30T12:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/el-erian-says-market-will-focus-on-fed-s-economic-assessment.html
Financial-market participants will
focus on any changes in the  Federal Reserve ’s assessment of the
economy when policy makers conclude today’s meeting, according
to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  “What the market will be looking very carefully at is its
updated assessment by the Fed on the economy,” El-Erian, chief
executive and co-chief investment officer at the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television with Scarlet Fu and  Michael McKee . “In particular,
to get some handle on the impact on the congressional
dysfunction and what that means for their growth projections.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , following the completion
of a two-day policy meeting in  Washington , releases its
statement at 2 p.m. The panel won’t update economic forecasts,
and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  won’t hold a news conference. The
Fed will probably maintain its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases at a meeting, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Policy makers and investors are trying to gauge the
strength of the U.S. expansion after this month’s 16-day partial
government shutdown. U.S. payrolls rose by 148,000 in September,
versus the median forecast for an 180,000 gain by 93 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The data indicated the economy lost
momentum leading up to the shutdown, which  Standard & Poor’s 
estimates shaved at least 0.6 percent off fourth-quarter growth.  Taper Speculation  There will be “no change in rates, no change in the asset
purchase and no major change in forward guidance,” El-Erian
said. “In the short term, the market thinks that no news is
good news.”  The FOMC on Sept. 18 surprised investors after a two-day
meeting by refraining from reducing its bond purchases.
Economists predicted before the gathering that the committee
would dial down monthly Treasury purchases by $5 billion while
maintaining buying of mortgage-backed securities, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  The fiscal deadlock and suspension of economic reports mean
the Fed probably won’t start reducing bond purchases until next
year, according to a separate Bloomberg News survey.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.5 percent
annualized pace in the second quarter, beating economist
estimates, after growing at a 1.1 percent pace in the first
quarter.  “We think over the next 12 months it is a new normal
economy” El-Erian said from  New York . “Which means sluggish
growth, persistently high unemployment and unfortunately that is
our reality.  “The Fed is not going to be hiking rates anytime soon,”
El-Erian said, referring to the central bank’s zero to 0.25
percent target band for the rate of overnight loans between
banks. “If you look at the markets’ expectations of hikes
priced in, we think it’s too early. We think the Fed is actually
going to have to stay very low for much longer, which means
there is a lot more value in front end of yield curves than what
most people anticipate at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  