-- Temasek Gas Unit Signs First Long-Term Deal With Europe Supplier
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-10-30T02:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/temasek-gas-unit-signs-first-long-term-deal-with-europe-supplier.html
Pavilion Energy Pte, the liquefied
natural gas unit of  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company,
made its first long-term deal with a European supplier.  Pavilion Energy, owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, will
receive 500,000 metric tons a year of LNG for 10 years starting
in 2018, the company said in an e-mail, without identifying the
seller. The contract is with “a major European oil and gas
multinational” for delivery into Singapore and the region,
Chief Executive Seah Moon Ming said in a speech at a conference
in the city-state today.  Singapore, Asia’s oil-trading center, is also vying to
become a hub for LNG, supercooled gas shipped by tankers rather
than pipelines. It opened its first LNG terminal in May with an
initial annual capacity of 3.5 million tons, increasing to 6
million tons by the end of the year. Natural gas supplied 84
percent of Singapore’s electricity in 2012, according to the
 Energy Market Authority , the nation’s energy regulator.  Temasek set up Pavilion Energy in April to tap growing
demand for LNG in  Asia , the company said at the time. Pavilion
Gas, its unit that manages gas operations and LNG distribution,
has started trading the fuel and expects to complete its first
cargo delivery to Asia by February, Seah said.  “We are also looking into global investments with the aim
of building a diversified asset portfolio,” Seah said. The
company will add more funds to its initial authorized capital of
$1 billion to fulfill its ambitions, he said last month.  A fourth tank is planned to take capacity to 9 million tons
by 2016. That will allow Singapore to offer last-minute
deliveries, or spot cargoes, to buyers in Asia seeking an
alternative to long-term contracts.  BG Contract  BG Plc won the contract in 2008 to supply 3 million tons of
LNG to Singapore annually over 10 years starting in 2013.
Singapore may award as many as two further supply licenses,
seeking 1.5 million tons a year initially, Second Trade Minister
S. Iswaran said today. The country’s energy regulator will lift
a moratorium on piped gas supplies when BG has fulfilled its
contract or by 2018, Iswaran said today.  Temasek’s holdings jumped to a record S$215 billion ($173
billion) in the year ended March 31 as surging global stock
markets bolstered assets. Energy and resources companies make up
6 percent of its investments, according to its annual report
released in July.  The state-owned investor said in July new investment
opportunities include industries such as energy, resources, life
sciences, consumer and technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Singapore at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  