-- Emerging ETF Falls After Fed as Brazil’s OGX Tumbles 26%
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-10-30T21:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/emerging-stocks-extend-second-monthly-gain-before-fed-decision.html
The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index exchange-traded fund slumped, reversing earlier gains,
after the  Federal Reserve  maintained the pace of stimulus while
saying policy makers see improvement in economic activity.  The developing-nation ETF declined 0.5 percent to $42.90 at
the close in New York, after rising as much as 0.4 percent
earlier today. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.6
percent to 1,042.75.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  plunged
26 percent after the Brazilian  oil company  filed for  bankruptcy
protection . India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  jumped to an all-time high as
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  reported better-than-estimated sales.  The Fed decided to press on with $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases, saying it needs to see more evidence that the
economy will continue to improve even amid signs of “underlying
strength.” The  gauge  for stocks in developing nations has
retreated as much as 16 percent since May 22, when the U.S.
central bank signaled its asset-buying program could be trimmed
if the economy showed sustained improvement.  “The statement was pretty ho-hum,” Sameer Samana, the St.
Louis-based international strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors
LLC, said by phone. His firm oversees about $1.3 trillion.
“This meeting was as close to expectations as you could have
asked for. Because things have already rallied so much, people
are somewhat willing to take some profits.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has surged 5.6 percent in
October, on pace for its first back-to-back monthly advance
since January. It trades at 10.6 times projected earnings,
compared with the  valuation  of 14.4 for the MSCI World Index.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rallied 3.7 percent to 21.59.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  dropped for a second day as OGX sank to a
record. The company filed for bankruptcy protection in  Rio de
Janeiro , a lawyer representing founder  Eike Batista  said.  Russian stocks  erased earlier gains as OAO Lukoil joined a
slump in crude. OAO Magnit, the nation’s largest retailer jumped
after Morgan Stanley lifted its share-price estimate for the
company’s global depositary receipts by 23 percent to $80.  The 30-stock S&P BSE Sensex extended this year’s rally to
8.3 percent. Bharti Airtel, the nation’s largest mobile-phone
operator, climbed to a nine-month high.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the
second-biggest lender, increased 2.3 percent. The S&P BSE Bankex
Index closed at a three-month high.  Economic Measures  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.5 percent, the biggest
gain since Oct. 21. The Communist Party said a key meeting to
discuss economic-policy reforms will run for four days through
Nov. 12. Politburo member Yu Zhengsheng has said reforms to be
discussed will be unprecedented.  PetroChina Co. (601857)  gained the most in four months after posting
a 19 percent increase in profit.  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (386)  jumped 3.5 percent as Morgan Stanley said shares may “re-rate” after the company’s earnings beat estimates.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 313 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  