-- Eni Third-Quarter Profit Drops as Libya Turmoil Cuts Output
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-10-30T18:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/eni-third-quarter-profit-drops-as-libya-turmoil-cuts-oil-output.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil
company, said profit fell 29 percent in the third quarter as
political turmoil in Libya cut production.  Adjusted net income declined to 1.17 billion euros ($1.61
billion), Eni said in a statement today. While profit beat the
998 million-euro mean estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, the company said production was likely to be lower
this year than in 2012. It had previously forecast output would
be little changed.  Eni, the biggest foreign oil producer in Libya, is
grappling with political unrest that’s cut the country’s
production to as little as 250,000 barrels a day from 1.6
billion barrels before its 2011 civil war. Eni said today
protests in Libya and disruptions in Nigeria reduced the
company’s third-quarter output by 50,000 barrels a day.  The quarter was “affected by difficult market conditions
in the European markets of mid and downstream, but also by the
extraordinary reductions of production in Nigeria and Libya, and
by the appreciation of the euro,” Chief Executive Officer Paolo Scaroni said in the statement. He said the company will still go
ahead with a planned share buyback program.  Eni shares gained 1.3 percent to 18.35 euros in Milan
trading today.  Production Down  Oil and gas production was down 3.8 percent in the quarter.
Adjusted operating profit declined 21 percent in the period to
3.44 billion euros.  Production ramp-ups in  Russia ,  Algeria ,  Angola  and  Egypt 
helped offset the negative impact of production halts elsewhere,
Eni said.  “Results are encouraging, despite the missing production
from Libya,” which will affect fourth-quarter results,
Mediobanca SpA analysts said in a note to investors today. “The
beginning of the buyback program represents a positive catalyst
for the stock.”  The company said it had a net gain of 3 billion euros on
its divestment of mineral rights in  Mozambique  to China National
Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  