-- Lenovo Taps Kutcher in Long-Life Battery Challenge to Apple
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-30T04:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/lenovo-taps-kutcher-in-long-life-battery-challenge-to-apple.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the biggest maker
of personal computers, hired Ashton Kutcher to help design new
tablets and unveiled a device with longer battery life as it
seeks to win users from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Kutcher will help develop and market the Yoga line of
tablets by providing input on design, specifications, software
and usage scenarios, Lenovo Chief Marketing Officer David Roman
said at a press conference in Los Angeles that was broadcast
over the Internet. Terms of Kutcher’s contract weren’t
disclosed, Lenovo spokesman Brion Tingler said in an e-mail.  Lenovo trails both Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. for
tablet shipments in its home market of China and is planning to
boost deliveries of the devices to 10 million units globally
this year, from 2.2 million last year, Chief Executive Officer
 Yang Yuanqing  said in May. Kutcher today unveiled Lenovo’s new
Yoga tablet with 18-hour battery life and 5 megapixel camera
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android 4.2 system.  According to Apple, iPad offers as much as 10 hours of
 battery life  while surfing the web on Wi-Fi, watching videos, or
listening to music.  Kutcher, who stars on the television show “Two and a Half
Men,” has more than 15 million followers of his microblog on
Twitter Inc. He played the title role in “Jobs,” a biopic on
Apple’s co-founder Steve Jobs, which was released in August.  Lenovo is among Asian hardware makers looking to Hollywood
for a boost. HTC Corp. in August began running ads with Robert Downey Jr., who played Iron Man and Sherlock Holmes in hit
movies. Downey’s two-year global marketing deal was worth about
$12 million, two people with knowledge of the plans said in
June.  Lenovo ranked only third in the  China  tablet market during
the second quarter, with 8 percent share, trailing Apple’s 28
percent and Samsung’s 11 percent, market researcher
International Data Corp. said in August.  In the past six months, Lenovo globally sold more tablets
and smartphones than PCs, Roman said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  