-- Merkel Seeks Spy Pact as German Delegation Goes to White House
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-30T12:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/merkel-seeks-spy-pact-as-german-delegation-goes-to-white-house.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
dispatched a team to the White House to seek a new intelligence
pact with the U.S. following revelations that her mobile phone
may have been tapped.  Merkel’s top foreign-policy adviser, Christoph Heusgen, and
her intelligence coordinator, Guenter Heiss, will meet today
with U.S. officials including Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper and National Security Adviser  Susan Rice  to try to
“rebuild trust,” the chancellery said. The meeting comes as
U.S. officials defended spying on foreign leaders.  “This demand is more urgent now,” government spokesman
Steffen Seibert told reporters today in Berlin, saying that
German officials will work on a basis of a “no-spy treaty” to
limit intelligence gathering between the two allies. “This
process will take time,” he said.  The spat between Merkel and President  Barack Obama  over
suspicions that the National Security Agency had hacked into her
mobile phone as well as anger in  Europe  over NSA data collection
has taken a toll on trans-Atlantic relations.  The dispute among the allies threatens to deepen after U.S.
intelligence leaders, without specifying whom they targeted,
defended the practice of espionage on foreign leaders yesterday
in Congress as a standard of spy-craft used by every nation.  NSA Director Keith Alexander told U.S. lawmakers yesterday
that European media reports on data collection on millions of
citizens were “completely false.” Spy chief Clapper said
espionage on U.S. allies is fair game.  Allies Spying  “It’s invaluable for us to know where countries are coming
from, what their policies are and how that would impact us
across a whole range of issues,” Clapper told the House
intelligence committee during a hearing yesterday in  Washington .
Asked whether U.S. allies have spied on American leaders,
Clapper said, “absolutely.”  The hearing and the disclosure of a White House
intelligence review shed little light on whether the NSA spied
on leaders including Merkel or how much Congress and Obama knew.
The espionage fallout flared up this week as German lawmakers
called for an investigation of American spy activity and  Spain 
condemned phone taps.  German authorities are still determining whether Merkel’s
phone came under surveillance. Seibert said this week that, if
confirmed, “this would represent a grave breach of trust.”  U.S. diplomats in  Germany  may be expelled if alleged
eavesdropping on Merkel’s mobile phone is proven, Interior
Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  said in a Rheinische Post
newspaper  interview.  “If it’s proven that the NSA listened in
on the chancellor then we may as an emergency measure expel
diplomats,” he said, as cited by the paper.  German Visits  Today’s meeting will be followed by visits by the president
of Germany’s Federal Intelligence Service, Gerhard Schindler,
and the chief of German counterintelligence, Hans-Georg Maassen,
the chancellery has said.  U.S. authorities obtained Merkel’s mobile number in 2002,
Der Spiegel magazine reported, citing documents including those
disclosed by former government contractor Edward Snowden. The
surveillance was carried out by an NSA “Special Collection
Service” from within the U.S. Embassy adjacent to Berlin’s
Brandenburg Gate, Spiegel cited the documents as showing.  Alexander disputed news reports in  France ’s Le Monde and
Spain’s El Mundo newspapers that the NSA collected bulk
communications records of European as false. The data was
collected by other countries and shared with U.S. intelligence
or its allies and didn’t involve Spanish or French citizens’
records, he said.  French Intelligence  French government spokeswoman Najat Belkacem-Vallaud cast
doubt on media reports that it was the French that handed over
phone records to the NSA.  “I’ve seen those reports and they seem improbable,” she
said. “We need to be able to work together against terrorism,
but we can’t allow there to be doubts between allies.”  Clapper said spying on allied leaders goes both ways and
compared the European reaction to a scene in the film
“Casablanca,” in which a French official feigns shock to
discover gambling in the cafe owned by  Humphrey Bogart ’s
character.  “My God, there’s gambling going on here,” Clapper told
the U.S. legislators. “You know, it’s the same kind of thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  