-- Erste Rises as Bad Loans Decline Ahead of ECB Asset Test
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-10-30T11:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/erste-third-quarter-profit-falls-10-as-revenue-slips.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s third-biggest bank, said bad loans declined for the
first time since 2008 as it prepared for a Europe-wide
assessment of banks’ asset quality.  Non-performing loans fell to 9.6 percent of the loanbook at
the end of September from 9.7 percent three months earlier, the
Vienna-based company said in a  statement  on its website today.
Provisions for bad debt declined 11 percent from a year earlier,
which helped limit a decline in quarterly net income. Erste’s
shares advanced to a two-month high.  “We feel strong at the start of the asset quality
review,” Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl told analysts
during a conference call. “Asset quality is improving. We feel
very comfortable with the review, and see a continuation of the
decline in risk costs over the next quarters.”  The  European Central Bank  will go through the accounts of
about 124 euro-area banks in a three-step process starting next
month. Examiners will identify potentially problematic loans,
review those assets in early 2014, and conduct stress tests
before the ECB officially takes over as banking regulator a year
from now. Lenders including  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  have increased provisions in preparation.  Erste rose as much as 4 percent to 26.01 euros in Vienna,
the highest intraday level since Aug. 19. The shares climbed 3.4
percent at 12:21 p.m., valuing the company at 11.1 billion
euros. The 44-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  advanced 0.6 percent.  The ECB’s focus would most likely be on “the usual
suspects,” or problem loans that Erste has already identified
in the last quarters, Chief Financial Officer Gernot Mittendorfer said on the call with Treichl. “We have done a lot
over the last couple of quarters, and I feel confident that
those activities will be reflected in the results of the AQR.”  Profit Declines  Erste’s third-quarter net income dropped 10 percent to
129.1 million euros ($177 million) as a slide in revenue from
lending outpaced cost-cuts and the reduction in loan-loss
provisions. The average estimate in a  company survey  of 22
analysts was for a profit of 133 million euros.  “One encouraging point of the results is that the non-performing loan ratio declined while the coverage increased,”
Eleni Papoula, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank who
recommends that investors sell Erste shares, said in a telephone
interview. “Overall the results are in-line and they are
maintaining their cautious outlook.”  Slow Growth  Erste’s revenue is declining as central and eastern
European economies remain mired in recession or slow growth. The
bank, which trails only  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  for total assets among banks in the region,
kept its earnings forecast, estimating that pre-provision
operating profit will fall by 5 percent this year.  Treichl said he didn’t expect credit growth of more than 5
percent annually in the coming quarters because the economic
recovery in eastern Europe isn’t strong enough.  “We don’t think risk-weighted assets or lending volumes
will continue to decline but at the same time we don’t expect
any material growth,” he said.  Treichl has pledged to expand earnings by turning around
Erste’s Romanian unit this year, a plan which he said will be
delivered. Losses will continue in  Hungary , where it owns the
second-biggest bank after OTP Bank Nyrt. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government is seeking ways to cut the stock of mortgages
denominated in Swiss francs.  Erste may buy Croatia’s  Hrvatska Postanska Banka dd  from
the government in a “small” transaction, Treichl said. The ECB
review will probably trigger more deals toward the end of next
year, he said.  “If the AQR will be a really serious exercise, there will
be substantial action towards the end of 2014,” he said about
potential acquisitions. “If there is some action at a later
time, we want to be prepared for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  