-- Erste Optimistic on Hungary Deal as Cabinet Discusses FX Loans
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-10-30T11:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/erste-optimistic-on-hungary-deal-as-cabinet-discusses-fx-loans.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , the owner of
 Hungary ’s second-largest lender, is optimistic about reaching a
deal with the country’s government on phasing out billions of
dollars of foreign-currency mortgages.  “We are quite confident that we can find a negotiated,
reasonable solution for this issue in the next four weeks,”
Andreas Treichl, Chief Executive Officer of the Vienna-based
bank, said in a conference call today. He added that regulatory
risk in Hungary changes “on a weekly basis.”  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , facing 2014
elections, has promised to phase out foreign-currency mortgages
and lower monthly installments for borrowers whose payments
spiked when the forint plunged in the  economic crisis. Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  rejected proposals this week from lenders
on the topic and said the government would unveil its own plan
in early November. The cabinet is scheduled to discuss it today.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rose more than 1
percent to 4,504 forint by 11:31 a.m. in Budapest. The lender
has tumbled 11 percent since the government on July 16 said it’s
considering a new debt-relief plan. Banks lost $1.7 billion
during a 2011 program and reacted by pulling out capital equal
to 23 percent of Hungary’s gross domestic product and cutting
new lending.  OTP competes with mostly foreign-owned banks including
Erste,  UniCredit (UCG)  SpA,  KBC Groep (KBC)  NV,  Intesa SanPaolo (ISP)  SpA and
 Raiffeisen Bank (RBI)  International AG.  Soaring Installments  Hungarians held 1.81 trillion forint ($8.5 billion) in
foreign-currency mortgages at the end of June and another 1.68
trillion forint in foreign-currency home-equity loans, which can
be used for purchases other than homes, according to central
bank data.  Borrowers’ monthly installments soared after the forint
plunged against the franc during the crisis. A fifth of these
loans is now non-performing, according to central bank  data . The
loans account for 13 percent of Hungary’s GDP, according
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development data. About
two-thirds of mortgages are denominated in Swiss francs.  Hungarian lenders proposed the government expand a program
allowing borrowers to temporarily repay mortgages at fixed,
below-market exchange rates for five years, with the government
and banks splitting the interest-rate costs, Origo news website
 reported  yesterday, citing an unnamed person with knowledge of
the plan. Banks also offered to forgive part of the capital
portion above the fixed exchange rate, Origo said. Details of
the banks’ proposals haven’t been made public.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  Clients, banks, and the government should all contribute to
a solution, said OTP Deputy CEO Antal Kovacs, adding that he was
“cautiously optimistic” that would happen.  The government plans to phase out foreign-currency
mortgages over the next three-to-five years and cut borrower’s
monthly payments by as much as 20 percent, Varga said on Oct.
25, without revealing details of his plan.  “The government’s proposal will likely incorporate a lot
more of lenders’ proposals than either side will be willing to
admit,” Otilia Dhand, an analyst at London-based Teneo
Intelligence, said in an e-mail. The government’s aim “is to
address the long-term problem of foreign-currency lending as
much as to boost its own popularity ahead of the 2014 general
elections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  