-- MetLife Misses Estimates on Australia Reserve Costs
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-10-30T22:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/metlife-misses-estimates-on-australia-reserve-costs.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, posted third-quarter results that fell short of
analysts’ estimates as the company recorded costs tied to
reserves for Australian disability claims.  Net income  of $972 million, or 84 cents a share, compares
with a loss of $954 million, or 92 cents, a year earlier, when
the company had an impairment related to an annuity business,
MetLife said yesterday in a statement. Operating profit was
$1.34 per share, compared with the $1.36  average estimate  of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. This year’s result was lowered
by a higher share count, tied to the conversion of equity units
issued to fund the 2010 purchase of American Life Insurance Co.  Chief Executive Officer Steven Kandarian scaled back U.S.
sales of some retirement products as the New York-based company
expands in other nations and targets return on equity to at
least 12 percent by 2016, compared with about 11 percent last
year. The CEO set a goal of cutting $600 million in costs by
2016, mostly in the U.S.  “The idea is to grow in  emerging markets ,” Sean Dargan,
an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone before results
were announced. “They are taking a very hard line on cutting
expenses in the U.S.”  Operating profit in Asia fell about 0.8 percent to $257
million. Earnings were cut by $57 million, or 5 cents a share,
on costs in  Australia  after the company determined it needed
more funds in reserves for claims on policies sold in prior
periods. Reinsurance Group of America Inc. and  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. are among companies that faced higher-than-expected costs from disability business in the country.  Book Value  Results also included a benefit of 2 cents a share tied to
catastrophe costs and reserves, and 3 cents from a review of
actuarial assumptions. Operating earnings per share climbed by 2
cents from the third quarter of 2012  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to
$52.54 per share on Sept. 30 from $52.85 three months earlier.
Operating investment income was little changed at $5.04 billion.
Variable investments, which include private equity and hedge
funds, added $236 million before taxes, down from $260 million a
year earlier.  MetLife slipped 2 percent to $48 in extended trading at
5:34 p.m. in New York yesterday. The insurer  gained  49 percent
this year, beating the 24 percent advance of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Results were announced after the close of
regular trading.  Chile, Vietnam  MetLife paid about $16 billion to acquire Alico from
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010, and about $2 billion
this year for Chilean pension provider AFP Provida SA. In
 Vietnam , the company is pursuing a life insurance joint venture
with two banks.  In the Americas, MetLife operating profit climbed 7.2
percent to $1.32 billion. The region, overseen by Bill Wheeler,
is MetLife’s largest and includes results from the U.S. and
Latin America.  At the division’s retail unit, operating profit was $659
million, compared with $492 million a year earlier. Variable
annuity sales fell 41 percent to about $2.7 billion.  MetLife has scaled back sales of products in the U.S. that
are more capital intensive, such as variable annuities, amid
pressure from interest rates near record lows. The insurer has
said it’s seeking to expand in offering protection, such as
accident-and-health coverage, rather than financial guarantees.  To help cut costs, MetLife is moving about 2,600 jobs to
North Carolina from sites in the U.S. Northeast and  California .
The company said in May that it had cut its adviser force by
about a third to 5,000. Eric Steigerwalt, who oversees the U.S.
retail operation, is pushing agents to sell more car and home
coverage.  In Latin America, operating earnings fell 13 percent to
$133 million.  MetLife’s results included $355 million in derivative
losses. The insurer uses hedges to cushion the effects
fluctuations in currencies and interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 mjacobs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  