-- Met Museum’s Suggested $25 Fee Isn’t a Breach, Judge Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-30T19:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/metropolitan-museum-of-art-didn-t-breach-lease-judge-says.html
The  Metropolitan Museum of Art  in
 New York City  didn’t breach the terms of its 1878 lease with the
city by charging admission fees, a judge ruled, dismissing some
claims filed by visitors last year.  Visitors filed two lawsuits starting in 2012 accusing the
museum of deceiving the public, particularly tourists, with a
recommended $25 admission fee, saying it violated an 1893 state
law requiring that the institution be open without charge five
days a week.  Justice Shirley Werner Kornreich in  Manhattan  dismissed
claims of breach of lease and violation of the 1893 law in a
ruling dated yesterday and made public today. She said that the
city, which is allowed to evict the museum if it breaches the
lease, has never done so and has never objected to the practice
of charging admission.  “For more than 40 years, the city has consistently
sanctioned the museum’s admission policy,” Kornreich said.
“The policy began with the Parks Department’s explicit approval
and still continues to be overseen by the commissioner of
Cultural Affairs, who has approved the exact amounts of the
museum’s suggested donations. The notion that the city maintains
that the museum is breaching the lease is belied by the city’s
actions.”  Lease Amended  Kornreich allowed claims of violations of general business
law and misrepresentation to continue, along with claims from
the first suit seeking to compel the museum to restore an
entrance in  Central Park  and comply with environmental
regulations in doing so.  “The Met is delighted with the ruling and trusts this
decision once and for all validates its longtime pay-what-you-wish admissions policy -- which, as the judge has declared,
guarantees fairness and access for visitors of all economic
means,” the museum said in a statement.  Arnold M. Weiss of Weiss & Hiller PC, an attorney
representing the plaintiffs in the first suit, said in a phone
interview that he disagreed with many parts of Kornreich’s
ruling and plans to appeal.  His clients will continue to pursue claims that the museum
deceived the public with “confusing” signs about the
recommended fee and by training cashiers to fool visitors into
believing they had to pay the full suggested price, Weiss said.  ‘Sufficient Funding’  The museum doesn’t allow the public to enter for free, and
visitors must pay at least a penny to get in, Kornreich said in
her ruling. The museum advertises a suggested price that has
changed over time while admission is “de facto free for all,”
the judge said.  “Actual access, provided in a way that ‘nudges’ visitors
to donate, is not incompatible with the 1893 Act,” Kornreich
said. “Such a policy furthers the goal of the 1893 Act --
providing sufficient funding to ensure access to all.”  The museum last week said it amended its lease with the
city to confirm its discretionary admissions policy. Since 1971,
entry to the museum has been based on a pay-as-you-wish basis,
with a current suggested $25 price for adults. The city first
waived the free-admissions provision of the museum’s original
lease in 1970.  The amendment authorizes “admission modifications in
future years, subject as in the past to review and approval by
the city,” the museum said in a statement. The change
acknowledges municipal funding was “no longer sufficient to
allow the museum to operate without charging admission fees,”
it said.  ‘An Admission’  Kornreich said the amendment “bolsters the court’s
ruling,” while Weiss argued that it is invalid and “an
admission that for the last 43 years they didn’t have the
right” to charge for admission.  “This alleged amendment was done in the dead of night
without notice to anybody from the public so they couldn’t be
heard by an administration that is lame duck,” Weiss said.
“It’s really Bloomberg’s gift to his friends on the board.”  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg
News . The mayor is in the final year of his third term in office
and barred by law from seeking a fourth term.  The cases are Grunewald v.  Metropolitan Museum  of Art,
158002/2012, and Saska v.  Metropolitan Museum of Art ,
650775/2013, New York state  Supreme Court , New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  