-- Euro-Area October Economic Confidence Rise Beats Forecast
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-10-30T11:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/euro-area-economic-confidence-rose-to-97-8-in-october.html
Economic confidence  in the euro-area
rose more than economists forecast in October, adding to signs
the single-currency bloc’s recovery is gaining momentum.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment increased for
a sixth month to 97.8 from 96.9 in September, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That exceeded the median
estimate of 97.2 in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 31 economists.  The euro-area economy is in what the  European Central Bank 
says is a “gradual” recovery after exiting a recession in the
second quarter. It is struggling with the legacy of the debt
crisis, and data tomorrow will probably show that unemployment
remained at 12 percent in September, close to a  record high .  The data suggest the region’s economy “maintained forward
momentum heading into the fourth quarter,” Martin van Vliet, an
economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam, said in a note. “At the
same time, they are a reminder that a broad-based, sustainable
recovery isn’t yet assured.”  Within the index, the gauge of industrial sentiment
advanced to minus 4.8 in October from minus 6.6 in September,
the commission said.  Consumer confidence  rose to minus 14.5 from
minus 14.9, matching an initial estimate published on Oct. 23.
Services confidence weakened to minus 3.7 from minus 3.2.  Sentiment in the financial-services industry, which isn’t
factored into the economic confidence number, slipped to 8.6
from 11.3.  German Unemployment  European car sales rose the most in more than two years in
September, helped by government incentives in  Spain , with
 Renault SA (RNO)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  posting the biggest gains.  Carrefour
SA (CA) , France’s largest retailer, said domestic hypermarket sales
rose for the first time in more than two years in the third
quarter.  Separate data today showed German unemployment rose for a
third month in October, with the number of people out of work
climbing a seasonally-adjusted 2,000 to 2.97 million. The
adjusted jobless rate was unchanged at 6.9 percent. Even so,
 Germany ’s labor market “remains solid,” said  Carsten Brzeski ,
an economist at ING Bank NV.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Oct. 2 that the bank
will keep key  interest rates  “at present or lower levels for an
extended period,” based in part on the “broad-based weakness”
in the economy.  Economists see euro-zone economic growth slowing to 0.2
percent in the third quarter after a 0.3 percent expansion in
the three months through June, according to a Bloomberg survey
published on Oct. 10. They project a full-year contraction of
0.3 percent.  Spanish Growth  Spanish gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the
third quarter, according to a report today, ending a two-year
recession. In contrast, the acting head of Italy’s statistics
office said yesterday that the Italian economy shrank in the
three months through September, prolonging a record slump.  With the euro-region recovery remaining uneven, some
companies are continuing to cut jobs.  Siemens AG (SIE)  said last month
it will eliminate 15,000 posts, with a third of the reduction in
the German home market.  Volkswagen AG said today that third-quarter revenue fell
3.8 percent. Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said
the company will focus on “disciplined” cost management
because the “economic environment is not expected to improve in
the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  