-- Europe Keeps Faith in Abe as Pension Funds Add Stocks
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-10-31T08:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/europe-keeps-faith-in-abe-as-pension-funds-add-stocks.html
European pension funds are buying
Japanese shares even as the Topix index trails all major peers
amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will make good on
reforms to boost growth, said Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd.  Pension managers are adding to holdings on expectations Abe
will cut corporate taxes and take steps to spur higher wages,
according to Masashi Oda, chief investment officer for  Japan ’s
 biggest trust bank  by assets under management. Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust’s European pension-fund clients have increased their Japan
equity investments via the bank by 150 percent from a year ago,
lured initially by low valuations, and are still buying as the
market slips, he said.  “Pension funds are telling us the outlook for the economy
has become clearer, and there’s very low risk of stocks dropping
substantially from here,” Oda said in an interview in Tokyo on
Oct. 23. Corporate and public pension assets account for 94
percent of the $456 billion overseen by the bank, he said. “The
government will announce a cut in corporate taxes in December,
and once pension funds can confirm that corporate profits are
going to improve and wages are going to rise, they’ll increase
their allocations even more.”  Foreign investors poured $106 billion into Japanese
equities this year as Abe’s policies drove the Topix to the
biggest gain among 24 developed markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has kept its lead even after
lagging behind all its peers so far this month, closing the
month little changed. While the measure has advanced 39 percent
in 2013, it  trades  at 1.24 times book value, compared with 2.6
for the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index and 1.8 for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index on Oct. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Globally, Japan is set to post the biggest profit
increases,” Oda said. “The price-to-book ratio is still near
the bottom, and we still have the potential for profits to grow.
There’s bound to be more upside.”  Earnings Optimism  Earnings per share for companies on the Topix index are
 estimated  to gain 32 percent in the next 12 months, compared
with an 11 percent advance for the  S&P 500 , according to
Bloomberg data. The price-to-book ratio for the Topix is about
40 percent below its recent peak in January 2006. The gauge fell
0.9 percent to 1,194.26 today in Tokyo.  Most of the increases in Japanese stock investment in the
past year came from U.K. and Swedish pension funds, Oda said.
Funds from these countries probably now have a neutral weighting
on Japan’s equities, up from underweight a year ago, he said.  Oda said he expects European funds to boost their holdings
from December, when the government announces the details of a 5
trillion yen stimulus package aimed to offset the potential dent
in consumption as a result of a  sales tax  increase next April.
The levy is set to climb to 8 percent from 5 percent. A Cabinet
Office statement shows the cushioning measures will include
public-works spending and tax breaks for companies.  Tax Breaks  Under proposed tax changes, the government would give out
credits for companies that raise wages to soften the blow from
the increased sales levy. Abe also said on Oct. 24 he wants the
ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  tax panel to discuss the
effective corporate  tax rate .  Japanese businesses pay taxes of 35.6 percent, according to
the  finance ministry . The levies are the highest after the U.S.
among Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
nations.  While confidence in the quarter through September among
Japan’s large manufacturers rose to the highest since the early
stages of the global credit crisis in 2007, the benefits of
Abenomics have yet to trickle down to the public. Regular wages
excluding overtime and bonuses  fell  0.3 percent in September
from a year earlier, a 16th straight drop, government data
showed today. Total cash earnings rose 0.1 percent.  Corporate Tax  Gains in corporate earnings will lead to increased  capital
spending  and higher wages,  Hiromasa Yonekura , the head of
Japan’s most powerful business lobby group, Keidanren, told
reporters after a meeting with government, labor and business
leaders, Kyodo news said on Oct. 17. His comments may suggest
the group would like a lower tax on business in return for
raising salaries at member companies.  “There needs to be a balance between the sales tax and
corporate tax,” Oda said. “Otherwise wages won’t increase and
the economy won’t improve. Abe will be looking at the stock
market as one barometer of support for him and he’ll work to
create more positives for it. Our foreign pension clients tell
us they feel Japan is one of the safest places to invest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  