-- Teva CEO Levin Steps Down in Revamp Dispute With Board
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-30T20:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/teva-ceo-levin-to-step-down-after-reported-board-feud.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin stepped down after less
than 18 months on the job in a dispute with Chairman  Phillip Frost  over how to restructure the world’s biggest generic-drug
maker.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell the most in more
than two years after the company said Levin and the board agreed
he would leave. The departure of Levin raises concern Teva,
which this month said it would fire 10 percent of its workers,
is “a very dysfunctional organization,”  David Maris  of BMO
Capital Markets told Frost on a conference call.  Levin joined the company from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. in
the U.S., where he was an architect of the drugmaker’s
aggressive acquisition strategy. He was overhauling Teva before
patents protecting its bestselling multiple-sclerosis drug
Copaxone expire next year and as the company grapples with a
slowdown in generic medicines. Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh will be interim CEO while the board seeks a permanent
replacement.  “This is bad news,” Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Brokerage Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel, said in
a telephone interview. “Jeremy Levin was doing exactly what he
was supposed to do but this is a dire situation. You don’t get
rid of a CEO on a whim.”  ‘Slight Differences’  Levin and the board agreed on strategy, but disagreed on
how to carry it out, Frost, a Miami billionaire who is the
largest individual shareholder of Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, said on the conference call.  “The differences were over nuances rather than
disagreement about the strategy itself,” said Frost, 76. “It
just got to the point where the slight differences couldn’t be
resolved and we thought it was better to part ways.”  Channel 2 television in  Israel  reported this week the two
men had clashed on how to implement cost reductions. Amid
objections from unions in Israel, Frost supported a  no-compromise approach while Levin has taken a more conciliatory
route, according to the report.  Levin, 60, denied two days ago he was considering
resigning, and the company issued a statement saying the report
contained “baseless claims.” Levin said today that he didn’t
quit, Israeli newspaper Calcalist reported. He didn’t respond to
text and phone messages today from  Bloomberg News .  Analyst Questions  Analysts on the 50-minute conference call questioned
whether Teva would be able to attract a qualified replacement
because candidates would be concerned about interference from
the board. Levin’s departure is a “big disappointment,”
Goldman, Sachs & Co.’s  Jami Rubin  said.  Teva’s ADRs fell 8.1 percent to $37.70 at 12:35 p.m.  New
York  time, the biggest decline since Aug. 8, 2011.  During Levin’s tenure, the ADRs sank 3.7 percent including
reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 38 percent return for the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. Teva’s stock has fallen
about 42 percent from its  2010 peak , giving the company a market
value of about $31.9 billion.  Levin took over after his predecessors spent more than $30
billion in the past decade while failing to wean Teva off its
dependence on the Copaxone drug.  Saddled with one of the industry’s highest debt loads,
Levin opted to boost profitability by trimming costs and
building the company’s branded-drug pipeline through small deals
and partnerships in areas such as respiratory and neurology. The
company said Oct 10 it plans to cut 5,000 jobs.  Seeking Acquisitions  When asked whether Teva’s strategy will continue on the
same path as Levin’s, Desheh said the company will pursue cost
reductions “with a sense of urgency.” Teva will seek small to
mid-size acquisitions, while avoiding “megadeals,” he said.  One of Teva’s past acquisitions was the 2006 purchase of
Ivax Corp., where Frost, a cigar-smoking Miami dermatologist,
was chief executive. He joined Teva’s board that year and became
chairman in 2010.  Frost, responding to analyst questions, said the company
isn’t considering a break-up nor looking to sell itself when
asked by analysts about the company’s plans going forward.  Channel 2 showed a letter from the executive committee to
the board of directors expressing management’s discontent with
the board’s attempts to influence day-to-day business decisions.
Desheh said on today’s call there was no such letter.  Analyst Estimates  Desheh is a candidate to be the new CEO, Amir Elstein, a
board member, said on a separate conference call with
journalists. Levin left because the company needed new
leadership, not because of a feud with Frost, Elstein said.  Levin’s resignation comes a day before the company reports
third-quarter earnings. Analysts  predict  that sales of Copaxone,
which contributes about 50 percent of Teva’s profit, probably
will decline as patients switch to newer oral drugs such as
Biogen Idec Inc.’s Tecfidera.  Biogen boosted its 2013 forecast on Oct. 28 after Tecfidera
third-quarter sales topped analysts’ estimates.  “It’s possible we are not aware to what extent things have
gone bad,” Alper said. “There might be a bigger hit to
earnings from Copaxone than what the market is expecting.”  For Related News and Information:
Teva CEO Levin Says Reports on Possible Resignation Baseless (3)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  