-- Farm Subsidies to User Fees Said to Be on Budget-Cut Menu
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-10-30T20:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/farm-subsidies-to-user-fees-said-to-be-on-budget-cut-menu.html
Congressional aides are looking at
reductions to mandatory programs outside of Social Security and
Medicare to replace automatic spending cuts hurting research and
the Pentagon, said two aides involved in the process.  The contours for a limited budget agreement are emerging as
Republicans and Democrats on a House-Senate conference panel
target mandatory programs, according to the aides who asked not
to be identified discussing private talks. Mandatory programs
include farm subsidies and health-care provider payments.  Such a compromise would let Republicans say they prevented
additional tax increases. Democrats, who are studying the same
budget items amid a stalemate over revenue, say they would still
want a minimum increase in revenue as part of any deal.  Senator Jeff Sessions of  Alabama , the top Republican on the
Budget Committee, said today in an interview  that such an
accord could be a way to replace for a year or two the automatic
spending cuts, known as sequestration, that both parties decry.  “A great number of entitlement programs, mandatory
programs, are not Social Security and Medicare,” Sessions said.
“There are a whole bunch of programs that are mandatory in
nature and have never been looked at” and weren’t in the law
setting up the automatic cuts, he said, citing farm subsidies
and food stamps.  Asked if such a deal is a fallback to a broader deal, he
said. “I would hope so.”  Disputes Revived  Sessions made the comments after a bipartisan budget panel
of the House and Senate, meeting for the first time today,
revived disputes over revenue that have scuttled previous
congressional budget efforts. Given political differences on
taxes, negotiators may fail to reach even a limited deal.  In that case, the federal government faces a second round
of automatic spending cuts in January under the 2011 law that
established the across-the-board cuts. The conference committee
was created in a measure passed Oct. 16 that ended a partial
government shutdown and raised U.S. borrowing authority.  Republican Representative Paul Ryan, a head of the panel,
said today that using the talks as way to raise taxes will doom
the process. Democratic Senator Patty Murray said replacing
automatic spending cuts with a short-term budget must include
ending some tax breaks. Any deal that trims Social Security and
Medicare benefits must be tied to added revenue, she said.  “Republicans are also going to have to work with us to
scour the bloated tax code -- and close some wasteful tax
loopholes and special-interest subsidies,” said Murray of
 Washington , co-chairman of the panel.  Tax Revisions  With aides on both sides describing similar menus as the
backbone for a scaled-down deal, odds are diminishing that any
agreement will require changes to Social Security and Medicare,
the long-term drivers of U.S. debt.  Instead, the conference panel may end up providing general
instructions to the committees in Congress that oversee taxes
and entitlements to hash out differences.  Republican Senators Rob Portman of  Ohio  and Mike Crapo of
 Idaho , veterans of past deficit-reduction efforts, said the
committee should aim to create benchmarks for revising the tax
code. “One of the best things this committee could do is to
establish some processes to help us move forward,” Crapo said.  ‘Small Ball’  Ed Lorenzen , policy adviser at the Committee for a
Responsible  Federal Budget , said if conferees are only able to
settle on a “small-ball” package, giving instructions to the
relevant panels “at least provides the possibility of taking
another step forward next year.”  Even that goal may be too ambitious.  Ryan, chairman of the  House Budget Committee , said tax-code
changes should be handled by other committees. “If we look at
this conference as an argument about taxes we’re not going to
get anywhere,” he said.  Democrats and Republicans are about $90 billion apart on
their fiscal 2014 budget blueprints. Interest groups are drawing
up a menu of options for a deal that would let Democrats protect
Social Security and Medicare benefits and allow Republicans to
say they didn’t increase taxes.  The list includes reducing farm subsidies for $35 billion
in savings and increasing federal-worker contributions to
retirement plans for another $20 billion, according to a report
released yesterday by the Campaign to Fix the Debt, a
nonpartisan fiscal advocacy group.  User Fees  Other options would target health providers rather than
beneficiaries, including adjusting payment updates for some
health-care providers, for $45 billion in savings. The
government also could collect about $55 billion by increasing
user fees, including charges to cover aviation security and on
mortgage providers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat on the budget
conference panel, said cuts targeting other mandatory spending
are “among the options out there.”  “In the past we’ve started with the macro deal and built
down,” said Warner, co-chairman of a previous Senate budget
negotiating group. “Let’s start with 2014 and build on
replacing the worst of the sequester.”  The odds are that the 29-member committee will either reach
consensus on a small-scale deal or that deeper spending cuts
will start in January.  The committee will meet again Nov. 13, Ryan said, giving
lawmakers four weeks to bridge differences before a Dec. 13
deadline.  Automatic Cuts  Sequestration led to $80 billion in automatic cuts in March
to programs that Democrats consider priorities, including Head
Start for poor children and scientific and medical research.  At least five similar bipartisan attempts to draft a broad
debt-reduction bill have failed in the past few years, and a
deal to replace the automatic cuts would do nothing to change
the long-term outlook for the debt.  According to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office ,
 federal debt  held by the public is 73 percent of the economy’s
annual output, higher than at any point in U.S. history except a
brief period around World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  