-- FDA Examines Advertising of Acne, ADHD Drugs to Teenagers
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-30T14:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/fda-examines-advertising-of-acne-adhd-drugs-to-teenagers.html
U.S. regulators want to know how
teens perceive direct marketing aimed at them for treatments on
conditions as simple as acne and as complex as attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder.  The Food and Drug Administration will show adolescents fake
websites the agency will create for fictitious  prescription
drugs  that treat acne or ADHD and examine how the teens respond
compared with parents and young adults. The study will help
determine whether some drugs may require more care when
advertising online, the FDA said.  Adolescent development of cognitive, social and emotional
skills can influence how they weigh risks and benefits, the FDA
said. Research has found the frontal lobe of the brain isn’t
fully developed until the mid-20s and affects decision-making,
the agency said.  “The need for understanding how adolescents weigh risks
and benefits is particularly critical given the potential
adverse events associated with use of the drug classes that are
marketed directly to adolescents,” the FDA wrote in a  document 
posted online. “Suicide and suicidal ideation has been
associated with some of these classes, including a commonly used
class of acne medications.”  Isotretinoin, the main ingredient in the once-popular
Accutane from  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  now made in generic versions from
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , among
others, has been associated with depression and suicide as well
as severe  birth defects  that require only certain doctors
prescribe the drug. Ritalin, Novartis AG’s ADHD medicine, and
generic versions, have been linked to hallucinations, delusional
thinking and mania as well as aggression in teens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  