-- Fed Decision Day Guide From Government Shutdown to No Tapering
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-10-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/fed-decision-day-guide-from-government-shutdown-to-no-tapering.html
Here’s what to look for when the
Federal Open Market Committee releases its statement today at
2 p.m. after a two-day meeting in  Washington . The panel won’t
provide new economic forecasts, and Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
won’t hold a news conference.  -- A decision to maintain the current pace of bond
purchases at $85 billion a month, according to Eric Green,
global head of foreign exchange, rates and commodities at TD
Securities USA LLC in New York. The Fed will probably delay the
first reduction in its bond purchases until March, the median of
40 responses in a Bloomberg survey of economists showed.  -- It’s “not a realistic time to make any fundamental
changes, given its proximity to the recent shutdown, weaker
economic momentum, and markets priced for a generally status-quo
outcome,” Green wrote in a research note.  -- Some mention of the 16-day partial U.S. government
shutdown in the statement, according to  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. The Fed may
also modestly downgrade its descriptions of employment and
housing, in Feroli’s view.  -- A change to the statement’s characterization of
financial conditions, which last month’s statement said were
tightening and could slow economic improvement.  -- “The question is, what will the FOMC focus on -- the
fact that conditions are still tighter than the Fed would like
them to be, or the fact that they eased over the intermeeting
period?” Roberto Perli, a partner at Cornerstone Macro LP in
Washington, wrote in a note. “If it chooses the latter, it
would be another indication that the Fed doesn’t think December
is off the table in terms of tapering.”  Rate Guidance  -- No change to the Fed’s guidance on the future course of
interest rates, according to Michael Hanson, senior U.S.
economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York. The FOMC
repeated its pledge last month to maintain its  benchmark rate 
near zero at least as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  -- “With the markets pushing out the expected date of the
first Fed rate hike, there is no urgency to change guidance
now,” Hanson wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  