-- Fed, Please Step Away From the Monthly Data Dump
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-10-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/fed-please-step-away-from-the-monthly-data-dump.html
Financial markets have become
increasingly dependent on the  Federal Reserve . The Fed is
dependent on data (just in case you didn’t know). The data for
the next few months will be distorted by the federal government
shutdown during the first half of October. So what’s a
responsible policy maker or investor to do to get a handle on
how the  U.S. economy  is faring?  Step back, look forward, lean in only if you must. Now is
the time to focus on the big picture, not the individual working
parts of the economy as reflected in the monthly data releases.  A good place to start -- always, not just during a hiccup
in the real-time data -- is with leading economic indicators,
the most forward-looking of which involve market prices. Things
like the interest-rate spread between the federal funds rate and
10-year Treasury yield, for example, and  stock prices , which set
a new high this week.  “The forward indicators suggest we should be picking up
steam,” says Michael Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Yes, they do. The problem is, they have been suggesting
that for a long time. Yet solid, sustained economic growth
remains elusive, forever consigned to the next quarter.  Does that mean normally prescient leading indicators have
lost their edge? No. It just means that monetary and  financial
conditions  have to remain accommodative for longer to achieve
any given result.  Wider Longer  Economists Carmen Reinhart and  Ken Rogoff  documented the
differences between recoveries from financial crises and ones
that adhere to the more typical, post-World War II  business-cycle  pattern: The Fed tightens to tame inflation, the economy
goes into recession, the Fed eases to stimulate demand, the
economy recovers, and the cycle begins anew.  The severity of the 2007-2009 financial crisis, recession
and subsequent deleveraging changed the relationship between
market-price indicators and the expected economic effect. Take
the yield curve, for example, which happens to be my favorite
leading indicator. (It also happens to be the one with the
longest lead time.) A spread of 75 basis points between the
overnight rate and long rate is considered to be neutral, all
things equal. In simplest terms, a 75-basis-point spread would
exert neither an expansionary or a contractionary effect on the
economy. The current 225-basis-point spread is wide by
historical comparisons, although it’s well shy of extremes
witnessed in previous cycles.  The closest parallel for the wider-for-longer theory is the
anemic recovery after the savings-and-loan crisis in the early
1990s. The spread topped out at close to 400 basis points in
1992 before banks resumed the business of creating credit.  This is another reason the central bank’s effort to flatten
the yield curve has never made any sense. The spread acts as an
incentive to lending institutions. For some reason, most
economists look at the long-term rate in isolation, not in
relationship to the artificially pegged short rate.  OK, I know what you’re thinking. The Fed has distorted
market prices so much with three rounds of  quantitative easing 
and one stab at curve-twisting (selling short-term securities
and buying longer-term notes and bonds) as to dilute the value
of the signal.  I’ve thought about this issue a lot, and each time I come
to the same conclusion I did when the yield curve inverted in
2006 amid protests that “this time is different” because of a
global savings glut. (Asian central banks were using the dollars
they received from selling their own currencies to buy U.S.
Treasuries.) Because I tend to repeat myself anyway, I might as
well do it accurately. Here’s what I wrote on Oct. 4, 2006:
“Many analysts dismiss the yield curve signal -- it’s different
this time -- because they claim the why of the inversion is more
important than the what.”  What Matters  It wasn’t different. The what mattered then, and the what
matters now. The essence of the yield curve is so simple that
most Ph.D’s don’t understand it. Its power comes from the
incentive it creates for banks to expand credit: The steeper the
curve, the greater the incentive to borrow short, lend long.  Financial crises put lending institutions temporarily on
the disabled list.  Bank credit , which finally started to expand
in mid-2011, peaked in May of this year, drifted lower for four
months and started to revive again this month. That’s a good
sign if it continues.  “The yield curve is steep,  credit spreads  have narrowed:
It’s a powerful dual signal that is unlikely to be sustained
without a pickup in economic activity,” Darda says.  The only questions are how long it will take for growth to
accelerate, what the unintended consequences of stimulative
monetary policy are, and whether the Fed will be able to unwind
its asset purchases without destabilizing markets.  These are the questions that matter. The answers aren’t
likely to be contained in the monthly employment report.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 