-- Federer Secures Record-Tying 12th Straight Berth at ATP Finals
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-30T23:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/federer-secures-record-tying-12th-straight-berth-at-atp-finals.html
Roger Federer  advanced to the ATP’s
season-ending championships for a record-tying 12th straight
time by winning his second-round match at the Paris Masters.  Federer, 32, booked his spot in next month’s eight-man ATP
World Tour Finals in London with a 6-4, 6-4 victory against
Kevin Anderson of South Africa last night.  Federer matched Ivan Lendl for the most successive
appearances at the ATP season finale, which the Swiss has won a
record six times.  Andre Agassi  of the U.S. holds the record for
most non-consecutive appearances with 14.  “I’m just happy right now to have made it again,” Federer
said in comments distributed by the ATP. “It’s great news
actually, because it’s one of the goals I set myself at the
beginning of the season. It’s nice achieving things this year,
because many things I couldn’t achieve that I wanted to.”  The 17-time tennis Grand Slam singles champion has won just
one tournament this year, on grass in Halle,  Germany . He split
with his coach Paul Annacone earlier this month after failing to
reach the final of any of the four majors for the first time
since 2002.  Federer made his earliest U.S. Open exit in 10 years last
month when beaten by 19th-seeded Tommy Robredo of Spain in the
fourth round. In June, he lost in the second round of Wimbledon,
a tournament he’s won seven times, and was defeated in the
quarterfinals of the French Open and the semifinals of the
Australian Open.  Federer joins  Rafael Nadal ,  Novak Djokovic , David Ferrer,
Juan Martin del Potro and Tomas Berdych in the Nov. 4-11 Tour
Finals at London’s O2 arena.  Andy Murray  also qualified, though
he withdrew from the event after back surgery. The final two
spots will be decided in Paris this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  