-- Fiat Lowers 2013 Profit Target as Quarterly Earnings Decline
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-30T16:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/fiat-cuts-2013-profit-goal-as-quarterly-earnings-miss-estimates.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, lowered its profit target for 2013
as sales in  Brazil  slumped and losses in  Europe  persisted.  Full-year trading profit, or earnings before interest,
taxes and one-time gains or costs, will miss an earlier forecast
by as much as 13 percent, Turin-based Fiat said today in a
statement. Third-quarter earnings on that basis fell 9.4 percent
to 816 million euros ($1.12 billion).  “Fortunately for Marchionne, Fiat owns Chrysler,” said
Andrea Sianesi, associate dean at the Milan Polytechnic’s
business school. “Fiat used to depend on Brazil. Now it has to
rely on  North America  as Brazil is slowing down.”  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has spent the
past four years working to combine Fiat and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler to create a global player with the scale
to compete with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The strategy is also designed to make Fiat less
dependent on its mass-market businesses in Europe, where its
deliveries declined 3.4 percent in September, and Brazil, where
it posted an 11 percent drop last month.  The shares  fell  2.2 percent to 5.70 euros in Milan trading.
The stock has climbed 50 percent this year, valuing the company
at 7.13 billion euros.  Lowered Range  Fiat forecast full-year trading profit in a range of 3.5
billion euros to 3.8 billion euros. That’s below the company’s
previous range of 4 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros.  Third-quarter trading profit missed the 903 million-euro
average estimate of five analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
Profit in Latin America tumbled 52 percent to 165 million euros,
while the loss in Europe narrowed to 165 million euros from 238
million euros.  Fiat’s sales rose 1.4 percent to 20.7 billion euros. The
company forecast full-year revenue of about 88 billion euros,
compared with the previous range of 88 billion euros to 92
billion euros.  VW, Europe’s largest carmaker, today reported third-quarter
earnings that surged 20 percent. Profit from the Porsche car
brand and tighter reins on spending helped the company exceed
analyst estimates. GM also beat expectations as redesigned
pickups boosted earnings in North America.  Chrysler Profit  Fiat owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler and Marchionne, 61, is
seeking to buy the remaining 41.5 percent stake held by a United
Auto Workers retiree health-care trust. The takeover has been
delayed by a valuation dispute over the labor group’s stake, and
the trust is forcing an initial public offering of part of its
holding, complicating the CEO’s plan.  Marchionne, who is also runs Chrysler, said today that he
intends to complete the IPO process by the end of the year. The
preparations for a public listing are part bluff by the
executive as he seeks to establish a market value for Chrysler
and pay less than what the trust is seeking.  Chrysler reported today that third-quarter profit rose 22
percent on higher demand for Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility
vehicles and Ram pickups, helping Fiat increase net income 11
percent to 189 million euros. Excluding the American carmaker,
Fiat would have reported a net loss of 247 million euros.  A merger with its U.S. unit would allow Fiat, which also
owns automaker  Alfa Romeo  and the Maserati and Ferrari supercar
brands, to tighten cooperation with Chrysler and its Dodge and
Jeep nameplates and access the U.S. carmaker’s cash reserves.
Marchionne plans to present a new five-year plan for the group
after the first quarter.  Debt Rises  “All this smoke will be cleared” by then, Marchionne said
today, when asked if the timing of the presentation was related
to the Chrysler IPO.  Fiat’s net industrial  debt  increased 24 percent to 8.3
billion euros during the third quarter, the company said,
forecasting that net debt at the end of 2013 will be in a range
of 7 billion euros to 7.5 billion euros. The previous target was
about 7 billion euros. Delays in the rollout of Chrysler’s Jeep
Cherokee added about 500 million euros to debt in the third
quarter, Marchionne said.  “Without the contribution from Chrysler, the combination
of Europe,  Latin America , Asia Pacific and even the profitable
luxury brands cannot generate sufficient trading profit to cover
the current level of financial expense,” Harald Hendrikse, an
analyst at Nomura in  London , said in a report on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  