-- Food Stamps Loom Over Negotiations to Pass Farm Bill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-10-30T16:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/food-stamps-loom-over-negotiations-to-pass-farm-bill.html
U.S. lawmakers meeting today to
reconcile House and Senate versions of agricultural policy
legislation will find the table crowded with members who have
deeply held and widely divergent views on food stamps.  The tension is underscored by conferees the House
leadership has added to the House-Senate negotiating committee:
Tea Party Republican Representative Steve Southerland of  Florida 
and Representative Marcia Fudge of  Ohio , chairwoman of the all-Democrat Congressional Black Caucus.  With a new law needed before outmoded programs potentially
double milk prices early next year, both President  Barack Obama 
and House Republican Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  have called for
passage of a bill. The appointment of conferees from outside
traditional rural constituencies -- and who are polar opposites
on food stamps -- shows the law may not be the place where a new
era of deal-making will dawn.  “It wouldn’t come as any surprise if the nutrition title
is the toughest thing to negotiate,” said Representative
Michael Conaway, a Texas Republican and conferee.  Spending on  food stamps , officially known as the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, is the biggest
conflict surrounding the bill, which benefits processors
including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and insurance companies
such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  along with grocers including  SuperValu
Inc. (SVU)  By subsidizing food purchases, the farm bill encourages
production, while its conservation and economic development
programs promote rural business growth and a cleaner
environment.  Farm Bill  The farm bill, normally left to rural lawmakers, has
emerged as a partisan flashpoint as  House Republicans  have
targeted food stamps for cuts.  The Democratic-controlled Senate would cut $4 billion over
ten years from food stamps in its farm-bill version. The version
passed by the Republican-led House, H.R. 2642, would cut $39
billion over a decade.  Collin Peterson , the top Democrat on the House Agriculture
Committee, said House Republican leaders complicated the
prospects for a deal by asking for $39 billion in cuts -- nearly
double the $20.5 billion reduction the committee had approved in
its bill, H.R. 1947.  “It doesn’t help when you get people to vote for that
higher number,” the Minnesota Democrat said. “It’s going to
make it harder to compromise.”  77 Percent Increase  Food-stamp spending reached a record  $78.4 billion  in
fiscal 2012, the last year for which data were available, amid a
77 percent increase in annual average food-stamp enrollment
since 2007. Monthly food-stamp enrollment peaked in December at
47.8 million and was  47.6 million  in July, the most recent month
available.  The House measure also would require work or job training,
let states drug test-recipients as a condition of eligibility
and set food aid on a different authorization timeline from  farm
subsidies . That would divorce  food stamps  from agriculture
programs, a goal of Tea Party-affiliated groups.  “I know where he stands, he knows where I stand,” Fudge
said of Southerland. “Obviously we are in very, very different
places in our position, but I just hope there will be more
reasonable people on the conference, people who understand in a
very different way than maybe he does.”  Work Requirements  During House farm-bill debate in July, Southerland backed
an amendment covering work requirements for able-bodied adults
without children that torpedoed Democratic support when the
House first attempted to pass a farm bill.  “I think 80 percent of America agrees with my amendment,”
Southerland said yesterday in an interview. His plan was
included in the three-year nutrition bill the chamber approved
in September.  “Down where I grew up, able-bodied people do that which we
believe God created them to do,” Southerland said. “Work is a
blessing, it’s not a curse.”  Southerland’s appointment “says there are a lot of people
from around this place who are very interested in the details of
this bill,” House Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas 
said in an interview. “So am I.”  Fudge’s addition to the conference committee is a sign that
Democrats are serious about finding a solution, said Lucas, an
Oklahoma Republican. “We’re going to get there, we’re going to
get there,” he said.  Spending Boost  A 5 percent reduction in benefits unrelated to the
agriculture debate takes effect later this week, as Congress
allows a temporary spending boost included in the 2009 economic-stimulus law to lapse. Conflicts over food stamps illustrate how
deeply divided  Washington  has become and how everything, even a
traditionally less-partisan farm bill, has become part of a
winner-take-all atmosphere, said  Julian Zelizer , a history and
public affairs professor at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey .  “For Democrats, this is a part of the welfare state that
remains popular. For conservatives, this is a symbol of excess
and waste,” he said. “Both sides want to make it a symbol of
what each despises about the other.”  Political Coalition  It’s also a frustration to the traditional farm and
nutrition organizations that in the past have had a strong
enough political coalition to get their programs through
Congress. More than  250 agricultural  groups wrote farm-panel
members and leadership yesterday, urging a five-year law that
keeps farming and food stamps together.  “Developing and adopting comprehensive farm legislation
has been an effective, balanced arrangement for decades,” wrote
groups ranging from the  American Farm Bureau Federation , the
largest U.S. farmer group, to the Florida Watermelon Association
and the Oregon Wheat Growers League.  Other differences to be negotiated between the House and
Senate plans include whether to revamp dairy subsidies, payment
restrictions and conservation requirements on crop insurance,
the biggest U.S. farmer-aid program, and the replacement of
about $5 billion in direct payments to farmers with greater
protections against low prices and failed harvests.  Beyond leadership, House conferees also include appointees
from its foreign affairs and ways & means committees, looking at
international food aid and tax issues in the bill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  