-- Foxconn’s 4G License in Taiwan Kicks Off Asia Expansion Plans
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-10-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/foxconn-plans-to-bid-for-more-asia-4g-licenses-after-taiwan-win.html
Foxconn Technology Group’s purchase
of mobile-phone spectrum in  Taiwan  is the next step in Chairman
Terry Gou’s plan to move past contract manufacturing and become
a global mobile content and services provider.  Ambit Microsystems Corp., a wholly owned unit of Foxconn’s
 Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , paid NT$9.18 billion ($312
million) for 20-megahertz of wireless bandwidth at auction, the
National Communications Commission said yesterday. Winners have
120 days to pay their license fees and are then required to
submit a business plan to the regulator. The successful bid
marks Gou’s first foray into the telecommunications business
since he founded the company 39 years ago.  “Getting a 4G license is part of Foxconn’s long-term plan
to go beyond manufacturing to offer a full range of services,”
Simon Hsing, spokesman for Taipei-based Hon Hai, said in an
interview yesterday. “Taiwan will be a showcase for us to prove
that we can offer integrated hardware, software, content and
services.”  Securing wireless spectrum means Foxconn will set up a 4th-generation mobile-phone services business in Taiwan, adding to a
deal announced in June to develop software and hardware for
Mozilla Corp.’s Firefox mobile operating system. Broadening to
more locations may allow Foxconn to tap into a global market for
mobile data which Bloomberg Industries estimates will grow 50
percent annually until 2018.  Six companies paid a total of NT$118.65 billion for a total
of 135MHz of bandwidth in 12 lots, the NCC said yesterday. The
most-expensive lot was bought by  Chunghwa Telecom Co. (2412)  for
NT$25.69 billion.  Boosting Margins  Chunghwa, the former state-owned operator, secured a total
of 35MHz for NT$39.1 billion while incumbents  Taiwan Mobile Co. (3045) 
and  Far EasTone Telecommunications Co. (4904)  got 30MHz each and two
smaller companies 10MHz apiece.  “Foxconn has done very well for a newcomer by securing a
relatively large amount of bandwidth at a good price,” said
Praveen Menon, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bloomberg
Industries.  Foxconn’s next targets for telecommunications licenses will
probably be in  Asia , specifically among Asean markets, Hsing
said. Foxconn is still in talks with the government and local
partners on possible manufacturing investment in  Indonesia , he
said.  Foxconn, whose Hon Hai unit gets as much as half its
revenue from making Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPads, plans to hire
as many as 3,000 software engineers at a research facility in
Kaohsiung, Taiwan, it said in June.  Hon Hai yesterday also announced plans to take a 45 percent
stake in a venture with Hong Kong-based online game developer
NetDragon Websoft Inc. and Shanghai-based private-equity fund
Vision  Knight Capital . The $33 million company plans to develop
hardware, software and tablets for  China ’s education market,
Laura Liu, a spokeswoman for Hon Hai, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  