-- Fracking Rules Set in Spain to Boost Shale Gas, Oil Work
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2013-10-30T16:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/fracking-rules-set-in-spain-to-boost-shale-gas-oil-work.html
Spain’s government set local ground
rules for oil and gas drillers to use hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, in an effort to spur shale-exploration projects by
endorsing the contested technology that they need.  The 1998 law on oil exploration was changed to specifically
include the water-intensive drilling technique in new
 legislation  published today. The measure also modified a 2006
law so that fracking projects nationwide must meet
environmental-impact rules. That means they will be scrutinized
for potential impacts on aquifers to air quality.  Spain is one of Europe’s most energy-poor nations,
importing about 99 percent of its oil and gas needs. While its
traditional fields are few with scant output, the advent of
finding fossil fuels using fracking technology has sparked
interest by drillers from Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP)  to  San Leon Energy
Plc (SLE)  of Dublin and Heyco Energy Group Inc. of  Texas .  “Now, if a regional government prohibits fracking, that
would be in conflict with this national law,” Abel La Calle, an
environmental lawyer and professor based in Almeria, Spain, said
in an interview. “Previously you could only imply that fracking
was permissible. Now it’s expressly legitimized.”  The changes give more legal certainty to exploration
companies, said an official of one of their industry groups,
Shale Gas Espana, who spoke on condition of anonymity as more
senior officials weren’t available to comment.  70 Licenses  There have been 70 licenses given to explore for oil and
gas, according to Shale Gas Espana. The energy companies aren’t
required to disclose whether they are looking into shale or only
at conventional hydrocarbon deposits. Much of the most sought-after shale deposits are north in or near the Basque region.  The national government announced months ago that the rule
changes were being drawn up. They were included today in a law
that was largely devoted to supplying electricity to Spain’s
Canary and Balearic islands. The law becomes effective tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  