-- Fund Managers May Face Multibillion-Dollar Research Costs
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-30T13:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/fund-managers-face-multibillion-dollar-research-costs-fca-says.html
Asset managers may no longer be able
to pass on the multibillion-dollar costs to clients of the
research they buy from investment banks, the chief executive
officer of the U.K. markets regulator said.  The Financial Conduct Authority is considering forcing
global fund managers to pay for research instead of charging
customers through trading commissions, Chief Executive Officer
Martin Wheatley said in a speech today in  London . Investment
banks spent $5 billion last year on equity research used by
asset managers, according to a report by Frost Consulting &
Advisory and Quark Software Inc.  The research is included in trading commissions paid to
investment banks by fund managers, with the cost passed on to
the customer. The regulator wrote to asset managers this year to
say they were failing to control costs and need to regularly
review whether services were eligible to be paid for using
commissions.  “Of most concern is that firms are pushing the definition
of ‘research’ by using client commissions to cover non-eligible
costs and services,” Wheatley said.  The FCA will publish the consultation in November and a
final decision will be made later. The watchdog is in
discussions with European Union officials on implementing rule-changes across the 28-nation bloc on what can be considered
commission charges, Wheatley said.  Corporate Access  The move would mean fund managers must either pay for the
research themselves or invest in creating their own reports. The
FCA found examples of “poor practice” of passing on costs like
their data terminals to clients, Wheatley said.  “The FCA appears to be one by one dismantling the shoddy
and dishonest practices of the U.K. fund management industry,”
said  Alan Miller , chief investment officer of  SCM Private , a
fund management firm in London. The ramifications “are wide-ranging. Since the job of research is the key ingredient of what
asset managers do, it should be included in the annual
management charge rather than as an extra hidden charge.”  Fund managers also spent as much as 500 million pounds
($800 million) last year through commissions to brokers to
facilitate access to corporate executives, Wheatley said.  “This practice transfers the firm’s costs onto the client,
which clearly works against the client’s interests,” he said.  U.K. fund managers were responsible for 5.4 trillion pounds
at the end of 2012, a 6.5 percent increase from the previous
year, according to the FCA. Nearly half of their clients in
Britain are pension and insurance funds, the watchdog said.  The  Investment Management Association , a London-based group
representing the fund industry, will release a review on
research in the next few months.  The IMA’s objective is to ensure “transparency and
accountability to our customers and we will explore all possible
avenues to make sure we do just that,” Godfrey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  