-- Furloughed Staff to Increase U.S. Jobless Count, Labor Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-10-30T20:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/furloughed-federal-staff-to-boost-u-s-jobless-count-labor-says.html
Federal workers furloughed during
the 16-day partial government shutdown will be counted as
unemployed when the U.S. October jobs report is issued on Nov.
8, the Labor Department said today.  Employees out of work during the week spanning Oct. 6 to
Oct. 12 will be reflected in the jobless tally even if they
received, or anticipated getting, back pay, the Labor Department
said in  a statement  on its website outlining how the shutdown
affected data collection.  About 800,000 federal employees were temporarily dismissed
from their jobs on Oct. 1 as lawmakers wrangled over how to
avert a U.S. default. The Pentagon recalled about 315,000 the
following week, leaving just under 500,000 still jobless during
the Labor Department’s survey week.  The  unemployment rate  is derived from a survey of
households covering the week that includes the 12th of the
month, which was during the partial shutdown.  Rather than using the exact count of the number of
government workers on furlough that week, the Labor Department
will instead rely on its survey to arrive at a tally, Mary
Bowler, an economist for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said
today in an interview. The responses in the survey of about
60,000 households are extrapolated nationally using weights
based on demographics, said Bowler.  Affect Joblessness  That implies the number of unemployed will go up by less
than 500,000 if federal-worker households are under-represented
in the survey, or by more if they make up a larger share. In
either case, the shutdown will probably tend to make the jobless
rate higher than it would ordinarily be.  “The estimate will be what it will be, but we are not
going to control it to some overall federal number,” said
Bowler. “Presumably we’ll catch some federal workers in the
sample,” she said.  The household survey component of the jobs report reflects
respondents’ employment situations from Oct. 6 through Oct. 12,
when some federal agencies and contractors didn’t report to work
due to lack of funding. That reference period was unchanged,
even as the surveys were delayed to Oct. 20 from Oct. 13.  The  unemployment rate  at 7.2 percent is projected to rise
to 7.3 percent in the October report, according to a preliminary
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Impact ‘Unclear’  “It’s very unclear how many of the hundreds of thousands
of federal government workers who were furloughed that week will
in fact show up as unemployed,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at
HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York .  Full-time workers who put in fewer than 35 hours during the
survey week will be counted as working part-time for economic
reasons, the Labor Department also said.  The separate survey of employers will be less affected,
according to the Labor Department’s statement. That poll is for
the pay period that includes the 12th of the month, and anyone
receiving pay for any part of the period will be counted as part
of the payroll tally, the agency said.  The economy probably added 125,000 jobs this month, down
from 148,000 in September, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  The payroll data will be a better barometer of how much the
partial shutdown affected the economy said Wang.  “This is not going to be a number that’s just thrown
out,” Wang said. “It’ll be watched as a measure of how large
that disruption was.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  