-- German Unemployment Rises a Third Month as Growth Slows
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-30T09:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/german-unemployment-rises-for-third-month-as-economy-loses-pace.html
German unemployment rose for a third
month in October, adding to signs of a slowdown in Europe’s
largest economy.  The number of people out of work climbed a seasonally-adjusted 2,000 to 2.97 million, after gaining by a revised
24,000 in September, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists predicted no change, according to the
median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . The adjusted
jobless rate was unchanged at 6.9 percent.  The German economy, which helped to pull the 17-nation euro
area out of recession in three months through June, probably
expanded at a slower pace in the third quarter, the Bundesbank
said on Oct. 21. Sentiment among companies on the economic
outlook dipped for the first time in six months in October amid
uncertainty over the pace of the recovery in the currency bloc,
 Germany ’s biggest trading partner.  “Survey indicators are weakening a bit and the big concern
that we have is that even German companies are not investing
that much,” said Anatoli Annenkov, senior economist at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “If we have continued growth in the
third and fourth quarter, we can start to look forward to
continued improvement in the labor market.”  Cost Cutting  Unemployment in East Germany rose by 2,000, leaving the
jobless rate unchanged at 10.3 percent. The number of people out
of work in West Germany was unchanged and the rate stayed at 6.1
percent. The national rate of 6.9 percent is near the lowest
level in two decades.  “Demand for labor has stabilized at a good level in recent
months,” the Labor Agency said in a statement.  The euro was little changed at $1.3763 at 10:50 a.m.
Frankfurt time. Germany’s  DAX (DAX)  stock index was up 0.5 percent at
9,065.95.  German gross domestic product probably increased 0.4
percent in the third quarter after climbing 0.7 percent in the
three months through June, according to Bloomberg’s monthly
survey of economists published Oct. 10. The economy will expand
0.5 percent in 2013 and 1.8 percent next year, the survey
showed. The Bundesbank forecasts growth of 0.3 percent and 1.5
percent, respectively. The Federal Statistics Office is due to
publish preliminary GDP data for the third quarter on Nov. 14.  Bilfinger SE, Germany’s second-biggest builder, said on
Sept. 20 that it plans to cut 1,250 office jobs over the next
two years by merging units in an effort to reduce annual costs
by at least 90 million euros ($124 million).  The BDA employers federation says a minimum wage of 8.50
euros an hour proposed by the nation’s Social Democrats will
cost jobs and the group is considering legal action to prevent
it, Stuttgarter Zeitung reported Oct. 25.  The Social Democrats are demanding the minimum wage as the
price to form a coalition with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democrats. The parties have entered their second week
of negotiations, more than five weeks after Merkel won
elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  