-- Goldking Holdings, Oil Well Developer, Seeks Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-10-30T22:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/goldking-holdings-oil-well-developer-seeks-bankruptcy.html
Goldking Holdings, an oil and gas
property developer that operates 47 wells, filed for bankruptcy
as part of a reorganization in which it plans to sell all its
assets.  The Chapter 11 filing in  Delaware  today listed under $10
million in debt and as much as $100 million in assets.  Edward Hebert, the company’s chief executive officer, said
in court filings that the company has been trying to restructure
by selling all of its assets.  The Houston-based holding company owns Goldking Onshore
Operating LLC and Goldking Resources LLC, both of which also
filed for bankruptcy.  Wayzata Opportunities Fund II LP owns 94 percent of
Goldking Holdings, and an entity owned by Leonard C. Tallerine Jr. has a 5.8 percent interest, according to court papers.  “A series of unforeseen events, including alleged past
mismanagement under Mr. Tallerine, beginning from the formation
of the Debtors, and the expense and lost opportunity of
unsuccessful exploration and drilling efforts, have placed a
significant strain on the Debtors’ cash flow,” Hebert said in
court filings explaining the reasons for the bankruptcy.  The company was formed in March 2010 to acquire and develop
oil and gas properties onshore and in state waters in South
Louisiana and the upper Texas Gulf Coast. It has a leasehold in
around 9,000 net acres of property and 47 wells as of the
bankruptcy filing, and currently operate properties located in
Iberville, Terrebonne and Vermilion Parishes, Louisiana, and in
Aransas, Hardin and Jasper counties, Texas  The case is In re 13-bk-12820; U.S. Bankruptcy Court
District of Delaware (Delaware).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  