-- Green Investment Bank May Offer U.K. Project Bonds to Spur Deals
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-30T14:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/green-investment-bank-may-offer-u-k-project-bonds-to-spur-deals.html
The U.K. Green Investment Bank says
it may develop project bonds to finance clean energy as it seeks
ways to bolster investment in emissions-cutting ventures.  While project bonds aren’t typically used to finance wind
and solar in Britain, they are tapped to fund plants in the
U.S., where projects are bigger, GIB Chief Executive Officer
Shaun Kingsbury said. The bank could amass debt finance of
several smaller U.K. projects for sale to the bond market,
spurring similar deals, he said.  “That’s the type of thing we’d like to do -- it’s
innovative and it hopefully causes other folks to follow,” he
said. “If we could get that away, we would end up seeing a
bunch of ‘Me toos’ come out and suddenly there’s effectively an
asset-backed green-bond business here in the U.K.”  His comments add impetus to the development of a U.K.
project bond market still in its infancy, where $83 million have
been issued since 2011 compared with $4.42 billion in the U.S.,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The U.K. is seeking
institutional investors, typical buyers of the securities where
repayments come from cash generated by the venture, to help
finance the 110 billion pounds ($177 billion) it needs to build
cleaner power stations.  “If you can parcel up, segregate and understand the
different risks and present them into something they want to
buy, they’ll buy it because it delivers the tool that they
need,” Kingsbury said in  London  this month. “A wind farm is a
great opportunity for yield. All the capital goes upfront, it
runs for 25 years and you’re able to have index-linked revenue
streams.”  U.S. Market  The U.S. project and infrastructure bond market is well
developed, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd., which along with
companies including Moody’s Corp and Standard & Poor’s Financial
Services LLC has ratings for renewable project bonds. Europe,
without a “functional” project-bond market, tended to fund
ventures with bank lending, it said.  The GIB, based in Edinburgh with a team in London, has 3.8
billion pounds to finance offshore wind, waste and recycling,
non-domestic energy efficiency as well as marine power, biomass,
biofuels and carbon capture and storage.  It’s already committed about 710 million pounds, which
could spur 2.6 billion pounds of additional investment,
according to the bank. It supplies debt on commercial rates, can
invest equity and provide guarantees.  Deals include loans for the world’s biggest operating
offshore wind farm, the London Array off southern  England . The
bank also advised the government on its investment in the
initial public offering of Greencoat U.K. Wind Plc, a company
that buys operating U.K. wind farms. The Greencoat model spurred
others in Britain and the U.S., Kingsbury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  