-- Iceland Must Review $4.1 Billion HFF Guarantee, Budget Head Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-10-30T15:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/iceland-must-review-4-1-billion-hff-guarantee-budget-head-says.html
Iceland should review whether it’s
obliged to provide a full guarantee on $4.1 billion in Housing
Financing Fund bonds, according to the head of parliament’s
budget committee.  “The Treasury can’t afford this” and there’s still “much
uncertainty in the fund’s operations,” Vigdis Hauksdottir,
chairman of the committee and a member of the ruling Progressive
Party led by Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson, said
in an interview. “It’s been claimed that there’s a state
guarantee on the obligations of HFF, which I don’t agree with.”  Hauksdottir is the latest Icelandic official to cast doubt
on the nation’s commitment to its mortgage bank, which is near
insolvency as homeowners struggle to repay loans bloated through
inflation indexation. Iceland’s financial regulator earlier this
month warned that the bank’s business model won’t be able to
withstand losses over time.  Landsbankinn hf, Iceland’s largest lender, estimated in
June it may cost the Treasury 100 billion kronur ($830 million)
to save HFF. The government this month said HFF was “its
weakest link,” and estimated it will need to spend 9 billion
kronur through 2015 to keep the lender afloat. That’s on top 46
billion kronur already provided to HFF since 2009.  Commercial Banks  The lender, which has struggled to compete with commercial
banks that don’t link their mortgages to inflation, lost about 3
billion kronur in the first half of this year. HFF only provides
home loans linked to the  consumer price index . Homeowners have
seen some relief this year, after central bank currency
interventions helped bring inflation down to below 4 percent,
from as high as 6.4 percent last year and a peak of 19 percent
in 2009.  HFF Chairman Ingibjorg Olof Vilhjalmsdottir declined to
comment yesterday when contacted by phone. Chief Executive
Officer Sigurdur Erlingsson said October last year he was
“optimistic that HFF’s financial position will be improved,”
referring to budget negotiations at the time. Those talks didn’t
result in a capital infusion big enough to bring the lender’s
reserves above the regulatory minimum requirement.  HFF’s capital ratio fell to 2.5 percent of its risk-weighted assets at the end of June, based on a loan portfolio of
777 billion kronur. That’s half the requirement set by the
regulator. In September, 8.5 percent of HFF’s home loans were in
default as the fallout of Iceland’s 2008 financial collapse
continues to reverberate through the $14 billion economy. The
outstanding value of the four HFF bonds was 491 billion kronur
in September.  State Guarantee  “It’s my opinion that the state only guarantees about 40
billion kronur, which was injected into the lender during the
term of the previous government, as those funds were authorized
to be injected into the lender through the budget act,”
Hauksdottir said. “There’s significant doubt about the rest”
of HFF’s outstanding debt, she said.  The yield on HFF’s 3.75 percent bond maturing in 2034 was
at about 2.63 percent yesterday, up from a low of 2.34 percent
this month, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The bond
has lost 1.2 percent this year.  The director general of Iceland’s Financial Supervisory
Authority, Unnur Gunnarsdottir, estimated on Oct. 16 that HFF
will need about 11.5 billion kronur just to meet its 5 percent
capital adequacy requirement.  Hauksdottir has summoned Finance Minister  Bjarni Benediktsson , Welfare Minister Eyglo Hardardottir -- whose
ministry oversees HFF -- and the FSA to appear before the budget
committee to discuss the lender’s future. The meeting will take
place “as soon as possible,” she said.  “I can see, and I know, that it’s extremely necessary to
take radical action to deal with the Housing Financing Fund,”
said Hauksdottir. “This is the position we’re in and this can
no longer be tolerated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  