-- Imported Spices Tainted With Filth, U.S. FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/imported-spices-tainted-with-filth-u-s-fda-says.html
Insect fragments and animal hairs
taint 12 percent of imported spices, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a report.  The FDA said it looked at the safety of spices after
outbreaks involving the seasonings. The agency also found
pathogens in the spices, including salmonella, and suggested the
spice industry look at options to mitigate risk including
training to stress preventive controls.  “Nearly all of the insects found in spice samples were
stored product pests, indicating inadequate packing or storage
conditions,” the agency wrote in the draft report released
yesterday. “The presence of rodent hair without the root in
spices generally is generally indicative of contamination by
rodent feces.”  FDA’s study identified 14 outbreaks involving spices from
1973 to 2010 that resulted in 2,000 people reporting illnesses
worldwide. The number of outbreaks may be low because people use
small amounts of spices on food or cook the seasonings before
eating, as well as safety measures taken by the industry, the
agency said.  The FDA sampled 2,844 imported dry spice shipments from
fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2009 and found about 7 percent tested
positive for salmonella, twice the rate of other FDA regulated
food products, the agency said in the report.  The agency found
the highest prevalence of salmonella in leaf-based seasonings
like basil and oregano and identified  Mexico  as the country with
the highest percent of exports of contaminated spices, followed
by India.  Largest Importer  The U.S. is one of the largest importers of spices with
more than 80 percent of the supply provided by other countries,
the FDA said. About 400 people in the U.S. die from salmonella
poisoning each year and 42,000 cases are reported annually,
though the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said
underreporting may make the actual number of cases about 29
times higher. The infection can cause diarrhea and abdominal
cramps.  About 3.4 percent of the 17,508 shipments of other imported
food tested positive in the FDA’s sampling. The prevalence of
tainted spices is about the same as the agency found 30 years
ago in a smaller sampling experiment.  The FDA published the data on salmonella contamination in
the journal Food Microbiology a year ago and issued yesterday’s
report to warn consumers about the risk. The agency called the
findings “surprising” at the time because spices have a low
water content compared with other foods.  Industry Response  McCormick & Co. (MKC) , the largest U.S. seller of flavor products
by revenue, posted a statement on the quality of its spices and
herbs on its website.  “Whether they’re grown in the  United States  or other parts
of the world, McCormick exercises the same high level of quality
control throughout our supply chain -- including several million
ingredient analyses each year and a natural steam pasteurization
process,” the Sparks, Maryland-based company said.  Red and black pepper intended for use in Italian deli meats
were implicated in a 2010 salmonella outbreak that affected 272
people in 44 states and  Washington , D.C., according to the CDC.
Pepper falls under the “fruit” category of seasonings, as does
cumin and mustard.  Fruit spices were preceded by leaf and root seasonings in
prevalence of salmonella. Turmeric and ginger are examples of
root spices. Bark or flower spices like cinnamon and saffron had
the lowest levels of salmonella prevalence.  Almost 9 percent of 1,057 spice shipments from  India  were
contaminated with salmonella, the FDA said, compared with 14
percent of 136 shipments from Mexico. Canada came in with the
lowest salmonella presence at less than 1 percent of its 110
shipments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  