-- India’s One-Year Swaps Climb After Central Bank Rate Increase
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-30T05:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/india-s-one-year-swaps-climb-after-central-bank-rate-increase.html
India ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
climbed after the central bank raised its benchmark rate and
said inflation is set to quicken.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan boosted the
repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent yesterday, as
predicted by 32 of 42 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That was
the second increase in two months. India’s  wholesale prices  rose
6.46 percent in September, the most in seven months, while
consumer-price gains accelerated to 9.84 percent.  “The RBI remains cautious on the price situation as the
inflation uptick of recent months remains beyond its comfort
zone,” Barclays Plc analysts including Mumbai-based Siddhartha Sanyal wrote in a report dated yesterday.  The one-year swap, a derivative contract used to guard
against fluctuations in funding costs, rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 8.42 percent as of 10:25 a.m. in
Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds due May 2023
increased one basis point to 8.56 percent, after falling 12
basis points yesterday in the biggest drop in three weeks,
according to prices from the central bank’s trading system.  Along with the repo-rate increase, the RBI took steps to
ease cash supply in the financial system to support the economy.
The authority cut the marginal standing facility rate, charged
on cash loans to banks, to 8.75 percent from 9 percent and
raised lenders’ borrowing limits using term repurchase
contracts. It may increase the repo rate to 8 percent at the
next review on Dec. 18, according to Pramerica Asset Managers
Pvt. and Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s .  Inflation Risk  “It is important to break the spiral of rising price
pressures in order to curb the erosion of financial saving and
strengthen the foundations of growth,” RBI’s Rajan said in
yesterday’s statement. The policy stance seeks to manage
inflation expectations amid weak economic expansion, and the
central bank will “closely monitor inflation risk while being
mindful of the evolving growth dynamics,” he said.  The RBI said it expects wholesale-price inflation to remain
higher than current levels through most of the remainder of the
fiscal year ending March 31. It cut its  economic growth  forecast
for the year to 5 percent from 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  