-- India’s Rupee Declines Before Federal Reserve Policy Decision
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-30T05:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/india-s-rupee-declines-before-federal-reserve-policy-decision.html
India ’s rupee fell the most in more
than a week with investors favoring the dollar as the  Federal
Reserve  meets to review its stimulus that has supported
emerging-market inflows.  The U.S. monetary authority will maintain its $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases until March, according to a Bloomberg
poll of economists, as data yesterday showed U.S.  consumer
confidence  fell and an Oct. 22 report revealed jobs growth
slowed in September. India’s central bank yesterday raised its
benchmark  repurchase  rate to 7.75 percent from 7.50 percent.  “Given that the delay in tapering by the Fed has been
largely priced in, risk assets will likely be bound in a
relatively tight trading range” before the results of the Fed
meeting are known, Credit Agricole CIB analysts including Hong
Kong-based Anthony Lam wrote in a research report today. In
India, “given the recent rebound in inflation pressure and yet
tepid growth, the bar to adjust policy rates in either direction
will be high in the coming months.”  The rupee fell 0.3 percent to 61.5225 per dollar as of
10:19 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 10.18
percent. The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against six major counterparts, rose for the fourth day.  The  Reserve Bank  of India said wholesale-price inflation
may stay higher than current levels through most of the rest of
the year, with consumer inflation probably around or above 9
percent. The WPI gauge rose 6.46 percent in September, official
data show. The central bank also cut its projection for economic
growth in the 12 months that began April 1 to 5 percent from 5.5
percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.2 percent to
62.86 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.2 percent to 62.95. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  