-- Indonesia Seen Avoiding Total Ban on Mineral-Ore Exports in 2014
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-10-30T07:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/indonesia-seen-avoiding-total-ban-on-mineral-ore-exports-in-2014.html
Indonesia  may refrain from a
complete ban on mineral-ore shipments in 2014 as the country
needs the revenue to offset declining income from the oil and
gas industry, said an adviser to the industry ministry.  Earnings from ore exports may reach $10 billion in 2013 and
proceeds from mining and metals represent more than 6 percent of
the national budget, Soemantri Widagdo said at a conference in
 Singapore  today. Revenue is growing and makes a complete ban
unlikely, he said. While he advises the ministry on metals
policy, he said the views were his own and he wasn’t speaking on
behalf of the government.  The proposed ban is part of wider efforts by Indonesia to
increase the value of commodity  exports  and strengthen control
over supply.  China , the world’s biggest user of industrial
metals, sourced 56 percent of its nickel ore imports and 67
percent of its bauxite needs from Indonesia in the first nine
months, customs  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “In the past few years, the contribution of the oil and
gas industry to our GDP has been declining and the contribution
from non-oil and gas has been increasing,” said Widagdo. “We
don’t want to stop exports by 100 percent.”  Most revenue this year is from exports of bauxite, nickel
and copper ores, and minerals containing iron, said Widagdo. One
way to avoid a total ban is to increase tariffs, he said.  While the country plans to halt ore shipments, the
government is studying exemptions for mining companies that have
smelters or plan to build them. The chances that Indonesia will
ban sales are 50-50, according to  Glencore Xstrata Plc. (GLEN)   “There’s going to be a transition plan where we are going
to allow some exports obviously,” said Widagdo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  