-- Infosys Settles With U.S. in Visa Fraud Probe
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/infosys-settles-with-u-s-in-visa-fraud-probe.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, agreed to pay the U.S. a record $34 million
in an immigration case to settle allegations the company abused
a visa program intended for business travelers.  Infosys will pay $5 million to U.S. Homeland Security
Investigations, $5 million to the State Department and $24
million to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District
of  Texas , according to a filing yesterday in federal court in
Sherman, Texas. Infosys, which denied the government’s
substantive allegations, admitted it violated record-keeping
requirements, according to the filing.  Infosys committed “systemic visa fraud and abuse of
immigration processes,” John Bales, the U.S. attorney for the
district, said in a complaint filed yesterday with the
settlement.  “We think Infosys has cleaned up their act and if they
haven’t, of course, they are going to be in more trouble,”
Bales said at a press conference yesterday in Plano, Texas.  David Marwell, special agent in charge of the Homeland
Security Investigations office in North Texas and  Oklahoma , said
his unit is probing other companies for possible visa
violations. He declined to name the companies, saying the
investigations “are maturing.”  Requirements Circumvented  Infosys circumvented requirements of the H-1B visa program
through its use of B-1 visas, the U.S. said.  H-1B visas  allow
businesses to temporarily employ a foreign national in a
“specialty occupation” to live and work in the U.S., while a
B-1 visa only allows temporary entrance to the U.S. for limited
business purposes, according to the complaint. B-1 visa holders
are prohibited from performing skilled or unskilled labor while
in the U.S.  “Infosys committed visa fraud by knowingly and unlawfully
using B-1 visa holders to perform skilled labor in order to fill
positions in the U.S. for employment that would otherwise be
performed by U.S. citizens or require legitimate H-1B visa
holders,” according to the complaint.  “There are other companies we know of that are using these
same practices to be on a competitive footing and we are looking
at them as well,” Marwell said in an interview.  Grand Jury  Infosys, based in Bangalore, said in an Oct. 11 regulatory
filing that it received a federal grand jury subpoena seeking
records related to its sponsorships for B-1 business visas and
its use of them. The company and “certain” employees were
targets of the investigation, according to the filing. Infosys
said it was cooperating with the probe.  Infosys said at the time that it had reserved $35 million
for a settlement tied to the probe and that it was engaged in
talks to resolve the matter.  “Infosys denies and disputes any claims of systemic visa
fraud, misuse of visas for competitive advantage, or immigration
abuse,” the company said yesterday in a statement. “The
settlement removes the uncertainty of prolonged litigation and
allows us to continue to focus on delivering measurable results
for our clients.”  Under the accord, Infosys agreed to retain an independent
auditor to review its compliance in maintaining employee
records. The auditor will file reports to the U.S. attorney.
Infosys’s office in Plano oversees immigration practices and
procedures for the company’s U.S. operations.  Infosys was accused in a lawsuit brought by a consultant it
employed of manipulating the B-1 visa program to send Indian
employees to the U.S. to work on a permanent basis, according to
court records.  Consultant’s Allegations  The consultant, Jack Palmer Jr., reported the allegations
to federal authorities and claimed he was the victim of a
retaliation campaign. U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson in
Montgomery,  Alabama , ruled in favor of Infosys and dismissed the
case. The lawsuit didn’t involve whether the company violated
U.S. immigration law, according to the decision.  Under the  False Claims Act , Palmer can receive as much as
25 percent of the settlement, Bales said. The government did a
lot of the work during its 2 1/2-year investigation, so that
would go into the calculation of Palmer’s share, he said.  “Mr. Palmer will be amply and justly rewarded,” Bales
said at the press conference yesterday.  The information-technology industry is spending about 25
percent to 30 percent more for on-site workers as H-1B visas,
required for specialized workers, become more difficult to
obtain, according to Ankur Rudra, a Mumbai-based analyst with
Ambit Capital Pvt.  Worker Instructions  Infosys provided instructions to B-1 visa holders about how
to “deceive” U.S. consular officials and Customs and Border
Protection officers to secure entry into the U.S., according to
the complaint.  A memorandum provided by Infosys to foreign nationals
included directions such as “Do not mention activities like
implementation, design & testing, consulting, etc., which sound
like work,” according to the filing.  Infosys also directed foreign nationals to tell U.S.
officials that their destination in the U.S. was the same as
that in labor applications, even though the company knew the
workers had been assigned to other locations in the U.S., the
government said.  The case is U.S. v. Infosys Ltd., 13-cv-00634, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Sherman).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in Plano, Texas at  tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  