-- Infosys’ Record Fine Targets Outsourcing Abuses
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-30T13:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/infosys-record-fine-targets-outsourcing-abuses.html
A record fine against  Infosys Ltd. (INFY) 
targets outsourcing companies and their alleged abuse of
existing immigration laws to feed the insatiable desire for
highly skilled engineers in the U.S.  Infosys has been sending employees to the U.S. with B-1
visitor visas, letting it sidestep caps on H1-Bs -- the permits
designed for high-tech workers. To settle the case, the company
agreed to pay a $34 million penalty to Homeland Security
Investigations, the U.S. State Department and the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of  Texas , according
to a filing today in federal court in Texas. The fine is the
largest ever for the outsourcing industry, which manages tasks
for customers using a mix of on- and offshore labor.  The move might also inject the use of visitor visas into
the highly charged congressional debate over immigration reform.  “This is one small indication of the vast extent to which
firms are exploiting loopholes in the visa programs,” said Ron Hira, a professor at Rochester Institute of Technology. “Most
of the exploitation is perfectly legal, which is a problem. Now
the question is: Will Congress and the Obama administration do
anything about it?”  While technology companies ranging from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to Facebook Inc. rely
on temporary H-1B work visas to hire thousands of employees,
outsourcing companies use a variety of tactics to bring staff
into the U.S. on work permits -- whether for training,
consulting projects or longer-range jobs.  Foreign Talent  By finding loopholes surrounding different visas, the
companies can employ more foreign workers in the U.S., helping
them boost revenue and avoid hiring higher-priced local labor,
said  Rajiv Khanna , a Virginia-based immigration lawyer.  Infosys said it agreed to today’s settlement to “remove
the uncertainty of prolonged litigation.” There were no
criminal charges against the company, and it won’t be limited in
applying for federal contracts or visa programs.  “Infosys denies and disputes any claims of systemic visa
fraud, misuse of visas for competitive advantage, or immigration
abuse,” the company said today in a statement.  The Bangalore-based company’s  shares  fell 0.4 percent to
3,323.90 rupees in Mumbai. They have risen 43 percent this year.
The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index has advanced 8.3 percent in
the period.  Graduate Shortage  Demand for foreign talent in the U.S. is only expected to
grow. By 2020, the country will only have enough computer-science graduates to fill about 40 percent of jobs, according to
a  report  by Silicon Valley venture firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield
& Byers, which cited Microsoft analysis.  Outsourcing firms, including Infosys, Cognizant Technology
Solutions Corp., Wipro Ltd. and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.,
are the biggest users of H1-B visas, and that doesn’t sit well
with some U.S. lawmakers. An immigration bill considered by
Congress this year included fees and rules that would make it
harder for outsourcing companies to depend on temporary visas to
bring workers into the country.  If passed, the legislation could increase the cost of
applying for temporary work visas, especially if more than half
of a company’s U.S. employees use them. It also stipulated that
no company with more than 15 percent of its U.S. staff on work
visas can put those employees at client sites -- something
specifically targeted at outsourcers.  Less Competitive?  The proposed measures will “undermine the competitiveness
of Indian information-technology business in the U.S.,”  India ’s
Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  told Steve Van Andel, chairman of
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, according to an e-mail statement
from the minister. “Our IT companies have contributed
enormously to the  U.S. economy .”  The lawmakers would rather see technology companies hire H-1B employees to help staff internal projects, rather than have
the visas go to consultants. Still, the push to pass immigration
legislation has stalled in the House, hampered by Republican
opposition to providing a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented workers.  India is the biggest source of guest workers hired through
H-1Bs, a nonimmigrant specialist visa that lasts three to six
years. Indians received more than half of the 106,445 first-time
H-1Bs in the year ending September 2011, according to the U.S.
Department of  Homeland Security .  H-1B visas  were created in 1990 to let technology companies
bring in skilled employees from overseas, ostensibly to make up
for a shortage of local talent. Unlike companies such as Google
Inc. and Facebook, which rely on the program to recruit a
relatively small number of skilled people, outsourcers use H-1B
visas for hundreds or thousands of workers a year.  Largest Recipient  Cognizant is currently the largest recipient of H-1B visas.
The company’s president, Gordon Coburn, has said he uses the
program to find the skills necessary for outsourcing tasks, not
to replace U.S. workers.  “We pay our people prevailing wage,” he said in an
interview in May. “They’re not cheap once I include relocation
costs and visa costs.”  In the Infosys case, the U.S. Attorney’s Office
investigated whether the company had used temporary business
permits, or B-1 visas, to circumvent immigration law, according
to an Oct. 11  regulatory filing .  That would let it increase its U.S. workforce while keeping
outsourcing costs low. Such moves have helped Infosys maintain
its profit margins of about 26 percent, said Khanna, the
immigration lawyer. B-1 visas typically only let visitors stay
in the U.S. for a year. While they do apply to consultants and
business travelers, they  aren’t intended  for people with more
permanent jobs in the U.S.  Visa Preference  The investigation isn’t the first to delve into the gray
area of work visas. The  Justice Department  investigated IBM for
violating antidiscrimination rules by stating visa preferences
in job ads. In a settlement announced in September, Armonk, New
York-based IBM agreed to pay $44,400 and will remain subject to
reporting requirements for two years.  As the investigations mount, U.S. immigration policy has
remained the same, said Anurag Rana, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries.  “This is just the cost of doing business in the U.S. for
these companies,” he said in an interview from  New York . “It
happens to every company, and that won’t change without
significant overhaul to policy. The primary focus should be on
the immigration bill when Congress revisits the bill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 