-- LinkedIn Drops as Sales Forecast Trails Analyst Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-30T20:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/linkedin-drops-as-sales-forecast-trails-analyst-estimates.html
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the biggest
professional-networking site, slid 9.3 percent after issuing a
sales forecast that trailed analysts’ estimates and reporting
slowing growth in all three businesses.  Revenue in the fourth quarter will be $415 million to $420
million, trailing analysts’ average projection of $438.9
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the
third quarter climbed 56 percent to $393 million, the  Mountain
View , California-based company said in a statement yesterday,
down from growth of 81 percent in the same period a year ago.  Growth is decelerating in  LinkedIn ’s talent solutions unit,
which accounts for over half of sales, as well as in the
company’s premium subscriptions and advertising businesses. With
LinkedIn’s stock price up fivefold since its initial public
offering in 2011, the company is focused on generating revenue
by adding users overseas and upgrading its mobile applications.  “As you get bigger, as you’re growing off a bigger base,
growth on a percentage basis is going to slow,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners in  New York , who recommends
buying the shares. “People have priced that rapid growth into
their valuation.”  LinkedIn  fell  $23.03 to $224.11 at 4 p.m. in New York, the
biggest percentage decline since May. The stock has still almost
doubled this year.  Membership climbed 38 percent to 259 million from a year
ago, when the number of users increased by 43 percent. Sales in
talent solutions increased 62 percent to $224.7 million,
compared with growth of 95 percent in the same period last year.  Sales Forecast  While its forecast fell short, LinkedIn’s third-quarter
sales topped analysts’ average estimate of $385.2 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has
 exceeded  sales estimates in all 10 quarters as a public company,
though in the third quarter it topped predictions by the
slimmest margin yet.  “These guys have earned a reputation for putting up pretty
conservative guidance and exceeding it,” said Tom White, an
analyst at Macquarie Capital USA in New York.  The company reported a net loss of $3.36 million, or 3
cents a share, in the latest quarter, compared with a profit of
$2.3 million, or 2 cents, a year earlier. The loss was the
result of a higher  tax rate  from acquisitions, the company said.  Sales in the premium subscriptions unit rose 61 percent to
$79.8 million, slowing from 74 percent growth a year earlier,
while marketing solutions, or advertising, revenue increased 38
percent to $88.5 million, compared with 60 percent growth in the
third quarter of 2012.  Mobile Users  Members who use LinkedIn’s mobile site and applications are
more than twice as active as those who only visit from personal
computers, LinkedIn said last week. As LinkedIn builds its
revenue model for smartphones and tablets, mobile viewing
already accounts for more than half of sales from an ad product
called sponsored updates.  The U.S. accounted for 62 percent of revenue in the
quarter, down from 64 percent a year earlier. Sales in the Asia-Pacific region soared 70 percent to $30.5 million. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Weiner  said on yesterday’s earnings call
that the company now has more than 3 million members in  China , a
market that represents increasing importance.  “When you think about the 600 million knowledge workers in
the world today, and you look at the number of those people
living in China, both students and professionals, it’s a very
significant opportunity,” Weiner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  