-- Intel Said to Be in Talks on Verizon Takeover of TV Service
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-30T21:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/intel-said-to-be-in-talks-about-verizon-taking-over-tv-service.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  is in talks with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  about having the phone company take over its
effort to deliver TV over the Internet using a new kind of set-top box, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  While the two sides have no agreement in place, a deal
would probably end Intel’s involvement in the project, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. The AllThingsD website  previously reported  on the
discussions.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, had planned to offer
a pay-TV service in the U.S. that would compete with Comcast
Corp. and  DirecTV. (DTV)  The idea was to use Intel-designed set-top
boxes, which would receive programming via the Internet. Intel’s
new management decided to scale back its involvement earlier
this year because it wanted to focus on the company’s existing
business and efforts to sell more mobile-phone chips, a person
familiar with the company’s plans said in September.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, already has
a pay-TV service. The company has been exploring methods to
deliver more of its FiOS video through pathways that are outside
the reach of its fiber-optic network, such as wireless and over-the-Internet delivery. The company recently ended a joint
development agreement with the cable companies and it has been
focused on Redbox Instant as a potential streaming service.  Deidre Hart, a spokeswoman with New York-based Verizon,
declined to comment, as did Intel.  Intel shares  fell less than 1 percent to $24.50 at the
close in New York, leaving them up 19 percent this year. Verizon
declined 1.1 percent to $50.53.  Web-Based TV  Intel has been working on a Web-based TV product since at
least early 2012. Erik Huggers, general manager of Intel Media
and a former British Broadcasting Corp. executive, said in
February that the company planned to start service this year.  The service was designed to give consumers access to
content across TV sets, smartphones and mobile devices. Intel,
based in Santa Clara,  California , had planned to offer both live
programming and a large library of video-on-demand content.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  