-- Iran’s Rouhani Seeks ‘National Will’ to Conserve Water
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-10-30T11:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/iran-s-rouhani-seeks-national-will-to-conserve-water.html
Iran , suffering from drought that’s
drying waterways and depleted groundwaters as its population
grows, must draw up a national water-conservation plan to ensure
supplies, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said.  Iran’s water shortage is an “historic” issue and can only
be resolved through “national will,” Rouhani told top
officials yesterday, the  Tehran Times  reported. Iran’s energy,
agriculture, industries and interior ministers were at the
meeting. Officials there also included the vice president for
planning and strategic affairs and the chairwoman of the
Environmental Protection Organization, the newspaper said.  Saving water in the farm industry through efficiencies
including irrigation, curbing overuse of city tap water,
protecting underground sources and preventing illegal drilling
of wells must be addressed, Rouhani said.  Iran, with an expanding population of 77 million and recent
dry spells, will struggle to meet its water needs in coming
years, the Ankara-based  Center for Middle Eastern Strategic
Studies’ Water Research Programme  said in a July report on its
website. “Insufficient investment and mismanagement” have also
created challenges for the sustainable control of water
resources, the report said.  Iranian officials ratified directives yesterday that
encourage the involvement of non-governmental organizations to
conserve water resources and raise public awareness about its
use, the Tehran-based paper said.  Rouhani, who started his term in August after eight years
of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad presidency, has said he will seek to
revive an economy battered by government mismanagement and
international sanctions over the country’s disputed nuclear
program. Rouhani told officials earlier this week that his
government inherited “scary” economic indicators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  