-- Iran Openness at Atomic Talks Without Precedent, Russia Says
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-30T16:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/iran-openness-at-atomic-talks-without-precedent-russia-says-1-.html
Russia  said Iran showed
“unprecedented openness” in Geneva during two days of talks
with world powers this month over its disputed nuclear program.  “The Iranians displayed unprecedented openness, something
that was recognized by all participants” representing the so-called P5+1 powers -- the U.S., Russia,  China , U.K.,  France  and
 Germany , Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said
in a written reply to questions today. “They offered expanded
clarifications in outlining the restrictions of their nuclear
program that they are prepared to accept in exchange for an
easing of the sanctions regime.”  The round of negotiations between Iran and the six world
powers was the first since Hassan Rouhani, Iran’s new president,
took office.  Iran  will be offering a “new approach” in higher
level talks on Nov. 7-8 in Geneva, according to Iran’s Deputy
Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi.  Iran insists its program is for civilian purposes, such as
medical research and electricity generation, a claim that
countries including the U.S. and Israel dispute. Sanctions
imposed over the nuclear program have slashed Iran’s crude oil
exports -- the country’s main source of revenue -- by half since
last June, sent its currency plunging and fueled inflation.  At the P5+1 talks scheduled for next month, Russia is
counting on participants “to show political willingness and a
readiness for compromises,” Bogdanov said.  Iran and world powers may strike an accord allowing the
Islamic republic to continue enriching uranium up to 5 percent
purity, Sergei Ryabkov, another deputy foreign minister and
Russia’s chief negotiator at the talks, said Oct. 21 in an
interview. Even 3.5 percent purity would be too high, Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the following day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  