-- Israel Quickens East Jerusalem Building as Prisoners Freed
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-10-30T10:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/israel-accelerates-east-jerusalem-building-as-prisoners-released.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has decided to speed up construction in areas of
 Jerusalem  claimed by Palestinians after today’s release of 26
Palestinian security prisoners sparked opposition among
political allies.  The move drew immediate condemnation from the Palestinians,
who linked the two developments, and had sought the prisoner
release from Israel as a concession that allowed the resumption
of long-stalled peace talks in July.  The building plans, which had been previously announced and
were in varying stages of planning approval, include a housing
project that created a diplomatic feud with the U.S. in 2010 and
two tourist parks near the Old City, according to a government
official who spoke anonymously because he was not authorized to
comment on the record.  “We have to show that we are building in Jerusalem,”
Israeli Internal Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch said
today in an interview on Army Radio. He said he thought that
decision was made “within the framework of our releasing these
murderers.”  Palestinians oppose all Israeli construction in east
Jerusalem, which they see as cementing  Israel ’s presence in an
area they claim as the capital of a future independent state.
The U.S., United Nations and European Union, which do not
recognize Israel’s annexation of areas captured from Jordan in
1967, have also condemned such construction as impeding the
peace process.  ‘Childish Steps’  “These childish steps and decisions are intended to
satisfy parts of the Israeli government, or even people outside
of it,” said Kadoura Fares, a Palestinian official who deals
with prisoner issues, in an interview on Israel Radio.  Netanyahu has said he will not cede territory in east
Jerusalem, home to shrines sacred to Islam, Judaism and
Christianity.  “This makes the Palestinians and Arabs lose confidence in
the ability of this government to make peace,” Nabil Abu Rudeina, a spokesman for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas,
said in a statement, referring to the Netanyahu government.  One of the projects to be expedited is a 1,500-apartment
expansion of the Ramat Shlomo neighborhood, a project that
created deep frictions with the U.S. when its approval was
announced during a visit by Vice President Joe Biden.  Heroes’ Welcome  Israel freed the prisoners, some convicted of deadly
attacks on Israelis, overnight in the second round of the
planned release of a total of 104. Five were taken to the Gaza
Strip and the remainder to the West Bank city of  Ramallah , where
they were greeted by a rally that included Abbas and other
officials.  “We welcome our heroes who came from behind bars to the
world of freedom,” Abbas told the crowd.  The release of the prisoners was opposed by several members
of Netanyahu’s government, including lawmakers from his own
Likud-Beitenu faction, and cabinet ministers from Jewish Home,
the third-biggest party in the government.  “I don’t know about murderers in other countries being
released because of negotiations. It is a moral mistake and
sends the wrong message,” Deputy Defense Minister  Danny Danon 
of Netanyahu’s Likud party said at a Jerusalem briefing today.  “The decision to free prisoners is one of the hardest I
made,” Netanyahu said Oct. 28 at a meeting with members of his
faction. “This decision was necessary in our current reality.
We have to steer through a complex international arena full of
challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  