-- Ivory Coast’s 2013-14 Cocoa Output Steady as Changes Take Time
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-30T17:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/ivory-coast-s-2013-14-cocoa-output-steady-as-changes-take-time.html
Cocoa production in  Ivory Coast , the
largest grower, will be steady in the season started this month
as market-structure changes take time to have an impact,
according to the government.  Farmers in the West African nation will reap 1.4 million
metric tons of cocoa in the 12 months started Oct. 1, said Bruno Kone, a government spokesman. That’s “roughly the same” as in
2012-13, he said. Ivory Coast implemented changes to the cocoa
sector last year that included selling 70 percent to 80 percent
of the crop before harvesting starts and guaranteeing farmers 60
percent of the international price.  “We started working on cocoa production only two years
ago, so it takes time,” Kone said in an interview in London
today. “You have to renew some plantations, you have to create
new plantations, you have to introduce chemicals, etc. and etc.,
and this will give results in the next few years. We think the
production will still grow.”  Cocoa futures gained 18 percent in London this year,
entering a  bull market  last month, as global demand outpaced
supplies. Production will be smaller than consumption by 173,000
tons in 2013-14, estimates  Kona Haque , a London-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., who correctly forecast a third-quarter
price rally. Another shortage is expected next year.  Chocolate Sales  Global chocolate sales will climb 6.2 percent to a record
$117 billion next year, says Euromonitor International Ltd.
There are signs demand is improving. Cocoa processing in  Europe ,
which accounts for 40 percent of usage, gained 4.7 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, data from the European
Cocoa Association showed. Grindings gained 8.2 percent in the
U.S. and 12 percent in  Asia  in the same period, say the  National
Confectioners Association  and the Cocoa Association of Asia.  “Production of cocoa is still increasing, but very slowly,
and the consumption is increasing,” Kone said. “Consumption of
chocolate in the world is still increasing, so we hope prices
will increase. A few years ago, prices were 20 percent to 30
percent higher than the level they are today, so we think
there’s margin for increase.”  While Ivory Coast removed subsidies for local grinders and
began taxing them on the volume of beans they process rather
than on the products they ship, the country still aims to boost
the local industry, Kone said. The nation aims to grind 50
percent of its crop by 2020 from 30 percent now, Jean-Claude Brou, the nation’s minister of industry and mining, said at a
presentation at a conference in  London  today.  Transformation  “We still encourage transformation, but we think the local
producers have to buy the product at the same price,” Kone
said. “They can still make money with this level of tax.”  Ivory Coast scrapped tax-breaks for grinders in September
2012. It also introduced that year rules that meant processors
have to pay tax on the beans they buy instead of the products
they ship using a ratio of 125 tons of beans for every 100 tons
of product exported. The change meant domestic processors and
exporters of raw beans now pay a similar amount of tax.  While there are no discussions to change the system, “the
doors aren’t closed either,” Kone said.  Ivory Coast wants to boost coffee production to 350,000
tons in three to five years, Kone said. That compares with
100,000 to 150,000 tons now, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  