-- J&J's First Trial Over Seizure Drug Topamax Goes to Jury
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-30T18:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/j-j-s-first-trial-over-seizure-drug-topamax-goes-to-jury.html
A Philadelphia jury began
deliberations in the first lawsuit to come to trial over claims
the seizure drug  Topamax , sold by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen
Pharmaceutical unit, caused birth defects.  Lawyers for April Czimmer argued that the Virginia resident
wouldn’t have taken the drug for six months had the company
warned pregnant users it might cause defects including cleft lip
and cleft palate. Czimmer said her son Blake, born in September
2007, had conditions requiring four surgeries.  “We did not come down here for sympathy,” Tommy Fibich,
an attorney for Czimmer, told the 12-member jury in closing
arguments today. “We came here for justice.”  The case is the first of about 134 lawsuits pending in
state court in Philadelphia over the drug, plaintiffs’ lawyers
said. Another trial began yesterday with opening statements on
injuries suffered by a 5-year-old boy from  South Carolina .  Topamax, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
in 1996, was one of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s top
sellers before it lost patent protection in 2009. Czimmer took
the drug from August 2006 through February 2007 to treat
migraines.  Janssen adequately warned her prescribing physicians of the
risks that it made public in reports and medical literature in
2002, 2003 and 2005, John Winter, an attorney for the company,
said in closing arguments.  Data Available  “It’s not that the data was hidden,” Winter said. “The
data was there for anyone to look at it and make their own
judgments.”  A verdict requires agreement by at least 10 jurors on
whether Janssen negligently failed to warn health-care providers
of the risks, Judge Victor J. DiNubile told the state court
panel. That minimum must also agree on whether Janssen’s
negligence was a substantial factor in bringing about the boy’s
injuries.  The  birth defects , known as oral clefts, range from a small
notch in the lip to a groove that runs into the roof of the
mouth and nose.  Blake Czimmer faces at least four more surgeries and future
medical bills totaling more than $560,000, Fibich said. The
attorney urged jurors to award a higher amount, for the pain and
suffering caused by the condition. Janssen “deserves to feel a
financial wound,” Fibich said.  Judge Arnold New, who is overseeing the lawsuits in
Philadelphia, granted Janssen’s request before the trial to bar
punitive damages in the case. DiNubile instructed jurors that
any damages awarded should be “fair and reasonable” and should
not be intended to punish the  drug company .  The case is Czimmer v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
110503459, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
 Pennsylvania . The master case is In Re Topamax Litigation,
110602131, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in state court in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 