-- Bowie, Monkeys Beaten to Mercury Prize by Outsider Blake
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-10-31T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/james-blake-wins-barclaycard-mercury-beating-bowie.html
James Blake  won the 2013  Barclaycard
Mercury Prize  last night, beating better-known and hotly tipped
acts such as  David Bowie , the Arctic Monkeys and Laura Mvula.  Blake’s album of hypnotic electronic music, “Overgrown,”
was a 33/1 outsider in the odds by bookmaker William Hill Plc.
Bowie’s comeback “The Next Day” and “AM” by the Arctic Monkeys
were both backed more strongly after acclaim, while Mvula was
the late favorite after large bets on her “Sing to the Moon.”  The award for the year’s best British or Irish album pits
different genres against one another, from folk and jazz to hard
rock. Blake gets a trophy and 20,000 pounds ($32,130), although
the boost from sales can be worth much more. Record industry
figures show that previous victors such as the Arctic Monkeys
can have another 100,000 sales in the month after the ceremony.  In addition, the 12-strong shortlist can in total sell an
extra 400,000 copies, the U.K. Official Charts Co. said in an e-mail. This year, Rudimental, Jake Bugg and dance duo Disclosure
had the biggest boosts since appearing on the list published on
Sept. 11, the statistics company  said .  Blake, 25, was left almost speechless as he appeared on 
stage after a concert and gala dinner for record company 
executives and journalists at the Roundhouse in Camden, 
 London . Blake managed to say “I lost a bet” and he thanked his 
parents for making him self-sufficient.  Clown Outfit  While Bowie was not at the show, the audience was treated
to the premiere of his new video “Love Is Lost” which features a
Pierrot clown like that in his 1980 hit “Ashes to Ashes.”  Among the live performances, classically-trained Mvula
played solo piano, while London drum-and-bass group Rudimental
rocked the hall with the loudest number of the night.  Alt-J won last year’s prize for “An Awesome Wave,”
beating Plan B and Jessie Ware. P.J. Harvey won in 2011,
defeating Adele, Elbow and  Anna Calvi . In 2010, London band the
xx triumphed. There were surprise victors in 2009 (Speech
Debelle), 2008 (Elbow) and 2007 (Klaxons).  The Mercury focuses on musical quality and doesn’t take
into account media profile or live performances, according to a
statement by the judges. Popular acts such as Adele,  Amy Winehouse  and  Robbie Williams  have often lost out to cutting-edge performers such as Harvey.  Blur and Pulp were beaten by the so-hip-it-hurts M People
in 1994, Robbie Williams by too-cool-for-school Gomez in 1998.
Both victors faltered after. The award is often seen as an
albatross that also finished off Roni Size & Reprazent and
Talvin Singh.  The Mercury organizers have faced calls for more openness
about the judging (the panel is made up of musicians, executives
and writers whose names aren’t disclosed until the ceremony),
selection process and financial involvement of  record companies .  It was established by the British Phonographic Industry in
1992. The first award went to “Screamadelica” by Primal Scream.  Information:  http://www.mercuryprize.com/   Muse highlights include  Frederik Balfour  on Hong Kong art,
 Lance Esplund  on U.S. art,  Greg Evans  on U.S. television,  James
Russell  on architecture and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
 Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 