-- Japan’s Production Outlook Improves on Domestic Demand
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-10-30T01:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/japan-industrial-output-rises-less-than-forecast-in-september.html
Japanese manufacturers forecast the
biggest jump in industrial production in over two years this
month as domestic demand strengthens, adding to signs that Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe can drive a sustained recovery.  Output (JNIPMOM)  is projected to rise 4.7 percent from September, the
trade ministry  said  in  Tokyo  today, a gain that would be the
biggest since May 2011. The ministry raised its assessment of
production, saying it’s “picking up.” Output increased 1.5
percent in September.  Abe needs the economy to maintain momentum through April,
when a sales-tax increase will likely cause a contraction. The
next challenge for the prime minister is driving through
business deregulation to spur long-term growth and encouraging
companies to boost wages as export gains moderate.  “The underlying trend of industrial output is very
supportive of Abenomics,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Tokyo and a former  Bank
of Japan  official. “The key for Abenomics is the recovery of
 capital spending  in the corporate sector.”  The Topix index climbed 0.8 percent at 10:12 a.m. in Tokyo,
reversing this month’s loss as corporate earnings cheered
investors. The yen was little changed at 98.17 per dollar.  Profits Surge  Japanese corporate profits are set to surge an average of
95 percent in the July-September period, after the yen posted
its biggest quarterly decline in 17 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Omron Corp. (6645) , a maker of electronic components and equipment
for factory automation, yesterday raised its full-year profit
forecast, citing the economic recovery and the weaker currency.  Japan’s regional economies are “gradually picking up,”
according to a speech by Finance Minister Taro Aso read today by
Vice Finance Minister Yoshihisa Furukawa.  Data yesterday also pointed to improvement in the domestic
economy.  Confidence (JNSBALLI)  of small businesses rose in October to the
highest since November 2006, with more companies saying they
were optimistic than pessimistic for the first time since March
2007.  Household  spending  last month posted the biggest gain since
March, while  retail sales  increased the most in more than two
years.  The progress at home came after the pace of export growth
last month fell to all major overseas regions, with weakness
concentrated in shipments to Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  