-- Jefferson County Gets New Creditor Deal to End Bankruptcy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2013-10-31T16:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/jefferson-county-gets-new-creditor-deal-to-end-bankruptcy.html
Commissioners of Jefferson County,
 Alabama , will consider new terms in a proposed accord with
creditors on exiting bankruptcy, avoiding a collapse that would
have let the parties back out of a settlement reached in June.  The county commission will meet at 3 p.m. local time today
to discuss the agreement in principle, reached with all the
major creditor groups tied to about $3 billion in sewer
financing, Chairman  David Carrington  said yesterday in a
statement. He didn’t provide details of the new terms.  “This effort has involved a lot of people who have worked
diligently to solve a very difficult problem,” Carrington said.  The June deal was in danger of being canceled if the county
didn’t get about $350 million more in concessions from
creditors, commissioners said Oct. 17. That deal provided $1.84
billion in cash to settle the debt, tied to a bankruptcy-exit
plan. The county entered court protection about two years ago.  The county would consider forcing creditors to accept less
than they have been offered under the settlement, using the so-called cramdown rules of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , Carrington
said on Oct. 17.  Sewer Bonds  Jefferson County became what was then the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy in 2011, when it couldn’t pay what it owed
on more than $3 billion in bonds sold to finance sewer work.
Refinancing the debt was tainted by political corruption.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed in a 2009 settlement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to pay the county $75 million
and give up more than $657 million in swaps claims.  Under the first settlement, less than $100 million of the
county’s $4.2 billion in debt would have been paid without
changes to the original lending terms. Sewer warrant holder
JPMorgan Chase & Co. would collect 31 percent of what it was
owed, while some general-obligation bondholders would lose the
right to collect penalties  and a higher  interest rate .  County finance committee Chairman Jimmie Stephens said he
wouldn’t discuss the new agreement until after today’s meeting.
Carrington didn’t respond to telephone calls to his office and
home seeking further comment on the new deal. He said in the
statement that details couldn’t be discussed before the meeting.  June Agreement  The county’s lead bankruptcy lawyer, Kenneth Klee of Klee
Tuchin Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in  Los Angeles , said he couldn’t
call back late yesterday because he was on an airplane, when
reached by e-mail. He declined to comment via e-mail.  “Either there will be concessions or we’ll have to go to a
different kind of plan,” Klee said in an August interview.  The June agreement was signed by New York-based JPMorgan,
as well as a group of  hedge funds  and bond insurers.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for the bank, the biggest in the U.S.,
declined to comment on the new agreement.  The lender was slated to take the deepest cut, accepting
$375 million on $1.22 billion it is owed by the county,
according to the June deal.  Hedge funds that are owed about $872 million were to
collect more than 80 cents on the dollar under the June accord.
The funds also agreed to help backstop the refinancing to ensure
that the county could raise the money it needs.  Earlier Accord  The funds include Brigade Capital Management LLC, Claren
Road Asset Management LLC, Fundamental Advisors LP, all based in
 New York , and Monarch Capital Master Partners LP, according to
court records.  Insurers, including Assured Guaranty Municipal, Syncora
Guarantee and Financial Guaranty Insurance, were to get $165
million under the earlier agreement. They said they were owed
$315 million.  Ashweeta Durani, spokeswoman for  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) ,
declined to comment. Michael Corbally, chief administrative
officer of Syncora Guarantee, said he couldn’t comment about a
continuing legal matter.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett is scheduled to
consider approving the bankruptcy-exit plan next month at a
hearing in Birmingham.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  