-- Judicial Confirmation Clash Looms Over Obama’s Nominees
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-30T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/judicial-confirmation-clash-looms-over-obama-s-nominees.html
U.S. lawmakers are headed for a new
showdown over President  Barack Obama ’s judicial nominations, as
Senate Democratic leaders began a push to fill vacancies on a
court that referees some of the nation’s biggest business cases.  Obama wants to reshape the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit, often regarded as the country’s
second-highest court. Republicans say he’s trying to “pack”
the panel with nominees sympathetic to his regulatory agenda.
Democrats argue that Republicans are trying to deny Obama the
confirmation votes they routinely gave to President George W. Bush. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid is ready for a fight.  “The nation is watching for a sign that the Senate can
function efficiently,” Reid said on Oct. 28 as the Senate
returned to  Washington  after voting to end a 16-day government
shutdown. “It is time to show the American people how well and
how quickly the Senate can work.”  At stake is the future of a tribunal that can serve as a
steppingstone to the Supreme Court. Chief Justice John Roberts
served on the D.C. Circuit as did Justices Antonin Scalia,
Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Two other chief
justices, Warren Burger and Fred Vinson served there as well.  Among the cases being reviewed by the court is one on the
Federal Communications Commission’s “net neutrality” rules
requiring Internet-service providers to treat all traffic
equally. The court -- which has three vacancies and where
Republicans now have an edge -- also would probably rule on the
administration’s proposal to limit carbon-dioxide pollution from
power plants.  Favorable Fight  Reid, a  Nevada  Democrat, has scheduled procedural votes
that would allow Senate consideration of several nominations for
judicial and executive posts and overcome a filibuster, a
delaying tactic the Republicans are threatening.  Filling the vacancies is “a favorable next political
fight” for Reid, because Republicans would only reinforce his
charge that they’re being obstructionists if they try to block
the nominees, said Doug Kendall, president of the Constitutional
Accountability Center, an advocacy group. The group backs the
confirmation of Washington lawyer Patricia Millett, whose
nomination to the D.C. Circuit the Senate will debate this week.  Millett’s nomination is being considered along with Obama’s
choices for other posts. These include Democratic Representative
Mel Watt’s appointment to be the regulator of government-chartered mortgage companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac. The
Senate last night confirmed the nomination of Tom Wheeler, a
former cable industry lobbyist, to be the next FCC chairman.  Lifting Hold  Senator Ted Cruz, a freshman Texas Republican, had held up
Wheeler’s nomination while he sought a commitment that the FCC
won’t regulate political speech. Cruz yesterday dropped his
opposition to the appointment.  At Millett’s July 10  Senate Judiciary Committee  hearing,
Cruz praised the lawyer, calling her “a talented and skilled
appellate advocate,” who has “earned high respect in the
Supreme Court bar.”  Nonetheless, he told her she was part of a plan by Obama
and Senate Democrats to “pack the court” to “protect the
regulations coming from this administration” from being struck
down by the D.C. Circuit.  There’s “a broader context irrespective of your fine
qualifications,” Cruz said, because the D.C. Circuit has become
“a battleground for both sides for the politicization of
judicial nominations.” He ticked off the names of several
people he said are equally qualified Republican nominees, and
accused Democrats of blocking them for partisan reasons.  Republican Advantage  “If there isn’t a legitimate judicial need, then it’s fair
to question why the nominations are being made at this time,”
said Carrie Severino, chief counsel of the Washington-based
Judicial Crisis Network, which has opposed many Obama nominees.
Obama’s effort to fill three vacancies on the court “clearly
points to the fact that the president is trying to use it to
insulate his agenda from judicial review,” she said.  The court’s current lineup gives Republicans an advantage
even though its full-time judges include four appointees from
each party. That’s because six senior judges also hear cases,
and five of them were selected by Republican presidents.  The party breakdown can make a difference when three-judge
panels consider high-stakes regulatory cases. When the D.C.
Circuit threw out an Environmental Protection Agency rule that
would curb emissions from coal-fired power plants in upwind
states, the vote was 2-1, with the lone Democratic appointee in
the minority.  Nuclear Waste  Similarly, two Republican appointees constituted the
majority when the court told the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
to continue reviewing a license application for a nuclear-waste
dump at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain. The ruling was a setback for
efforts by the Obama administration and Reid to shut the
facility. A Democratic appointee dissented.  Three Republican appointees voted to invalidate recess
appointments to the National Labor Relations Board, a case that
is now before the U.S. Supreme Court.  During almost five years in office, Obama has placed only a
single judge, Sri Srinivasan, on the D.C. Circuit. Srinivasan
was confirmed in May after Obama’s first nominee, Caitlin Halligan, was blocked by Senate Republicans. They objected to
Halligan’s work as  New York  State’s solicitor general on a
lawsuit against handgun manufacturers.  In June, Obama also asked the Senate to confirm Georgetown
University Law Professor Nina Pillard and U.S. District Judge
Robert Wilkins, as well as Millett, for the vacancies on the
appeals court.  ‘Political Obstruction’  At a ceremony to introduce the three nominees, Obama
complained that “my nominees have taken three times longer to
receive confirmation votes” than did those of his Republican
predecessor, Bush. “This is not about principled opposition.
This is about political obstruction.”  Senator John Cornyn of Texas said yesterday Republicans
“intend to stop” Obama’s “court-packing plan for the D.C.
Circuit.” The “last thing we need to do in a time when money
is tight” is “throw more money at unneeded judges” to “tilt
that court ideologically in a way that favors the big-government
agenda of the Obama administration,” said Cornyn, the
Republican whip.  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy said the
argument that D.C. Circuit judges are underworked “doesn’t pass
the giggle test.” The Vermont Democrat also told reporters he
“can’t think of anybody more qualified” than Millett.  While Leahy didn’t directly answer the question of whether
he had the votes to defeat the filibuster, he said he didn’t
believe the parliamentary tactic would succeed.  Longtime Battleground  The Washington appeals court has been a political
battleground for decades.  Democrats prevented a vote on Roberts, when he was first
nominated to the D.C. Circuit in 1992 by President George H.W. Bush. Roberts was nominated again by the second President Bush
in 2001, winning confirmation only after Republicans took
control of the Senate in 2003. Bush elevated Roberts to the
Supreme Court two years later.  Democrats stopped two other Bush nominees: Miguel Estrada,
an appellate lawyer once seen as a possibility to become the
first Hispanic on the Supreme Court, and Peter Keisler, who ran
the Justice Department’s civil division.  Republicans blocked a vote on Elena Kagan after President
Bill Clinton nominated her to the D.C. Circuit when they
controlled the Senate in 1999. Obama appointed Kagan to the
Supreme Court in 2010.  At the June ceremony, Obama acknowledged that both parties
share blame for the political conflict over judicial nominees.  In 2007, then-Senator Obama joined two rivals for the 2008
Democratic presidential nomination -- Senators Joe Biden and
Hillary Clinton -- in supporting an unsuccessful filibuster
against one of Bush’s appellate court nominations.  Asked that day whether Republicans might use his vote
against his nominees if he became president, Obama said: “I
guarantee you, regardless of which way I voted, Republicans will
try to block judges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  