-- Kenya Expects to Resolve Somalia Maritime Border Dispute
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-10-30T16:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/kenya-expects-to-resolve-somalia-maritime-border-dispute.html
Kenya, East Africa’s largest
economy, expects to resolve a maritime border dispute with
Somalia to expand oil and gas exploration in the area.  Kenya lodged a claim with the  United Nations  for the
boundary to run parallel with lines of latitude in the  Indian
Ocean , said the energy ministry’s senior geologist Felix
Mutunguti. Somalia is ready to negotiate, said the country’s
National Resources Minister Abdirizak Omar Mohamed.  It should be a similar border as “with Tanzania to the
south coast,” Mutunguti said today in an interview in Nairobi.
“Our friends in Somalia may have contrary thoughts, but that is
in the process of being resolved.”  Kenya, which has attracted explorers including France’s
 Total SA (FP)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  of the U.S., is headed to
become the first oil exporter in East Africa. The dispute with
its unstable neighbor  has delayed  exploration, and could sour
relations and even lead to war, according to Kim Moss, a Perth,
Australia-based analyst at Future Directions International.  “It’s actually not a disputed area from our perspective,”
Mohamed said. “Somalia is ready to start dialogue with Kenya”
and “resolve it in a peaceful way.”  Kenya last year ended talks with Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  over
rights to explore the L25 Block in the Indian Ocean, which is
bordering  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s and Total’s acreage in the nation’s northern
waters. That permit along with L26 are open for bidding next
year, Mutunguti said.  Kenya this year created a security force to protect oil
exploration sites in the inland areas bordering Somalia and
Ethiopia. In September, Somalia-based Islamist group al-Shabaab
infiltrated the border and attacked the Westgate Mall in
Nairobi, killing at least 67 people.  “The subsurface is very, very appealing,” said Osman
Shahenshah, the chief executive officer at  Afren Plc (AFR) , whose
company has 80 percent in Kenyan  Block 1  bordering Somalia and
Ethiopia. “Obviously the postcode is challenging.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  