-- Keystone XL Review Hijacked by Activists TransCanada Says
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-30T15:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/keystone-xl-review-hijacked-by-activists-transcanada-says.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  chief executive
 Russ Girling  acknowledged that opponents of the Keystone XL
pipeline have slowed its approval, though he said his company
remains committed to the project.  “There’s no question that the noise outside is having an
influence on the process,” he said today, in an interview in
 Washington . “The project has been hijacked by activists that
are opposed to the development of all fossil fuels.”  Girling, who met with State Department officials about the
project yesterday, expressed frustration with the five-year
review by U.S. regulators, saying the process for evaluating
cross-border energy projects must change. He said he has stopped
giving the company’s investors an estimate of when the approval
process will be complete.  “I think we have exhausted everything that could possibly
be asked,” he said.  Still, he said TransCanada, which is based in Calgary,
would continue pushing to build the $5.3 billion link between
 Alberta ’s oil sands and refineries along the  Gulf Coast , even if
President  Barack Obama  eventually decides against approving the
route. He did not elaborate on what steps the company would take
if the project is rejected.  “Nobody is going to pack up their tent and leave,” he
said. “We will get through these hurdles. The marketplace will
determine whether these projects get done.”  Carbon Pollution  Obama made his last public comments about Keystone in June,
saying he would approve the remaining portion of the pipeline
only if it would not “significantly exacerbate the problem of
carbon pollution.”  Many environmentalists, including some of the president’s
biggest financial donors, have turned the project into a litmus
test on environmental issues. The decision, they argue, will set
the parameters of the energy debate for years to come and
determine Obama’s legacy on  climate change .  Even so, Girling said he viewed the president’s comments as
“positive,” saying that the pipeline would not increase oil
consumption and would displace carbon-intensive heavy crude from
 Venezuela  or elsewhere.  “The pipeline itself has no emissions and there’s no way
that building it will cause an increase in consumption,” he
said.  Accelerate Development  Keystone critics have been “very successful in creating the
impression that the pipeline equals emissions, which is what
this is all about,” Girling said. He likened the argument to
“suggesting that if we stop building roads people will stop
driving. They will just drive on bad roads.”  Opponents argue that the pipeline would increase  carbon
emissions  by accelerating the pace of oil sands development,
which releases more greenhouse gas emissions than the production
and refining of more conventional types of crude.  “ Tar sands  are the dirtiest fuel source of oil, and
Girling knows that investors will flock to Alberta if Keystone
is approved,” said Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, an
environmental group that has led much of the opposition to the
line. “So it’s not just about this pipeline but instead a
larger signal that the tar sands are open for business if
Keystone is approved.”  Previous pipelines built by the company took about two
years to be approved by U.S. authorities. The longer regulators
delay a decision on Keystone, said Girling, the more costs mount
for TransCanada.  $2 Billion  The company has $2 billion invested in the project already,
he said. Unused pumps sitting in warehouses and pipes laying on
the ground need to be maintained and labor agreements and
construction contracts are coming due for renegotiation.  “We have a very expensive and complicated process of
trying to manage a construction project that should have
finished by now,” he said. “It’s the whole value chain that’s
involved.”  The lower leg of the line from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the
Gulf Coast, which TransCanada started building earlier because
it didn’t require a presidential permit, is 85 percent complete
and on track to start transporting crude at the end of this
year, the company said. A lateral pipeline to Houston is
forecast to be online in 2014.  Harold Hamm , the chief executive of  Continental Resources
Inc. (CLR) , has said the northern leg of Keystone that’s now under
review is no longer needed with rail making up for a lack of
pipelines to carry oil from the Bakken Field in  North Dakota  to
markets to the east, west and south.  Asia Exports  Canadian oil producers should focus on exporting the
bitumen to  Asia  and elsewhere as domestic producers negate the
need for oil in the U.S., Hamm said at a Bloomberg energy
conference in Houston earlier this month.  The Oklahoma City-based Continental is the biggest owner of
drilling leases in the Bakken, and competes with  Canada ’s oil
sands producers among U.S. refiners.  Keystone would have the capacity to deliver 830,000 barrels
of crude a day, including 100,000 barrels reserved for U.S.
producers. Girling said  oil companies  operating in the U.S.
remain committed to the project, including Continental.  “We haven’t had any of our shippers drop their contracts
on our project,” Girling said. “In fact, we have folks that
still want to get on the pipeline. What you are hearing from
producers is we have to get on with our lives.”  Girling said there “wasn’t anything of material
significance” discussed during his meeting with State
Department yesterday. The agency has jurisdiction because the
project would cross an international border.  The company would try to address any concerns that may
arise, including safety improvements to reduce the risks of
spills, he said.  “We have no issue with adding additional features that
would allow us to be as safe as we possibly can,” he said.
“That is our primary objective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  