-- Kiwi Gains From Month Low on RBNZ; Aussie Halts Loss Before Data
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-30T21:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/kiwi-gains-from-month-low-on-rbnz-aussie-halts-loss-before-data.html
New Zealand’s currency rose from its
lowest level since September after the nation’s central bank
said it will probably increase benchmark interest rates from a
record low next year, boosting demand for its assets.  Gains in the currency were limited as Reserve Bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler said strength in the kiwi may give policy makers
flexibility on the timing and size of rate increases. The
Australian dollar halted a decline that took it to the weakest
in more than two weeks before reports that will probably show
building approvals and credit grew at a faster pace last month.  “The knee-jerk New Zealand dollar reaction has been to the
topside, but we wouldn’t be surprised to see this move reversed
in time,” said Mike Jones, a currency strategist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “The statement, particularly the
exchange-rate rhetoric, strongly hints at the possibility of a
delay in RBNZ tightening expectations.”  The New Zealand dollar traded at 82.67 U.S. cents as of
8:42 a.m. in Sydney, little changed from yesterday when it fell
as low as 81.93, the least since Sept. 17. It bought 81.44 yen
from 81.42 yesterday. The Aussie was little changed at 94.86
U.S. cents after yesterday touching 94.42, the least since Oct.
14. It was unchanged at 93.43 yen.  “Although we expect to keep the OCR unchanged in 2013,
increases will likely be required next year,” Wheeler said in a
statement after leaving the official cash rate at a record-low
2.5 percent. “Sustained strength in the exchange rate that
leads to lower inflationary pressure would provide the bank with
greater flexibility as to the timing and magnitude of future
increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  