-- Knicks Enter $1 Billion Arena With Anthony Considering Moving On
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/knicks-enter-1-billion-arena-with-anthony-considering-moving-on.html
Madison Square Garden (MSG)  will welcome
the New York Knicks tonight into an arena with premium seating
suspended from the roof, a pair of 600-square-foot video screens
at the entrance and 18 fully renovated luxury suites, the
results of a $1 billion makeover.  The team’s newest championship banner is now 40 years old.  The Knicks begin defending their first division title since
1994 against the Milwaukee Bucks, after their most marketable
player, National Basketball Association scoring champion Carmelo Anthony, said he planned to become a free agent after the
season. The Knicks need a player like him both on the court and
for the business plan, and with the  Brooklyn  Nets a potential
contender, Anthony’s future probably will become the underlying
story of the team’s season, said sports economist Andrew Zimbalist.  “With the Nets rising, the large investment in MSG and
the Knicks’ long drought, there’s never been a better time to
husband resources and make the plunge,” said Zimbalist, a
professor at Smith College in Northampton,  Massachusetts .  The basketball business of Madison Square Garden Co., which
owns the arena and the Knicks, has grown since the 29-year-old
Anthony arrived in 2011, according to John Tinker, a senior
media analyst for New York-based Maxim Group LLC. With Anthony
as the top scorer for one of the league’s marquee franchises,
the team has raised season ticket prices more than 50 percent
and television ratings have more than tripled. The three-year
arena renovation was privately funded.  “The Garden wasn’t even part of the conversation three
years ago,” Tinker said. “What Anthony did was make the Knicks
part of the conversation again.”  10th-Best  The Knicks have the 10th-best odds to win the 2014 NBA
title, according to online sportsbook  Bovada.lv . New York was
chosen by  75.9 percent  of NBA general managers to finish the
year behind the Nets, who play 6 miles (10 kilometers) away in
the one-year-old Barclays Center, which also cost $1 billion.  Jim Boeheim, who coached Anthony to a national title at
Syracuse University in 2003, said the former Final Four Most
Outstanding Player must focus on an NBA championship, even if it
means leaving New York. Anthony could win a title with the
Knicks if paired with a second star player, Boeheim said.  “Your legacy is tied to how many championships you’ve won,
and all the good free agents try to get to a place where they
can win a title,” he said last week in a telephone interview.
“I don’t think Carmelo can do it without that second guy, but
I’m not sure that anybody else can either.”  Last year Anthony scored a league-high 28.7 points a game
as the Knicks finished 54-28 and won the Atlantic Division. The
team earned the No. 2 seed in the playoffs, losing to the No. 3
Indiana Pacers in the Eastern Conference semifinals.  MVP Odds  This year, Anthony is a joint fourth favorite with 10-1
odds to win the league’s MVP award, according to Bovada, meaning
a $10 bet would win $100 plus the original investment. He’s 3-1
to repeat as scoring champion, trailing only Oklahoma City
Thunder forward Kevin Durant.  The team last season won its first postseason series in 13
years, and it came during the Nets’ inaugural season in the
Barclays Center. Brooklyn’s billionaire owner  Mikhail Prokhorov 
this offseason traded for All-Stars Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce, and Anthony said last month at the  Bloomberg Sports
Business Summit  that the Knicks will lose fans to the Nets in
Brooklyn, which with 2.5 million people is New York’s  most
populated  borough.  “There are some markets that definitely need elite
players,” Wayne McDonnell, an assistant professor of sports
management at New York University, said in a telephone
interview. “This is a market of stars, and New York suffered
for some time until Carmelo Anthony arrived.”  Resale Prices  Basketball fans in the city opened their wallets to see him
play. The Knicks have the highest average home resale listings
in the NBA at $320.92, according to ticket-aggregator TiqIQ.com.
That’s 56 percent higher than the team’s $206 average before his
arrival in February 2011.  Should Anthony choose free agency, he would join a 2014
free-agent class that might include eight of the last nine NBA
Finals Most Valuable Players. Five-time NBA champion Kobe Bryant
and 11-time All-Star Dirk Nowitzki are in the final years of
their contracts, and both LeBron James, a three-time league MVP,
and Dwyane Wade can opt out after this season.  While the Los Angeles Lakers have said they intend to re-sign Bryant, the 16-time NBA champions have enough free salary
space to make a move for Anthony. The Utah Jazz have the
smallest payroll committed to the 2014-15 season, at $7.1
million, followed by the Lakers at $12.7 million and
Philadelphia 76ers at $21.4 million, according to USA Today.  A comparable free-agent class three years ago resulted in
James, Wade and Chris Bosh teaming up in Miami, where the Heat
have been to three straight NBA Finals, winning the past two.  Heat Value  The Heat were valued at $364 million the season before
James’s arrival in 2010, 12th best in the league, according to
Forbes magazine. Over the course of the last three years the
team’s value increased 72 percent, almost double the league
average, to $625 million. The Knicks were ranked first at $1.1
billion; the Nets ninth at $530 million.  Knicks general manager Steve Mills said when he was hired
last month that he wants to keep Anthony in New York. Mills
declined in an e-mail to comment for this story.  Anthony has said that he needs a title to cement his NBA
legacy. When he announced on Oct. 17 that he would exercise the
early-termination option in his contract, he said he wouldn’t
think about free agency until after the current season.  “When that time comes during the offseason I will
definitely explore it,” Anthony said. “Does that mean I’m not
coming back to New York? Not at all.”  Maximum Contracts  The six-time All-Star is eligible for a five-year, $129
million contract if he stays. The most he could make elsewhere
under the league’s collective bargaining agreement is a four-year-deal worth $96 million.  “Carmelo is at a point right now where you’re about a
decade into your career and you’re going to have to look for
championships,” said McDonnell, of NYU. “He has the money, he
has the fame and accolades, but it’s the championship that will
really put him into the pantheon of NBA greatness.”  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  