-- Krone Strengthens as Olsen Signals Tolerance Over Housing Drop
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-30T11:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/krone-strengthens-as-olsen-signals-tolerance-over-housing-drop.html
Norway ’s krone climbed as the
country’s central bank governor signaled he would tolerate house
prices declines and amid signs the labor market and consumer
demand are picking up.  The economy can withstand house price declines “over a
longer period,” Governor Oeystein Olsen said yesterday in an
interview at his office in Oslo. “We’ll be concerned if housing
prices and debt levels continue to grow. It doesn’t have to be a
concern with a moderate downward reaction in housing prices.”  The krone rose as much as 0.5 percent against the euro to
8.069, the strongest level since Sept. 27. It was the biggest
gainer against both the dollar and the euro of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the South African rand.  Olsen’s comments suggest that “if we see a slight surprise
decreases in the housing market going forward, they will not cut
rates,” Katrine Boye, senior economist at Nordea Bank AB, said
by phone. “I still think that if we see prices dropping 1
percent on the month and more negative signs from the housing
market, they can still find it right to cut rates.”  Olsen signaled the central bank is placing greater focus on
the risk of overheating than on the threat of an economic
slowdown. Reports showed today that retail sales rose 0.7
percent in September, beating an estimate for a 0.5 percent gain
in a Bloomberg survey. Unemployment slid to 3.5 percent in
August, compared with a 3.6 percent estimate.  House Prices  House price growth slowed to 2.6 percent in September, the
smallest increase since June 2009, according to a monthly report
by real estate brokers. A central bank survey released this
month showed banks saw less credit demand from households in the
third quarter with demand even seen dropping this quarter.  Olsen signaled the bank is ready to tolerate sustained
house price declines in response to Norway’s financial
imbalances. The  public  should be “prepared” for a “downward
reaction” in house prices, he said.  “It’s important to realize, especially for households,
there could be a reaction downwards in prices over a longer
period without the economy entering into a recession,” Olsen
said. “Even a drop on a yearly basis on house prices doesn’t
have to spur any chain of negative impulses throughout the
Norwegian economy.”  Growth in Norway’s $500 billion economy has slowed as
record household debt burdens curb demand and after persistent
krone appreciation last year hurt exports. Mainland gross
domestic product, which excludes oil and gas production, will
expand 1.75 percent this year, the bank forecast in September.
In 2012, GDP by that measure grew by 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  