-- N.Y. Republicans Seek to Block Corruption Panel Subpoena
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-10-30T19:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/n-y-republicans-seek-to-block-corruption-panel-subpoena.html
The New York State Senate Republican
Campaign Committee asked a court to block a subpoena issued by a
commission that Governor  Andrew Cuomo  formed to investigate
public corruption.  The subpoena, served in September at the request of the
Moreland Commission, calls for the committee to produce
documents by today, according to court papers filed yesterday in
state court in  Manhattan . In its filing, the campaign committee
challenged the document requests and said the commission’s
action “suggests partisan bias.”  “The sweepingly broad subpoena would compel disclosure of
the committee’s most sensitive internal political
communications, in violation of its right to free speech and
political association,”  Michael Chertoff , the attorney for the
Republicans, said in a statement e-mailed today.  The commission also has sent subpoenas to the state
 Democratic Party , the company it used to place television
advertisements, Buying Time LLC, and housekeeping accounts for
all parties, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
requested anonymity because specific decisions of the panel are
private.  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, formed the commission in
July after failing to strike a deal with lawmakers on a package
of anti-corruption legislation. Since then, both the senate and
the assembly refused to turn over information the commission
requested on a voluntary basis regarding the clients and
compensation of legislators who earn more than $20,000 a year in
nongovernment jobs. The subpoenas followed their refusal.  On-Time Budgets  The friction between the governor and the legislature is a
break in the relationship that helped Cuomo pass the first three
consecutive on-time budgets since 1984, a law legalizing same-sex marriage, and a mix of tax increases for the state’s
wealthiest residents and cuts for the middle class.  The shift in the relationship started after two state
senators and an assemblyman, all Democrats from the  New York 
City area, were arrested in April and May. Cuomo said the cases
showed more needed to be done to take on corruption and proposed
measures that would have made it easier for local prosecutors to
target corrupt officials and boosted the investigative powers of
the state board of elections.  Moreland Act  When Cuomo couldn’t strike a deal on the legislation, he
created the 25-member commission, which is allowed under the
Moreland Act of 1907. The law gives a New York governor broad
investigative powers. Every member of the commission appointed
by Cuomo was deputized by state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman so they could have enhanced investigatory powers to
dig through campaign-finance filings and lawmakers’ interactions
with state agencies.  The power granted by Schneiderman established the grounds
for the commission to pursue the information demanded in the
subpoenas sent to the Republican campaign, according to the
panel’s three co-chairmen -- Kathleen Rice, the Democratic
Nassau County district attorney;  William Fitzpatrick , the
Republican Onondaga County district attorney; and Milton
Williams Jr., a partner in the New York law firm Vladeck,
Waldman, Elias & Engelhard PC.  “We had hoped the Senate Republicans would willingly
cooperate and they did not,” the co-chairmen said in an e-mailed statement. “We will prevail in court.”  The case is New York State Senate Republican Campaign
Committee v. Commission to Investigate Public Corruption,
159965/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  