-- New Mountain Said to Get More Than $1 Billion for Buyouts
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-10-30T15:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/new-mountain-said-to-get-more-than-1-billion-for-buyouts.html
New Mountain Capital LLC, the
private-equity firm founded by a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
executive, has raised more than $1 billion for its latest buyout
fund, said three people familiar with the matter.  New Mountain Partners IV LP, which has a $3 billion goal,
can gather a maximum of $5 billion, according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  The firm, which sent out marketing documents for the fund
in November, is gathering money in a competitive climate as some
limited partners cut back on the number of managers they use. A
record 1,990 private-equity funds were seeking a combined $721
billion as of the start of October, according to London-based
research provider Preqin Ltd.  David Coquillette, a managing director at New York-based
New Mountain, declined to comment on the capital raising.  The firm’s prior fund raised more than $5.1 billion and
began investing in August 2007. It made the bulk of its deals
from 2010 to 2012 and so has yet to begin generating returns
from many of them, said two of the people.  New Mountain Partners III LP was generating a multiple of
1.2 times invested capital and an 8.5 percent net internal rate
of return as of June 30, according to performance data from
Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund. The second fund was
producing a multiple of 2 and a return rate of 14 percent as of
the same date. The firm raised $1.55 billion for Fund II, which
started investing in January 2005.  Deltek Exit  New Mountain last year sold Deltek Inc., a provider of
computer software for government contractors, to private-equity
firm Thoma Bravo LLC in a $1.1 billion deal.  Earlier this year, New Mountain managing director Alok Singh departed to help start private-equity firm Bridge Growth
Partners LLC. He is the only investment professional on a staff
of 60 to ever leave New Mountain, said one of the people.  New Mountain typically purchases three to four middle-market companies a year, investing $100 million to $500 million
in each deal, according to the firm’s website. Steven Klinsky, a
co-founder of Goldman Sachs’s leveraged-buyout group in the
1980s, started New Mountain in 1999 and the firm began investing
in January 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Rossa at 
 jrossa@bloomberg.net  