-- New York City Council Raises Legal Age for Tobacco to 21
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/new-york-city-council-raises-legal-age-for-tobacco-to-21.html
New York ’s City Council voted to
raise the legal age to buy tobacco products and electronic
cigarettes to 21 from 18, to keep young people from smoking.  The change would make New York the first major U.S. city to
raise the minimum age to 21 to buy cigarettes and related items,
according to a council statement. It also passed measures
yesterday to set a $10.50 minimum price for a pack of 20
cigarettes or little cigars, ban discounting of tobacco products
and increase fines for illegal and untaxed sales.  “This legislation will reduce smoking rates among  New
Yorkers  -- especially young New Yorkers -- sparing them years of
nicotine addiction and health problems,” City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn, a Democrat, said in the statement.  The council’s move complements efforts by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  to curb smoking. The mayor, a political independent
and the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP, has worked with the council to raise tobacco taxes
and make restaurants and bars smoke-free.  “By increasing the smoking age to 21 we will help prevent
another generation from the ill health and shorter life
expectancy that comes with smoking,” Bloomberg said in a
statement following the vote. “It’s critical that we stop young
people from smoking before they ever start.”  Young Smokers  New York’s youth smoking rate has remained at 8.5 percent
since 2007, and 20,000 public-high school students use
cigarettes, Quinn said in April when she proposed the measure.
By one estimate, raising the purchase age to 21 will reduce
smoking among those 18 to 20 years old by as much as 55 percent,
said Quinn, who ran unsuccessfully for her party’s nomination to
succeed Bloomberg as mayor next year.  More than 80 percent of the city’s adult smokers start
before age 21, according to Health Commissioner Thomas Farley.
New York, with about 8.3 million residents, is the largest
metropolis in the U.S.  Setting $10.50 minimum prices for packs of cigarettes and
little cigars won’t stop young people from smoking and will
instead drive consumers to illegal sellers, a retailer group
said. A group of convenience-store operators said the new rules
would lead to fewer jobs.  “ Mayor Bloomberg  and the New York City Council could be
feeding our businesses to the black marketeers who sell tobacco
products illegally at lower prices,” Thomas Briant, executive
director of the National Association of Tobacco Outlets, said in
a statement.  Penalties for selling to people under 21 include fines of
as much as $2,000 for a second offense and license revocation
for repeat offenders, the council said.  E-Cigarettes Defined  The measure defines electronic cigarettes, or e-cigarettes,
as battery-operated devices that contain nicotine and deliver
vapor to be inhaled.  Global e-cigarette sales are projected to double to $3.5
billion this year, from $1.5 billion last year, based on
Euromonitor International data.  Demand for the vapor-emitting tubes is increasing on rising
retail tobacco prices and growing restrictions on how cigarettes
are marketed, according to Bloomberg Industries. It said U.S.
cigarette sales fell 1.2 percent in the 52 weeks through mid-October, compared with the same period a year earlier.  The legal age to buy tobacco is 21 in the Boston suburb of
Needham and is poised to rise to that level next year in nearby
Canton, the  Associated Press  said. It said  New Jersey  is
considering a similar measure to the one passed in New York, as
is  Hawaii .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  