-- New IPad Is Slimmed Down, Speeded Up: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-10-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/new-ipad-is-slimmed-down-speeded-up-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Apple (AAPL)  calls the latest version of
its full-sized tablet the  iPad Air , which is a better name than
“iPad Semi Mini.”  But that might be a more apt description of the new iPad,
whose thinness and feather weight evoke its smaller sibling, the
iPad mini.  I’ve been using the iPad Air, which goes on sale Nov. 1,
for a week now, and it’s hands-down the best tablet on the
market. Apple has recrafted the hardware and packed in new
software and services that make it more useful for creating
content, not just consuming it.  Of course, it needs to deliver a lot to justify its premium
price. The Air starts at $499 for a model with 16 gigabytes of
storage and a Wi-Fi-only Internet connection; from there, it
escalates in a vast array of configurations, finally topping out
at $929 for 128 GB and 4G LTE service.  Compared with the model it replaces, the most obvious
changes are physical. The screen is the same 9.7 inches, but at
just one pound, the Air is 28 percent lighter. In fact, it’s now
just five ounces more than the latest  iPad mini , which grew
marginally heavier to accommodate a bigger battery. (I’ll look
at the mini in a later column.)  Three Nickels  The Air is also slimmer, both side-to-side -- the bezels
have been sliced by about a third of an inch each -- and front-to-back. It’s now a mere .29 inches thick, a little more than
three nickels. Yet its aluminum-and-glass construction makes it
feel far more solid than competing devices from  Samsung (005930) , for
instance.  Apple says the Air is the lightest full-size tablet on the
market, but that depends on your definition of “full-size.”
 Amazon.com (AMZN)  immediately  disputed  the claim, though its Kindle
Fire HDX has a considerably smaller screen.  Suffice it to say that the iPad, which had grown relatively
portly compared to newer Android offerings like  Sony (6758) ’s Xperia
Tablet Z, is now fully competitive, and then some.  Meanwhile, the Air maintains its wide lead in both the
number of tablet-specific apps available -- 475,000 -- and in
their quality. And Apple is upping the iPad’s value proposition
by making its iWorks productivity and iLife creativity apps free
to purchasers of new devices.  Office Work  The touch-screen-optimized productivity apps, which include
a word processor, spreadsheet and presentation software, are a
shot across the bow of  Microsoft. (MSFT)  The company has been working
on an iPad version of its Office software but has so far
released only a limited, disappointing iPhone app.  The Apple apps work the way Office should. Using Pages, the
equivalent of Microsoft Word, I was able to create and edit a
document that I saved to Apple’s iCloud service and opened on a
Mac.  I also shared it with a non-Apple-using colleague. By
clicking on a link, he opened the document in his browser, using
a Web-based version of Pages to make changes I could immediately
see on the iPad.  You can do stuff like this on Microsoft-powered devices too
-- but it costs you $100 a year for the subscription version of
Office. Here, it’s free, as are the latest versions of iPhoto
and iMovie.  The brain of the iPad Air is the same Apple-designed 64-bit
A7 chip that made its debut on the iPhone 5s. As on the 5s,
there aren’t many apps beyond a few games that tap into that
increased processing power, though that may change over time.  Speed Boost  Users who connect over Wi-Fi, on the other hand, will see
an immediate impact from the Air’s dual antennas and updated
wireless technology.  In side-by-side tests over the same Wi-Fi network with a
third-generation iPad, the Air was faster at downloading and
rendering pages, every time. It was also consistently faster
than Microsoft’s new Surface 2, the Kindle Fire HDX and  Google (GOOG) ’s
Nexus 7.  Apple says the A7 chip and a new motion-detecting
coprocessor also help the Air last for 10 hours between charges,
the same as its predecessor, despite having a smaller battery.
My experience suggests the claim is, if anything, conservative.  I actually grew impatient trying to exhaust the battery in
my tests; you should get a lot more than a full day of normal
use on a charge.  The iPad Air retains the same 2,048-by-1,536 pixel Retina
display of previous models. On a strictly by-the-numbers basis,
the display -- so dazzling when it debuted -- has been passed by
the likes of Google and Samsung. Since the human eye can’t
really distinguish between 264 pixels per inch and 300, you’re
not likely to have any complaints about the screen.  Missing Feature  One thing that’s not here that should be is Touch ID, the
fingerprint sensor on the latest iPhone. Apple won’t say why it
was left out, but it’s arguably even more important on a larger
device, which may be used to access more sensitive personal
information. I expect to see it on future iPads, and will be
glad when it shows up.  Not that long ago, the iPad so dominated the tablet market
that it would have been unthinkable to buy something else. With
the rise of quality tablets from Google, Amazon and others, it’s
no longer the only choice. But it’s still the best choice.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  Dining   and Zinta
Lundborg on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net . Follow on Twitter @RichJaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 