-- Tobacco-Bond Woes Seen as Chicago Seeks Highest Tax: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/tobacco-bond-woes-seen-as-chicago-seeks-highest-tax-muni-credit.html
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel ’s plan to make
Chicago cigarette taxes the nation’s highest is the latest blow
to tobacco bonds, the weakest revenue-backed municipal debt of
the past three months.  Buffeted by tax increases, stricter regulation and e-cigarettes that deliver nicotine without smoke, the securities
have earned about 0.1 percent since the end of July. That’s less
than the broad market’s 1.4 percent gain and the weakest of 11
types of revenue bonds tracked by Barclays Plc. Tobacco
obligations from  New York  to  California  have trailed the $3.7
trillion municipal universe, with yield spreads reaching the
widest since February.  Emanuel this month proposed raising the cigarette tax by 75
cents in the third-most-populous U.S. city, which faces a budget
deficit of $339 million. The 50 percent increase, to $7.42 per
pack, would move  Chicago  ahead of New York as the U.S.
metropolis with the steepest cigarette taxes. Higher levies can
curb sales, reducing the payments that states get from  tobacco
companies  and use to back securities.  Tobacco bonds were bought and sold “with the assumption
that consumption was inelastic,” said Jim Schwartz, head of
muni research at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which oversees
about $108 billion in local debt. Investors “never expected
this level of taxes,” he said.  ‘Sin Taxes’  Some localities mending their finances after the 18-month
recession that ended in 2009 have turned to levies dubbed sin
taxes, on sources such as cigarettes, alcohol and gambling. U.S.
cities project their first revenue increase since 2006,
according to the Washington-based  National League of Cities .  Under a 1998 national settlement,  Philip Morris USA ,
 Lorillard Inc. (LO)  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  agreed to make annual
payments to states in perpetuity to resolve liabilities for
health-care costs. Some states and cities borrowed against the
payments, which are based on cigarette shipments. Localities
have sold about $97 billion of the securities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Most tobacco bonds assessed by rating companies are graded
junk. Speculative tobacco debt has lost about 10 percent this
year, second-worst among 13 high-yield segments of the market,
Barclays data show.  Defaults Predicted  In July 2012, Moody’s Investors Service projected almost 
three-quarters of the $20.4 billion in tobacco bonds it 
grades will default if consumption declines as much as 4 percent 
annually.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates a 10 percent
increase in cigarette prices will reduce smoking by at least 3
percent. U.S. cigarette shipments have averaged annual declines
of about 4 percent since 1997, according to Richard Larkin,
director of credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Co.  “Consumption continues to decline, and these bonds are
only secured by domestic cigarette consumption,” said Tom Metzold, co-director of muni investments in  Boston  at Eaton
Vance Management, which oversees about $28 billion in local
debt. He said he emptied his company’s national muni fund of
tobacco bonds.  “There will be bonds that default over the next five to 10
years. There’s no question about it,” Metzold said.  Yield Elevation  Tobacco bonds from coast to coast traded this month at
levels that show investors’ concern.  Tax-exempt debt issued by New York’s TSASC Inc., an entity
set up to sell the tobacco bonds, and maturing in June 2034
traded Oct. 15 at an average yield of 9.49 percent, Bloomberg
data show. For top earners, that’s equivalent to a 15.7 percent
taxable interest rate. In comparison, junk-grade company debt of
a similar maturity yields about 7.1 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Similarly, relative borrowing costs have risen on tax-free
securities due in June 2047 from California’s Golden State
Tobacco Securitization Corp. The debt traded with a yield that
was 3.91 percentage points above benchmark munis Oct. 10, the
widest gap since at least February.  Citigroup Inc. strategists, including  George Friedlander 
and Vikram Rai, said in an Oct. 25 report that tobacco bonds
were “hit especially hard” in this year’s muni selloff because
of changes to the industry. That presents “an attractive
opportunity,” they said.  Payment Faith  The outlook isn’t all bleak for bondholders. Companies’
payments to states rise by at least 3 percent a year to account
for inflation, which has helped offset cutbacks in smoking, said
Alan Schankel, managing director at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia.  Even though issuers may fail to make timely debt-service
payments, bondholders will eventually be repaid because the cash
flows have no end date, Schankel said.  In Chicago, the proposal would boost the cost of a pack of
Marlboros at a south Loop convenience store to $12.70 from
$11.95. The city already has an  ordinance  banning smoking in
almost all enclosed public places and prohibits lighting up
within 15 feet (4.6 meters) of their entrance.  The mayor’s budget projects $25.9 million from the tax in
2014, up from $16.5 million this year, according to Kelley
Quinn, his spokeswoman. Revenue from the increase would go
toward enrolling 15,000 public-school students in Medicaid,
Emanuel said in an Oct. 23 presentation.  The city council has to approve the plan, which is part of
the mayor’s budget proposal. It would take effect Jan. 1.  E-Cigarettes  Smoking bans such as Chicago’s have helped spur consumption
of e-cigarettes, which emit  water vapor  instead of smoke,
allowing them where traditional cigarettes are prohibited.  Fitch Ratings  said in September that e-cigarette use may
increase as much as 50 percent in the next year. Bloomberg
Industries projects global e-cigarette purchases could surpass
traditional cigarette sales by 2040.  “It’s a risk that was never modeled in,” said BlackRock’s
Schwartz.  In the municipal market this week, issuers from  Connecticut 
to  Arizona  are set to offer about $4.6 billion in long-term debt
with benchmark yields at a four-month low.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.66 percent , the
lowest since June 21, Bloomberg data show. That compares with
 2.5 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 106 percent, compared with an average of 94 percent since
2001. It has been above 100 percent since June 24. The higher
the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal
securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Hawaii plans to sell about $852 million in general-obligation bonds next week, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will
refinance debt and pay for projects authorized by lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  