-- Obama’s Foolish Promise About Obamacare
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-30T23:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/obama-s-foolish-promise-about-obamacare.html
Americans are beginning to realize
that under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, many
people will in fact not be able to keep their current insurance
plans. That reflects poorly on President  Barack Obama . But it
doesn’t necessarily reflect badly on Obamacare.  First things first: Obama had no business promising,  as he
did repeatedly , that people who like their insurance would be
able to keep it under the new law. The reality is that the
federal government doesn’t have the power to prevent insurers
from canceling or changing the plans they offer, and the law
doesn’t empower it to do so.  So Obama made a foolish promise he couldn’t possibly keep.
Insofar as that argument was used to attract and justify support
for the law, he undermined the political legitimacy of his
signature achievement.  It may be too much to expect Obama to admit as much, and he
didn’t in  remarks he made  in  Boston , instead reiterating the
benefits of the new law. Better if he had explained what he
failed to make clear three years ago: Moving some people off
their current plans in the individual insurance market, which is
how about 11 million people get their health coverage, isn’t
some unfortunate side effect of Obamacare. It’s part of the
point.  The law sets minimum requirements for insurance plans. They
must cover benefits such as maternity care and mental health
care, for example, and provide preventive care without
copayments. Insurance companies cannot deny coverage or charge
more because of a pre-existing condition.  The lack of such requirements is essentially what allowed
insurers in the individual market to offer the cheap plans that
are now being canceled. Plans that already existed when the law
was passed were protected -- but only so long as they didn’t
contain significant changes.  Obamacare was designed to take that thicket of individual
plans with variable costs and benefits and replace it with a
smaller range of uniform products that people can compare on an
apples-to-apples basis. The cost of insurance for many people
will go up as their coverage improves, which is why the law
includes premium subsidies for those who need them.  In other words, the individual market under Obamacare was
always going to look dramatically different from what came
before it. If it didn’t, the law wouldn’t work. It is no
surprise that some people who bought individual insurance are
now seeing their policies canceled. The surprise -- check that,
the outrage -- is that the problems of HealthCare.gov are
preventing them from shopping for other plans.  The benefits of reshaping the individual insurance market
don’t excuse Obama for making a promise he couldn’t keep. At the
same time, the fact that he misled the public doesn’t mean that
the change now under way isn’t a good one.  At any rate, the real promise of Obamacare has always been
as much about systemic change as individual coverage -- that is,
making a health-care system that is more effective, efficient
and inclusive. If it works as planned, the Affordable Care Act
will help millions of people get health insurance, and it will
make that insurance more affordable for millions who already
have it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 