-- Obama Says Exchanges Will Get Fixed, Defends Health Law
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-10-30T21:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/obama-says-exchanges-will-get-fixed-defends-health-law.html
President  Barack Obama  took “full
responsibility” for fixing the flawed U.S. health insurance
exchange, while telling a Massachusetts audience that the
state’s experience with its health-care law portends eventual
success for the federal version.  Obama spoke in Boston as his 2010 health-care law is under
sustained criticism from Republicans and on the same day that
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  apologized
at a House hearing for the “debacle” of the failed opening of
the online exchange that’s a central part of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.  “This is the hall where seven years ago Democrats and
Republicans came together” to overhaul the state’s health-care
system, Obama said at Faneuil Hall, where then-Governor  Mitt Romney , a Republican who challenged Obama in the 2012
presidential campaign, signed the Massachusetts measure into
law. “It worked.”  The flawed debut of the exchanges where uninsured Americans
can shop for coverage and the prospect of millions of people
being thrown off existing plans have tarnished Obama’s signature
first-term legislative achievement and threaten to overwhelm his
second-term agenda.  “There’s no denying right now the website is too slow,”
the president said. “I take full responsibility for making sure
it gets fixed ASAP.”  State Challenges  Obama acknowledged today that some people will have to pay
more for medical coverage and said that Massachusetts faced
challenges similar to those confronting the national effort. He
said there was slow initial enrollment when the state law took
effect and that the “parade of horribles” -- predictions that
companies would drop coverage and that the cost of care would
shoot up -- didn’t come to pass.  On a conference call organized by the White House, David Simas, an Obama communications adviser, said the “arc of
enrollment” for insurance under the  Massachusetts  law started
slowly and accelerated toward the end.  The Massachusetts experience “really does serve as the
blueprint for the Affordable Care Act,” Simas said.  Romney, who campaigned in 2012 on a promise to roll back
the law known as Obamacare, said in a statement today that the
Democratic president didn’t learn the right lessons from
Massachusetts.  Romney Reaction  “Health reform is best crafted by states with bipartisan
support and input from its employers, as we did, without raising
taxes, and by carefully phasing it in to avoid the type of
disruptions we are seeing nationally,” he said in the statement
posted to his Facebook page.  When Romney signed the state law, he was joined by the late
Senator Edward Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who had
championed universal health care for years.  Obama said a major
part of the state law’s success was the bipartisan support it
got from passage through implementation.  The federal law received no Republican support when it
passed and  House Republicans  have voted more than 40 times to
repeal the measure since it was enacted. Some Republican
governors have balked at installing its central elements,
including federally subsidized Medicaid expansions to help the
poorest individuals obtain care and setting up state online
exchanges where consumers can purchase insurance.  “Americans would be better off” if the law’s opponents
put as much energy into making it work as they have into setting
up hurdles, Obama said.  Federal ‘Debacle’  The federal exchange serves 36 states that don’t have their
own. Since opening Oct. 1 at the start of a six-month open
enrollment period,  the website  has been plagued by delays, error
messages and hang-ups that have prevented many customers from
completing applications.  “No one ever imagined the volume of issues that we have,
and we must fix it,” Sebelius said earlier today at a hearing
of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. She said she is
“accountable for the debacle. I’m responsible.”  While Republicans have called for her to be fired, Obama
“has complete confidence in Secretary Sebelius,”  Josh Earnest ,
a White House spokesman, told reporters traveling with the
president.  In addition, the start of the law is leading to the
cancellation of hundreds of thousands of health insurance plans
nationwide, contradicting Obama’s repeated pledge that people
who like their coverage can keep it.  While in Boston, Obama also will speak at a fundraiser for
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the fifth he’s
done for the committee for the 2014 midterm elections. Obama
will speak at a DCCC event at the home of Alan D. Solomont and
Susan Lewis Solomont. Alan Solomont, an Obama campaign bundler,
served as ambassador to Spain and  Andorra  until August.  The event, complete with Spanish food and Red Sox cookies,
was to draw about 60 guests, including documentarian Ken Burns.
Tickets range from $16,200 to $32,400 per person, according to
the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Boston  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  