-- Batista Repudiates Pimco-Led Creditors in OGX Bankruptcy
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-31T13:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/ogx-bankruptcy-filing-caps-batista-s-30-billion-demise.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA (OGXP3) ’s  bankruptcy protection  filing in Latin America’s largest
corporate default is dimming the prospect holders of the world’s
worst-performing bonds will recoup their ill-fated investment in
 Eike Batista ’s oil ambitions.  OGX, which transformed Batista into Brazil’s richest man,
submitted documents in a Rio de Janeiro court yesterday,
culminating a 16-month decline that wiped out more than $30
billion of his fortune and left holders of $3.6 billion of the
company’s bonds with losses of as much as 89 percent. OGX has
total obligations of 11.2 billion reais ($5.1 billion).  The move marks the latest chapter in Batista’s demise as
poster child for Brazilian entrepreneurialism. First, the Rio
businessman raised billions of dollars in equity markets to fund
OGX’s drilling program and other commodities startups. He then
tapped debt markets, gaining bond investors including  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co. When some of the
deposits he’d valued at $1 trillion turned out to be duds, OGX
lost 98 percent of its value and ran out of cash.  “You have to assume bondholders are at the bottom of the
cash waterfall,” Omar Zeolla, a corporate credit analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said in a telephone interview in  New York .
“The problem now is the time it might take.”  Failed Talks  The bankruptcy protection process will put $3.6 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds into default. The 2018 notes plunged
89.6 cents this year and are the worst-performing notes globally
with more than $500 million outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s $1.06 billion of 2022 notes
have fallen 75.6 cents on the dollar in the period.  Michael Reid, a spokesman for  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, and Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman at BlackRock in
New York, declined to comment. An official at OGX’s press
office, who isn’t an authorized spokesperson, also declined to
comment on the court proceedings.  Yesterday’s filing, called a judicial recovery in Brazil,
follows months of negotiations as OGX sought debt relief from
its creditors. OGX wanted to convert debt into equity and obtain
as much as $500 million in new funds. OGX said Oct. 29 that the
talks concluded without an agreement. The company’s cash
dwindled to about $82 million at the end of September, not
enough to sustain operations past December.  Restructuring talks were complicated by OGX’s cash burn and
need to fund testing of its most promising oil field, Tubarao
Martelo.  Missed Payment  The  oil company  missed a $45 million payment on Oct. 1,
prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to assign a default rating to $1
billion of bonds. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
are giving OGX the 30-day grace period before calling a default.
That period expires today.  Hours before filing for bankruptcy protection, OGX sold its
only producing asset, reducing the money bondholders and other
creditors could recoup if the company’s assets are sold in a
liquidation, according to Oppenheimer’s Zeolla.  While Batista is yet to decide, his shipbuilding company
 OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  probably will also seek protection against
creditors, said a person with direct knowledge of the plans.  By filing for bankruptcy protection, OGX risks having the
country’s oil regulator revoke its 30 oil and natural gas
licenses in Brazil, according to Sao Paulo-based TozziniFreire
Advogados, a  law firm  that has clients in the oil industry.  Reserves-auditing firm DeGolyer & MacNaughton said Oct. 3
that Tubarao Martelo may hold at most 108.5 million barrels of
crude, less than half OGX’s estimate last year of 285 million.
The field is worth $439 million assuming a long-term oil price
of $95 a barrel, Bruno Montanari, an analyst at Morgan Stanley,
said in a report dated Oct. 3.  Celpa Lessons  Bondholders of OGX hired Rothschild Inc. in August to
advise on restructuring talks, while OGX enlisted  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ,  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Sao Paulo-based Angra Partners as
advisers. Creditors of shipbuilder OSX hired law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP in preparation for the restructuring of $500
million in bonds, two people briefed on the arrangements said
Sept. 9.  The bankruptcy of  Centrais Eletricas do Para SA , or Celpa,
provides an example of how difficult it is for bondholders to
recover their investments in a Brazilian court, Jason Brady, who
helps oversee $89 billion at Thornburg Investment Management
Inc., said before OGX filed for bankruptcy.  Celpa, the largest power distributor in Brazil’s remote
Amazon region, sought relief from creditors in February 2012,
after fixed utility rates reduced earnings and debt surged.
Bondholders received compensation of 17.5 cents on the dollar
after the company was sold to Equatorial Energia SA.  Gold Mine  “In the case of Celpa, the acquirer could offer better
terms to the bondholder as the company continues to exist and
thus there will be future cash flow generation,” Marco Aurelio de Sa, the head of fixed-income trading at  Credit Agricole ’s
Miami brokerage, said by e-mail before the announcement. “In
the case of OGX, the recovery rate will depend on whether or not
the company will continue to exist.”  Batista, 56, started with a gold mine after returning to
his native Brazil from Europe in the early 1980s. Riding a wave
of investor appetite for commodities in the past decade, he
listed six energy, mining and logistics startups since 2006 at
the same time as advancing private projects from a Chinese
restaurant in Rio to a semiconductors venture.  By March of last year he’d amassed a $34.5 billion fortune,
the world’s eighth biggest.  Scaling Back  After losing investors’ confidence with deepening losses
and missed targets, Batista has been trying to keep his empire
afloat by selling pieces of his companies and shrinking
operations. EBX Group Co., Batista’s holding company, is moving
out of its headquarters, a 23-story art deco building in
downtown Rio, into smaller offices in Brazil’s second-largest
city, two people with knowledge of the move said Oct. 2.  OGX has about 11.2 billion reais in debt mainly with
bondholders and suppliers, according to a copy of the bankruptcy
petition obtained by  Bloomberg News . The company doesn’t have
debt with banks or any back taxes and its labor claims are
minimal, it said in the filing.  OGX was the centerpiece of the group with a market value
that surpassed established producers including Repsol SA during
its exploration period. Batista has struggled to save his empire
since mid-2012, when OGX began missing targets. On Aug. 15, the
company posted a record loss of 4.7 billion reais for the second
quarter and last generated a quarterly profit three years
earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Benchmark Exit  Shares of OGX, which Batista founded in 2007, lost 96
 percent  in the past 12 months, the  worst-performing  stock among
73 members of the Brazilian benchmark Ibovespa after investors
sold shares on missed output targets. The stock will leave the
benchmark Ibovespa tomorrow, the Brazilian exchange operator
said in a statement.  Batista asked bondholders to convert $3.6 billion of debt
into OGX stock, ceding control of the company and diluting
existing shareholders to 10 percent of the stock, according to a
September presentation posted on the company’s website Oct. 29.
OGX released the presentations as part of an arrangement with
bondholders after the failure of the restructuring talks.  Claims from suppliers amount to $546 million and OGX has
delayed payments to sister company OSX. The unsecured creditors
including bondholders and suppliers may be entitled to between
$5.1 billion to $6.8 billion in payments, OGX said in a
September presentation made by advisers Blackstone to note
holders released as part of the negotiations.  CEO Turnover  OGX said Oct. 15 it fired Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro amid negotiations with bondholders. Carneiro, who was
replaced by Paulo Narcelio Simoes Amaral as OGX’s fourth CEO in
18 months, said in September that bankruptcy proceedings were a
possibility and that Batista could lose control.  OGX, whose market value peaked at 75.2 billion reais in
October 2010 without producing a barrel of oil, plummeted below
1 billion reais.  As of June 30, the last quarterly result reported by OGX,
the company had 721.7 million reais in cash and total debt of
8.7 billion reais, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. An
OGX default would be the region’s biggest, according to Moody’s.  “The day to day of the company continues full speed,”
Sergio Bermudes, a lawyer representing Batista, said by
telephone yesterday. “Obviously it will look to give more
energy to its businesses and seek alternatives to reach a
solution to its momentary difficulties.”  Shipbuilder OSX didn’t request protection, Bermudes said.  Project Selectiveness  “When you increase your chips on the table too much, you
can win or you can lose, he lost,” Marcelo Mesquita, who
manages 700 million reais as founding partner of  Leblon Equities (LEBLONG) 
in Rio, said by telephone. “After this entrepreneurs will have
more difficulties with startups and selectiveness of projects
will increase.”  The tycoon lost his title of Brazil’s richest in November
and ceased to be a billionaire in July after  Abu Dhabi ’s
Mubadala Development Co. converted an investment in Batista’s
EBX into debt. The net worth of Batista, who until early 2012
was vowing to become the world’s richest person, fell below zero
earlier this year as his companies’ stock prices plunged,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  OGX, which counted  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  as one of
its early backers, raised a record 6.7 billion reais in Brazil’s
biggest initial public offering in 2008. The company targeted
annual production of 18 million barrels of oil by 2013, or
almost 50,000 barrels a day, according to its prospectus.  Shut Wells  OGX didn’t  produce  any oil in September after it shut all
three wells at the Tubarao Azul field on pump failures. It
produced 2.1 million cubic meters of natural gas per day,
equivalent to 13,200 barrels per day, from the stake of its
fields in northeastern Brazil’s Parnaiba Basin. OSX is preparing
to remove a production vessel from the Tubarao Azul offshore
field after missed payments, it said on Oct. 29.  Batista said in an April 2010 video  interview  with
brokerage XP Investimentos CCTVM SA that he was seeking to sell
a 20 percent stake of OGX to improve valuation and visibility.  “We discovered a new oil province in Brazil, OK?” he said
then. “OGX has now $1 trillion in oil value, oil in shallow
waters that will have $8 lifting cost” a barrel.  While a deal didn’t transpire then, earlier this year OGX
agreed to sell a 40 percent stake in two Brazilian blocks for
$850 million to Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas.  Petronas Deal  The transaction was suspended after the dismissal of CEO
Carneiro, newspaper Valor Economico said yesterday, without
saying where it obtained the information. The two companies
probably will enter into arbitration proceedings to resolve the
issue, OGX said today in a regulatory filing. Petronas spokesman
Azman Ibrahim declined to comment on the deal status or the
impact of OGX’s bankruptcy filing.  In a bid to keep his commodities group afloat, Batista in
August hired private-equity and consulting firm Angra Partners
to oversee a reorganization of EBX along with  Grupo BTG Pactual. (BBTG11)   OGX is the biggest bankruptcy case since at least 2005 when
Brazil passed new legislation for corporate failure and the
company may be under protection for as long as four years given
the judicial complexities, Sergio Emerenciano, a partner at law
firm Emerenciano, Baggio e Associados, said by phone.  “They were asking creditors to put money in; it’s going to
be tough to get that,” said Oppenheimer’s Zeolla. “Survival
will depend on two main things: if the company can continue to
operate and generate some cash and if they’ll be able to keep
the licenses. We’ll probably know in the next few months.”  The filing was lodged in the Fourth Section of the
Corporate Division of the  Rio de Janeiro  State Tribunal. The
assigned judge is Gilberto Matos in case number
0377620-56.2013.8.19.0001  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  