-- Hollande Lives Up to Pudding Moniker as His Authority Questioned
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-10-30T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/hollande-lives-up-to-pudding-moniker-as-his-authority-questioned.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s
nickname after a popular pudding is beginning to look like more
than the stuff of satire.  A year and a half into his presidency, Hollande’s authority
has been undermined by flip-flops on issues from immigration to
taxes. This week’s decision to suspend a truck levy in the face
of protests prompted headlines of “ Government Runs Out of
Steam ” in Le Parisien and “Can He Still Govern?” in Le Monde.  The truck-tax reversal came two days after Hollande
abandoned a budget measure to increase taxes on savings and a
week after he tried to backpedal over the deportation of a 15-year-old Kosovar girl. The U-turns lend substance to Hollande’s
image for being soft and wobbly as he tries to please all -- one
that earned him the moniker ‘Flanby,’ after a Nestle dessert
brand, long before he became president.  “Hollande’s problem is that his credibility has been
dented,” said  Emmanuel Riviere , a pollster at TNS Sofres in
Paris. “Now, even if his economic strategy produces results, he
may not be given credit.”  The Socialist president’s popularity has extended a decline
that was already the steepest for a French president. A BVA poll
published two days ago showed Hollande’s approval rating
dropping six points in the past month to 26 percent, the lowest
level under  France ’s current constitution. Eighty-four percent
of voters say Hollande’s leadership is ineffective.  The setbacks may undermine Hollande’s ability to press
ahead with fixing France’s stalled economy, which is showing
signs of a nascent recovery after more than two years of close
to no growth.  Divisive Issue  Among the about-faces, the expulsion of Leonarda Dibrani,
whose family was living illegally in France, was among the most
divisive, creating splits in Hollande’s own party.  The issue caught public attention when police took custody
of the Roma girl while on a school trip and deported her, with
her family, to Kosovo. Thousands of students demonstrated in
protest. Hollande sought to quell public criticism by inviting
her to return -- without her family.  Hollande said in a television appearance on Oct. 19 that no
law or rights had been violated while also criticizing the
police for showing “lack of judgment” when they picked up a
girl during a school outing. Socialist lawmakers said he spoke
out too late and too timidly, while the girl herself refused an
offer to return to France without her family.  “The debate on immigration once again gave the impression
of a lack of preparation,” said Bruno Jeanbart, a pollster at
OpinionWay in Paris. “Now Hollande is facing a debate on his
competence.”  Taxing Retreats  Similarly, the decision to suspend the truck tax,
originally part of the environment policy put in place by former
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , drew criticism from the government’s
ecology allies, laying bare fissures. Senator Jean-Vincent Place
from the Greens Party warned that dropping the tax would show
Hollande “no longer had authority over anything.” The tax was
suspended after farmers in Brittany protested against it.  “The presidential majority has publicly displayed its
internal divisions on numerous occasions in recent weeks,” said
Bruno Cavalier, an economist at Oddo Equities in Paris. “The
president’s authority has generally been deemed diminished by
this division. Criticism is raining down from all sides.”  To be sure, some Socialists have rallied to Hollande’s
cause. Bruno Le Roux, head of the party in the National
Assembly, said Hollande has managed to push through changes to
 labor laws , schools and pensions that the country needs.  ‘Little Things’  The controversies need to be looked at against the backdrop
of “everything we’ve done to reform this country,”  Le Roux 
said yesterday on France Info radio.  This week’s controversies are “about little things” and I
say “Hold firm Mr. President, with what we’ve been doing for
the past year-and-a-half, we have every reason to hold our heads
high.”  Getting that message across at a time when the French
population is coping with taxes that have risen by 70 billion
euros over three years and  unemployment  at a 14-year high still
represents a major challenge for Hollande and his party.  Tax, in particular, is a growing source of dissatisfaction
in a country where the government collects more than 46 percent
of gross domestic product to keep itself functioning. In 2011,
when the portion was 2 points lower, France was already the
third-highest taxed country in the world behind Belgium and
 Denmark , according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.  Soccer Clubs  Hollande meets today with representatives of France’s
soccer clubs who are threatening to strike during the last week
in November in protest against a 75 percent tax on earnings of
more than 1 million euros ($1.38 million).  “Behind the problem of taxation you practically have a
civil war,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the Institute
of Political Studies in Paris. “The French have the impression
that they pay, pay, pay; that unemployment climbs, climbs and
the rich are getting away.”  For Mathieu Doiret of the Ipsos polling company, Hollande’s
situation is comparable to that of U.S. President  Jimmy Carter 
before he was ejected from office in 1980 or British Prime
Minister James Callaghan about a year earlier.  “Like Carter and Callaghan, Hollande isn’t a very strong
personality,” Doiret said. “And like them, Hollande is coping
with a situation where the state of his country’s economy and
morale have hit bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  