-- Honda Profit Misses Estimates Amid Slowing Southeast Asia
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-10-30T12:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/honda-second-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-motorcycle-sales.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Japan ’s third-largest carmaker, reported second-quarter profit that fell short
of analysts’ estimates amid slowing motorcycle sales and demand
in  Southeast Asia .  Net income  climbed 46 percent to 120.4 billion yen ($1.2
billion) in the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with 82.2
billion yen a year earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement today. That trailed the 139 billion yen average of
seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company
maintained its full-year profit forecast for 580 billion yen.  Honda, also the world’s largest maker of motorcycles, today
cut its full-year forecast for two-wheeler sales, citing weaker-than-expected demand in Indonesia, Vietnam and  India . Slowing
demand in Southeast  Asia  was a blemish in what’s otherwise been
a earnings boom for Japanese exporters as the weaker yen drives
up profits.  “The motorcycle business hasn’t expanded as the company
expected,” said  Satoru Takada , an auto analyst with Toward the
Infinite World Inc. “If there’s any concern for Honda in the
second half, it will be the motorcycle business and the economic
slowdown in Southeast Asia.”  Honda shares rose 1.3 percent to close at 3,965 yen in
Tokyo trading before the company reported results. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average climbed 1.2 percent.  Abenomics Help  Honda is among Japanese exporters benefiting from Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic policies, which have helped
weaken the country’s currency. A weaker yen increases the value
of repatriated earnings and is giving Japanese carmakers an edge
over rivals including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Hyundai Motor Co.  The yen has fallen about 12 percent against the dollar in
2013, creating a tailwind for Japanese brands as they face the
most competitive lineup of vehicles in a generation from U.S.
automakers GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  Before Abe’s election, the Japanese currency hobbled
exporters for years, appreciating to a postwar high of 75.35 to
the dollar in October 2011 from about 115 in a four-year period.
The yen began tumbling in late 2012 as polls showed Abe, who
called for unprecedented monetary-easing policies that would
weaken the currency, would lead his  Liberal Democratic Party  to
a win in the nation’s parliamentary elections.  Auto Incentives  Honda deliveries in the U.S., its biggest market, gained 13
percent in the July-September quarter, according to the company.
Sales were boosted by the Civic compact, the best-selling small
car this year whose deliveries rose 8.8 percent and the Accord
sedan, which increased 14 percent this year.  The automaker managed to keep incentives low even as sales
expanded. The average incentive spending per vehicle fell 30
percent to $1,611 in the first nine months of this year, the
lowest level among the six biggest car manufacturers in the
U.S., according to market researcher Autodata.  Japan deliveries rose 2.5 percent to 179,731 units in the
quarter, helped by the revamped Fit compact, Honda’s best-selling model in the country.  Honda introduced the new Fit on Sept. 6, booking 62,000
units in sales and advance orders in the first four weeks, four
times what Honda had forecast. About 70 percent of the sales and
orders were for hybrids, according to Honda.  New Fit  “It’s a long-awaited model and a very important one for
Honda’s share price,” said Kota Yuzawa, an analyst with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in  Tokyo , who has a buy rating on the stock.
“The success of the model will be important to Honda’s earnings
mainly in the second half this year.”  In  China , where Japanese carmakers count the April-to-June
quarter into the July-to-September earnings, Honda deliveries
fell 2 percent in the three-month period.  Things are starting to look up for the country’s automakers
in China, the world’s largest auto market. Honda’s sales doubled
in September to the highest level in 21 months, helped by demand
for the Accord and Crider sedan, the company’s first model
developed in China for the local market, according to Honda.  Motorcycle Sales  The company today cuts its full-year projection for
motorcycle sales in Asia, excluding Japan, to 8.13 million units
from 8.35 million.  The end of government incentives also sent vehicle
deliveries in  Thailand  down 22 percent in the July-September
quarter. Honda had projected in April that fiscal-year
deliveries in Asia excluding Japan to expand by 18 percent,
according to the company.  Honda said separately that it will dissolve Honda Soltec
Co., a wholly owned solar unit set up in December 2006.  “The solar business is such a competitive field,”  Tetsuo Iwamura , Honda executive vice president, said today at an
earnings press conference. “Silicon-based panels used to be
expensive but prices have come down quite a bit,” contrary to
the company’s expectations, he said.  The carmaker also said it will sell its shares in Honda
Elesys, a manufacturer of car-control electronics, to precision-motor maker  Nidec Corp. (6594)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  