-- Hong Kong Stocks Jump by Most in Two Months on Earnings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-10-30T08:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/hong-kong-stocks-rise-third-day-on-earnings-fed-taper-outlook.html
Hong Kong   stocks  rose, with the
city’s benchmark index climbing by most in almost two months,
amid earnings optimism and as investors await the outcome of the
 Federal Reserve ’s policy meeting concluding today.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,  Asia ’s largest refiner,
climbed 2.8 percent after posting a 20 percent jump in third-quarter net income, beating estimates. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery
Group Ltd., the world’s largest listed jewelry chain, added 2.9
percent after saying first-half profit probably rose on strong
sales. Esprit Holdings Ltd., a clothier that gets about 79
percent of sales from  Europe , jumped 5.5 percent after hiring a
former Zara executive to manage product design.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 2 percent to 23,304.02, the
biggest gain since Sept. 2. All but one stock on the 50-member
gauge advanced. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies traded in the city advanced 2.4 percent to
10,640.89, the most since Aug. 13. The Fed will maintain its $85
billion in monthly bond-buying at the end of today’s meeting and
may delay its first tapering until March, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Company earnings aren’t too bad and that’s helped to
boost sentiment,”  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at
brokerage KGI Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by phone. “The
Federal Reserve is likely to delay tapering until next year,
further boosting this liquidity-driven rally.”  The  Hang Seng Index  climbed 1.9 percent this month. Hong
Kong’s benchmark equity gauge traded at 11.1 times estimated
earnings today, compared with 16 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index yesterday.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500  added 0.2 percent today. The gauge
yesterday added 0.6 percent, climbing to a record as earnings
from Pfizer Inc. to Xylem Inc. beat estimates and data
indicating slower growth fueled bets the Fed will maintain
stimulus.  “Company earnings will grow,” said Wellian Wiranto, a
Singapore-based investment strategist at the wealth-management
unit of Barclays Plc, which oversees about $217 billion
worldwide. “Asian companies will benefit from the region’s
robust medium-term economic growth. The Fed is likely to wait
until at least March next year before embarking on that journey,
leaving more breathing space for global markets.”  Sinopec gained 2.8 percent to HK$6.23. Net income rose 20
percent from a year earlier to 22 billion  yuan  ($3.6 billion) as
higher retail fuel prices helped margins. The median of eight
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 19.3 billion yuan.  Earnings Performance  Of the 31 companies on the Hang Seng Composite Index that
reported quarterly earnings since Oct. 1 and for which estimates
are available, 48 percent exceeded analyst estimates, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chow Tai Fook gained 2.9 percent to HK$12.60. The company
said yesterday it expects to report higher first-half profit by
the end of November, driven by strong sales of gold products and
a reduction in hedging losses.  Esprit jumped 5.5 percent to HK$13.80, the highest close
since May 2012, after the clothing retailer appointed Rafael
Pastor Espuch, who worked for 18 years at Inditex SA’s Zara, as
chief product officer. The company predicted a return to
profitability in the fiscal year ending June as it seeks to
rebuild its brand.  Datang Gains  Datang International Power Generation Co. climbed 2.6
percent to HK$3.56 after the electricity producer reported
third-quarter net income of 1.79 billion yuan, beating the
average estimate of four analysts of 1.3 billion yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. advanced 2.4 percent to
HK$6.03. The nation’s second-largest lender is close to reaching
a deal to acquire  Brazil ’s Banco Industrial & Comercial SA,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  China Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117)  dropped 5.3 percent to
HK$3.41, its biggest decline since June 27. Investors are
offering 250 million shares for HK$3.38 to HK$3.45 each,
according to terms for the deal obtained by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  