-- ‘Pearl Harbor’ Looms for Vulnerable Networks: McConnell
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   A l l a n   H o l m e s
-- 2013-10-30T18:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/only-crisis-can-make-u-s-protect-systems-mcconnell-says.html
The U.S. is losing a “cyberwar”
and it will take a “cyber  Pearl Harbor ” for the country to
take the steps necessary to protect critical computer systems,
the nation’s former intelligence chief said.  Efforts to get companies to agree to voluntary steps to
protect against hackers have failed because they see risks of
potential lawsuits from customers or business partners, Mike McConnell, now vice chairman of contractor  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH) , said at a Bloomberg Government cybersecurity
conference today.  “We were flatfooted and not ready for World War II,” said
McConnell, who was director of national intelligence under
President  George W. Bush . “We have always responded by building
up the community after a crisis.”  President  Barack Obama  “cares deeply” about cybersecurity
since an attack would put the nation at risk, Michael Daniel,
White House cybersecurity coordinator, said at the conference.  Obama issued an executive order in February for voluntary
cybersecurity standards for power grids, air-traffic control and
other vital systems. While McConnell said the order was
“necessary but insufficient,” Daniel described the proposed
best practices for businesses as a “true public-private
partnership.”  Legislation in Congress to supplement the order isn’t
moving “as fast as the administration would like,” Daniel
said.  ‘Advance Ball’  The White House executive order will advance the
legislative debate and “help bring clarity to the specific
kinds of information-sharing that we need,” Suzanne Spaulding,
the Department of Homeland Security’s acting undersecretary for
National Protection and Programs Directorate, said at today’s
event.  Spaulding’s department is starting its efforts by
encouraging the  insurance industry  to cover companies whose
networks and property are damaged by a hacking attack, she said.  Obama yesterday met with corporate leaders from consumer,
utility and defense companies to discuss the new standards.  McConnell, in an interview after his appearance, said
Iranian hackers have probably infiltrated networks of major
banks during cyber-attacks that started in January 2012.  Economic sanctions are “hurting them and hurting them
badly,” he said. “ Iran  is looking for options to give them the
ability to punch back in a big way.”  He said the hackers were looking for vulnerabilities “and
I think they probably found some.”  Bank Attacks  One of Booz Allen’s large banking clients doubled security
spending to $300 million a year from $150 million, he said. When
the bank learned it was being attacked by a nation-state, not a
hacking group, the bank official wondered why the U.S.
government didn’t retaliate, he said.  The Obama administration’s position is that the
consequences “are not severe enough yet,” McConnell said.
“They have the position, ‘You deal with it.’”  Edward Snowden, a former  Booz Allen  employee, provided a
“playbook” to enemies and did a “great disservice” to the
U.S. by leaking top-secret documents about electronic
surveillance, McConnell said.  “The sources and methods that he compromised, it is a
playbook for those who we would consider adversaries,” he said.  “What was compromised will cause loss of life and great
disadvantage, not only for the  United States  but for our
allies,” McConnell said.  Snowden, NSA  Booz Allen, the McLean, Virginia-based consulting company
majority owned by Washington-based private-equity firm Carlyle
Group LP, employed Snowden as a contractor to the National
Security Agency.  Booz Allen fired Snowden, 30, in June, after news reports
based on the information appeared in the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper and the Washington Post. Snowden had been employed as
a technical assistant in  Hawaii . He is now in  Russia  on
temporary asylum.  Booz Allen is the No. 13 federal contractor, receiving $4
billion in awards in the 2012 fiscal year, according to
Bloomberg Government. U.S. government awards were the source of
almost all its $5.76 billion in revenue in the year ended March
31, according to a regulatory filing. Some 23 percent, or $1.3
billion, of its fiscal 2013 revenue was from intelligence
agencies.  Company Efforts  Businesses will have to change how they approach online
threats, said Charlie Croom, vice president of cybersecurity
solutions at  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Lockheed, the government’s No. 1 contractor, automates
basic security practices, such as applying patches and
conducting remediation, which stops 80 percent of all attacks,
he said.  “Now we do what’s called ‘intelligence-driven defense,’”
Croom said. That means looking outside the company’s networks to
learn what the new attacks are, analyzing data to learn the
behavior of hackers and predicting where they may attack next,
he said.  “This is where government and industry can work
together,” NSA Director Keith Alexander said during the
conference. “Government cannot do this alone.”  Companies have to be able to tell the government when an
attack is under way, he said.  “If a bad packet is coming into  Wall Street , the  Internet
service providers  could see that,” and tip off other companies
and federal agencies at speeds faster than human reaction time
to help thwart attacks, Alexander said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes in Washington at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  