-- Moody’s Discussed Stripping New Zealand of Last AAA Rating
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-30T06:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/moody-s-discussed-stripping-new-zealand-of-its-last-aaa-rating.html
Moody’s Investors Service discussed
stripping  New Zealand  of its sole remaining top credit rating
amid concern the nation’s current-account deficit is
exacerbating its vulnerability to external shocks.  New Zealand’s reliance on overseas investors means it can
face difficulties when crises such as the Christchurch
earthquakes and Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s contaminated
milk scare occur,  Steven Hess , Senior Vice President at Moody’s
in  New York , said in an interview in Wellington today. The kiwi
fell to a four-week low before rebounding.  “New Zealand stands out as having the largest negative net
international investment position” among the sovereigns holding
the top score from the ratings company, Hess said. “So we
discussed it, but we decided we should not downgrade New
Zealand.”  Prime Minister John Key’s government is selling stakes in
state companies to fund infrastructure and reduce debt. Moody’s,
which confirmed its stable Aaa rating for the nation on Sept. 2,
is the only one of the three main ratings companies to still
give New Zealand its top grade after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings each lowered their local-currency rankings one level in
September 2011.  Kiwi Drops  New Zealand’s dollar, named the kiwi for the image of the
flightless bird on the NZ$1 coin, dropped half a U.S. cent to
82.13 U.S. cents after Hess’s comments were published, the
lowest since Oct. 2. It recovered to 82.62 cents at 6:55 p.m.
Wellington time. Finance Minister  Bill English  declined to
comment on Hess’s remarks, a spokesman said.  Global bond yields showed investors ignored 56 percent of
Moody’s and 50 percent of rival S&P’s rating and outlook changes
last year, more often than not disagreeing when the companies
said governments were becoming safer or more risky, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hess, in New Zealand to talk to government officials and
private-sector clients, said Moody’s is due to review the
country’s rating next year, when it will use a new methodology
that puts more weight on countries’ external positions.  New Zealand’s persistent  current-account  shortfall is
reflected in a net international investment deficit equal to
71.4 percent of gross domestic product last year, according to
Moody’s. That compares with a 56.3 percent gap for Australia and
a 23.8 percent deficit for the U.S.  Milk Scare  Foreigners trimmed their  holdings  of New Zealand government
bonds to 67 percent of the total last month, from a 3 1/2-year
high of 69.1 percent reached in May.  New Zealand remains exposed to potential shocks, such as
earthquakes, and its size -- the nation's population of about 
4.4 million compares with more than 7 million in  Hong Kong  -- 
and lack of diversity adds to the nation’s vulnerability, 
Hess said.   He cited the case of Fonterra, whose exports to key markets 
such  as  China  were temporarily halted in August after a 
potential botulism contamination. Auckland-based Fonterra is the
world’s largest dairy exporter.  While the scare turned out to be a false alarm, it
illustrated how New Zealand’s reliance on  dairy exports  could
become problematic, Hess said.  “If there were a real event like that and suddenly New
Zealand’s dairy products were not salable because they were
viewed as contaminated -- we’re not predicting that, but that
could be one that might lead to a problem.”  Housing Market  Moody’s will also be watching New Zealand’s housing market
given the central bank’s decision to put limits on low-deposit
mortgage lending. “Obviously the  Reserve Bank  thought they
should do something about it, so it’s something that needs to be
monitored and we’ll be doing that,” Hess said.  He was confident that the government will get a handle on
rising debt, even though its asset-sales program will produce
“a bit less money than they originally envisaged.”  Gross government debt rose to 38 percent of GDP in the 12
months through June 2012 before easing to 37 percent in the 2013
fiscal year, official data show.  Hess said while New Zealand’s debt-to-GDP ratio was still
below the average for AAA-rated countries, it has doubled in the
past few years due to the global financial crisis and the costs
of the Christchurch earthquake.  “The trend has not been very good,” Hess said. “We think
that the government has a handle on this and will move back into
surplus within the next two years, and therefore that debt ratio
will begin to come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  