-- Oracle Pay Under Fire From Pension Funds Ahead of Meeting
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/oracle-pay-under-fire-from-pension-funds-ahead-of-meeting.html
Pension funds holding  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
shares issued a letter opposing the re-election of directors
because they said the board had failed to change the
compensation structure, adding to the dissenting voices on
executive pay before the company’s annual meeting.  The  California  State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
U.K.’s Railway Pension Investments Ltd. and Dutch pension-fund
manager PGGM NV sent a  letter  to Oracle shareholders on Oct. 28
saying they have “severe concerns about executive compensation
and proper board accountability at Oracle” and opposing the re-election of the company’s 11 directors.  Shareholders will gather today for an  annual meeting  at
Oracle’s Redwood City, California, headquarters to vote on
executive pay, director election and other matters.
Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises investors in
proxy voting matters, on Oct. 15 recommended shareholders vote
against the pay plan for Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison 
and other executives, and withhold votes from Chairman Jeff Henley and seven independent board members, including Bruce Chizen, George Conrades and Naomi Seligman of the compensation
committee.  ISS and dissident investors have said Oracle, the world’s
largest database-software maker, isn’t aligning pay with
performance. Sales this year are projected to increase 3
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Oracle’s stock
has gained 8.2 percent in the past year, compared with a 25
percent  gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Oracle has also tussled with labor group Change to Win,
which has criticized compensation for top managers. The
California Public Employees’ Retirement System also said it’s
 voting against  Oracle’s pay plan and compensation committee
chairman Chizen.  The  shares  of Oracle fell less than 1 percent to $33.53 at
yesterday’s close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  