-- Morgan Stanley Said to Take Stake in Mitsubishi Brokerage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-31T01:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/morgan-stanley-said-to-take-stake-in-mitsubishi-brokerage.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  will take a 30
percent stake in  Mitsubishi UFJ (8306)  Financial Group Inc.’s Japanese
wealth-management business in the latest partnership between the
two banks, according to a person briefed on the matter.  Mitsubishi UFJ, which owns 22 percent of Morgan Stanley,
will continue to run the business, which offers investing
services to wealthy individuals in Japan, said the person, who
asked to remain anonymous because the deal hasn’t been
announced. New York-based Morgan Stanley will provide research
and investment products when the partnership takes effect in
January, the person said. Terms of the agreement weren’t
immediately available.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 55,
has pointed to the firm’s ties with Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s
biggest bank, as a strategic advantage as the Asian nation’s
economy expands. The companies set up a pair of investment-banking ventures in Japan in 2010, two years after Mitsubishi
UFJ invested $9 billion in Morgan Stanley to help it stay afloat
in the financial crisis.  Japanese households, which hold most of their $16 trillion
of  financial assets  in cash, may shift more of their money to
equities as market prospects improve, according to a September
report by  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and Royal Bank of Canada. The country’s
stocks are the best performers among major developed markets
this year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe tries to spark  inflation 
with fiscal and monetary stimulus.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank,
last year bought HSBC Holdings Plc’s Japanese private banking
operations and began taking over Standard Chartered Plc’s
wealth-management accounts in the country.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s wealth-management business was previously
a joint venture between Mitsubishi UFJ and  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch brokerage. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America last year agreed to sell its 49 percent stake
back to Mitsubishi UFJ.  The unit’s name will change to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley PB Securities from Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch PB
Securities, the person said.  Nikkei reported the partnership yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  