-- Orioles, Royals Each Have Three MLB Gold Glove Award Winners
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-30T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/orioles-royals-each-have-three-mlb-gold-glove-award-winners.html
Third baseman Manny Machado,
shortstop J.J. Hardy and center fielder  Adam Jones  won Gold
Glove Awards for the  Baltimore Orioles , who committed a  Major
League Baseball  record-low 54 errors in the regular season.  Each of the teams playing in the World Series had two Gold
Glove winners -- catcher Yadier Molina and pitcher Adam Wainwright for the  St. Louis Cardinals , and outfielder  Shane Victorino  and second baseman  Dustin Pedroia  for the  Boston Red
Sox .  The Orioles became the first club since the 2003-04
Cardinals with at least three Gold Glove winners in consecutive
seasons. The  Kansas City Royals  also had three winners announced
last night with catcher Salvador Perez, first baseman Eric Hosmer and left fielder Alex Gordon.  “It’s a tremendous honor to be in such an elite league
with the best competitors all over the planet,” Hosmer said in
a statement. “Really, to win any type of award, especially the
Rawlings Gold Glove Award, is a tremendous honor.”  Machado, Hosmer, Perez and Atlanta Braves shortstop
Andrelton Simmons were among the eight first-time winners.
Colorado Rockies third baseman Nolan Arenado was the 10th rookie
to win the award and the first since outfielder  Ichiro Suzuki  in
2001 for the  Seattle Mariners .  Molina received his sixth straight Gold Glove. Cincinnati
Reds second baseman Brandon Phillips and Victorino got their
fourth.  The Gold Glove Awards had been decided by voting among
major league managers and coaches until this year, when the
Society for American Baseball Research incorporated sabermetrics
as a component that represented about 25 percent of the votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  