-- Osborne RBS Decision Seen Weighing on Legacy as U.K. Chancellor
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-10-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/osborne-rbs-decision-seen-weighing-on-legacy-as-u-k-chancellor.html
George Osborne  is about to take a
decision that will help determine his legacy. While the  fastest
growth since 2010  is boosting voter confidence in his
stewardship of the U.K. economy, his ruling on the future of
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  may yet mar that achievement.  The chancellor of the exchequer is set to announce as soon
as this week if he’ll split up RBS, rescued from collapse in
2008 and 2009 in the world’s largest banking bailout, and spin
off its toxic assets. With 18 months to the next election,
Osborne’s biggest challenge may be convincing voters he’s made
the right choice in seeking to recoup the 45.5 billion-pound
($73 billion) cost. He and other ministers were forced this
month to defend the sale of another asset,  Royal Mail Plc. (RMG)   “In terms of legacy, it’s quite important and it needs to
be managed carefully,”  Stewart Robertson , an economist at Aviva
Investors Ltd, in  London , which has about $438 billion under
management, said in a telephone interview. “There’s still a
little bit of a lynch-mob mentality about RBS. He’ll want to be
seen as the chancellor who guided the bank back to health and
did right by the taxpayers, while giving RBS room to heal.”  The decision will come just weeks after the government sold
part of its stake in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , netting it a
profit of about 60 million pounds ($97 million). Osborne has
previously said that RBS was still too weighted with poor assets
to be sold.  Fitch Concerns  Parliament’s cross-party banking commission said in a
report in June that the government should consider breaking up
RBS, which is 81 percent state-owned, to speed up its
privatization. That prompted Osborne to commission a report into
its structure by Rothschild, BlackRock Inc. and Slaughter & May
LLP. Two months later,  Fitch Ratings  said the costs of breaking
up RBS would outweigh the benefits.  Osborne said on Oct. 22 he would make up his mind on RBS in
the next couple of weeks, calling it “the next big decision in
my in-tray” and that “it’s clear to me that we do need to
address some of the problems” at the lender.  A  strengthening economic recovery  and improving public
finances have helped cement Osborne’s credibility and boosted
support for his  Conservative Party , according to recent opinion
polls. That may give him leeway to allow RBS further time to
recover, according to  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at
Mediobanca SpA in London.  ‘Less Interventionist’  “With growth predicted for next year and Lloyds off the
table, he has the ability to be a bit less interventionist,”
Wheeler said in a phone interview. “He’ll be able to say ‘I got
the risk off the table and I got RBS on a much firmer and faster
course’ to move it forward in the next Parliament. He also needs
the City to know that the hand on the tiller is much lighter
now.”  Government data on Oct. 25 showed that gross domestic
product grew 0.8 percent in the third quarter, the most since
2010, as the recovery continued across all main industries. That
prompted Osborne to say that “people can begin to see” that
the government is fixing the country’s economic problems.  A YouGov Plc poll conducted on Oct. 16-17 showed that a
single-party Tory government led by Prime Minister  David Cameron 
would be the most widely trusted on the economy, more than a
renewed coalition with the Liberal Democrats or a Miliband-led
Labour administration.  Still, Labour questioned the government’s handling of the
initial public offering of  Royal Mail , the state postal service.
Shares in the company, which were sold at 330 pence after being
oversubscribed by institutional and individual investors, traded
at 534.50 pence yesterday.  Maximize Value  Analysts say going for the middle ground on RBS may prove
safer for the chancellor, as it would maximize value for the
taxpayer when the bank is eventually returned to private hands.  “I don’t know a single investor who thinks good bank, bad
bank is a good idea,”  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Ltd.
in London. “Some form of internal reorganization, with some
divestments, is a much safer bet from Osborne’s perspective.
Delaying that recovery process would be damaging and materially
adverse for shareholders, and therefore for taxpayers.”  In an interview in June, Cameron said voters are more
interested in getting their money back from RBS than in its
quick return to the private sector.  RBS has lost more than 90 percent of its value since the
end of 2006, the year before its then chief executive officer,
 Fred Goodwin , led the 72 billion-euro ($115 billion) purchase of
Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Holding NV. Goodwin was  stripped of his
knighthood  in January 2012 after a government committee deemed
he could not retain an honor awarded for services to banking.  Owning RBS has also made the government vulnerable to
criticism over bankers’ compensation, lending to companies and
the manipulation of benchmark  interest rates . Labour has
attacked Osborne for allowing RBS to pay executive bonuses and
failing to police the investment bank.  “RBS is still very much on the naughty step,” said
Robertson at Aviva. “Osborne is likely to say the bank will
stay in the public sector for quite a while. But whatever is
done it needs to look sensible and prudent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  