-- Hot Planet Seen as Earth’s Twin in Size, Sceintists Find
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/hot-planet-seen-as-earth-s-twin-in-size-sceintists-find.html
A planet located about 400 light
years away has a similar density and size to Earth yet is much
hotter and can’t support life, two studies found.  Kepler-78b, discovered earlier this year using data from
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s  Kepler Space
Telescope , is probably made of rock and iron like Earth,
according to two studies in the  journal Nature . The planet,
which orbits a star in 8.5 hours rather than a sun in a year
like Earth, is the smallest for which the radius and mass are
accurately known, the researchers said.  “Every new detection is a piece of a larger puzzle,” said
 Francesco Pepe , lead author of one of the papers and an
associate professor of astronomy at Geneva University, in an e-mail. “All these pieces of puzzle are important to get a global
picture of how planets form, live and die.”  Researchers from Geneva University and the University of
 Hawaii  at Manoa in Honolulu determined the mass of Kepler-78b
and then its density.  Pepe said they found that the planet’s mass was about 1.86
times that of Earth, while its density was nearly identical to
Earth’s, implying the planet is made up of iron and rock.  Andrew
Howard , lead author of the University of Hawaii paper, found
that Kepler-78b’s mass was 1.69 times that of Earth and its
density was similar to Earth’s as well. Both authors said their
findings released yesterday weren’t significantly different.  Drake Deming , a professor in the Department of Astronomy at
the  University of Maryland  in  College Park , wrote in an
accompanying article that the results show that Kepler-78b is
“a virtual twin of Earth by astronomical standards.”  “Kepler-78b thereby foreshadows leaps forward in the
search of life beyond the Solar System,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  