-- Patton Creates Public Finance Practice: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/patton-creates-public-finance-practice-business-of-law.html
Patton Boggs LLP started a public
finance practice by hiring four Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP
attorneys.  The additions, who include a partner based in New York and
another in  Washington , also have experience in project finance,
private fund investment and infrastructure transactions.  Alphonso E. Tindall Jr. joins the firm in New York as a
partner along with two additional lawyers. Alethia N. Nancoo is
the new Washington partner.  “They are talented, nationally recognized attorneys who
bring highly focused skills and knowledge of the public finance
world,” Edward J. Newberry, managing partner of Patton Boggs,
said in a statement. “Their arrival at Patton Boggs opens up a
new realm of opportunities for our clients needing assistance
with the full spectrum of public finance transactions and
private fund investments.”  Tindall has worked on public finance matters for more than
30 years. His clients have included the states of  California ,
 Connecticut ,  Massachusetts , New York and New Jersey and New York
City.  Nancoo focuses her practice on public and project debt
financings, with an emphasis on infrastructure, airport, surface
transportation, mixed-use multifamily housing and water and
sewer utility sectors, the firm said. Nancoo has also advised
investment banks on public and project finance transactions in
the U.S. and the Caribbean.  Patton Boggs has more than 450 lawyers and professionals at
offices in Washington, New York, New Jersey,  Dallas , Denver and
Anchorage, and internationally in Abu Dhabi, Doha, Dubai and an
affiliate office in  Riyadh .  Brown Rudnick Opens Latin American Practice With Hire  Alejandro Fiuza, a former K&L Gates LLP partner who helped
to coordinate the firm’s Latin American practice, is joining
Brown Rudnick LLP to become chairman of a new Latin American
practice group.  Fiuza, who will be a partner in the corporate practice,
will be based in both the Boston and New York offices. His
practice focuses on cross-border transactional work, including
corporate, corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions, private
equity and venture-capital transactions, corporate finance, and
international sale, distribution, agency and franchising
agreements.  Brown Rudnick’s new Latin American practice group will
advise U.S. businesses and other global clients in cross-border
transactions in Latin America. Lawyers in the practice will also
represent Latin American companies with cross-border business
opportunities and litigation in the U.S. and elsewhere.  Fiuza was previously a partner at Marval O’Farrell &
Mairal, the largest law firm in Argentina, where he was co-chairman of the private equity and venture capital and
international trade practice groups.  “With over 24 years of experience assisting clients in
cross-border transactional work, with a particular focus on
Latin America, Alejandro is the ideal lawyer to help launch our
Latin American practice,” Joseph F. Ryan, chairman and chief
executive officer of Brown Rudnick, said in a statement.  Brown Rudnick has offices in the U.S. and Europe.  Moves  State Department Official Fernandez Joins Gibson Dunn  Jose W.  Fernandez, former assistant secretary of state for
economic, energy and business affairs, joined Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP as a partner in the New York office.  Fernandez will focus his practice on mergers and
acquisitions and finance in  emerging markets  in Latin America,
the Middle East,  Africa  and Asia.  Fernandez was nominated by President Obama, confirmed by
the Senate and sworn in to his former position in 2009. During
his tenure, he led the bureau responsible for overseeing work on
international trade and investment policy; international
finance, development and debt policy; economic sanctions and
combating terrorist financing; international energy security
policy; international telecommunications and transportation
policies; and support for U.S. businesses and the private sector
overseas, the firm said.  “Jose will not only be an asset in our transactional and
regulatory practices, but also in our international arbitration
and disputes practices with his experience with bilateral
investment treaties,” Steve Shoemate, co-partner in charge of
the New York office, said in a statement.  Before joining the State Department, Fernandez was a
partner in the New York office of Latham & Watkins LLP from 2006
to 2009, serving as global chairman of the Latin America
practice.  Gibson, Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers and 18 offices in
Asia, Europe, the Americas and the Middle East.  Baker & McKenzie Antitrust Partner Joins Winston & Strawn  Winston & Strawn LLP said H. Stephen Harris Jr. will join
the firm’s Washington office as a partner in the antitrust/
competition practice. Harris was formerly a partner and chairman
of the North America antitrust and competition group at Baker &
McKenzie LLP.  He focuses his practice on cartel defense, merger control
filings, and administrative proceedings before U.S. and
international courts and agencies.  “Steve will make an excellent addition to our global
antitrust team,” Jeffrey Kessler, chairman of Winston’s
antitrust/competition practice, said in a statement. “He has
unparalleled experience in representing multinational companies
with complex antitrust problems, not just in the United States
but throughout  China ,  Japan ,  Korea  and the rest of Asia.”  Winston & Strawn LLP has lawyers at 17 offices throughout
North America, Asia and Europe.  Simpson Thacher Hires Antitrust Lawyer From FTC  Federal Trade Commission official Sara Y. Razi will join
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP’s antitrust practice as counsel
in Washington. Since 2010, she has been the deputy assistant
director of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition, Mergers IV
Division.  At the FTC, she managed litigation and investigation
proceedings for the division, including those involving
hospitals, food products, retail and consumer goods, the firm
said in a statement. She also has experience litigating merger
challenges in federal court and in administrative proceedings.  “Sara is a seasoned antitrust and merger litigator and her
experience at the Federal Trade Commission will be an asset to
our clients facing antitrust challenges,” Kevin Arquit, head of
Simpson Thacher’s antitrust practice, said in a statement.  Simpson Thacher has more than 850 lawyers at offices in
Beijing, Hong Kong, Houston,  London , Los Angeles, Palo Alto, Sao
Paulo,  Seoul ,  Tokyo  and Washington.  Deals  Skadden, Dorsey on Mosaic Deal for CF Phosphate Unit  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the world’s largest phosphate-fertilizer
producer, agreed to acquire a mine and other assets from CF
Industries Inc. for $1.2 billion to boost its output of the crop
nutrient in  Florida .  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP represented CF.
Dorsey & Whitney LLP provided legal advice to Mosaic, with Mayer
Brown LLP and Arnold & Porter LLP advising in specialist
capacities, Mosaic said in a statement.  The Skadden team includes partners Brian Duwe and Richard C. Witzel Jr., mergers and acquisitions; Joseph Yaffe, executive
compensation and benefits; Matthew Zisk, intellectual property
and technology; John Furfaro, labor and employment; Maxwell Miller, tax; and William Conway, energy regulation and
litigation.  Mayer Brown’s partners included Washington-based antitrust
and competition partners Richard Favretto, John Roberti and
Adrian Steel.  The Arnold & Porter partners handling this deal were Lester Sotsky, head of the firm’s environmental practice, and Joel Gross and Peggy Otum.  Dorsey & Whitney declined to provide the names of partners
who worked on the case.  Mosaic will also pay $200 million to fund CF’s asset
retirement obligation escrow, Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic
said in a statement. Mosaic said the transaction will add about
30 cents a share to 2015 earnings, excluding any debt financing
costs and increase in the number of the company’s shares.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Brooks, Coulson Face Trial Over Hacking at News Corp. Paper  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, will face charges she intercepted voice-mails, paid bribes and hid evidence at a London trial that may
last as long as six months.  Brooks and Andy Coulson, both 45-year-old former editors of
News Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid, will stand
trial over the reporting practices at the paper. A jury of nine
women and three men was selected yesterday and opening arguments
will start today at London’s Central Criminal Court.  More than 100 journalists and public officials have been
arrested in investigations of News Corp. newspapers starting in
2011 that have uncovered allegations of phone hacking and
bribery. Rupert Murdoch, the company’s chairman, shut down the
News of the World in July 2011 in a bid to defuse the scandal.  The case will look at seven separate charges of conspiracy
to intercept communications, conspiracy to commit misconduct in
a public office and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice.  Andrew Edis  is the lawyer who will lead the prosecution
team. Edis successfully tried former U.K. Energy Secretary Chris Huhne and his ex-wife Vicky Pryce in March for lying about who
was driving Huhne’s car when it was caught speeding.  Brooks is represented by  Jonathan Laidlaw , while Coulson’s
lawyer is  Timothy Langdale , who specializes in fraud and
criminal trials.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  