-- Peak Coal Passed in 2008 as Mining Costs Rise, Group Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-10-30T19:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/peak-coal-passed-in-2008-as-mining-costs-rise-group-says.html
(Corrects percent change in eighth paragraph to reflect an
annual rate.)  Coal reserves in the U.S. are lower
than government and industry estimates because the shallow
deposits that are cheaper to access have been largely mined out,
according to a study by a group urging the country to pursue
renewable energy.  Clean Energy Action in Boulder,  Colorado , said in a report
today that the U.S. passed its peak coal production in 2008, and
that production will become increasingly difficult and expensive
across the country. Only one of the top 16 coal-producing
states,  Indiana , is likely to see record production in the
future. Traditional producers such as  Pennsylvania  and  West
Virginia  hit their peak decades ago, it said.  “Independent of arguments about  climate change  and clean
coal, coal’s days are very likely numbered due to questions of
economic supply,” Zane Selvans, the assistant director of
research at Clean Energy Action, said in a statement. “We are
rapidly approaching the end of accessible U.S. coal deposits
that can be mined profitably.”  The group’s conclusions are at odds with forecasts from the
U.S. Energy Information Administration and the National Mining
Association. Coal production and use in the U.S. has bounced
back this year, after production fell to a two-decade low in
2012, and coal use in  power plants  for power production was
displaced by cheap natural gas.  This year, coal use rose more than 8 percent over the first
six months of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012,
according to the EIA.  Mining Association  Hal Quinn, the president of the National Mining
Association, said Oct. 21 in a meeting with Bloomberg editors
and reporters that coal use is projected to be up 7.5 percent
this year compared to 2012, and its use will continue largely
unabated through 2020, even in the face of a boost in production
of natural gas and a 2015 deadline for new regulations from the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  Quinn’s group, which represents companies such as  Arch Coal
Inc. (ACI)  and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , held a rally with coal miners on
 Capitol Hill  yesterday at which supporters said the U.S. has a
200-year supply of coal, and that if the EPA backs off more
regulation, the fuel represents the cheapest way to produce
electricity.  The environmental group’s report today said the cost of
delivering coal rose 7.72 percent a year from 2004 to 2012, and
expenses are likely to continue to rise. Meanwhile, the EIA data
used to estimate a 200-year supply of coal is faulty, because it
doesn’t fully capture the economic viability of mining that
coal, it said.  “Rising coal costs reflect the rising costs of production
for coal as it becomes increasingly difficult to access the
remaining coal,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  