-- Pearson Forecasts Earnings Decline on U.S. Textbook Demand
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-10-30T16:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/pearson-forecasts-lower-earnings-on-weaker-u-s-textbook-demand.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  forecast full-year
operating profit excluding some items will fall from 2012,
citing a slowing North American market for college textbooks.  Lower freshman enrolments and bookstore purchasing weakened
demand in the U.S., Pearson said today. The merger of the
Penguin book unit with Bertelsmann AG’s Random House division
will reduce operating profit by about 25 million pounds
($40 million). Pearson shares fell 3.6 percent, the biggest drop
since May 23.  The London-based  company , which publishes the Financial
Times, is spending 150 million pounds on reorganizing this year
to accelerate a push into fast-growing regions and digital
services. It said a slowdown in some large textbook publishing
markets reinforces the need to restructure. The pace of such
changes is increasing in the second half and will continue into
next year, it said.  “Inevitably, this restructuring carries some short-term
operational risks, but, overall, it is going very well -- and we
are confident of the benefits it will bring,” Chief Executive
Officer John Fallon said in the statement.  The stock fell 49 pence to 1,316 pence at the close of
trading in  London , paring the advance this year to 11 percent.  The company didn’t give a specific figure for full-year
adjusted operating profit, and didn’t disclose the amount for
the first nine months.  Education Competitors  Sales for the first nine months, stripping out effects of
currency fluctuations, rose 4 percent, led by business in fast-growing markets and professional education.  Pearson is expanding digital services as it faces new
rivals such as  Rupert Murdoch ’s Amplify, which has teamed up
with AT&T Inc. in the U.S. to develop a tablet-based curriculum
for school-age children.  Other competitors are also shifting the landscape for
educational companies. Pay-TV operator Discovery Communications
Inc. has made inroads in science publishing and is charging
lower prices than Pearson because it can “piggyback on things
they are producing already for their core business,”  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said this month.  Cost Savings  Pearson said in March that the restructuring will generate
about 100 million pounds of annual cost savings in 2014. The
moves will strengthen digital education services and result in
job cuts in some operations, Fallon said at the time, without
saying how many roles would be eliminated.  The company reiterated its projection for full-year
adjusted earnings per share that are little changed from 82.6
pence for 2012, before restructuring costs.  Pearson said this month that the Financial Times will
consolidate its print edition into a single, global newspaper in
the first half of 2014, and will use its website for breaking
news. In print and online, the newspaper reached a circulation
of 629,000 in the first nine months, as digital subscriptions
rose 24 percent to almost 387,000.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Financial Times in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 