-- Permanent TSB Said to Plan U.K. Loan Portfolio Sales Next Year
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-10-30T12:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/permanent-tsb-said-to-plan-u-k-loan-portfolio-sales-next-year.html
Permanent TSB Group Holdings Plc (IPM) ,
the Irish state-owned lender, plans to start selling its 6.9
billion euro ($9.5 billion) U.K. residential mortgage loans next
year, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The bank also intends to begin disposing of other parts of
its 10 billion-euro non-core unit, including its Irish subprime
mortgages and commercial real-estate loans, next year, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as the matter is private.  The sales are part of a restructuring proposal the bank
submitted to European Union antitrust authorities in August.
Ireland’s largest mortgage lender at the peak of the nation’s
real-estate bubble, the bank needed a 4 billion-euro taxpayer
bailout in 2011. Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Masding, who
took over in 2012, is still awaiting a verdict from European
officials on his plans.  The government will push EU officials for progress on the
blueprint before its final international bailout review is
complete next week, the people said. Permanent TSB’s
restructuring will be discussed as part of the review, according
to the  Finance Ministry , declining to comment further. Bank
officials declined to comment on details of its restructuring
proposals.  Antoine Colombani, spokesman for  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
antitrust chief, declined to comment on the specifics of the
restructuring.  Sale Scrapped  The bank scrapped the sale of its U.K. mortgage unit before
Masding took over, as it viewed offers for the mainly buy-to-let
portfolio as too low.  The bank is seeking to sell parts of the
U.K. loan book in batches over the next three years, according
to one of people.  Masding also wants to sell the infrastructure supporting
the mortgage unit in the U.K. and outsource loan servicing to
the new owner, said the person. This was first reported by the
Irish Times earlier this month.  While the bank seeks to tackle non-performing and low-yielding loans in its 9 billion-euro internal bad-bank unit, the
government wants to ultimately sell the good bank, currently
with 15 billion euros of mainly Irish mortgages, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. Permanent TSB may start
marketing the good bank in the second half of next year, said
one of the people.  Masding said on Aug. 29, as the lender posted a 449
million-euro first-half operating loss, that he’s optimistic the
EU will back his restructuring plan by the end of the year.
While the CEO examined closing the bank as its loan losses
soared, “any reasonable man would now say it’s still the least
worst alternative to keep this going,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  