-- Peru Cabinet Chief Juan Jimenez to Leave Humala Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-10-30T22:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/peruvian-cabinet-chief-jimenez-mayor-to-leave-humala-government.html
Juan Jimenez will become  Peru ’s
third cabinet chief to leave the government in two years, at a
time when President Ollanta Humala’s approval rating is hovering
at a record low.  Jimenez told reporters in  Lima  today he’ll be replaced by
Cesar Villanueva, president of the regional government of San
Martin. His exit is part of an effort by Humala to “refresh”
the cabinet, Jimenez said in an interview yesterday on the
television program “Buenas Noches.” Discussions with Humala
about him stepping down had been under way for months, he said.  Humala took office in July 2011 vowing to boost spending on
the estimated 8 million Peruvians in the nation of 30 million
living in extreme poverty, without jeopardizing $50 billion in
mining investments expected over the next decade. Humala’s
popularity has sunk as growth slows.  Villanueva will be sworn in tomorrow, La Republica  reported 
on its website. Humala may replace six other ministers including
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla, the Lima-based newspaper said,
without saying where it obtained the information.  The sol advanced 0.2 percent to 2.76 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, according to prices from Datatec. The Lima Stock
Exchange’s general index dropped 0.5 percent at 16,309.78.  Sanguine  Finance Minister Miguel Castilla denied Sept. 17 he planned
to leave government after Correo newspaper reported he would
resign to take up a World Bank post in  Washington .  “Provided that Castilla remains or is replaced by somebody
of a similar view or stature, the market will feel sanguine
about” the cabinet changes, said  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based Latin America economist, 4Cast Inc., in an e-mail.  Peru’s economy, which grew an average 6.5 percent a year in
the past decade, expanded 4.3 percent in August from the same
month in 2012, the second-slowest annual pace since January
2010. The  Finance Ministry ’s chief adviser, Alonso Segura, said
Oct. 25 that  South America ’s sixth-largest economy will expand
“slightly below” 5.5 percent this year, less than the 5.7
percent rate the ministry forecast two months earlier.  Approval Rating  Humala’s approval rating fell to 26 percent in October from
27 percent in September and the lowest since he took office,
according to an Ipsos Peru poll published Oct. 21. His
disapproval rating was 66 percent. Ipsos said 69 percent of
those who disapproved of Humala said he isn’t delivering on his
promises and 49 percent cited crime as a reason.  The pollster interviewed 1,208 people Oct. 15-16 and the
poll had a margin of error of 2.8 percentage points.  Jimenez will depart after he said in an Oct. 28 television
interview that Peruvians were overreacting to rising crime rates
and that “hysteria” over the issue was affecting the
government. Jimenez, a human rights lawyer, was justice minister
before taking over as cabinet chief in July last year.  Rising delinquency and organized crime in Peru led Humala
to step up spending on the military and police. The country is
the world’s largest cocaine exporter, according to estimates by
the U.S. government.  Jimenez pledged to tighten security at the country’s jails
after a prison director was slain by a gunman while he ate lunch
at a restaurant last week in Trujillo, the largest city on the
country’s northern coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Hong Kong  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  