-- Pimco Hires Schroders’s Maisonneuve to Lead Equity Push
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-30T21:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/pimco-hires-schroders-s-maisonneuve-to-lead-equities-expansion.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the bond manager that started expanding into stocks four years
ago, hired  Virginie Maisonneuve  from  Schroders Plc (SDR)  to lead the
push after Neel Kashkari left in January.  Maisonneuve, who was head of global and international
stocks at  Europe ’s biggest  publicly traded fund company , will
start in January in Pimco’s London office, according to a
statement today from  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco.
Maisonneuve, 49, managed stock funds in Schroders’s London
office for nine years, overseeing strategies such as  Schroder
International Alpha Fund. (SCIEX)   Michael Diekmann, chief executive officer of Pimco parent
 Allianz SE , said earlier this month that the bond manager’s
expansion into stocks was proving more difficult than expected.
Pimco, seeking to expand into stocks in anticipation of an end
to the three-decade bond rally, has gathered less than 1 percent
of the firm’s $1.97 trillion in assets into its four main stock
funds.  “Virginie is a proven equity investor and leader who has
delivered a track record of success for clients throughout her
25-year career as a portfolio manager and a business builder,”
Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer along with co-founder  Bill Gross , said in the
statement.  ‘Disproportionately Exposed’  El-Erian and Gross, whose name is synonymous with fixed-income investing, have sought to expand beyond fixed income to
stocks, alternative products such as  hedge funds  and exchange-traded funds. Unlike rivals such as BlackRock Inc., which made
acquisitions to move beyond bonds, Pimco chose to grow by adding
managers and strategies one at a time. By hiring Maisonneuve,
Pimco is hoping to reinvigorate its stock push just as investors
are fleeing the  bond market , removing an estimated $128 billion
from fixed-income mutual funds since May.  “Pimco is disproportionately exposed to fixed-income
investments and in 2013, as investors gravitate to U.S. equity
mutual funds, it’s important for them to try to keep more of
those assets in-house,” said  Todd Rosenbluth , director of
mutual-fund research for S&P Capital IQ. “Her U.S. fund has
been good for investors in bullish markets and negative for them
in down or bearish markets like in 2011.”  International Alpha  The $199 million Schroder International Alpha Fund, which
Maisonneuve has managed since 2005, returned an annualized 15
percent in the past five years, ahead of 70 percent of rival
funds, and 23 percent in the past 12 months, behind 65 percent
of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2011, when
the MSCI EAFE Index declined 12 percent, including reinvested
dividends, the fund lost 17 percent. In 2009, the fund surged 47
percent as the MSCI EAFE returned 33 percent.  In a 2012 interview, Kashkari said the firm’s equity funds
were seeking to deliver strong performance over the next three
years to five years, and would give up some upside to protect
investors when markets declined. Maisonneuve joins a year after
the departure of Kashkari, who was hired in 2009 to oversee the
unit’s expansion after earlier attempts to add stocks fizzled.
Kashkari, who didn’t manage any funds, stepped down saying he
wanted to pursue a career in public service.  Global Alpha  In Maisonneuve’s $1 billion Global Equity Alpha strategy,
which is domiciled in Luxembourg, performance has struggled over
the last three years because it has a growth orientation, said
Oliver Kettlewell, a London-based fund analyst for research firm
Morningstar Inc. The fund should have performed better in 2012
and this year given the increase in global markets, Kettlewell
said.  In the past five years, the  Global Equity Alpha fund 
returned an annualized 14 percent, ahead of 68 percent of peers,
and over the past three years it’s returned 7.3 percent, behind
64 percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This year, the fund is up 20 percent, ahead of 65 percent of
similarly managed funds.  Maisonneuve also co-managed the $21 billion Vanguard
International Growth Fund since 2005, alongside managers
including M&G Investments and Baillie Gifford, according to
Vanguard Group Inc.’s website. The fund returned an annualized
16 percent over the past five years, ahead of 59 percent of
peers.  Maisonneuve, who will be a managing director, global head
of equities and portfolio manager, joins the six female managing
directors at Pimco out of 57 executives with that title,
according to the firm’s website. They include Jennifer Bridwell,
global head of alternative product development; Sabrina Callin,
who oversees Pimco’s enhanced equity index and unconstrained
bond products; Wendy Cupps, head of  product management ; and
Jennifer Durham, chief compliance officer.  Returns Mixed  The equity unit’s mutual funds account for about $3.8
billion of Pimco’s assets. Stock strategies including Pimco’s
StocksPLUS funds, which attempt to beat the market using a
combination of bonds and derivatives, total more than $50
billion, according to today’s statement.  The returns at the stock mutual funds have been mixed.
Pimco’s first stock fund, the $2.2 billion  EqS Pathfinder (PATHX) , which
opened in April 2010, returned 7.9 percent over the past three
years, behind 52 percent of rivals, and 19 percent over the past
year, behind 83 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The firm’s $455 million  EqS Emerging Markets Fund (PEQWX)  returned
8.4 percent in the past year to beat 57 percent of rivals, and
its $569 million EqS Long/Short Fund is up 28 percent, ahead of
77 percent of similarly managed funds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dividend Fund  The $649 million EqS Dividend Fund, whose co-manager Cliff
Remily departed earlier this month, advanced 19 percent, behind
84 percent of peers, the data show.  Kashkari joined Pimco after acting as senior adviser to
former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  and also had a
career as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Before Schroders, Maisonneuve worked at Clay Finlay in  New York 
as co-chief investment officer and at State Street Research &
Management as a stock manager focused on Asian portfolios.  ‘Given her previous experience running global, European,
Asian and North American stocks, she’s got the right background
to run a global mandate at Pimco,’’ Morningstar’s Kettlewell
said. “She’s definitely independent minded and strong willed,
and has her own views on the market.”  Gross’s Redemptions  Pimco is diversifying as Gross’s Pimco Total Return Fund is
on track to have the worst redemptions ever this year. The
world’s biggest bond fund lost almost $30 billion through Sept.
30, according to estimates from Morningstar in  Chicago . Pimco’s
U.S. mutual funds had four straight months of withdrawals
starting in June, totaling $39 billion. This year through Sept.
30, the funds had $8.9 billion in net redemptions, Morningstar
said.  Diekmann said in an Oct. 15 interview that given Pimco’s
size and significance on the bond side, the amount it’s
attracted into stock funds is less significant.  “It’s obviously more difficult than we expected it to be,
but I’m very happy that they do this in a professional way, and
not getting into sort of acquisition mode,” Diekmann said. “I
don’t declare victory yet, but neither do I say it’s been a
failure.”  Maisonneuve began her career working with the French
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  in  China . She has a master’s degree
in Mandarin Chinese from Dauphine University in Paris, an MBA
from Ecole Superieure Libre des Sciences Commerciales Appliquees
in Paris and a degree in political economics from People’s
University in Beijing, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  