-- Privacy Chief Warns EU Over Data-Law Delay Amid U.S. Spying
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-30T17:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/privacy-chief-warns-eu-over-data-law-delay-amid-u-s-spy-scandal.html
European Union nations should stop
dragging their feet over an “urgent” overhaul of data
protection rules that would foist tough constraints on U.S. tech
companies, the bloc’s top privacy watchdog said.  Jacob Kohnstamm said he was making a “cry from the heart”
after EU leaders last week dropped a 2014 deadline to toughen
the bloc’s data privacy laws even as they condemned allegations
that the U.S. National Security Agency eavesdropped on world
leaders including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  “Looking at the NSA issue and all that goes with it, and
looking at the near monopolies or monopolies of big U.S.
companies on the Internet” and then “the fundamental right of
data protection in Europe, it makes the sense of urgency to get
the EU general data protection framework accepted so clear to
me,” Kohnstamm, the head of the group of EU privacy watchdogs
known as the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, said in
an interview.  EU leaders bowed to U.K. demands for a slowdown in adoption
of the data-protection law to consider the effect of the
legislation on businesses, dropping the deadline in favor of a
pledge to introduce the plans in “timely fashion.” The
overhaul of the privacy law could result in U.S.-based companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB) , and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  facing
fines as high as 100 million euros ($138 million) for data-protection violations.  U.S. Violations  The privacy overhaul would target companies that handle
information about EU citizens, even when data processing takes
place outside the 28-nation bloc -- such as in the U.S.  The U.K. has been blocking a tightening of the draft rules
that were first proposed by EU Justice Commissioner Viviane
Reding in January 2012 over concerns it will burden and
ultimately harm businesses with too much regulation.  Google and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have been among U.S. companies
to warn the EU against “overly strict” data curbs that may
harm technology development.  “The British say that red tape should be reduced,” said
Kohnstamm, who is also in charge of the Dutch data protection
authority. Yet, “whatever movement is being done toward them,
the British won’t want this anyway.”  Cost ‘Millions’  The draft law “could end up costing U.K. businesses -- as
well as those of our counterparts in  Europe  -- hundreds of
millions of pounds every year, strangling them with red tape,”
Chris Grayling, the U.K. justice secretary, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We are negotiating hard to make sure any law is good for
business and citizens -- otherwise we will pay the price in jobs
later,” Grayling said.  Rather than delaying the rules, Kohnstamm said the case for
speedy adoption is “bigger and more forceful” after details
emerged of widespread snooping by U.S. security services.  German  Chancellor Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  called last week for closer cooperation on espionage
after documents gathered by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden
revealed U.S. authorities hacked Merkel’s mobile phone in 2010.
 Mexico  is probing allegations of U.S. eavesdropping on former
President  Felipe Calderon .  Reding yesterday warned the U.S. that the spying scandal
risks hampering efforts to seal a trans-Atlantic trade pact.  The European Parliament, which has already endorsed the
revamped EU data law, “may decide to reject” the trade accord
if trust isn’t restored between the two blocs.  “Once a single, coherent set of rules is in place in
Europe, we will expect the same from the U.S.,” Reding said in
a Washington speech. “Control of every movement, every word or
every e-mail made for private purposes is not compatible with
Europe’s fundamental values or our common understanding of a
free society.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  