-- RBNZ Says Kiwi Gains May Provide Scope to Delay Rate Rises
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-10-30T21:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/rbnz-says-currency-gains-may-provide-scope-to-delay-rate-rises.html
New Zealand ’s central bank said
continued gains by the nation’s currency may give it scope to
delay interest-rate increases that will likely be needed next
year to combat faster inflation.  “Sustained strength in the  exchange rate  that leads to
lower inflationary pressure would provide the bank with greater
flexibility as to the timing and magnitude of future increases
in the OCR,” Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement
released in Wellington today after leaving the  official cash
rate  at 2.5 percent, a record low.  New Zealand may become one of the first developed nations
to begin raising borrowing costs amid expectations inflation
will accelerate toward the middle of the 1 percent to 3 percent
range the RBNZ targets. While the kiwi dollar’s gains make
imports cheaper, rising domestic demand fanned by a housing boom
adds to signs a rate rise may come as early as March.  “Imported inflation may remain subdued but domestic price
pressures are building,”  Annette Beacher , the head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore , said in an e-mailed note. “This balancing act, along with the spillover of
the booming housing market into broader demand and cost
pressures, are what will drive the RBNZ to tread carefully next
year.”  New Zealand’s currency rose after the statement because
Wheeler didn’t express fresh concern about the kiwi’s recent
gains, which saw it rise to a five-month high last week, Beacher
said. The currency bought 82.68 U.S. cents at 10:35 a.m. in
Wellington, from 82.32 cents immediately ahead of the RBNZ
decision. It reached 85.44 cents on Oct. 22, the highest since
mid-May.  ‘Headwind’  The exchange rate “remains high and is a headwind to the
traded goods sector,” Wheeler said in today’s statement.  All 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey last week
predicted today’s decision. None forecast a rate rise before
March, when 12 expected a quarter-point increase. The RBNZ has
held borrowing costs at 2.5 percent since March 2011.  Westpac Banking Corp. economists today changed their
forecast for the first rate rise to April from March, citing an
“uncomfortably high” currency.  “Although we expect to keep the OCR unchanged in 2013,
increases will likely be required next year,” Wheeler said
today, reiterating comments made last month. “The extent and
timing of the rise in the policy rate will depend largely on the
degree to which momentum in the housing market and construction
sector spills over into broader demand and inflation
pressures.”  Annual Inflation  In September, the RBNZ forecast annual  inflation  will
accelerate to 1.9 percent by late 2014. Consumer prices rose 1.4
percent in the 12 months through September, the fastest pace in
18 months.  “As demand pressure picks up, headline inflation is likely
to rise toward the 2 percent target midpoint,” Wheeler said.
The statement contained no new forecasts.  Household spending is increasing and there is a pick-up in
construction that will support economic activity and start to
ease the housing shortage, Wheeler said.  House prices  surged 9.8 percent in September from a year
earlier, according to Real Estate Institute figures. The RBNZ
doesn’t want continued high house-price inflation to
“compromise financial or price stability,” Wheeler said.  The RBNZ introduced limits on low-deposit home lending from
Oct. 1. Loans for more than 80 percent of a property’s value
must account for no more than 10 percent of a bank’s new
lending, down from about 30 percent prior to the restrictions
being announced.  “Recently introduced restrictions on high loan-to-value
mortgage lending are expected to help slow house price inflation
and the bank will continue to monitor the situation closely,”
Wheeler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  