-- Real Plans Cash Plus Benzema Bid for Suarez, Star Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-30T05:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/real-plans-cash-plus-benzema-bid-for-suarez-star-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Suarez Swoop  Real Madrid is planning a January bid for  Luis Suarez  by
offering Liverpool 20 million pounds ($32 million) plus Karim Benzema for the Uruguayan striker, the  Daily Star reported .  Real values French forward Benzema at 20 million pounds,
making the overall offer worth about 40 million pounds, the
newspaper said. Suarez still wants to leave Liverpool even after
the team’s strong start to the season, the Star added.  Chelsea Wants Alonso  Chelsea wants to sign Real midfielder Xabi Alonso when his
contract with the Spanish club expires at the end of this
season, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The 31-year-old Alonso, who played under Chelsea manager
Jose Mourinho at Real, can sign a pre-contract agreement with a
non-Spanish team in January and will be offered a three-year
deal by the Blues, the newspaper added.  Balotelli Link  AC Milan striker  Mario Balotelli  may make a surprise move
to Chelsea that would reunite him with his former Inter Milan
coach Mourinho, the  Daily Express reported , citing the player’s
agent Mino Raiola.  “Balotelli and  Jose Mourinho  could be reunited because
they know each other and they didn’t leave each other with
hate,” the Express cited Raiola as telling Italia 1 television.
“They have remained in contact and there is mutual respect.”  Palace Progress  Crystal Palace held initial talks with  Martin O’Neill  and
 Tony Pulis  as it seeks to appoint a new manager following last
week’s departure of  Ian Holloway , the  Guardian reported .  Palace is also considering the possibility of hiring a
younger coach to work alongside an experienced director of
football with Premier League experience, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  