-- Treasury Auction Demand Highest Since April as Fed Keeps Buying
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-10-30T21:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/treasury-auction-demand-highest-since-april-as-fed-keeps-buying.html
The Treasury’s auctions of two-,
five- and seven-year notes this week saw the highest demand in
six months as the  Federal Reserve  maintained its bond-buying
program being used to keep borrowing costs low.  Investors bid $2.88 for every dollar of the $96 billion in
debt sold, the highest since similar sales of the maturities in
April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bid-to-cover
ratio was 2.85 for all sales of U.S. coupon securities in
October, the highest since May.  The Fed announced after yesterday’s $29 billion seven-year
note auction that it would press on with the $85 billion in
monthly government- and mortgage-bond purchases, saying it needs
to see more evidence that the economy will continue to improve.
 Ben S. Bernanke  is pushing unprecedented accommodation into the
final months of his Fed chairmanship as he seeks to shield the
four-year economic expansion from the impact of higher borrowing
costs and this month’s partial U.S. government shutdown.  “The theme is that the Fed remains a buyer in the market,
with the concerns about the economy growing, Treasuries
benefit,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “As long as there
are questions about economic growth and fiscal leadership, you
will have the Fed engaged for longer than many had anticipated,
which has led to the decline in yields.”  Direct Bidders  The seven-year notes were sold at a  yield  of 1.87 percent,
the same as the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the Fed’s primary dealers and the lowest since May. Direct
bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased the highest percentage on
record.  Direct  bidders  purchased 23.9 percent of the notes,
compared with an average of 19.3 percent at the last 10
auctions. The previous high was Dec. 21, 2012.  Indirect  bidders,  an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 42.3 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 40.5 percent for the past 10 sales.  The seven-year note’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.66, the highest since May and compared with an
average of 2.6 for the previous 10 sales. Primary dealers bought
33.8 of the securities, the lowest since Dec 2010.  “Investors have been putting money back to work since the
government shutdown and debt ceiling debate ended, and that has
benefited Treasuries, given the slowdown,”  said Bret Barker, a
managing director in U.S. fixed income at Los Angeles-based TCW
Group Inc., which manages more than $128 billion. “It would be
hard for the Fed to be more dovish than they are, which has put
a ceiling on higher rates for now.”  Less Debt  The 16-day partial government closing resulted in the
furloughs of as many as 800,000 federal workers and delayed
release of data the Fed says it needs to evaluate the economy.  Seven-year notes have lost 2.2 percent this year, versus a
drop of 1.8 percent for all Treasuries, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Seven-year notes returned 3.9
percent in 2012, while all Treasuries gained 2.2 percent.  The government sold $32 billion in two-year debt on Oct. 28
and $35 billion in five-year securities the next day at the
lowest yields since May.  Investors bid $2.87 for each dollar of the $1.785 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  The $167 billion of notes and bonds sold this month were
the fewest sold by the Treasury at auction in a month since it
sold $165 billion of debt in December 2010.  “The week’s auctions have gone well, and it’s just
indicative of the outlook for the economy,” said Thomas Simons,
a government-debt economist in  New York  at Jefferies LLC, which
as a primary dealer is obligated to bid at Treasury auctions.
“Expectations are setting their sights low for what the labor
market will look like going forward and there are few other
signs of economic progress in the data right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  