-- Treasuries Fall After Fed Says U.S. Economic Activity Improving
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-30T21:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/treasuries-erase-gains-as-fed-says-economic-activity-improves.html
Treasuries fell, pushing yields on
benchmark 10-year notes up from almost three-month lows, after
the Federal Reserve said policy makers see improvement in
economic activity while maintaining monthly bond purchases.  Government debt had rallied earlier as the Treasury’s
auction of $29 billion of seven-year notes received the highest
demand since May. The Fed removed a sentence from the previous
policy-meeting statement that had said tighter financial
conditions could slow the improvement in the economy.  “The market was looking for more of a dovish take,” said
 Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC)  in
Oaks,  Pennsylvania . “It was more upbeat than expected. Rates
are lower today than they were at the last meeting, which will
help fuel future economic growth.”  The 10-year note  yield  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.54 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It earlier fell three
basis points to 2.47 percent. The 2 percent note due in
September 2020 dropped 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to
99 21/32.  Treasury  trading volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, rose to $347.6 billion in
New York, surpassing the 2013 average of $314 billion. Volume
reached a 2013 high of $662 billion on May 22 and a low of
$147.8 billion on Aug. 9.  The Fed’s $85 billion in  monthly purchases  will remain
divided between $40 billion a month of mortgage bonds and $45
billion in Treasury securities.  January Taper  Benchmark yields have fallen from a two-year high of 3.01
percent on Sept. 6 as traders bet the Fed would delay tapering
until the first quarter, with a Bloomberg survey of analysts on
Oct. 17-18 forecasting a March taper.  Jennifer Vail, head of fixed-income research of the
 Minneapolis  based U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees
$110 billion, forecasts the Fed trimming its bond purchases
starting in January.  “We were so close to tapering before, and the market is
underestimating the growth trajectory and the Fed’s desire to
taper,” Vail said during a visit to Bloomberg’s New York
office. “A January taper would give the Fed a few months of
clean data to look at, and we expect that data to be stronger.”  Federal Shutdown  Ben S. Bernanke is pushing unprecedented accommodation into
the final months of his Fed chairmanship as he seeks to shield
the four-year economic expansion from the impact of higher
borrowing costs and this month’s partial U.S. government
shutdown. The 16-day closing resulted in the furloughs of as
many as 800,000 federal workers and delayed release of data the
Fed says it needs to evaluate the economy.  Fed officials decided at the September meeting to postpone
a trim in their monthly bond buying after yields on 10-year
notes rose to almost 3 percent at the beginning of the month
from 1.63 percent in early May on expectations of a pullback.  The seven-year notes sold today drew a  yield  of 1.87
percent, the same as the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the Fed’s primary dealers and the lowest since May.
Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, purchased the highest
percentage on record.  Auction Demand  The  bid-to-cover ratio , which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.66, the
highest since May and compared with an average of 2.6 for the
previous 10 sales.  Direct bidders  purchased 23.9 percent of the notes,
compared with an average of 19.3 percent at the last 10
auctions. The previous high was Dec. 21, 2012.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 42.3 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 40.5 percent for the past 10 sales.  Policy makers currently are falling short of their
employment and price goals, with  joblessness  at 7.2 percent --
compared with 5 percent when the 18-month recession began in
December 2007 -- and annual inflation rates missing their 2
percent target by a half percentage point or more every month
since November, based on the personal-consumption-expenditures
price index.  U.S. companies added 130,000 jobs in October, down from
September’s 145,000 gain that was revised lower, figures from
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP showed today. The median forecast
of 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an advance of
150,000.  Inflation Numbers  A separate Labor Department report showed the consumer
price index increased 0.2 percent in September, matching the
median forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after
rising 0.1 percent the prior month. Overall consumer prices
increased 1.2 percent in the 12 months through last month, the
smallest gain since April.  The Fed has kept interest rates at almost zero since
December 2008 and undertaken three rounds of bond buying that
have swelled its  balance sheet  to a record of $3.66 trillion.  The Fed repeated that inflation “has been running below
the committee’s longer-run objective but longer-term inflation
expectations have remained stable.”  Price gains have lagged below the committee’s 2 percent
long-run target. The cost of living rose as projected in
September as fuel charges climbed, capping the smallest year-to-year gain in five months.  The consumer price index increased 0.2 percent after rising
0.1 percent the prior month, a Labor Department report showed
today. The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, rose 1.2 percent in August and
hasn’t breached 2 percent since March 2012.  Central-bank officials “want to see those inflation
numbers come up a little bit,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “The Fed is still in risk-management
mode, so they are going to continue to buy bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  