-- Redskins Name Rooted to Bottom Line Over Obama Critique
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-10-30T21:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/redskins-nickname-seen-rooted-to-bottom-line-over-obama-critique.html
Losing money, not criticism from the
White House or public, probably is the only consequence that
would prompt Washington Redskins owner Dan Snyder to change his
football team’s nickname, according to a brand specialist who
helped create Outlook for Microsoft and Escalade for Cadillac.  National Football League officials met for about an hour
today in New York with leaders of the Oneida Indian Nation,
which called for Commissioner  Roger Goodell  to refer Snyder to
the league’s executive committee for possible sanctions if the
owner continues to promote what the group considers a slur.  Ray Halbritter, the Oneida, New York-based tribe’s chief
executive officer, has called the team’s nickname a racial
epithet on the same level as the most vicious used against
blacks.  “We were somewhat disappointed, to put it mildly, that
they continued to defend their use of the slur,” Halbritter
said after the meeting. “It really does require us to redouble
our efforts.”  Snyder has said repeatedly he won’t change the nickname,
and that it honors Native Americans. The  Washington Post (WPO)  said he
and Goodell met yesterday, with the owner reiterating his intent
to keep the name Redskins.  Brannon M. Cashion, global president of the brand
development company Addison Whitney, said the decision is
directly tied to the bottom line of a franchise that’s on par
with the most popular teams in the most-watched U.S. sport.  Business Basis  “If there’s not a business reason to do it, I can see why
it’s going through his head -- ‘Tell me why I should do it,’”
Cashion, 43, said in a telephone interview from his office in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Companies don’t change their names
because everything is going great.”  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail the league
wouldn’t confirm the Post report and that Goodell “meets or
talks with owners almost every day.” Redskins spokesman Tony Wyllie didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment on the report or
whether Snyder would attend today’s meeting with the Oneida
Nation.  After today’s meeting, the NFL issued a statement saying
“the meeting was part of an ongoing dialogue to facilitate
listening and learning, consistent with the commissioner’s
comments earlier this year.”  “We listened and respectfully discussed the views of Mr.
Halbritter, Oneida Nation Wolf Clan representative Keller George
and their colleagues as well as the sharply differing views of
many other Native Americans and fans in general,” the NFL said
in its statement.  $1.7 Billion  Snyder paid a record $800 million in 1999 for the team he
cheered for as a kid. Buoyed by the popularity of second-year
quarterback Robert Griffin III, the Redskins are worth $1.7
billion, third most in the 32-team NFL, according to Forbes.  Griffin had the league’s fifth best-selling jersey through
Oct. 11, while the Redskins rank 10th in merchandise sales,
according to the NFL. Merchandise revenue is shared equally.
Washington made the playoffs last season for the first time
since 2007 and is 2-5 this year, with Griffin returning from
knee surgery.  Cashion, whose company’s clients include  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp.,
 Carnival (CCL)  Corp. and  Procter (PG)  & Gamble Co., said it’s impossible to
pinpoint how much the Redskins’ brand is worth because there are
too many factors, including the size of a team’s fan base, where
they’re located and how loyal they are.  The Redskins play at FedEx Field, whose 91,704 seats are
listed by the league as the most for any NFL team. There is a
waitlist for season tickets at the stadium in Landover,
 Maryland , just outside the U.S. capital city. Among those who
advocate a re-examination of the team’s nickname is the area’s
highest-profile resident.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , the nation’s first black chief
executive, said in an interview with the  Associated Press  this
month that if he owned the Redskins he would consider changing
the nickname.  Presidential Concern  “I don’t know whether our attachment to a particular name
should override the real, legitimate concerns that people have
about these things,” Obama said.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a Democratic
congresswoman from  California  who grew up in Maryland, said in
an interview with thehill.com, a website that covers  Capitol
Hill , that it “probably would be a good idea” if the team
changed its name.  Pelosi said one of the first songs she learned was “Hail
to the Redskins,” the team’s fight song, which contains the
lyric, “Braves on the warpath, fight for old D.C.”  “I didn’t have the faintest idea what I was saying, but
I’ve known it forever,” Pelosi was quoted by the website two
days ago as saying.  Congressional Letter  In May, 10 members of Congress sent a letter to Snyder
asking for a new name. Former Federal Communications Commission
executives this month sent a letter to Acting Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn, asking her to convene a forum with broadcasters on
whether they should impose their own rules about using the term.
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN, News Corp.’s Fox,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS have contracts totaling about $4 billion
this year to show NFL games.  Snyder, in a letter to the team’s fans on Oct. 9, referred
to memories of his first Redskins game and his affinity for the
club’s history.  “Our past isn’t just where we came from -- it’s who we
are,” he wrote.  The franchise started as the Boston Braves in 1932 and
became the Redskins the following year.  “On that inaugural Redskins team, four players and our
head coach were Native Americans,” Snyder said in the letter.
“The name was never a label. It was, and continues to be, a
badge of honor.”  Amy Trask, a former chief executive officer of the NFL’s
Oakland Raiders and now a CBS Sports analyst, said money
shouldn’t be the deciding factor on whether Snyder sacks the
team’s name.  ‘Derogatory Slur’  “This is not a decision that should be entirely
economically based,” Trask said in an interview with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s ‘Bottom Line.’ “It really is
quite simple. It’s a derogatory slur, and the NFL knows better
than to perpetuate this.”  Trask said Goodell could have all teams share the cost of
changing the name, a total that Brett Yormark, chief executive
officer of basketball’s Brooklyn Nets, said may reach millions
of dollars. The NFL had almost $10 billion in revenue last
season.  A change also could be an economic boon if the team’s fans
buy new merchandise.  “Interesting question: Would collectors and die-hard fans
load up or would sales dry up immediately,” asked Richard Peddie, the former CEO of Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment,
which governs hockey’s  Toronto Maple Leafs  and basketball’s
Toronto Raptors.  Oneida Survey  Joel Barkin, a spokesman for the Oneida Nation, said his
group conducted a survey in the Washington area this month that
showed 73 percent of fans indicated a name change wouldn’t
weaken their support of the team.  “There is no financial set of negative consequences for
moving forward with a name change,” he said in an e-mail.  Goodell first backed the Redskins name in a letter to
Congress, then told a Washington sports talk radio station that
the issue needed more consideration.  In addition to possible sanctions against Snyder, the
Oneida Nation called today for a meeting with NFL owners during
the  Super Bowl , a visit from Snyder to Oneida homelands and an
amendment to league bylaws that prohibits naming teams with
dictionary-defined racial slurs. The tribe also provided the
league with a list of editorial boards, news organizations and
politicians that have called for a name change.  College Changes  College athletic programs have changed their Indian-inspired nicknames and mascots, including Miami University of
Ohio, where the sports teams during the 1997-98 season became
the  Redhawks  after more than a century as the Redskins. The
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  in 2005 banned the use
of American Indian mascots during its postseason tournaments and
said schools that violated the policy can’t host NCAA
championship-related events. It didn’t otherwise bar Indian
nicknames or mascots.  Cashion, the branding executive, said it’s unlikely a name
change would hurt the Redskins’ revenue.  “I don’t want to call it interchangeable, but I don’t
think you’re going to see a lot of fans say, ‘I’m done,’” he
said. “The equity they’ve got is beyond the name. It’s the
years of following.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  