-- Research for AIDS Cure Advances as HIV Fought in Monkeys
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-30T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/research-for-aids-cure-advances-as-hiv-fought-in-monkeys.html
Antibodies derived from the blood of
HIV-infected people suppressed the virus in the blood of monkeys
in two studies that suggest the experimental approach may
improve AIDS therapy or point the way toward a cure.  One  study  showed that a single injection of antibodies
reduced the simian, or monkey, version of HIV to undetectable
levels in three to seven days -- much faster than regular AIDS
drugs -- and the effect lasted for almost two months. The
research, led by  Dan Barouch , professor of medicine at  Harvard
Medical School , is published today online by the journal  Nature .  The antibodies represent a new and potentially more
powerful approach to treating a disease currently controlled by
daily pills such as those made by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  While
those drugs have transformed HIV from a death sentence into a
manageable disease, they don’t completely clear the virus from
the body. The new antibodies attack HIV in areas the drugs don’t
reach, suggesting they may have a role in curing a disease that
has confounded scientists for 30 years.  “The antibodies themselves are very, very special,” said
Barouch, director of the Center for Virology and Vaccine
Research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, a Harvard
affiliate in  Boston . “These antibodies should be explored for a
variety of different clinical applications. Clearly where
there’s going to be substantial interest is evaluating their
potential role in cure.”  Elite Controllers  The virus came back in most of the monkeys as expected as
levels of the antibodies waned. In three animals, however, the
virus still hasn’t rebounded, suggesting the treatment may have
kept it in check without further help.   That indicates the antibodies are replicating a rare 
phenomenon in a group of HIV-infected people called elite 
controllers whose immune systems keep the virus at bay without 
the daily pills that are a lifeline for most patients.  “We’re not saying those animals are cured,” Barouch said
today in a telephone interview. “It looks like we did convert
those animals into elite controllers.”  Barouch and colleagues are in discussions with drugmakers
over plans to test the antibodies in humans, though no agreement
has been reached, he said, adding he can’t disclose details of
the plans. “There is serious interest from industry,” Barouch
said.  HIV does its damage by hijacking immune-system cells and
using their machinery to replicate itself. While pills such as
Gilead’s Atripla block the replication process, they don’t
directly target the virus as it moves through blood, and don’t
kill infected cells. The new antibodies achieve both targets.  Second Study  The second  study , led by Masashi Shingai at the U.S.
National Institute of Allergy and  Infectious Diseases  in
Bethesda,  Maryland , found a similar result. The group tested two
antibodies separately, but found they only suppressed the virus
for a week or less, leading to the development of resistant
strains. Used together, the effect lasted as long as five weeks.
When the virus eventually rebounded, a second dose brought it
back under control.  “The findings of these two papers could revolutionize
efforts to cure HIV,” Louis Picker, from  Oregon Health &
Science University , and Steven Deeks, of the  University of
California  at  San Francisco , wrote in an editorial accompanying
the studies. They weren’t involved in the research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  