-- Roman Statue of Snake-Eating Eagle Unearthed in London
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-10-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/roman-statue-of-snake-eating-eagle-unearthed-in-london.html
Archeologists digging around the
site of a future hotel complex in the City of  London  have made a
rare discovery: a Roman statue of an eagle swallowing a snake.  In perfect condition, the bust-sized funerary sculpture was
found last month by Museum of London archeologists on the final
day of excavations before the site could be built on. The
limestone eagle is believed to have been made in the Cotswolds,
England, in the late 1st or early 2nd century A.D.  “This really sits among the finest pieces of Romano-British sculpture,” said Michael Marshall, finds specialist at
the Museum of London Archeology, as he presented the 1,900-year-old bird to reporters inside a cavernous storeroom.  “There are other pieces of comparable quality, but nothing
really above it that was made in this country,” he said.  MOLA Project Officer Simon Davis, who oversaw the dig, said
the eagle was discovered 3 meters (9.8 feet) below ground level
in Aldgate, on the edges of a Roman cemetery, by two
archeologists who were excavating the site of a known ditch.  “It was a Friday afternoon, when we were just finishing
up,” said Davis. “We do commonly find pieces of stone in the
ground -- archeological masonry and different pieces of
stonework -- which we always check to see if we need to record,
keep or discard them.”  Cherub Angel  “When this piece of stone was found originally, the guys
set about cleaning it to assess its importance,” he said.
“When they started to uncover the feathers and the shoulders of
the animal itself, they thought at the time: maybe it’s an
angel, maybe it’s a cherub.”  “As they cleaned further and further, they found the neck,
the feathers and the beak,” said Davis. “They realized that it
was an eagle.”  Marshall said the sculpture was probably commissioned by a
rich individual who could afford to have it made in a different
part of  England . The eagle -- a typical Roman symbol --
represents good, while the serpent epitomizes evil, he said.  The eagle is currently owned by Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership Property Trust and its development partners
 Endurance Land .  Once an archeological treasure is found, it is placed in
the care of MOLA, which analyzes and conserves it and publishes
a report on the discovery. In most cases, the landlord then
donates the object to a museum or archive, which in London is
usually the Museum of London.  The eagle is 65 centimeters in height and considered 
priceless, according to MOLA.  Earlier this year, separate digs on the site of Bloomberg
LP’s future London headquarters revealed Roman building remains
and some 10,000 well-preserved objects that led the site to be
dubbed the “Pompeii of the north.”  Museum of London  archeologists discovered good-luck charms,
coins, drains and even leather shoes dating from the mid-40’s
A.D. (when the Romans founded London) to 410 A.D. The objects
were in good condition because a now-lost river, the Walbrook,
kept the ground wet and prevented their decay.  Bloomberg LP is the parent company of Bloomberg News.  The eagle is on display for six months from today at the
Museum of London:  http://www.museumoflondon.org.uk .  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,
 James Russell  on architecture and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last
Night.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 