-- S. Africa Union Says Gold Strike Decision Possible Next Week
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-10-30T16:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/s-africa-union-says-decision-on-gold-strike-possible-next-week.html
South Africa’s Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union said it may reach a decision
next week on whether to strike at gold companies over wages.  There’s been “no positive engagement” with stakeholders
in the gold industry, Jimmy Gama, AMCU treasurer, said in a
phone interview. “We have given some reports to the shop
steward committee” about the lack of progress, he said.  Gold companies last month reached a wage pact with all
labor groups except the AMCU, which represents 19 percent of
miners. Unions may strike legally at mines where they are
recognized as the majority labor group, Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe said last month.  AMCU represents 65 percent of workers at  Sibanye Gold
Ltd. (SGL) ’s Driefontein, as well as 73 percent of workers at Harmony
Gold Mining Co.’s Kusasalethu and the majority at AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd.’s Mponeng.  “The gold industry’s position remains unchanged: There is
a valid agreement in place,” Charmane Russell, a spokeswoman
for gold producers who works at Russell & Associates, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Any strike action would be
considered to be unprocedural and the industry would seek a
court interdict to confirm that the agreement is and remains
legally binding.”  The AMCU is also holding wage negotiations with companies
mining platinum. Its members, the largest labor group at Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd., voted on Oct. 28 to strike over wages.
The union has written to Impala and if there’s no change “we
will have to decide if we’ll serve our notice,” Gama said.  Platinum Rises  The spot price for platinum rose to a six-week high,
advancing 1.2 percent to $1,478.70 by 5:39 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the highest intraday level since Sept. 19.  Impala accounts for about 25 percent of global platinum
supply. The AMCU is demanding basic monthly wages for
underground workers of 12,500 rand ($1,267) from the three
largest South African platinum producers, where it has usurped
the National Union of Mineworkers as the dominant labor
representative.  “It might happen that a strike could happen jointly” with
other platinum companies, Gama said. The union is also in wage
negotiations with Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  