-- Sanofi Profit Forecast Eases Concern After Setbacks
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-30T17:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/sanofi-sees-full-year-profit-at-low-end-of-estimates.html
Sanofi (SAN)  said full-year profit will be
at the lower end of a previous forecast, easing investor concern
that the outlook would be even worse amid setbacks in emerging
markets and the vaccines business.  Earnings will probably decline about 10 percent, excluding
some costs and currency effects, the Paris-based company said in
a statement today. Sanofi had cut its forecast in August, saying
profit would fall 7 percent to 10 percent, compared with an
earlier forecast of 5 percent.  France ’s largest drugmaker has lost patent protection on
nine products in the past three years, and missteps in  Brazil 
and its vaccine business have also hurt profit. The stock rose
on optimism that the company is recovering from those setbacks,
and that new products such as the multiple sclerosis pill
Aubagio and an experimental cholesterol-lowering medicine will
help the company return to profit growth.  “It looks like they’re on track to hit that growth year in
2014 that we’ve all been looking for,” said  Mark Clark , an
analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “They haven’t cut the
guidance per se, which there had been some nervousness about.”  Sanofi gained 2.4 percent to 77.55 euros in Paris, the
biggest increase since July 4 and the highest price in more than
two months.  Missing Estimates  Third-quarter earnings fell 19 percent to 1.79 billion
euros ($2.46 billion), or 1.35 euros a share, in the quarter
from 2.20 billion euros, or 1.67 euros, a year earlier. Analysts
predicted profit of 1.88 billion euros, the average of 10
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanofi wasn’t able to sell batches of some routine
childhood shots made at a Toronto plant after they failed
internal safety tests, Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher 
said on a conference call today. Shipments have resumed and the
company doesn’t expect any further repercussions, he said.  Viehbacher said he expects profit to rise in the fourth
quarter as Sanofi’s performance is no longer compared with a
time when some of its best-sellers, whose sales are now eroded
by generic rivals, were boosting results. Cheaper competition
has shaved 1.22 billion euros from sales this year.  “Nothing in the third quarter gives us any cause for
concern for the fourth,” Viehbacher said.  Sales rose 0.6 percent on a constant currency basis to 8.43
billion euros last quarter, missing the average analyst estimate
of 8.57 billion euros.  China Probe  The company has had setbacks in emerging markets, where it
generates a third of revenue. Third-quarter sales growth slowed
to 5 percent in  China , compared with 15 percent in the second
quarter, as Sanofi faced an industry probe that centered on
rival  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   China’s investigation into alleged corruption in the
pharmaceutical industry has created “some uncertainty” at
hospitals, according to Viehbacher.  “We’re back to about 90 percent of our promotional
level,” he said. “We see sales coming back, not quite as
quickly, but September was stronger than August, and October was
stronger than September.”  Third-quarter revenue in Brazil plunged 17 percent because
of inventory mismanagement in the second quarter that prompted
Sanofi to take charges of 201 million euros. Sales in  Latin
America ’s largest market are returning to normal, Viehbacher
said.  “China hasn’t blown up in the way it has done for Glaxo,
and Brazil sounds like it’s fixed,” Deutsche Bank’s Clark said.  Stronger Euro  The strength of the euro against currencies in  Japan , the
U.S. and  emerging markets  wiped 7.3 percent from revenue and
more than 10 percent from earnings per share, the company said.  The common currency is the best performer this year among
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Among emerging-market currencies, the  Indian
rupee  has fallen about 14 percent against the euro this year and
the Brazilian real has declined about 10 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The French drugmaker has also experienced setbacks in its
efforts to start selling new drugs, including the failures of
iniparib for  lung cancer  and an anti-coagulant known as
otamixaban. The company also withdrew its application for U.S.
approval of lixisenatide, though it plans to resubmit the
application in 2015.  Drug Pipeline  The company has had some good news. The experimental
treatment alirocumab lowered cholesterol three times more than
Merck & Co.’s Zetia in the first late-stage study of a drug that
may garner $3 billion sales annually. Sanofi is developing the
medicine with  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)   Sanofi is expecting results next year from a late-stage
study of the world’s most advanced vaccine against dengue, which
could earn 2 billion euros a year in sales, according to Vincent Meunier, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  Sanofi would consider buying back an 8.9 percent stake held
by  L’Oreal SA (OR)  if it were to become available, Viehbacher said on
a conference call with analysts today. That would depend on
whether the French cosmetics maker needs to raise funds to buy
back a 29 percent stake held by Nestle SA.  That, in turn, hinges on whether Nestle, the Swiss maker of
Kit Kat bars, wants to sell it, which it will be free to do in
April without having to offer it first to the billionaire heirs
of L’Oreal’s founder.  L’Oreal has “considerable financial resources” including
cash and its stake in Sanofi that enable it to consider all
opportunities, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said at an
Aug. 30 meeting with analysts and reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  