-- Scene Last Night: Mailman Workout, Salk’s Chocolate Cake
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-30T16:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/scene-last-night-mailman-workout-salk-s-chocolate-cake.html
“I Rollerblade, ride a bicycle and
walk a lot, everywhere,” said  Alan Patricof , founder of
Greycroft Partners LLC last night. “And I walk fast.”  Another walker came into view at Columbia University’s
Mailman School of Public Health gala at the Pierre hotel. 
He was John W. Rowe, former chief executive of  Aetna Inc. (AET) 
and chairman of Mailman’s board of overseers.  “I walk around  Central Park ,” Rowe said. “It turns out
that active walking provides 70 percent of the benefit of
aerobic exercise, and it’s less wear and tear on the joints.”  Twenty steps away stood the dean of Mailman, Linda Fried.
“I go to the gym four times a week and I come in every morning
to something I love,” she said.  “Five out of seven days I run,” New York City Health
Commissioner Thomas Farley said. “I’m running the New York City
marathon.”  On the subject of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
initiative, Michael Sparer, chairman of the school’s department
of health policy and management, said, “The last few weeks have
been depressing. I’m in full support of the law, but the
glitches are inexcusable.”  Tom Guilarte, chairman of Environmental Health Sciences,
said a delegation from China was at the gala, having visited the
school earlier in the day.  “The impact of industry is so dramatic there, we’re hoping
we can work together,” Guilarte said.  Entertainment by the Public Health Players included popular
standards infected with public-health vocabulary.  The steamy love song “Fever” had a riff about “data,
stats and morbidity.”  Salk Institute  At Daniel on Oct. 28, the Salk Institute gathered
supporters including artist  Francoise Gilot , Jonas Salk’s widow
and a muse and lover of Picasso. It was also the 80th birthday
of the institute’s chairman, Irwin Jacobs, a co-founder of
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   “We’re an artist’s colony for scientists,” said William Brody, the institute’s president, referring to the lack of
departmental boundaries.  Faculty member Reuben J. Shaw spoke of his research
affecting the treatment of diabetes and cancer. The common link:
metabolism.  “The intake of carbohydrates, freely eating whatever we
want, that’s the danger,” said Shaw, as a piece of chocolate
cake came his way.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 