-- Sculptor Calder’s Estate Accuses Late Confidant of Fraud
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-30T15:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/sculptor-calder-s-estate-accuses-late-confidant-of-fraud.html
The heirs of American modernist
artist Alexander Calder, the inventor of the moving sculpture
known as the mobile, have accused his longtime confidant, the
art dealer Klaus Perls, of defrauding his estate out of millions
of dollars.  The heirs of Calder, who died in 1976, asked to amend a
lawsuit filed in New York State Supreme Court in October 2010
accusing Perls and his estate of fraud and seeking more than
$20 million in damages. Perls died in 2008.  Perls and his estate, including the executor, his daughter
Katherine, orchestrated a web of deceit dating back more than
three decades, even going so far as allegedly using a Swiss bank
account hidden under a pseudonym, Madam Andre, to stash the
proceeds of unauthorized art sales, according to the heirs.  “It is plain and open that nothing that defendant
Katherine Perls and Klaus G. Perls did with respect to the sale
of Alexander Calder artworks was honest,” Nehemiah Glanc, an
attorney representing Calder’s heirs, said in an affidavit
supporting the motion to amend the complaint filed in July.  Calder was a prolific, critically acclaimed artist whose
works are represented in numerous public and private
collections. The Artnet database of auction sales lists 8,333
results, topped by the $18.6 million paid for the 1945 standing
mobile “Lily of Force” at Christie’s International in New York
in May 2012.  Steven Wolfe, an attorney with Eaton & Van Winkle LLP in
New York representing the Perlses, declined to comment on the
lawsuit, citing pending decisions in the case. The Perls heirs
have moved to dismiss the complaint, saying the claims are time-barred.  The suit was reported earlier today by the New York Times.  The case is Davidson v. Perls, 651760/2010, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 