-- Sex-Related Injury Not Compensable, Australia Court Rules
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-10-30T04:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/sex-related-injury-not-compensable-australia-court-rules.html
An Australian government employee
who was injured while having sex on a work-related trip doesn’t
qualify for workers’ compensation, the nation’s highest court
said in a ruling praised by the employment minister.  The  High Court  of Australia today  overturned  a federal
appeal court ruling that the woman was hurt during a work
interlude and entitled to compensation from  Comcare , the
country’s work safety agency that pays for medical expenses and
time missed from work as a result of injury.  The ruling is a “victory for common sense,” Minister for
Employment Eric Abetz said in an e-mailed statement. “Instances
such as this where an employee seeks to stretch the boundaries
of entitlements are of great concern.”  The woman, whose name can’t be published and who is
referred to in court papers as PVYW, was in her late 30s when
she sought compensation from Comcare, according to court
 documents . She claimed that while engaged in sexual intercourse
with an acquaintance, a glass light fitting above her bed was
pulled from its mount and struck her in the face, causing nose,
mouth and psychological injuries.  The human relations worker at a federal government agency
wasn’t encouraged to have sex by her employer and as a result
isn’t eligible for work-related compensation, the majority of
the High Court said in a summary of the ruling on its website.  Injury Circumstances  “The circumstances in which the employee was injured must
be connected to an inducement or encouragement by the
employer,” the court’s majority said in the summary.  The worker traveled to a country town in New South  Wales  in
2007, where she was to observe a budget review and meet local
staff, according to the original federal court  judgment . She met
a male friend who lived in the town for dinner and they had sex
at her motel afterward, according to the court documents.  After she was hit by the light fitting, she was taken to a
hospital for treatment, according to the documents.  Australia’s Administrative Appeals Tribunal ruled the
woman’s injuries were unrelated to her work. That decision was
overturned by Federal Court Justice John Nicholas on April 19,
2012. The Federal Court of Appeal upheld Nicholas’s ruling on
Dec. 13.  The case is Comcare v. PVYW. 2013/HCA41. High Court of
 Australia  (Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  