-- Silver Lake Said to Mull Change at Middle-Market Division
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-10-30T15:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/silver-lake-said-to-mull-change-at-middle-market-division.html
Silver Lake  Management LLC, the
biggest technology-focused private-equity firm, has left
investors wondering about the future role of its middle-market
unit’s founder as the division prepares to raise a new fund next
year, four people familiar with the matter said.  The firm told investors that Ajay Shah may take a reduced
role, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
information isn’t public. Silver Lake hasn’t determined how
Shah’s responsibilities may change, the people said.  Shah, a managing director, joined Silver Lake in 2007 from
Shah  Capital Partners , which he founded in 2004, to start the
firm’s middle-market strategy, known as Silver Lake Sumeru. The
division makes private-equity investments in growth-oriented
technology companies.  Investors in private-equity funds, called limited partners,
generally prefer clarity around the management team and its
incentive structure before choosing to back a new fund as their
money is typically locked up for ten years. The management
structure for the new fund is under discussion, the people said.
Other managing directors on the mid-market team are  John
Brennan , Hollie Moore Haynes, Paul Mercadante and Kyle Ryland.  Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman at Brunswick Group, declined to
comment on behalf of  Menlo Park , California-based Silver Lake.
Shah did not return a call and an e-mail seeking comment on his
role.  The firm had originally planned to market the fund this
year, the people said.  Sumeru Fund  Silver Lake raised $1.1 billion for its first middle-market
vehicle, Silver Lake Sumeru Fund LP, in 2008. That fund was
producing a multiple of 1.3 times invested capital and a 7.9
percent net internal rate of return as of March 31, according to
performance data from  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System .  Silver Lake Sumeru has since sold Power-One Inc., a
Camarillo, California-based maker of solar inverters, to Zurich-based ABB Ltd. and Chandler, Arizona-based Smart Storage Systems
to SanDisk Corp., the Milpitas, California-based maker of  flash
memory  for mobile devices.  The sale of Power-One produced 5.6
times invested capital before fees, and Smart Storage generated
a multiple of 5 on the same basis.  Silver Lake, which was founded in 1999 and manages more
than $20 billion in assets and committed capital, raised $10.3
billion for its latest flagship fund in April. The firm
partnered with  Michael Dell  to buy computer maker Dell Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  