-- South Korean Lawmakers Tour Reopened Factory Park in North
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-30T09:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/south-korean-lawmakers-visit-north-to-tour-reopened-factory-park.html
South Korean lawmakers toured a
jointly run factory park in North Korea, saying the site was
struggling to restore production after tensions between the
countries left it shuttered for five months.  The 21 members of the parliamentary committee on foreign
affairs met with South Korean managers and visited their
factories today during the one-day trip to Gaeseong just north
of the border, Ahn Hong Joon, a legislator for the ruling
Saenuri Party, said in a nationally televised briefing.  The zone employed 53,000 North Korean workers until the
North withdrew them in early April after relations soured in the
wake of its third test of a nuclear device in February. The
site, where South Korean companies take advantage of cheap labor
to produce their goods, is a source of hard currency for Kim Jong Un’s regime.  “The companies may look O.K. on the outside, but they have
suffered internal injuries,” Kim Sung Gon, an opposition
Democratic Party lawmaker, said by phone after returning from
Gaeseong. “I got the impression it may take another six months
for their production to fully return.”  Kim did not give an estimate of current production levels
and said the lawmakers didn’t hold talks with North Korean
officials during today’s trip.  Slow Return  Since the Sept. 16 reopening, 46,000 of the workers have
returned, while 119 of the 123 South Korean companies there have
restarted operations, said Kim Kil Sung, an official at the
government-affiliated  Kaesong Industrial District Foundation .  On Oct. 24, an association of Gaeseong companies said in a
statement that some buyers are “not coming back” after halting
orders during the shutdown.  After the reopening of Gaeseong, the momentum for
reconciliation between the Koreas initially slowed. The North
canceled plans to reunite families separated by the Korean War
and the countries failed to agree on talks to restart South
Korean tours to a North Korean mountain resort, another source
of currency for the Kim regime.  In recent weeks, the North has showed signs of again
seeking to ease tensions. On Oct. 25, the North unexpectedly
repatriated six South Koreans detained in the country.  The trip to Gaeseong was the first by a South Korean
legislator in two years. The North approved the delegation’s
trip, while barring Cho Myung Chul, a lawmaker who defected to
South Korea in 1994, from attending. The Unification Ministry
expressed regret about that decision earlier this week.  Citizens of the two Koreas are banned from visiting the
other side without approval as the countries remain technically
in conflict after the 1950-53 Korean War ended in a truce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  