-- Transnet’s Rating Raised to Investment Grade by Fitch
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-31T10:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/south-africa-s-transnet-raised-to-investment-grade-by-fitch.html
(Corrects amount of debt backed by South African
government in second paragraph for story published Oct. 30.)  Transnet SOC Ltd., South Africa’s
state-owned ports and rail operator, was raised to investment
grade by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the company’s ability to
repay debt even without a government guarantee.  Transnet is spending 308 billion rand ($31 billion) over a
seven-year period to improve port and rail infrastructure, with
two-thirds allocated to rail. It plans to fund the program
partly with debt raised in domestic and international markets.
The National Treasury, which according to Transnet backs 4.3
percent of the company’s debt, said Oct. 23 state-owned
companies will have to borrow against their own balance sheets.  The upgrade “reflects our expectation that Transnet’s
future debt will not be guaranteed by its parent,” Fitch’s
Johannesburg-based analysts Yeshvir Singh and Darshak Juta said
in an e-mailed statement. “Transnet’s credit profile benefits
from its monopolistic position in the country’s rail, port and
pipeline services, with a long-term contract base and business
diversification underpinning strong operating cash flows.”  Fitch lifted Transnet’s long-term foreign-currency rating
two levels to BBB, its second-lowest investment-grade level,
with a stable outlook. The new rating is on par with  South
Africa ’s sovereign rating. Transnet is “confident” that its
investment plans “will enable us to maintain or improve our
current  credit rating ,” Chief Executive Officer Brian Molefe
said in an e-mailed statement.  Transnet’s operations will remain profitable even if
commodity export markets weaken, Fitch said, adding that the
company will probably scale back capital expenditure if not
warranted by demand. The company has 76.8 billion rand of debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on Transnet’s $1 billion of 4 percent bonds due July
2022 dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 5.49
percent as of 5:05 p.m. in Johannesburg, narrowing the premium
over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries by nine basis points to
294.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  