-- Spain Exits Two-Year Recession as Rajoy Seeks Recovery
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-10-30T09:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/spain-exits-two-year-recession-as-rajoy-seeks-lasting-recovery.html
Spain’s two-year recession ended in
the third quarter, underpinning Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
bet that exports can reboot the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.1 percent from the second
quarter, when it declined 0.1 percent, the Madrid-based National
Statistics Institute said today. That matched the Bank of
Spain’s estimate on Oct. 23.  Inflation (SPCPEUYY)  in October was 0.1
percent, the least since 2009, INE said in a separate release.  Exports are the only growth driver left to Spain as Rajoy
imposes the deepest budget cuts in its democratic history amid a
26 percent jobless rate. Rajoy has pledged to stabilize the
government’s  debt load  by the end of his term in 2015. Spain’s
debt ratio has more than doubled since the nation started
fighting a recession in 2008.  “This is an important staging post in what will be a slow
but steady recovery,” Timo del Carpio, London-based economist
at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a note today. “The latest
data, including more recent survey indicators, suggest the pick-up in growth this quarter is not ephemeral.”  Retail sales increased in September for the first time
since 2010.  Carrefour SA (CA)  Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said on Oct. 17 there are signs of stabilization in the
country. The Bank of Spain said last week that private
consumption grew 0.1 percent in the third quarter while
investment continued to decline.  Deficit Target  The number of overseas visits to Spain through September
reached 48.8 million, its highest level for the nine-month
period since at least 2000.  “Spain has succeeded in regaining lost confidence in its
economy,” Rajoy told lawmakers in  Madrid  today. “We are now on
the right track.” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem,
who is also head of the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said in a Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung interview that Spain
won’t need further European Union aid for its banks.  Still, Rajoy is depending on demand elsewhere as austerity
continues to hold back the domestic economy. EU peers have given
the country until 2016 to bring the deficit, which was the
biggest in the euro region at 11 percent of GDP last year, to
within the bloc’s 3 percent limit.  More Needed  “The end of a long and second recession isn’t enough to
brand Spain as better off,”  David Haugh , head of the  Spain  desk
at the Paris-based Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development, said in an interview. “In a globalized world, it
needs a more knowledge-intensive economy to pay the high wages
even low-skilled people had during the construction boom.”  Rajoy has benefited from a market rally that has more than
halved the gap between its 10-year borrowing costs and  Germany ’s
in the past year. The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond 
fell by 1 basis points to 4.04 percent at 10:25 a.m. in Madrid,
compared with a euro-era record of 7.75 percent in July 2012.  Spain’s Ibex-35 index of leading companies, which has risen
21 percent this year, gained 0.8 percent today. Among investors
lured by low valuations and high returns compared with the rest
of the world,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates  bought a 6
percent stake in Spanish builder Fomento de Construcciones &
Contratas SA on Oct. 21.  “Spain must continue on the path of structural reforms and
fiscal consolidation,” European Central Bank Governing Council
member Luis Maria Linde, also governor of the Bank of Spain,
said on Oct. 23. While third-quarter data suggest an economic
recovery is under way, “nothing is guaranteed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  