-- Sprint Unveils Faster Mobile Network to Take on Rivals
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/sprint-unveils-faster-mobile-network-to-take-on-rivals.html
Sprint Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, introduced a network upgrade to deliver faster
speeds in about 100 cities over the next three years and better
compete against  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless.  The service, called Sprint Spark, currently delivers speeds
of up to 60 megabits per second and has the capability to
surpass more than 2 gigabits per second, Sprint said. The
technology, demonstrated yesterday at the company’s lab in
Burlingame, California, is now available in five cities -- New
York, Los Angeles, Miami,  Chicago  and Tampa,  Florida .  The Spark plan marks the first technology strategy
announcement by Sprint since the company was purchased by
 SoftBank Corp. (9984)  in July for $21.6 billion. Using Clearwire
airwaves, also acquired by SoftBank in the deal, the plan aims
to take advantage of the fact that Sprint now controls a broader
swath of spectrum than its larger rivals.  Three new phones that are compatible with the network will
be available next week with a total of six coming this year,
Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse said in a press
conference yesterday.  “They are putting their spectrum advantage to good use,”
said Jan Dawson, an analyst at research firm Ovum, who attended
the press conference.  As part of the upgrade plan, Sprint selected  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , Samsung Electronics Co. and Nokia Solutions and
Networks, or NSN, to supply and manage the buildout. NSN
displaced Ericsson AB as one of Sprint’s vendor partners in the
Spark phase of the upgrade, said Bill White, a spokesman at
Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint.  Higher Spending  NSN is also a supplier to SoftBank,  Japan ’s third-biggest
mobile carrier.  For Sprint, which expects to spend $8 billion this year and
next on capital expenses like network upgrades, the technology
push could help in the long-term evolution, or LTE, race with
competitors.  “Sprint needs a way to support the broadband demands that
will keep its service compelling,” said Dawson. “My worry for
Sprint is that it is hard to provide the high-speed performance
they have in the labs to real people at all times and
conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  