-- Sprint Reports Profit as Fewer Users Leave Than Projected
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-30T22:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/sprint-sales-miss-estimates-as-users-depart-on-nextel-shutdown.html
Sprint Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, reported a third-quarter profit as fewer
subscribers departed than analysts had estimated.  The company lost 360,000 contract subscribers, compared
with the average estimate of 371,000, according to eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company expects to gain
subscribers in the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Joe Euteneuer said today on a conference call.  Sprint, which was acquired by  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  in July for
$21.6 billion, closed down its outdated Nextel network on June
30, losing some subscribers to other carriers in the process.
The Overland Park, Kansas-based company said it sold almost 1.4
million of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones.  “You have to wonder when Sprint will get aggressive on
pushing subscriber growth,” said Kevin Roe, an analyst with Roe
Equity Research based in Dorset,  Vermont . “I believe Sprint
will ramp up their marketing and promotions this quarter and
through the first half of 2014.”  An increase in the value of an investment in Clearwire
Corp. helped Sprint record net income of $383 million, compared
with a loss of $767 million a year earlier, the company said
today in a statement.  Sprint rose 3.7 percent to $6.93 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 25 percent since the SoftBank acquisition
closed in July.  Third-quarter revenue was $8.68 billion, below the $8.78
billion average estimate of analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The
average Sprint contract user’s phone bill was $64.28, an
increase from $64.20 in the second quarter. Analysts projected
$62.13 on average.  Clearwire Gain  The company recorded a one-time after-tax gain of $1.4
billion to reflect the higher value of its shares of Clearwire,
which rose as Sprint competed with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  for
control of the wireless-Internet company. Sprint eventually won
that battle with a $3.9 billion transaction, completing the
acquisition on July 9.  Sprint’s third-quarter operating loss widened to $398
million from $231 million a year earlier.  Sprint is spending about $16 billion over two years on
network upgrades to catch up to  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless
in fourth-generation long-term evolution, or LTE, coverage. LTE
delivers fast Internet access allowing users to stream video and
download music.  The company is introducing a service called Sprint Spark to
deliver faster download speeds in about 100 cities over the next
three years, it said today.  ‘Tough Transition’  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , which has been attracting customers with
cheaper plans and no-contract service agreements, is neck-and-neck with Sprint in cities covered with LTE service.  “They are still in a tough transition as they work to
upgrade their network,” James Moorman, an analyst with S&P
Capital IQ in New York, said of Sprint. “Until their network is
more comparable to the bigger carriers, they will have a problem
with customer churn.”  Last month, in response to T-Mobile and the other carriers,
Sprint gave customers an option to upgrade their phones more
often. The Sprint One Up plan lets users get a new phone every
12 months, imitating similar offers like Jump from T-Mobile,
which lets customers upgrade twice a year for an extra $10 a
month.  Earlier this month, in the first management shake-up under
new owner SoftBank, Sprint reorganized its sales organization,
included the exit of Chief Sales Officer Paget Alves and Chief
Marketing Officer Bill Malloy.  While expectations are low for Sprint this year, the
outlook may improve as the company starts to use airwaves
acquired from Clearwire Corp. to improve network quality,
competing with the top carriers on performance,  Jennifer
Fritzsche , a Wells Fargo analyst, wrote in a note earlier this
week.  “Spectrum could be Sprint’s secret sauce,’” Fritzsche
wrote. “In our view, the ‘new’ Sprint’s strategy will be all
around network speed and throughput.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  