-- Spying Disclosures Seen Undermining U.S. Technology Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-10-30T20:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/spying-disclosures-seen-undermining-u-s-technology-sales.html
The disclosure of U.S. spying on
allies may temporarily undercut efforts by American companies to
sell technology overseas, according to a former official with
the Department of  Homeland Security .  “We are going to go through a period of substantial
skepticism abroad about any technology we’re selling people,”
Stewart Baker, a Washington lawyer who headed the department’s
policy directorate, said today at a forum on cybersecurity
hosted by Bloomberg Government and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)   German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  dispatched a team to the
White House today to seek a new intelligence-sharing agreement
with the U.S. after reports that her mobile phone may have been
tapped. Those reports are among a stream of disclosures based on
top-secret documents provided to media outlets by Edward Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor.  Distrust by allies may make it more difficult for U.S.
firms seeking to export their technology Baker said.  While Baker said “we’re going to see an effort to push
this issue for some period of time,” he predicted the issue
would be short-lived.  “In the end, it’s just a headwind,” said Baker, a partner
with Steptoe & Johnson LLP. “Often you end up trusting the
person with the best technology who has the best deal.”  General Keith Alexander, the NSA director, said at the
forum that he’s open to considering alternative methods of
intelligence collection, while stopping short of confirming
spying on allies.  Important Partnerships  “Is there a better way to move forward?” Alexander asked.
“I think there is. I think the partnerships in some cases are
more important. I think this partnership with  Europe  is
absolutely important.”  Alexander said government must work with private industry
to find ways to improve cybersecurity. President  Barack Obama 
met with chief executives of consumer, utility and defense
companies yesterday to discuss proposed voluntary security
standards for  computer networks .  “There’s an obvious need for sharing information,” said
Charlie Croom, vice president for cybersecurity solutions at
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  “What type of information and how is
always the question.” Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed is the
world’s largest defense contractor.  The Pentagon is trying to motivate companies to come up
with new solutions to cybersecurity by offering $3.5 million in
prizes to spur new thinking, said Daniel Kaufman, director of
the Information Innovation Office at the  Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency .  “Things are going to change a lot,” Kaufman said,
describing a future in which much of cybersecurity is automated,
without requiring a person to monitor for viruses or make fixes
manually.  “Driverless cars are pretty fun,” he said. “We did that.
This is next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  