-- Standard Life Drops as Inflows Miss After Manager Leaves
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-10-30T16:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/standard-life-says-net-inflows-more-than-doubled-in-nine-months.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/)  declined in London
trading after new client money into savings and investment
products missed analysts’ estimates after the manager of its
flagship fund departed.  Net flows of long-term savings increased 11 percent to 2.8
billion pounds ($4.5 billion) in the first nine months of the
year, the Edinburgh-based company said in a statement today.
That was less than the 3.6 billion pound average estimate of 16
analysts surveyed by Standard Life. The stock dropped about 4
percent.  Euan Munro, the former head of multi-asset investing, left
 Scotland ’s biggest insurer in July to join competitor Aviva
Investors as chief executive officer. During his time at
Standard Life, Munro started the company’s multi-asset Global
Absolute Return Strategies Fund, also known as GARS, helping its
assets swell to 17.8 billion pounds.  The numbers reflect “both an exceptionally strong first-half performance and third quarter that was negatively impacted
by a slowdown in multi-asset flows,”  Barrie Cornes , a London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. wrote in a note to
clients. He has a buy rating on the stock. “We understand that
six out of the eight top U.K. consultants have stuck with GARS
post the departure of some of its personnel, but clearly the
loss of recommendation from the other two is having an impact.”  Net inflows into Standard Life’s multi-asset funds in the
third quarter were 1.1 billion pounds compared with 7.1 billion
pounds in the first half, according to Cornes, who added that
inflows were also hurt by some Indian cash funds that saw
“significant net outflows” in the third quarter.  Stock Falls  Third-party net inflows at Standard Life Investments were
8.3 billion pounds in the nine months to Sept. 30. That missed
the average analyst estimate of 9.7 billion pounds.  The stock dropped 14.7 pence to 354.5 pence in  London , the
biggest decline since Aug. 15.  Net inflows dipped “in August to September after the
departure of Euan Munro,” wrote Oliver Steel, a London-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, in a note to investors, reiterating
his buy recommendation. “Management believes that the bulk of
the mainly institutional outflows have now happened, and reports
that net inflows into GARS are now seeing an increase.”  Standard Life reported a 20 percent increase in sales of
long-term savings products to 17.3 billion pounds, while fee-based revenue increased 15 percent to 1.06 billion pounds from a
year earlier.  “Standard Life has made good progress in the first nine
months of the year, delivering substantial growth in net flows,
assets and fee-based revenue,” Chief Executive Officer David Nish said in the statement. “In the U.K., both our corporate
and retail businesses have performed well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  