-- Steinmetz Declines to Answer Questions From Prosecutor
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-10-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/steinmetz-declines-to-answer-questions-from-prosecutor.html
Beny Steinmetz,  Israel ’s richest
person, declined to answer questions when interviewed by a Swiss
prosecutor as part of an international probe into how his mining
company won control of a Guinean iron-ore project, his lawyer
said.  Steinmetz met with prosecutor Claudio Mascotto for about 1
1/2 hours in Geneva on Oct. 18, lawyer Marc Bonnant said in an
interview yesterday. Steinmetz gave Mascotto no information,
beyond denying any wrongdoing or any role in alleged bribery
related to his company, BSG Resources Ltd., and how it gained
its stake in Simandou, one of the world’s richest iron-ore
deposits.  The billionaire declined to answer questions as he objects
to the involvement of Guinean authorities in the investigation,
Bonnant said. Steinmetz has filed an appeal with a Swiss court
to have  Guinea  excluded from participating in or receiving any
information from the Swiss criminal probe, initiated at the West
African country’s request.  “Mr. Steinmetz made no statements,” Bonnant said. “He
took the position to say ‘as long as the problem of the presence
of the Guineans is not totally resolved,’ I am not talking.”  The Swiss investigation, centered in Geneva, is the latest
legal challenge facing Steinmetz and BSGR. In April, a U.S.
grand jury investigation began looking into claims that a man
linked to BSGR paid bribes to the wife of a former president of
Guinea in return for mining concessions in the country.  Voluntary Meeting  The meeting between Steinmetz and the Swiss prosecutor was
voluntary and not an interrogation, Bonnant has said.  A Swiss judge is expected to rule on the appeal to have
Guinea excluded from the proceedings within one month, Bonnant
said. Henri Della Casa, a spokesman for the Geneva prosecutor’s
office, declined to comment.  Swiss police searched Steinmetz’s home in Geneva and a
private jet in September. They also raided the offices of Onyx
Financial Advisors, whose chief executive officer, Dag Cramer,
is a director of BSGR. Onyx says it is separate and independent
of BSGR and provides management services to the mining company,
among other clients.  Bonnant said Steinmetz, worth about $7.8 billion according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, is willing to answer
questions from Swiss authorities if officials from Guinea are
not involved. Bonnant said Guinea has “no rule of law” or
separation between its courts and political power.  Balda Foundation  Steinmetz “will cooperate with the Swiss Justice, he will
cooperate with the American Justice, but certainly not with
Guinea,” Bonnant said.  Sandra Merloni-Horemans, a director of BSGR, also declined
to answer questions during a separate interview for the same
reason, the lawyer said.  Bonnant is a director of the Balda Foundation, a Vaduz,
Liechtenstein-registered entity that is at the center of a
complicated web of companies related to Steinmetz. Bonnant said
Beny Steinmetz is “one of the beneficiaries” of The Balda
Foundation.  BSGR owns a 49 percent stake in a Guinea iron ore mining
venture with  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5)  that controls half of the giant
Simandou deposit. The venture had been studying a $10 billion
project in the country before Guinea said in March it was
preparing to strip it of rights to the ground.  A Guinean hearing into ownership of the concessions, which
started last October, is set to resume by December, a person
close to the country’s review committee said, asking not to be
identified as the process is confidential.  Simandou Deposit  The review has been on hold as the committee awaits the
return of evidence from prosecutors in the U.S. probe, the
person said. A decision on whether the Vale-BSGR venture is
allowed to retain the licenses is expected to be made by early
next year, the person said.  Simandou is split into four blocks. Steinmetz’s company
gained control of blocks 1 and 2 after the government ordered
London-based Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining
company, to hand them over in 2008. BSGR spent more than $160
million on the two blocks between 2006 and April 2010, according
to the company’s website.  In April 2010, Vale agreed to pay BSGR as much as $2.5
billion for a 51 percent stake in deposits in the country
including Rio’s confiscated blocks. The two blocks were legally
stripped from Rio because the company failed to proceed with
development, BSGR said last month.  Bonnant said that if Guinea decides to expropriate the
Simandou blocks from BSGR and Vale, the matter would likely end
up being contested in arbitration for years. The only other
possible outcome would be an “amicable settlement,” Bonnant
said. The lawyer cautioned that there have been no settlement
talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  