-- Stop Subsidizing Colleges’ 100-Year Debt Binge
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2013-10-30T17:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/stop-subsidizing-colleges-100-year-debt-binge.html
The  Barack Obama  administration and
Congress purport to care about the rising costs of college. Yet
the government’s policies are only fueling the higher-education
arms race.  I have  written  before on how the expansion of federal
student-loan programs has encouraged colleges to simply raise
their costs. Students are left to pile up more debt while
colleges indulge in their Edifice Complex -- building luxury
dorms and gyms and stadiums (all “sustainable,” of course) at
the expense of poorer students. There is another, related
government subsidy that also has perverse effects and needs
reform: the  tax-exempt  debt binge by universities.  Schools are exuberantly borrowing, in some cases issuing
100-year (century) bonds. Some bond offerings are justified,
even wise, as schools are taking advantage of low  interest rates 
to reduce future debt-service obligations. But a lot of this
activity is financing construction of high-end student housing,
faddish “centers” and stadiums.  These perquisites appeal to the most affluent. For many
students, however, the costs of college are rising relative to
the perceived benefits, pushing them to consider lower-cost
substitutes (online education, nondegree certificate programs).  Many bonds are tax-exempt. The more money borrowed, the
more generous the exemption, creating in effect a taxpayer
 subsidy  for rich universities. Should there be no cap on the tax
exemptions private colleges can claim on their bond debt, and is
it appropriate for the government to subsidize all types of
projects at these schools?  Government Support  For state universities, there is the implicit and explicit
expectation of government support. Should  Colorado State
University  be able to secure bond financing for a proposed $246
million stadium that has no direct academic purpose beyond the
school’s claims that it will attract 5,000 out-of-state students
who will pay higher tuition? At the University of  Kansas , an $18
million structure is being built to house the first “rules of
basketball” that James Naismith wrote more than a century ago
(for which an alumnus recently paid $4 million).  The public institution where I teach, Ohio University,
plans to spend almost $1 billion on buildings from 2013 to 2019,
financed largely by borrowing $568 million -- far more than the
total endowment. With the money in the pipeline, the school has
decided to tear down a perfectly serviceable lab facility
(against the wishes of several prominent researchers using the
building) that is less than 50 years old and previously was
merely going to be remodeled.  University presidents defend the spending splurge.
President Barry Mills of Bowdoin College showed chutzpah last
year in announcing that the school would borrow $128 million by
issuing century bonds (at an average interest cost of more than
$6 million a year, or about $3,400 for every student), largely
to refinance old debt and partly for new construction. Mills
said the plan provided unique opportunities “for the college to
prosper, to grow our endowment.” He didn’t explain how
borrowing money enhances the endowment.  The century bond fad is spreading.  Ohio State University 
borrowed $500 million for 100 years, mostly to build new
dormitories. Will the buildings last as long as the debt used to
pay for them? Not likely. The  University of California   issued 
$860 million in century bonds last year and, as an encore, an
additional $2.39 billion in conventional debt recently. (If that
sounds like a huge amount, consider that  Harvard University ,
which has about 22,000 students compared with the UC system’s
more than 225,000, is more than $6 billion in debt -- about
$300,000 for every student.)  These debt-financed building sprees are increasingly
troublesome at a time of unsustainably rising college costs that
should be met with a fundamental rethinking of the traditional
methods of higher education. And bond-rating companies are
beginning to raise the alarm.  Ratings Drop  In 2011,  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  revealed that more than 20 percent
of rated private colleges had ratings at the “B” level (low
investment grade) rather than the more secure “A” level; only
a handful of public institutions had “B” ratings. Last
January, however, Moody’s said that the 2013 outlook was
negative. “Even market-leading universities with diversified
revenue streams are facing diminished prospects for revenue
growth,” Moody’s concluded, adding that “most universities
will have to lower their cost structures to achieve long-term
financial sustainability.”  The negative assessments continue, despite the stock
market’s strength. In August, a Moody’s spokesman  said  “the
developing trend of expense growth outpacing revenue growth is
unsustainable.”  A decade ago, no one seriously predicted cities would go
bankrupt, forcing municipal bondholders to absorb large losses.
In a few years, we will probably be hearing similar stories
about some universities -- those that want to keep up with rich
schools but can’t afford to -- if the debt-financed spending
binge doesn’t end.  The federal government can help U.S. universities break
their debt addiction by ceasing its enabling behavior. A first
step would be to require universities to prove that any tax-exempt bonds they issue serve to further instruction or
research.  Maybe such restrictions would encourage colleges to stop
being so short-sighted about the  unsustainability  of their
spending and start paying attention to the surging popularity of
the college-ranking lists that quantify “bang for the buck.”
If too many students are priced out, they will eventually do
what other consumers do -- take their business elsewhere.  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity, teaches economics at Ohio
University and is an adjunct scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 