-- SunPower to Boost Capacity 25% as Factories Run at Full
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/sunpower-to-expand-production-as-demand-boosts-earnings.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the second-largest
U.S. solar-panel maker, plans to boost manufacturing capacity 25
percent as it runs its existing plants at full speed to meet
surging demand.  The company will build a factory in the  Philippines  that
will be able to produce 350 megawatts of panels a year and is
expected to go into production in 2015, bringing San Jose,
California-based SunPower’s total annual cell capacity to more
than 1.8 gigawatts, Chief Executive Officer Tom Werner said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts.  SunPower is the first solar producer to announce expansion
plans as the industry comes out of a two-year slump triggered by
a global oversupply, said Ben Kallo, an analyst with Robert W.
Baird & Co. in San Francisco. With demand surging in markets
from Asia to the Americas, he expects other manufacturers to
follow suit.  “I think you’ll see others start to step up production
capacity as new global markets emerge,” Kallo said in an
interview yesterday.  SunPower’s plants have been running at full capacity for
the past two quarters. The company produced 313 megawatts of
panels in the third quarter, up 38 percent from a year earlier,
and expects to have 1 gigawatt to 1.03 gigawatts of production
for the full year, according to a presentation on its  website .
Werner said production in 2014 will increase by as much as 300
megawatts.  “I think next year what we see happening is the emergence
of South America,” he said in an interview. “In 2015 we expect
to see more projects in the  emerging markets .”  Exceeding Estimates  The company reported third-quarter net income of $108.4
million, or 73 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $48.5
million, or 41 cents, a year earlier, according to a statement
yesterday. Excluding one-time items, earnings of 44 cents a
share exceeded by 19 cents the average of 12  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales increased 1.3 percent to $657.1 million.  SunPower reported a profit in the second quarter, its first
in more than two years, as demand in Asia doubled. That’s
continuing to spur sales, said Angelo Zino, an analyst with S&P
Capital IQ in New York.  “The drivers are the same we’ve seen over the last few
quarters: U.S. project pipeline, their leasing business and
 Japan ,” which has the most attractive incentives out there and
where SunPower has partnerships with Sharp Corp. and  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , Zino said in an interview before the results were
released.  SunPower fell 4.1 percent to $31.85 at the close in New
York. The shares have more than quintupled this year. First
Solar Inc. is the largest U.S. solar manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  