-- Suntech May Get $150 Million Investment From Wuxi Guolian
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-10-30T20:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/suntech-may-get-150-million-equity-investment-from-wuxi-guolian.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar company whose main unit was pulled into
bankruptcy, may receive an equity investment of at least $150
million from a state-backed enterprise.  The support from Wuxi Guolian Development Group may also
lead to combining other solar and related businesses it owns
with Suntech, possibly as joint ventures, the panel maker said
in a statement yesterday announcing it had received an
investment letter of intent.  Suntech’s main unit was pulled into bankruptcy proceedings
after the Wuxi, China-based panel maker missed a bond payment in
March. It was the world’s biggest solar manufacturer by 2011
shipments and the potential failure of a company with more than
20,000 employees at its  peak  in 2010 is prompting state agencies
to come to its rescue, said Angelo Zino, an analyst with S&P
Capital IQ in  New York .  “What we anticipated all along was that the Chinese
government will look for ways to support and make sure Chinese
tier-one solar manufacturers will continue to survive,” Zino
said in an interview. That includes Suntech and other
manufacturers struggling with debt such as LDK Solar Co. “The
main reason for that has to do with jobs.”  Restructuring Plan  The cash investment from Wuxi Guolian would support “a
comprehensive rehabilitation and restructuring of the financial
and operational affairs of” Suntech, according to the
statement. Suntech failed to repay $541 million in bonds that
matured in March.  Suntech’s American depositary receipts, each worth one
ordinary share, climbed 10 percent to $1.40 at the close in New
York yesterday.  The investment may not be enough, said  Pavel Molchanov , an
analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston.  “For a company with at least $2 billion in debt, $150
million is certainly not a game changer,” Molchanov said in an
interview. “We don’t know what Suntech’s actual financials are
right now. They haven’t reported in quite some time.”  Suntech had $2.26 billion in  debt  at the end of the first
quarter, the last time it reported earnings.  Other companies are also seeking to invest in Suntech.
 Jiangsu Shunfeng Photovoltaic Technology Co. (1165) , a unit of Shunfeng
Photovoltaic International Ltd., signed a strategic cooperation
agreement with the solar company’s Wuxi Suntech unit on Oct. 24,
according to the statement.  LDK,  China ’s second-biggest solar-wafer supplier, ended the
second quarter with $2.8 billion in debt. It failed to fully
repay $23.8 million of convertible bonds that matured April 15
and is restructuring another $240 million of securities that
were due in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  