-- Swiss Bank Reyl Contests Charges Over Cahuzac Tax Affair
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-10-30T18:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/swiss-bank-reyl-contests-charges-over-cahuzac-tax-affair.html
Reyl Group, a Geneva-based wealth
manager, said it’s contesting charges filed by Paris judges
regarding the Swiss accounts of Jerome Cahuzac, a former French
budget minister.  The charges followed questioning by French judges, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement, without indicating who was being
targeted. “The hearing resulted in a procedure for a formal
investigation which the bank contests,” Reyl Group said.  Cahuzac agreed to relinquish Swiss secrecy privileges,
which normally prohibit bankers from revealing client
information, and Swiss authorities agreed to Reyl’s cooperation
with the judges, according to the statement.  Reyl Group was among the Swiss firms used by Cahuzac to
stash 600,000 euros ($823,000) of undeclared funds outside
 France . Cahuzac, a former plastic surgeon and Socialist
lawmaker, resigned in March and repatriated money held outside
France after repeatedly denying he had offshore accounts.  Reyl Group previously provided French judges with evidence
about a Swiss account held by Cahuzac from 1992 through an
administrative assistance request in March, the Geneva
prosecutor said in April. Chief Executive Officer Francois Reyl,
whose father Dominique Reyl founded the bank in 1973, also spoke
with Geneva’s public prosecutor in April and the minutes of that
meeting were sent to judges in France.  French Judges  The judges in Paris investigating the matter are Renaud van Ruymbeke and Roger Le Loire, Le Monde reported today. Francois
Reyl gave evidence yesterday and Dominique Reyl was expected to
be summoned by judges today, according to the French newspaper.
An official at Reyl declined to comment.  Under French legal procedure the bank will be shown
evidence gathered by the investigating judges, now that charges
have been formally issued. “That grants access to case
documents in order to restore the truth about the facts,” Reyl
Group said in the statement.  Reyl Group, which reported a 26 percent increase in assets
under management to 9.3 billion Swiss francs ($10.4 billion) in
the  first half , said in June it doesn’t have other accounts
owned by French politicians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  