-- U.K. May Move Cost of Green Levies to Treasury
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-30T17:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/u-k-may-move-cost-of-green-levies-to-treasury.html
The U.K. government is studying
whether to fund the cost of green levies through general
taxation instead of consumer power bills as a way to rein in
energy prices.  Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said moving the charges that
fund social and environmental programs away from consumer bills
is one of the options being considered. Britain is examining
each of the taxes that make up 9 percent of the typical bill
covering electricity and natural gas, he said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is working to
identify measures it could take to reduce costs after four of
six largest utilities raised prices. Consumer energy bills have
risen 30 percent in real terms since 2007, outpacing inflation.  “It’s only right that we look at the total fuel bills
being paid by our constituents,” Fallon told the Environmental
Audit Committee in  London  today. “We’re looking at these bills
across the board to ensure there’s sufficient competition, that
network costs aren’t higher than they need to be, and additional
levies are as fair and as reasonable as possible.”  The utilities blamed gains on rising wholesale gas costs
and levies to pay for clean energy programs. Cameron announced a
competition review to probe profit levels and the cost of green
regulations after the Labour opposition pledged to freeze bills
through 2017.  Ed Davey , the Cabinet-level minister supervising energy,
will make an annual statement to Parliament tomorrow about the
work of his department. The government hasn’t set a target for
what it would like to shave off gas and power bills, Fallon
said.  Energy and Climate change policies account for about 9
percent, or 112 pounds ($180), of the current fuel bill, and are
likely to rise, the minister said.  “This is now a sizeable element of the bills,” he said.
“It wouldn’t be right to exempt these green levies, to say you
can’t possibly look at these.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  