-- U.K. Mulls 0.75% Cap on Pension-Fund Charges to Help Savers
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-10-30T13:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/u-k-considers-0-75-cap-on-pension-fund-charges-to-help-savers.html
The U.K. Treasury is to examine the
case for capping the fees that pension funds are allowed to
charge savers, in an effort to prevent exploitation of a new
auto-enrollment system.  While falling prices have meant that the average charge on
a fund started in 2012 was 0.51 percent, the  Office of Fair
Trading  estimates there are more than 186,000 plans, containing
2.7 billion pounds ($4.3 billion) of assets, that are paying
fees of more than 1 percent.  “People need to know they are getting value for money when
they save into a pension and not being ripped off by excessive
charges,” Pensions Minister Steve Webb said in an e-mailed
statement today. “We are consulting on a cap on pension
charges. A range of options will be on the table including an
outright ban on all charges above 0.75 percent per year.”  Webb told the BBC today that the government will also look
to promote consolidation among pension providers “to get scale
and drive costs down.” Funds will also be banned from charging
more when members stop contributing because they move jobs.  Options under consideration include a cap at 1 percent, a
cap at 0.75 percent, or a flexible cap allowing funds to go
above 0.75 percent to 1 percent if they can justify it to a
regulator.  Basic Options  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the U.K.’s largest manager of
pension assets, said the basic plan that employees receive
automatically should cost no more than half a percent.  “All consumers deserve this level of value, whatever the
size of firm they work for,” Adrian Boulding, pension-strategy
director at Legal & General, said in a statement. “There are
plenty of additional services that some people will find worth
paying more for,” including wider investment choice and
financial advice.  Webb suggested he’d like to see most plans charging around
0.3 percent. “Most could deliver at the sort of costs we’re
talking about, but because there’s very little competitive
pressure in the market, they don’t do so,” he told the  BBC .  Gregg McClymont, pensions spokesman for the opposition
 Labour Party , said ministers had been slow to realize the scale
of the problem and respond.  ‘Charge Cap’  “To impose a charge cap, the government will first have to
have full sight of all costs and charges that can accrue in a
pension,” he said in a telephone interview. “No steps so far
have been taken by the government on this score.”  Starting in April 2015, every U.K. employee will be signed
up for a  pension plan  unless he or she opts out. According to
the Treasury, this will mean as many as 9 million people saving
for a pension for the first time or increasing their savings,
and an extra 11 billion pounds ($18 billion) invested each year.  The OFT concluded in an investigation Sept. 19 that fees
are too high and not always transparent. The  Association of
British Insurers  agreed to an immediate audit of older and
higher-charging funds, estimated to contain around 30 billion
pounds of savings.  Next Scandal  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  pointed to pension fees last year
as the next scandal in British public life after journalism and
banking.  Academic research published by the Review of Financial
Studies in 2009 found the average British mutual fund charged
2.21 percent of its clients’ assets annually, compared with 1.04
percent in the U.S. Opaque fee structures, which exclude trading
charges that can double the cost of owning a fund, make it
difficult for customers to compare products and hurt
competition.  A pension fund charging 2 percent a year will reduce the
value of the fund by 49 percent over a 20-year period due to
compound interest, according to SCM Private, a fund management
firm campaigning against high fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  