-- U.S. Joins Whistle-Blower Suit Over Background Probes
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/u-s-joins-whistle-blower-suit-over-background-probes.html
The U.S. joined a whistle-blower
lawsuit against the firm whose background checks helped National
Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden and Washington Navy Yard
shooter Aaron Alexis get security clearances.  United States Investigations Services LLC is accused in the
complaint in federal court in Montgomery,  Alabama , of failing to
perform quality control reviews in connection with its
background investigations for the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management.  From January 2010 through January 2011,  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based USIS used proprietary software to automatically
release to OPM incomplete background investigations, according
to the complaint.  “We will not tolerate shortcuts taken by companies we have
entrusted with vetting individuals to be given access to our
country’s sensitive and secret information,” Stuart Delery, the
head of the Justice Department’s civil division, said in a
 statement .  Blake Percival, a former USIS employee, filed his whistle-blower suit under seal in 2011. The case was filed under the
federal False Claims Act, which lets citizens sue on behalf of
the government and share in any recovery.  Percival’s suit was unsealed yesterday with the Justice
Department’s decision to join the case. The  Justice Department 
has until Jan. 22 to file its own complaint, according to the
order unsealing the case.  Snowden, Alexis  The whistle-blower case doesn’t involve the background
investigations of either Snowden or Alexis, according to a
Justice Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the case.  The lawsuit involves only whether USIS conducted a quality
review of each completed background investigation as it was
required to do under its contract with OPM, the official said.  USIS allegedly hid the shortcutting practice, which it
called “dumping,” from OPM and improperly billed the agency
for background investigations the company knew were not
performed to contract specifications, according to the
complaint.  New Leadership  “The behavior by a small number of employees alleged in
the complaint is completely inconsistent with our company
values, culture and tradition of outstanding service to our
government customers,”  Brandy Bergman , a spokeswoman for USIS,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We have put in place new
leadership, enhanced oversight procedures, and improved
protocols that have been shared with OPM. We have been
cooperating, and will continue to cooperate, with the
government’s investigation into these allegations.”  Employees described in Percival’s complaint as spearheading
dumping are no longer with the company, Bergman said in a
telephone interview.  During a June congressional hearing on background checks,
which are required for security clearances, Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said USIS was under criminal
investigation by the OPM inspector general in connection with
“systemic failure to adequately conduct investigations.”  USIS in 2011 conducted a background check tied to a
security clearance renewal on Snowden, who held a top-secret
clearance and leaked classified documents on U.S. surveillance
programs.  Navy Yard  Navy Yard shooter Aaron Alexis, 34, obtained a secret-level
clearance from the Navy in March 2008 after being investigated
by USIS the previous year. His clearance would have enabled him
to get the access card he used to get on the base. After leaving
the Navy in January 2011, Alexis kept the clearance even with
three arrests, a history of mental illness and a record of
military misconduct.  Aaron killed 12 people and died in a shootout with police
at the Navy Yard on Sept. 16.  OPM reviewed the 2007 USIS background investigation for
Alexis, and “believes that the file was complete and in
compliance with all investigative standards,” Merton Miller,
OPM’s associate director for federal investigative services,
said after the shootings.  The whistle-blower suit alleges that from January 2010 to
January 2011, a USIS official engaged in dumping throughout the
company’s U.S. operations.  Company investigators performed “incomplete and inaccurate
investigations, and USIS knowingly submitted cases to OPM for
payment that they knew had not been reviewed by a USIS reviewer
as required by the contract,” Percival said in his complaint.  Percival Terminated  Percival, a director of fieldwork services, was terminated
in June 2011 because he refused to dump, according to his
complaint.  His suit doesn’t seek a specific sum in damages. It
requests triple the amount of damages sustained by the U.S. plus
a civil penalty of $5,000 to $10,000 for each violation of the
 False Claims Act .  “The dumpings described herein (i.e. the submitted false
claims) for the period January 2010 through January 2011, alone,
constitute multimillion-dollar payments by the United States
government to USIS,” according to the suit.  No company does more U.S. government background checks for
clearances than USIS, which was awarded $253 million by OPM last
year. The company performed about two-thirds of background
investigations done by contractors, and more than half of all
those performed by the U.S. personnel office, according to
McCaskill’s office.  USIS, a unit of Falls Church, Virginia-based Altegrity
Inc., owned by Providence Equity Partners LLC, has at least 40
federal contracts for work related to investigations, 14 of
which are scheduled to expire by Oct. 1, 2014, according to
federal procurement data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company performs background checks and other
investigative work for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department of
Agriculture, among other agencies.  The case is U.S. ex rel Blake Percival v. U.S.
Investigations Services LLC, 11-cv-527, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Alabama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in federal court in Washington at 
   azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  