-- U.S. Employment Situation: Federal Government Shutdown (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-10-30T18:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/u-s-employment-situation-federal-government-shutdown-text-.html
The following text was released by
the Department of Labor concerning the government shutdown’s
effects on the October 2013 Employment Situation Report:  Some agencies of the federal government were shut down or were
operating at reduced staffing levels from October 1, 2013,
through October 16, 2013. This fact sheet addresses some of the
questions raised by data users on how the shutdown affected
survey operations and how workers affected by the shutdown are
classified in the household and establishment surveys that are
featured in the Employment Situation news release.  One of the strengths of the Employment Situation news release is
that it presents data from two separate surveys to provide a
more complete picture of the U.S. labor market. The shutdown
brings into focus some of the differences in concepts measured
by the household survey and the establishment survey.  In accordance with usual practice, any special factors that
affect the estimates or their interpretation will be discussed
in the October Employment Situation news release, scheduled for
November 8, 2013.  Household survey  In the Current Population Survey (the household survey),
individuals are classified as employed, unemployed, or not in
the  labor force  based on their answers to a series of questions
about their activities during the survey reference week--
generally, the week that includes the 12th of the month. Data
collection for the survey begins the following week.  For October 2013, the household survey reference week was
Sunday, October 6, through Saturday, October 12. During this
period, some federal government agencies were closed or were
operating at reduced staffing levels because of the lapse in
their funding. The federal employees and contractors who work
for those agencies may have been off work for all or part of the
week.  Data collection began on October 20th. Collection was originally
scheduled to begin on October 13th but was delayed because of
the shutdown. The survey reference week was unchanged.  Workers who indicate that they were not working during the
entire survey reference week and expected to be recalled to
their jobs should be classified in the household survey as
unemployed, on temporary layoff. This would include furloughed
federal employees as well as other affected workers.   These workers are classified this way regardless of whether
they are, or expect to be, paid for the time they are on
temporary layoff.   Persons on temporary layoff need not be looking for work to be
classified as unemployed. (Persons not on temporary layoff need
to have actively looked for work in the 4 weeks prior to the
survey in order to be classified as unemployed.)
Workers who usually work full time but indicate that they had
worked fewer than 35 hours in the reference week because of the
shutdown should be classified as employed part time for economic
reasons.  As always, survey results are subject to both sampling and
nonsampling error. Nonsampling error can occur if people
responding to the survey questions misunderstand the questions
or provide inaccurate answers. This could result in the
misclassification of the individual’s labor force status.  Establishment survey  In the Current Employment Statistics survey (the establishment
survey), businesses report the number of people who work or
receive pay for any part of the pay period that includes the
12th of the month. Persons who work or receive pay for any part
of the pay period are defined as employed. Persons not working
or on layoff the entire pay period and who do not receive pay
are not defined as employed. This method of classifying workers
is the same in all industries, including the federal government.
The legislation that ended the partial shutdown established that
federal employees would be paid for the time their agencies were
closed.  The establishment survey also provides estimates of hours and
earnings for the private sector, but not for the public sector.
Changes in work schedules in the private sector can affect
estimates of average weekly hours and average weekly earnings
for that sector.  The reference period in the establishment survey is the pay
period that includes the 12th of the month, regardless of the
length of the pay period. Pay periods are establishment specific
and may be weekly, biweekly, semi-monthly, monthly, or a
combination of those frequencies.  In the establishment survey, data collection for a specific
month begins as early as the 13th of that month. Data collection
continues for about 2 months, and the estimates are revised
twice after their initial release to reflect the additional data
collected. All BLS operations, including data collection for the
establishment survey, were suspended from October 1 to October
16, 2013. During this period, BLS normally would have collected
data to be used for the August final, September second
preliminary, and October preliminary establishment survey
estimates. Data collection resumed shortly after BLS reopened.
In accordance with usual practice, information on collection
rates for the establishment survey estimates will be made
available at  http://www.bls.gov/web/empsit/cesregrec.htm  when
the Employment Situation for October is released on November 8,
2013.  SOURCE: U.S. Department of Labor  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  