-- U.S., German Talks on Spy Differences Don’t Resolve Differences
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-10-30T21:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/u-s-german-talks-on-spy-differences-don-t-resolve-differences.html
U.S. and German officials failed to
resolve differences over spying in a meeting prompted by
allegations that American intelligence bugged German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s mobile phone.  Merkel sent the delegation to Washington to seek an
agreement with the U.S. that would restrain the allies from
spying on each other. U.S. officials have said only that America
it isn’t spying on Merkel now and won’t in the future and that a
review of policies includes how it affects heads of state.
They’ve declined to address questions about past spying.  Merkel’s top foreign-policy adviser, Christoph Heusgen, and
her intelligence coordinator, Guenter Heiss, met today with
officials including U.S. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and Susan Rice, President  Barack Obama ’s national
security adviser.  The goal was to try to “rebuild trust,” the chancellery
said. The meeting didn’t break any new ground, a spokeswoman for
the White House National Security Council said.  “Today’s discussions were an opportunity to hear from one
another and jointly determine how the dialogue can best proceed
in order to provide the necessary assurance and strengthen our
cooperation,” the spokeswoman, Caitlin Hayden, said in an e-mailed statement. She said the discussions would continue “in
the coming days and weeks,” without naming any dates.  German government spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters
today in Berlin that German officials will work on a basis of a
“no-spy treaty” to limit intelligence gathering between the
two allies. “This process will take time,” he said.  Relationships Hit  The spat between  Germany  and the U.S. over suspicions that
the National Security Agency had hacked into Merkel’s mobile
phone as well as anger in Europe over NSA data collection has
taken a toll on trans-Atlantic relations.  The dispute among the allies threatens to deepen after U.S.
intelligence leaders, without specifying whom they targeted,
defended the practice of espionage on foreign leaders yesterday
in Congress as a standard of spy-craft used by every nation.  NSA Director Keith Alexander told U.S. lawmakers yesterday
that European media reports on data collection on millions of
citizens were “completely false.” Spy chief Clapper said
espionage on U.S. allies is fair game.  “It’s invaluable for us to know where countries are coming
from, what their policies are and how that would impact us
across a whole range of issues,” Clapper told the House
intelligence committee during a hearing yesterday in  Washington .
Asked whether U.S. allies have spied on American leaders,
Clapper said, “absolutely.”  Leaders Targeted  The hearing and the disclosure of a White House
intelligence review shed little light on whether the NSA spied
on leaders including Merkel or how much Congress and Obama knew.
The espionage fallout flared up this week as German lawmakers
called for an investigation of American spy activity and Spain
condemned phone taps.  “We are undertaking a review of our activities around the
world with a special emphasis on examining whether we have the
appropriate posture when it comes to heads of state,” White
House press secretary Jay Carney said yesterday.  German authorities are still determining whether Merkel’s
phone came under surveillance. Seibert said this week that, if
confirmed, “this would represent a grave breach of trust.”  U.S. diplomats in Germany may be expelled if alleged
eavesdropping on Merkel’s mobile phone is proven, Interior
Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  said in a Rheinische Post
newspaper  interview.  “If it’s proven that the NSA listened in
on the chancellor then we may as an emergency measure expel
diplomats,” he said, as cited by the paper.  Today’s meeting was to be followed by visits by the
president of Germany’s Federal Intelligence Service, Gerhard
Schindler, and the chief of German counterintelligence, Hans-Georg Maassen, the chancellery has said.’  Alexander said today that placing new restrictions on the
NSA could create gaps that lead to a terrorist attack. “If we
take away the tools we increase the risk and we ought to go into
that with our eyes wide open,” he said today at a Bloomberg
Government conference on cybersecurity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  