-- U.S. Stocks Drop as Fed Keeps Stimulus Pace Amid Growth
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-30T22:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/u-s-stocks-drop-as-fed-continues-stimulus-amid-economic-growth.html
U.S.  stocks  fell, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index halting a four-day winning streak, after the
Federal Reserve fueled bets it will begin to cut stimulus even
as it maintained the pace of monthly bond buying as expected.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  lost 9.3 percent after its quarterly sales
outlook missed analysts’ predictions.  Western Union Co. (WU)  tumbled
12 percent after saying costs tied to regulatory compliance will
prevent operating profit from rising next year.  General Motors
Co. (GM)  gained 3.2 percent as quarterly profit topped estimates. 
Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD)  Inc. surged 9 percent after raising its full-year earnings forecast.  The S&P 500 fell 0.5 percent to 1,763.31 at 4 p.m. in New
York after rising yesterday to a third straight record. The
index has jumped 24 percent this year, on track for its best
annual gain since 2003. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost
61.59 points, or 0.4 percent, to 15,618.76 today. About 6.4
billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, 7.4 percent
above the three-month average.  “People are looking at it and saying, ‘OK it’s about what
we expected, so there’s no real upside, and we’ve traded it up,
so now let’s back off a little bit,’” Brad McMillan, chief
investment officer for Waltham, Massachusetts-based Commonwealth
Financial Network, said in a phone interview. His firm has more
than $71 billion under management. “Everyone was buying in the
anticipation of continued stimulus. That is more or less exactly
what they’ve got.”  Statement Change  The Fed decided to press on with the $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases that have helped propel the S&P 500 higher by
more than 160 percent from a 12-year low in 2009. The gauge has
surged 4.9 percent in October, heading for the biggest  monthly
gain  in two years, as lawmakers ended a 16-day government
shutdown and agreed to extend the U.S. borrowing authority,
avoiding a possible debt default.  While Fed policy makers said fiscal policy is “restraining
economic growth,” the central bank said it sees signs of
“underlying strength.” The Fed removed a sentence from its
previous policy statement that had said tighter financial
conditions could slow the improvement in the economy, sparking
speculation it could cut stimulus in the coming months.  “When you look at the reaction in the market, investors
are really taking the opinion that the taper may actually come
sooner than previously thought,” Chris Gaffney, senior market
strategist at EverBank Wealth Management, said by phone from St.
Louis. “Everything indicates that people, when they read that
statement, they felt like the Fed continues to have a positive
view on the economy and they would be starting to taper maybe
before the expected March date.”  Inflation Watch  The central bank was expected to maintain the pace of
assets purchases at the current level until March 2014,
according to a Bloomberg survey this month.  The Fed left unchanged its statement that it will probably
hold its target interest rate near zero “at least as long as”
unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent, so long as the outlook for
inflation is no higher than 2.5 percent. A report today showed
the cost of living in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent as projected in
September, capping the smallest year-to-year gain in five
months.  Separate data based on payrolls showed companies added
fewer workers than projected in October, adding to signs that
growth slowed in the weeks before the shutdown. The government
closure will reduce economic growth by 0.3 percentage points
this quarter at an annual rate, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Earnings Season  While the  S&P 500 (SPX) ’s rally has lifted equity  valuations  to a
four-year high, with the index trading at 16 times estimated
operating earnings, that’s still below the multiples at the
market’s two previous peaks, when the ratio reached 16.5 in
October 2007 and 25.7 in March 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Investors have also been assessing better-than-expected
 corporate earnings  from the third quarter. Profits have grown by
an average of 5 percent among the 312 S&P 500 companies that
have reported results so far, while sales have gained 2.9
percent. Profits for the broad equity gauge probably increased
3.7 percent during the quarter as sales climbed 2.4 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Some 35
members of the S&P 500  reported results  today.  Facebook Results  Facebook Inc., which is not in the gauge, slipped 0.7
percent to $48.67 at 6:32 p.m. in New York, erasing a 10 percent
rally in extended trading. The world’s largest social network
reported third-quarter sales that topped analysts’ estimates as
advertisers boosted spending on promotions targeting users on
smartphones and tablets.  All 10 main S&P 500 groups dropped at least 0.2 percent
today. Utilities and consumer-staples stocks fell the most,
dropping more than 0.6 percent.  LinkedIn lost 9.3 percent, the most since May, to $224.11.
The world’s biggest professional-networking site said fourth-quarter revenue will be $415 million to $420 million. That
trailed the average analyst estimate of $438.9 million.  Western Union Co. tumbled 12 percent to $16.85 for the
biggest slide in the S&P 500 and its lowest level since July 2.
The largest money-transfer business reported a drop in third-quarter profit. Operating income won’t increase next year
because of additional investments needed to comply with new and
existing regulations, Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek said.  Steel, Cars  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  slid 2.9 percent to $24.72. The largest
U.S. producer of the metal will permanently close parts of two
plants as it cuts costs after four unprofitable quarters. The
company was downgraded to hold from buy at Deutsche Bank by
equity analyst David Martin.  General Motors gained 3.2 percent to $37.23. The largest
U.S. automaker posted third-quarter  profit  that beat estimates
as North American earnings, boosted by redesigned large pickups,
helped buffer international losses.   Buffalo Wild Wings jumped 9 percent to $141.22 after
saying late yesterday it expects full-year earnings growth of 28
percent, up from a previous estimate of 25 percent. That implies
adjusted profit of $3.83 a share, surpassing the average analyst
projection of $3.64.  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  rallied 7.8 percent to $26 for the
biggest gain in the S&P 500. The second-largest U.S. video-game
publisher was raised to strong buy from hold by Needham & Co. by
equity analyst Sean McGowan.  Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  jumped 6.4 percent to $30.35. The
manufacturer of packaging materials raised its full-year profit
forecast above  analyst estimates .  Gilead Sciences Inc. gained 4.6 percent to a record $72.67.
The drug maker reported third-quarter adjusted profit that beat
analyst estimates as antiviral revenue rose 14 percent. The
company raised its product sales forecast for the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  