-- U.S. Treasury Says Yuan Hasn’t Appreciated as Much as Needed
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-10-30T21:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/u-s-treasury-says-yuan-hasn-t-appreciated-as-much-as-needed-1-.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department said
 China ’s yuan is “significantly undervalued” and hasn’t
strengthened as fast as needed, while declining to name the
country a currency manipulator.  The Treasury, in its semi-annual currency report to
Congress released in Washington today, also targeted “countries
with large and persistent surpluses” in the euro area, which
“need to take action to boost domestic demand growth and shrink
their surpluses.”  Germany  has “maintained a large
current-account surplus throughout the euro-area financial
crisis, and in 2012, Germany’s nominal current-account surplus
was larger than that of China,” the Treasury said.  The U.S. criticism comes less than a month after a
political logjam in Washington drove the world’s largest economy
close to a default, led to a partial government shutdown and
triggered criticism from officials from China to  Europe , who
pointed to it as single largest threat to global economic
growth.  The  yuan  “is appreciating, but not as fast or by as much
as needed,” the department said in the report.  Sufficient Reserves  “The evidence that China has resumed large-scale purchases
of foreign exchange this year, despite having accumulated
reserves that are more than sufficient by any measure, is
suggestive of actions that are impeding market determination and
a currency that is significantly undervalued,” the Treasury
said.  “It looks like a bad case of the pot contemplating
criticism of the kettle,” Kit Juckes, global strategist at
Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-mail. “Fed policy
has delivered a number of overvalued currencies and a smattering
of asset bubbles around the world. The Chinese pay more at
Starbucks for coffee but the U.S. would like a weaker dollar.”  The yuan fell for a fourth day today, the longest losing
streak since July, as the central bank cut the currency’s
reference rate amid a rally in the dollar. The People’s Bank of
China cut its fixing, which limits the yuan’s daily moves to 1
percent on either side, by 0.06 percent to 6.1412 per dollar,
the weakest since Oct. 17.  On  Japan , the Treasury said it will “closely monitor” the
government’s policies “and the extent to which they support the
growth of domestic demand.”  The Treasury said it will urge  South Korea  to limit its
foreign-exchange interventions “to the exceptional
circumstances of disorderly market conditions and to commit to
transparency with respect to foreign exchange intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net 
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net  