-- Ukraine’s Third Recession Since 2008 Confirmed on Industry Drop
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-10-30T16:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/ukraine-s-third-recession-since-2008-confirmed-on-industry-drop.html
Ukraine’s  economy  slipped into its
third recession since 2008 in the third quarter as industrial
production plummeted.  Gross domestic product fell 0.4 percent from the previous
three months after shrinking 0.5 percent in the second quarter,
the state statistics committee, based in the capital, Kiev, said
today on its  website , citing preliminary data. GDP fell 1.5
percent from a year earlier, worse than the median estimate of
12 economists in a Bloomberg survey for 0.2 percent growth.  “The economy is in a protracted stagnation as it moves
from one recession to another,” Alexander Valchyshen, head of
research at Investment Capital Ukraine in Kiev, said by phone.
“The government’s policy to boost economic growth has failed.”  Ukraine is struggling amid falling global demand for
products such as steel, a widening current-account gap,
shrinking foreign reserves and trade restrictions from  Russia ,
its biggest export market. It’s failed to seal a loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  as the government rejects conditions
including higher household energy tariffs. Moody’s Investors
Service cut its junk rating further last month.  Yields on Ukrainian dollar debt due 2014 rose 57 basis
points to 15.33 percent, the highest level since Oct. 10, as of
5:48 p.m. in Kiev, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
hryvnia fell to 8.1875 per dollar from 8.1730 yesterday.  Industry Decline  Industrial production declined 5.2 percent from a year
earlier in the first nine months, compared with 0.6 percent
growth in the same period of 2012.  GDP growth will be “slightly” negative in the whole of
2013, Valchyshen said. First Deputy Prime Minister Serhiy Arbuzov has said the economy will grow less than 1 percent.  Ukraine must act quickly to correct economic imbalances
that threaten to swell its budget and current-account deficits
beyond the government’s control, the  World Bank  said Oct. 7.  Moody’s downgraded Ukraine’s credit rating on Sept. 20 by
one level to Caa1, seven steps below investment grade, citing
growing political and economic risks due to deteriorating
relations with Russia, low foreign reserves and a lack of
progress on an international bailout from the IMF.  Central bank reserves were at a seven-year low of $21.6
billion at the end of September, down from $29.3 billion a year
earlier, as policy makers intervened to support the hryvnia. The
stockpile is less than three months of imports, a threshold
economists deem important for financial stability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  