-- ValueVision CEO Targeted by Activist Investor Clinton Group
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-10-30T22:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/valuevision-ceo-targeted-by-activist-investor-clinton-group.html
Activist shareholder Clinton Group
Inc. is targeting television and Internet home shopping company
 ValueVision Media Inc. (VVTV)  with a campaign to replace its chief
executive officer and appoint board members.  Clinton Group’s funds own more than 5 percent of
ValueVision, which operates the ShopNBC network and ShopHQ,
according to a letter to the company’s Chairman Randy Ronning. A
copy of the letter, which was written by the New York-based
investor’s President Greg Taxin and dated today, was filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  ValueVision CEO Keith Stewart has missed targets and the
company is underperforming competitors, according to the letter.
Clinton Group offered to invest at least another $25 million at
“a substantial premium to the stock price” if Stewart is
replaced and new board members are appointed. The  fund manager 
isn’t seeking a board seat, though the letter refers to unnamed
candidates the fund will recommend.  Taxin referred to meetings and phone calls he held with
Ronning and company director Sean Orr in the letter.  ValueVision defended the turnaround under Stewart’s
leadership in a statement today, and said it had been in
discussions with Clinton since early September. Jefferies Group
LLC is serving as financial adviser to ValueVision, while
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Barnes & Thornburg LLP are
providing legal counsel.  Evaluating Options  “We will take the time necessary to thoroughly evaluate
the Clinton letter while continuing to focus on the successful
execution of ValueVision’s business plan to enhance our
operating and financial performance,” ValueVision said in the
statement.  ValueVision fell  5 percent  to $5.15 in  New York  today,
giving the company a market value of $255 million. The shares
have almost tripled this year, compared with a more than 3
percent decline for larger competitor  HSN Inc. (HSNI) , and a nearly 38
percent gain for Liberty Interactive Corp., owner of QVC Inc.  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based ValueVision, which sells
jewelry, clothing, home appliances and other products direct to
consumers via television programming, is worth about one-tenth
of HSN, despite similar cable and satellite distribution, Taxin
says in the letter.  ‘Bad Shape’  “The company was in bad shape when Mr. Stewart arrived and
he rightly gets credit for keeping ValueVision afloat,” Taxin
wrote. “But he has not hit his own targets, optimized the
operations or maximized the returns to shareholders. And now, he
has no discernible strategy to lift the Company from its
distant, third-place (and shrinking) market position.”  The company’s shares are up nearly 1,700 percent since
Stewart was named CEO in January 2009. Still, sales of $587
million for the year ending in February, are down from a high of
$782 million in 2008, the last year that the company reported an
annual net profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Activist funds generally acquire equity stakes in companies
and try to force corporate management and directors to make
changes that boost share prices and investor returns. Clinton
Group has recently sought changes at weight-loss companies
 Nutrisystem Inc. (NTRI)  and  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , and  XenoPort Inc. (XNPT) , the maker of
the drug Horizant to treat restless-legs syndrome.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  