-- Visa Profit Matches Estimates as U.S. Retail Sales Strengthen
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-30T20:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/visa-profit-matches-estimates-as-u-s-retail-sales-strengthen.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest bank-card network, posted a fiscal fourth-quarter profit that matched
analysts’ estimates as U.S. retail spending strengthened.  Net income  for the three months ended Sept. 30 fell 28
percent to $1.19 billion, or $1.85 a share, from $1.66 billion,
or $2.47, a year earlier, the  Foster City , California-based
company said today in a statement. That equaled the average
 estimate  of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Results for the
fourth quarter of 2012 were helped by a $627 million tax
adjustment.  Retail sales in the U.S., where Visa gets more than half
its  revenue , rose toward the end of the quarter as September’s
0.4 percent gain in purchases excluding vehicles followed a 0.1
percent increase in August. Chief Executive Officer  Charlie Scharf  also has pushed to expand abroad, particularly in
emerging economies, where most spending is still done with cash.  “We continued investing in high-growth regions of the
world, in products and technology to drive our performance,
while maintaining disciplined expense control,” Scharf, 48,
said in the statement. “We also have been consistent and
decisive in returning excess cash to shareholders and maintain
this commitment.”  Visa fell 0.2 percent to $203.82 at 4 p.m. in New York. The
shares have increased 34 percent this year, outpacing the 19
percent advance for the 30-company  Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)   Visa, which has returned more than $15 billion to investors
since its 2008 initial public offering, increased the quarterly
 dividend  21 percent to 40 cents last week.  “There’s still a lot more to do considering how much
excess cash this company has on its  balance sheet ,”  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC, said in an
interview before results were announced.  MasterCard Results  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases and operator of the third-largest U.S. payments
network, said Oct. 16 that quarterly profit rose 9.3 percent to
$1.37 billion on higher spending worldwide.  Discover Financial
Services (DFS) , the No. 4 network, said last week that net income
declined 6.9 percent as the company increased the amount of
money set aside to cover future loan losses.  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest payments network by
processed transactions, is scheduled to announce results before
U.S. markets open tomorrow. The Purchase, New York-based company
may report that third-quarter net income rose 9 percent to
$841.4 million from a year earlier, according to the average
 estimate  of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Visa, MasterCard and the biggest U.S. banks are awaiting
approval of a multibillion-dollar settlement over fees charged
to merchants when consumers pay with credit cards. The decision
by U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn,  New York , could
end an eight-year legal battle pitting the financial firms
against retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  