-- Wall Street Commuter Ferry Operator Settles Crash Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-30T20:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/wall-street-commuter-ferry-operator-settles-crash-claims.html
The owner of SeaStreak  Wall Street ,
a commuter ferry that crashed in Manhattan’s financial district
on Jan. 9, has settled more than 45 personal-injury claims for
almost $1 million, according to a lawyer for the company.  SeaStreak settled 40 to 45 claims out of court, covering
about half of the 85 injured passengers, attorney William R.
Bennett III said today in an interview. Lawyers filed four more
settlements this week in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey .
They ranged from $20,000 to $80,000.  The ferry had 326 people aboard when it left Atlantic
Highlands, New Jersey, at 8 a.m. on Jan. 9 and slammed into a
docking barge at 8:43 a.m., authorities said at the time. The
 National Transportation Safety Board  is investigating the crash.  “SeaStreak, from the very beginning, has listened to and
responded to any claimants who made a reasonable request to
resolve their claims,” said Bennett, of Blank Rome LLP in  New
York . “We continue to do so.”  About three dozen people have filed claims in federal
court. SeaStreak sued under admiralty law on Jan. 16 and asked
to limit the company’s liability to $7.6 million. Claimants seek
to defeat that attempt to limit liability. U.S. District Judge
William Martini is weighing the request.  The company also has paid about $450,000 to repair the
docking barge, according to Bennett.  SeaStreak operates five vessels between central New Jersey
and Manhattan, and two between  New Bedford  and  Martha’s Vineyard 
in  Massachusetts , according to the company’s website.  SeaStreak is a sister company of Moran Towing Co., the
Interlake Steamship Co. and Mormac Marine Group Inc., according
to the website. SeaStreak and its sister companies are owned by
the Barker and Tregurtha families. James R. Barker acts as
chairman of SeaStreak and Paul R. Tregurtha is chairman and
chief executive officer of Moran Towing, according to the
website.  The case is In re SeaStreak LLC, 13-cv-00315, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  