-- Western Union Plunges on Compliance Costs: Denver Mover
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-30T13:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/western-union-plunges-on-compliance-costs-denver-mover.html
Western Union Co. (WU) , the world’s
biggest money-transfer business, plunged the most in a year
after saying costs tied to regulatory compliance will prevent
operating profit from rising next year.  The  shares  were the worst performer in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, falling 19 percent to $15.65 at 9:31 a.m. in
New York. They advanced 41 percent this year through yesterday.  Western Union, which also posted a 20 percent drop in
third-quarter profit, plans to invest worldwide to comply with
new and existing regulations, Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek, 53, said yesterday on a conference call with analysts
after announcing the results. Operating profit isn’t expected to
increase next year as a result of these costs, he said.  “While we commend Western Union for disclosing this now
rather than next year, we acknowledge tolerance for another
investment year is low,” Tien-tsin Huang, a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analyst, said today in a note. “We would avoid the stock.”  Net income  for the three months ended Sept. 30 fell to
$214.4 million, or 39 cents a share, from $269.5 million, or 45
cents, a year earlier, the Englewood, Colorado-based company
said yesterday in a statement. That beat the 36-cent average
estimate of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While Western Union’s compliance costs comprised 2.5
percent of revenue this year, that may climb to 3.5 percent to
4.5 percent next year, the company said.  “Based on all these new and evolving requirements, our
ongoing discussions and agreements with regulators around the
world and our own reviews, we now anticipate significant
additional investment in 2014, including adding more resources
and new technology,” Ersek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  