-- Wi-Lan Considers Options Including Sale After Apple
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-30T14:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/wi-lan-considers-options-including-sale-after-apple-decision.html
Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN) , the patent holder that
suffered a setback last week when  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won an infringement
trial, said it will explore “strategic alternatives” including
a possible sale of the company.  Wi-Lan will consider changes to dividend policy or other
forms of return of capital, as well as “the acquisition or
disposition of assets, joint ventures, the sale of the company,
alternative operating models or continuing with the current
business plan,” it said today in a statement.  Wi-Lan  rose  rose 4.5 percent to C$3.24 at 10:26 a.m. in
Toronto today. The Ottawa-based company has lost 21 percent
since Apple won a patent-infringement trial on Oct. 23 and
fended off a demand for $248 million in royalties for wireless
technology used in mobile devices. Wi-Lan holds about 3,000
patents and relies on royalty payments for all of its sales.  “The company strongly believes in its current business
strategy but does not believe that its current share price
accurately reflects its strong balance sheet, the value of its
signed license agreements, its business prospects or the
residual value of its broad intellectual property portfolio,”
it said.  The board has a wide range of alternatives including
distributing capital to shareholders, Justin Kew, a Toronto-based analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald, said in a note to clients
today.  Possible Payout  The company could pay out at least $60 million, or about 50
cents a share, or more, Kew said. He maintains a buy
recommendation and a $4.80 target price. The stock has five
buys, two holds and two sell ratings, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Canaccord Genuity is serving as financial adviser to Wi-Lan
and Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP is serving as legal
adviser, the company said. Wi-Lan hasn’t set a timetable for
completing the review initiated by the board, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  