-- Twitter Sued for $124 Million Over Private Share Sale
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-10-30T18:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/twitter-sued-for-124-million-over-private-share-sale.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  was sued for
$124 million by two financial firms that claim the Internet
company engineered a failed private sale of its shares in 2012
to strengthen its hand in preparation for its initial public
offering.  The firms, Precedo Capital Group Inc. and  Continental
Advisors SA , sued today in  Manhattan  federal court, claiming
Twitter fraudulently used the aborted sale, planned for as much
as $278 million worth of shares, to set a $10 billion valuation
for itself and a floor price for the IPO that’s just days away.  “Twitter never intended to complete the private sale of
Twitter stock,” the firms said in their complaint. “Twitter’s
intention was to induce Precedo Capital and Continental Advisors
to create an artificial private market wherein Twitter could
maintain that a private market existed at or about $19 per share
for the Twitter stock.”  Twitter, based in San Francisco, is seeking as much as
$1.4 billion in its IPO, which is scheduled to price Nov. 6. At
the top of the proposed range, Twitter would be valued at
$10.9 billion. While the company has more than doubled revenue
annually, it hasn’t yet turned a profit and the pace of user
growth is slowing.  “We’ve never had a relationship with these plaintiffs,”
said Jim Prosser, a spokesman with Twitter. “Their claim is
completely without merit.”  Investor Meetings  The microblogging service is in the middle of its eight-day
road show, meeting investors in New York before heading to
 Boston  and  Chicago  later this week.  In their suit, Precedo Capital and Continental Advisors
claim they agreed with GSV Asset Management Inc., a Woodside,
California-based Twitter shareholder, to market an “@GSV Fund
LP” limited partnership that was set up to buy Twitter shares
from employees, contractors and early investors, with the
approval of the company. The firms then set up road shows for
potential investors in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Continental Advisors, a boutique investment advisory and
consultant firm based in  Luxembourg , organized an 18-day
international road show, involving 47 presentations in eight
countries, according to the complaint. Precedo Capital, a
broker-dealer firm based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , made
presentations in five U.S. states, according to the plaintiffs.  Postponed Closings  The two firms had gotten more than $50 million in
commitments and indications of interest, they claimed. They were
prevented from finalizing the transactions after GSV twice
postponed closings, then canceled the offering entirely,
according to the complaint.  Stephen Bard, a co-founder and partner in GSV, declined to
comment on the allegations. GSV isn’t a defendant in the suit.  Precedo Capital and Continental Advisors allege that it was
Twitter that prevented the deals from going forward.  “This private market transaction, which upon information
and belief was interrupted by Twitter, permitted Twitter to
establish a sales floor for a large amount of Twitter stock
among multiple buyers, as well as a $10 billion dollar market
value for Twitter, in order to use this information in
negotiations with underwriters and investment banks to establish
a market value of Twitter stock for filing their IPO,” Precedo
Capital and Continental Advisors claimed in the complaint.  Keeping Shares  Precedo Capital and Continental Advisors claim they lost
$24.2 million in fees, commissions and expenses. They’re seeking
an additional $100 million in punitive damages.  Twitter’s top holders, including co-founder Evan Williams,
whose stake is worth about $1 billion, are keeping their shares
as the company goes public, according to a filing last week.
This contrasts with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , whose investors such as Accel
Partners and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  ended up selling more
shares than initially planned in that company’s May 2012 IPO,
according to filings.  Twitter’s early investors include Rizvi Traverse Management
LLC, Union Square Ventures, Spark Capital and Benchmark Capital
Partners LP. After the IPO is priced, executive officers,
directors and existing shareholders won’t be able to sell their
stock for at least six months, a standard waiting period known
as a lock-up.  The case is Precedo Capital Group Inc. v. Twitter Inc.,
1:13-cv-07678, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York
at   lpicker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 mccracken3@bloomberg.net . 