-- WTI Crude Falls Second Day on U.S. Supplies While Brent Advances
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-30T12:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/wti-oil-declines-a-second-day-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-increase.html
West Texas Intermediate fell,
extending a second monthly loss, as an increase in U.S. crude
stockpiles signaled ebbing demand in the world’s biggest oil
consumer.  Futures slid as much as 1.1 percent in New York after the
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said inventories
rose last week by 5.9 million barrels. A separate report to be
issued today by the U.S. Energy Information Administration is
expected to show supplies climbed by 2.4 million barrels to
382.2 million, the highest level in four months, according to a
Bloomberg News  survey  of analysts. Brent gained amid output
losses in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest reserves.  “We’re having a demand slowdown while refinery runs are
lower due to maintenance in the U.S., and hence the supply-demand balance is in surplus,” said Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu,
chief investment officer at Archbridge Capital AG, a Zug,
Switzerland-based hedge fund. “Supply figures in the U.S. are
going to be overwhelmingly strong for the foreseeable future.”  WTI for December delivery declined as much as $1.10 to
$97.10 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. It was at $97.23 at 12:45 p.m. London time. The volume
of all futures traded was about 2 percent greater than the 100-day average. Prices are down 5 percent in October, after losing
4.9 percent last month.  Brent for December settlement rose as much as 63 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $109.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $11.87 to WTI, from $10.81 yesterday.  Fuel Supplies  Libya was unable to restart its 350,000 barrel-a-day
Sharara field as intended, Moftah Alamin, a spokesman for Tuareg
protesters, said by phone yesterday. Minority Tuareg nomads
pressing for official recognition of their language and greater
political rights have halted flows from the oil field, one of
Libya’s biggest.  Production fell nationwide to between 250,000 barrels and
300,000 barrels a day from more than 600,000 on Oct. 21, Mohamed
El Elharari, a spokesman for Tripoli-based National Oil Corp.,
said in a phone interview on Oct. 28. Eni SpA,  Italy ’s biggest
oil company, said in an earnings statement today that its third-quarter profit fell 29 percent partly because turmoil in Libya
cut output.  U.S. crude stockpiles have gained for the past five weeks,
the API data show. The country will account for about 21 percent
of global oil demand this year, almost double the estimate for
 China , the second-largest consumer, according to forecasts from
the International Energy Agency in Paris.  Refined Products  Gasoline inventories increased by 740,000 barrels last
week, the API said. The EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical
unit, is expected to report a drop of 200,000 barrels, according
to the  median estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Distillate inventories, including heating oil and diesel,
declined by 2.7 million barrels, compared with a  projected  1
million decrease.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, which is
scheduled to release its report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Economists expect the Federal Reserve will maintain its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases at a meeting ending today. The
Fed will decide to keep purchases of mortgage-backed securities
at $40 billion and Treasury buying at $45 billion, according to
the survey of economists.  WTI is falling after failing to breach technical resistance
along the 200-day moving average for a second day yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is at
about $97.28 a barrel today. Sell orders tend to be clustered
around chart-resistance levels.  “We’re seeing a picture of weakness,” said Michael McCarthy, a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“The failure of WTI to break through $98.50 suggests that we
have further downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  