-- Wynn Okada Suit Must Be Delayed More for Probe, U.S. Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/wynn-okada-suit-must-be-delayed-more-for-probe-u-s-says.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s lawsuit against
its former director Kazuo Okada should be delayed further while
U.S. authorities pursue a criminal probe into possible bribery
of Philippine officials by the Japanese billionaire, the  Justice
Department  said.  “Over the last six months, the government’s investigation
has progressed and uncovered evidence not previously known to
the government,” lawyers for the department said in a filing
yesterday in  Nevada  state court in Las Vegas.  The new evidence and the reasons it warrants an additional
six-month stay of the lawsuit were submitted under seal to the
court, according to the filing. The U.S. said it wants to avoid
having the identities of potential witnesses revealed, including
those cooperating with the investigation.  Clark County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez in May
granted a Justice Department request to halt evidence-gathering
in the lawsuit so the criminal investigation could proceed
unhindered. The judge told the government at the time she
wouldn’t extend the stay.  Wynn Resorts sued Okada last year for breach of fiduciary
duty and forcibly redeemed his 20 percent stake, alleging he
made potentially illegal payments to Philippine officials that
could threaten the company’s gaming licenses. Okada, 71, filed
counterclaims to undo the redemption of his  shares  in the casino
operator.  Macau Competitor  Okada, the chairman of Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment
Corp. (6425) , is building a casino resort in the Philippines. It will
compete with casinos in  Macau , where Wynn Resorts gets most of
its revenue. Okada, who became a billionaire selling machines
for Japanese pachinko parlors, won one of four provisional
gaming licenses awarded for the Manila hub in 2008.  Universal Entertainment said Feb. 5 that a third-party
committee was investigating payments made through its U.S. unit,
Aruze USA Inc., in the Philippines. The committee was looking at
$40 million in payments, according to the statement.  Wynn’s lawyers aren’t opposing a further stay of the
lawsuit, and Okada’s lawyers have told the Justice Department
that they are waiting for their client’s response to the
request, according to the government’s filing.  Eric Andrus, a spokesman for Okada with RLM Finsbury in  New
York , declined to comment on the filing.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark
County District Court, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in federal court in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  