-- Yemen’s Slide Into Chaos Risks Militant Haven on Saudi Border
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-10-30T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-30/yemen-s-slide-into-chaos-risks-militant-haven-on-saudi-border.html
In the impoverished capital of
Yemen, tribal militias roam freely and their leaders drive
through crowded streets guarded by heavily armed followers.  Security in Sana’a has deteriorated since popular unrest
pushed President Ali Abdullah Saleh from office in 2011. Dozens
of intelligence and security officials have been assassinated,
al-Qaeda continues to attack government targets and Shiite-Muslim Houthi rebels, who are fighting Sunni Islamists in the
north, are encamped in the city. Western diplomats who visit do
so with greater protection and foreign nationals fear kidnapping
more than they did a year ago.  “Yemen is slipping into chaos,”  Theodore Karasik ,
director of research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis in Dubai, said by phone. “Assassinations of
intelligence figures and threats to foreigners are rising.”  The instability raises concerns that  Saudi Arabia ’s
southern neighbor could disintegrate into a failed state like
Somalia or be plunged into civil war. To prevent this, Saudi
Arabia and the U.S. negotiated to end 11 months of protests two
years ago and led a push for donors to provide $6.4 billion in
aid to the poorest country in the  Middle East . That included a
pledge of $3.3 billion from Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s
biggest economy.  With rugged terrain and remote mountain villages that
witness little to no government control,  Yemen  is already a
haven for al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which includes
Saudi militants who fled a government crackdown starting in
2004. From here, attacks against the U.S. have been planned,
including an attempt to parcel-bomb American  synagogues . The
U.S. uses drones to kill alleged al-Qaeda fighters in Yemen.  Saudi Targets  Yemen-based militants have also targeted Saudi Arabia.
Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, now the Saudi Interior Minister, was
wounded in August 2009 when a suicide bomber blew himself up at
the prince’s office in Jeddah, a failed assassination that al-Qaeda claimed was planned in Yemen.  “An increasingly unstable Yemen represents a very real
security threat due to the potential for terror cells to take
root there,” Turki al-Faisal, former Saudi ambassador to
 Washington , said at the annual Arab-U.S. Policymakers Conference
this month in the U.S. capital. “Extremists have reportedly
made deals with local tribal leaders for supplies and
protection, creating a sanctuary not unlike  Pakistan ’s Tribal
Areas.”  The government started on Oct. 26 a campaign to tighten
security in the capital and other cities by adding checkpoints
and putting more troops on the streets. Efforts to stabilize the
country have been hindered by a weak government under President
Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi, who was elected unopposed in February
2012 under a Gulf Cooperation Council agreement.  Foreigners Abducted  There are persistent attacks on the  oil  industry, which
generates about  60 percent  of Yemen’s revenue, and food costs
are rising as wheat imports soar. Central Bank Governor Mohamed Bin Humam said in September that inflation will accelerate to as
much as 8 percent by December. Government revenue fell an annual
25 percent during the first seven months of the year, according
to the state-run Saba news agency.  “The downward spiraling economy has exacerbated the
security situation,” Fernando Carvajal, a specialist in Yemeni
politics based in Sana’a where he’s  researching  a doctorate
through the U.K.’s University of Exeter, said in response to e-mailed questions. “Threats to foreigners extend not only from
potential acts by al-Qaeda, but also by criminal gangs who aim
to disrupt the political environment.”  Power Sharing  A German security guard at his country’s embassy in Sana’a
was killed earlier this month by unidentified gunmen while
shopping in part of the capital where foreign nationals live. In
July, gunmen abducted a Dutch couple working as freelance
reporters and teachers from the capital’s streets. The two, who
have lived in Yemen since 2011, are still being held.  Inspired by political change in Tunisia and  Egypt , Yemenis
rallied in 2011 until Saleh stepped down, ending a political
career of more than three decades. He came to power in 1978 as
president of the Yemen Arab Republic, or North Yemen. The
southern part of the country was then a separate entity called
the People’s  Democratic Republic  of Yemen.  After unification in 1990, civil war erupted as the south
tried to break away before being defeated by Saleh’s forces.  His ousting triggered hope among Yemen’s  population of 25
million  that the economy and security would improve. That
optimism has waned.  Historic Divide  Gulf-sponsored talks remain inconclusive as 565
representatives disagree on how to share power ahead of
parliamentary and presidential elections proposed for February.  Without an agreement, there are concerns the country may
split again along its historical north-south divide, Abdulghani
al-Iryani, an independent political analyst, said from the
capital.  “The challenge doesn’t lie in Sana’a but in addressing the
southern issue,” he said. “There is a high probability of
violence in the south if national dialogue is inconclusive.”  Gunmen stroll through Sana’a markets, passing government
soldiers who follow them with a wary eye. In the old city,
Houthi slogans painted on walls read “Death to America, Victory
to Islam,” a recent addition to the capital’s graffiti.  In the country’s north, the Houthis, a Shiite-Muslim group
named after its founder Hussein al-Houthi, fought a  six-year
rebellion  for autonomy from 2004. Saudi forces were drawn into
the fighting in late 2009 after the Houthis seized land inside
the kingdom.  Motorbike Killers  Prospects for holding elections on schedule are uncertain,
Ali al-Bukhaiti, a Houthi spokesman, said by phone from Sana’a.
“So far, it’s not clear how the issue of elections will be
resolved,” he said. “It is almost impossible to hold elections
as scheduled due to the security situation.” He didn’t say what
the armed group would do if talks broke down.  In the meantime, the violence continues. Prime Minister
Mohamed Salem Basindwah escaped injury in August when gunmen
shot at his convoy. A colonel working in the intelligence
service was killed by gunmen Oct. 24 in Sana’a. The government
blames al-Qaeda for targeting military and security officers,
including 40 shot by motorbike-riding assassins in 2012.  Al-Qaeda has used the weakness of the central government to
build its presence and establish cells in the capital. An army
base in the southeastern city of Mukalla was overrun in
September by suspected Islamic militants. The threat of
terrorism forced the U.S. and other nations to close missions in
the country in August.  “The situation is getting worse,” Farouk al-Akhali, a 42-year-old street vendor, said beside his clothes stall in Sana’a.
“The government is at its weakest point. We wanted political
change but nothing has improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  