-- ‘Despicable Me 2’ Tops Depp’s ‘Lone Ranger’ for Holiday Weekend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-07-07T16:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/-despicable-me-2-tops-depp-s-lone-ranger-for-holiday-weekend.html
Universal Pictures’ animated feature
“Despicable Me 2” was the top-selling movie over the holiday
weekend, outgunning Johnny Depp in  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s costly
Western “The Lone Ranger.”  The comedy from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s film studio took in $82.5
million from Friday to Sunday, building on a strong opening
earlier in the week,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an
e-mailed statement. “The Lone Ranger” collected $29.4 million.
In the five days since their release, “Despicable Me 2” took
in $142.1 million and Disney’s picture received $48.9 million.  Both studios released their movies ahead of the weekend to
take advantage of the U.S. Independence Day holiday. The first
week in July is traditionally one of the biggest of the year for
theaters and filmmakers. Both movies beat their three-day and
five-day estimates from researcher  Boxoffice.com .  “Despicable Me 2,” made for $76 million, is the fourth
No. 1 opening for Universal this year, following “Fast &
Furious 6,” “Identity Thief” and “Oblivion.” Sales of the
movie, a sequel to Universal’s 2010 hit about a criminal
mastermind who is reformed by a trio of orphans, mean a third
installment of the franchise is a near certainty, said Jeff Bock, an analyst with Exhibitor Relations Co.  “I think that’s a foregone conclusion,” said Bock. “This
is probably the most anticipated animated sequel since ‘Shrek
2,’” he said, referring to  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s hit
franchise.  Super Villain  In “Despicable Me 2,” former criminal Gru is recruited to
battle a new super villain. The film, which features the voices
of Steve Carell, Kristen Wiig and Russell Brand, was forecast to
take in $80 million for the Friday-to-Sunday weekend, and $130
million from July 3, according to Boxoffice.com.  It was praised by critics. Of 138 reviews compiled on
 Rottentomatoes.com , 75 percent were positive.  “‘Despicable Me 2’ is light on its feet, visually
inventive and very fast with the repartee,”  wrote  Los Angeles
Times critic Betsy Sharkey. “It requires actors who can pull
off the many peppery lines at warp speed and in that the film is
lucky with its voice cast.”  “The Lone Ranger,” made for an estimated $225 million,
was subjected to harsh reviews.  Doug Creutz , an analyst with
Cowen & Co. in San Francisco, predicts a $100 million write-off
for the studio, which would make it Disney’s biggest
disappointment since last year’s $200 million loss on the
science-fiction epic “John Carter.”  Of 147 reviews compiled by Rottentomatoes.com, only 23
percent were positive.  The film stars Armie Hammer in the title role and Depp as
his partner Tonto. The picture tells the story of the masked
crime fighter’s origins as he unites with Tonto to fight a plot
by railroad executives and a U.S. Army officer played by Barry Pepper.  “The shoot-’em-up action sequences, modestly thrilling
early on, grow as wearisome as Depp’s endless double-takes and
laconic one-liners,” Bloomberg News critic Greg Evans wrote.  The movie was forecast to take in $29 million for the
three-day weekend and $47 million for the five days since its
July 3 opening, the estimate of Boxoffice.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  