-- Abe to Defy History in Stocks Rally After Vote: Chart of the Day
-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-07-07T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/abe-to-defy-history-in-stocks-rally-after-vote-chart-of-the-day.html
Japanese investors will be hoping
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe repeats last year’s history-defying
performance by spurring stock gains that are sustained well
after July 21’s upper house elections.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Topix index of Japanese
shares rose in 14 of the 20 months immediately prior to all
parliamentary elections -- lower and upper house -- dating back
to 1980, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lower
panel shows it dropped 1 percent on average after votes,
declining following eight of the past 10 ballots. The 11 percent
surge after Abe’s December victory surpassed all other post-election performances.  “In the past, pork-barreling and anticipation for the new
administration have pushed stocks higher in the run-up to the
elections,” said  Yuji Saito , the director of foreign-exchange
at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in Tokyo. “This time, there are high
hopes that the government will be able to put in place key
growth policies such as the corporate  tax cut  by resolving the
hung parliament, and that will accelerate stock gains and yen
depreciation.”  An Asahi survey conducted June 29-30 showed that Abe’s
 Liberal Democratic Party  may win 44 percent of votes in the
upper-house ballot, while the three main opposition parties
would each get less than 10 percent. That raises the prospect
Abe will be able to work with a coalition partner to get
legislation through the chamber after it blocked efforts to
change welfare programs and electricity markets.  The Topix climbed 6.6 percent one month before Abe’s LDP
took power in a general election in December by pledging to fire
“three arrows” to end deflation: monetary stimulus, fiscal
spending and a growth strategy to increase investment and
hiring. The Japanese equity gauge extended those gains the
following month and reached an almost five-year high of 1,289.77
on May 23. That was the first time since 2005 that the after-election stock rally exceeded advances before the vote.  The Japanese currency, which closed at 101.20 per dollar on
July 5, may break below the 4 1/2-year low of 103.74 reached May
22 should Abe succeed pushing through regulatory reforms,
according to Saito. Options show about a 30 percent chance the
yen will be weaker than its May low on Aug. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in  Tokyo  at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  