-- Labour Seeks Parliamentary Backing for U.K. Bank Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-07-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/labour-seeks-parliamentary-backing-for-u-k-bank-plan.html
Britain’s opposition  Labour Party 
will ask lawmakers to back proposals to force bankers to wait as
long as 10 years for bonuses and make “reckless” management a
crime.  The party is introducing amendments to financial-services
legislation before Parliament,  Ed Balls , Labour’s finance
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The move
seeks to implement the  recommendations  of the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards, published last month.  A “substantial part” of variable compensation for the
highest earners at banks including Barclays Plc and HSBC
Holdings Plc should be deferred for as long as a decade to
better align the bankers’ interests with those of shareholders,
the cross-party banking commission said in its report published
June 19. It also demanded a criminal offense for mismanagement,
which could see executives of failed banks facing jail terms.  Balls accused Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  of “ducking” radical reform of
banks by failing to amend the Financial Services (Banking
Reform)  Bill , which is due to be debated in the House of Commons
today, despite having welcomed the commission’s proposals.  Balls said Labour is also demanding that the Treasury be
required to publish a report before it begins to dispose of the
government stakes  in Lloyds Banking Group Plc  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc . The report would explain how the interests
of taxpayers will be protected and the expected impact on
competition, customer choice and the wider economy, he said.  Osborne said last month the government is “actively
considering” selling shares in Lloyds, though privatizing RBS
is still some way off. The Treasury is examining the case for
breaking up RBS and hiving off its worst-performing assets into
a bad bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  