-- Adveo Looks at Adding Latin America When Integration Ends
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-07-08T13:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/adveo-looks-at-adding-latin-america-when-integration-ends.html
Adveo (ADV)  Group International SA,
Europe’s biggest office-equipment wholesaler, is studying
acquisitions to enter faster-growing markets in  Latin America 
and eastern Europe after integrating earlier purchases.  The company, which operates in eight western European
countries, is already exploring suitable targets for purchase
after it completes a reorganization outlined in a business plan
until 2015, Chief Executive Officer Millan Alvarez-Miranda said
in an interview. Adveo would “bet on mobility” by expanding in
electronic products such as tablets, he said.  “We’ve just started tracking business opportunities out
there that may help us boost our top line or enter new
markets,” Alvarez-Miranda said at Bloomberg’s Madrid office on
July 4. “We are now creating a very solid base in order to
carry out our next transaction.”  Founded in 1976, Madrid-based Adveo has grown from a line-up of paper products into services and equipment such as
printers. Acquisitions have included toner maker Adimpo for 45.5
million euros ($58.4 million) in 2009 and  DS Smith Plc (SMDS) ’s Spicers
office-products unit for 196 million euros in 2011.  Those acquisitions and the purchase of office-supply brand
Buro+ in May have helped Adveo, which changed its corporate name
from Unipapel a year ago, reduce dependence on its debt-battered
home country by adding sales in markets such as Germany and
France.  Cutting Dealers  “Our industry works very well in mature economies, because
distributors appear in mature sectors and markets,” the CEO
said. “A new product in a growing market goes straight from the
maker, not through a dealer.”  Adveo signed a four-year, 9 million-euro  contract  last
month with  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the largest
computer-services provider, to integrate systems and add
automation at the Unipapel, Adimpo and Spicers brands to help
speed response times to customers.  First-quarter net income dropped 29 percent from a year
earlier to 4.5 million euros as sales fell 6.1 percent to 294
million euros, Adveo  said  in May. Profit declined because of
one-time effects from the Spicers takeover that boosted year-earlier earnings, Alvarez-Miranda said.  Adveo, a distributor for equipment makers such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Canon Inc. (7751)  and  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK) , is
forecasting full-year earnings growth, and has already seen an
improvement in the second quarter versus the first three months,
Alvarez-Miranda said.  The shares rose as much as 0.6 percent to 12.80 euros and
were trading 0.1 percent higher at 12.73 euros as of 3:38 p.m.
in Madrid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  