-- Andy Murray Beats Djokovic to End U.K.’s 77-Year Wimbledon Agony
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-07T16:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/andy-murray-beats-djokovic-to-end-u-k-s-77-year-wimbledon-agony.html
Andy Murray  overcame top seed Novak
Djokovic to win the Wimbledon title and end Britain’s 77-year
wait for a male champion at the All England Club.  The second-seeded Murray beat the 2011 winner from Serbia
6-4, 7-5, 6-4 on a hot day on Centre Court.  The 26-year-old Dunblane, Scotland-born Murray is the first
British man to take the singles title on the London grass courts
since  Fred Perry , who won Wimbledon in 1936 during the short
reign of Edward VIII, Queen Elizabeth II’s uncle. Perry’s statue
stands next to Centre Court.  Virginia Wade  was the last Briton
to clinch the women’s title, in 1977.  Djokovic, who is seven days younger than Murray, was going
for his seventh Grand Slam title and second Wimbledon
championship after his victory in 2011. A win today would have
tied him with  John McEnroe  of the U.S. and  Sweden ’s Mats
Wilander in eighth place for the most major titles for a man
since 1968, when the sport went professional.  In a first set full of long baseline rallies, play was back
on serve until 3-3 as both got broken early on. The crowd roared
loudly as Murray broke for 4-3, and easily served out the set
6-4 with a service winner.  In the second, both men put on hats as temperatures reached
28 degrees Celsius (82 Fahrenheit). Djokovic was in command of
most of the set as he cut down on his errors
and won most of the long rallies.  With the 26-year-old Serb a point away for a 5-2 lead,
Murray cracked a backhand return winner, and broke on a double
fault. Another unforced error by Djokovic -- this time a netted
forehand -- gave Murray the lead for the first time in the set
with 6-5. Murray clenched his fist as he took a two sets to love
lead with a 125 miles-per-hour ace, his ninth of the match.  Third Set  Djokovic, whose 4 hour, 45 minute semifinal with Juan
Martin del Potro was a All England Club record, looked subdued
when he started serving in the third. He lost the game with a
long forehand, and Murray held at love to go up 2-0.  Djokovic went down love-30 in the third game, only to
rebound with four straight points to go to 1-2. The Serb broke
the Briton, and then held, to take a 3-2 lead shortly after
they’d been playing for two hours and 30 minutes. Both men sat
in the shade, using iced towels to cool down, during
changeovers.  The Serb broke as Murray hit a forehand into the net to go
up 4-2. Then it was Murray’s turn, forcing Djokovic side to side
and taking advantage of weak drop shots. The Scot broke back and
then held with a forehand down the line.  Djokovic was burned on several drop shots that Murray was
able to hit winners from. Murray broke when Djokovic hit a
forehand into the net, and got the chance to serve for the
match.  Last Game  Murray went up 40-love, but Djokovic won three straight
points to put pressure on him. The Serb got a break point as
Murray’s errors mounted, but couldn’t take it. He got another
with a net cord that flitted just over the net. Murray got it
back, and then tried his own drop, that Djokovic pushed back for
a winner on a tight angle.  Finally, Murray got another match point, guessing correctly
on a Djokovic slam and hitting a backhand that wasn’t returned.  The Briton took it, and then knelt on the court as his
mother Judy cried in the box. He greeted Djokovic and engaged
the crowd.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  