-- Australian Dollar Decline a Boost for Exports, Treasurer Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-07T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/australian-dollar-decline-a-boost-for-exports-treasurer-says.html
Australia ’s falling currency will
bolster manufacturing and improve export returns as global
prices for commodities such as  iron ore  and coal slump,
according to Treasurer  Chris Bowen .  “It does provide some support to manufacturers, and
exporters in particular, and that’s a good thing,” Bowen said
in an interview broadcast by  Sky News  yesterday. He replaced
 Wayne Swan  as Treasurer on June 27 amid a change in Labor Party
leadership that saw  Kevin Rudd  become prime minister.  Australia’s dollar has tumbled 13 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer among 31 major currencies, and
touched the lowest since September 2010 on July 3. The declines
offset a drop in the nation’s terms of trade amid China’s
weakening demand for commodities, which may curb Australian
economic growth and the government’s revenue.  “There are challenges for the Australian economy,” Bowen
said. “The terms of trade have fallen since the budget. Against
that the Australian dollar has come down, so there’s a
countervailing impact.”  The Aussie bought 90.67 U.S. cents at the close in  New York 
on July 5, down from its 2013 peak of $1.0599 in January. The
currency has fallen in response to a deterioration in  China ’s
outlook, and as U.S. policy makers signal they may reduce
stimulus.  The currency held above $1 from mid-June last year to May
10, the longest stretch above parity with the  U.S. dollar  since
the Aussie was freely floated in 1983.  Economic Recovery  There are early signs the currency’s decline may be
assisting a recovery in parts of the economy, Bowen said, citing
the Australian Industry Group’s performance of manufacturing
 index  for June, which rose to the highest since February 2012.
The gauge remained less than 50, indicating the industry is
contracting.  “It’s an early good sign for manufacturing,” he said.
“That’s good for confidence.”  Manufacturing and the services industries need to attract
investment and “soak up” employment as the Australian economy
undergoes a transition from an investment boom in mining, Bowen
said. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record-low 2.75 percent to assist the shift
toward employment-intensive industries.  The nation’s jobless rate rose to 5.5 percent in May from
5.2 percent a year earlier, and the government forecasts it will
reach 5.75 percent by June 2014. Ford Motor Co. announced May 23
it would end production in the country after nine decades, with
the loss of 1,200 jobs.  Comparatively Good  “Unemployment with a 5 in front of it is still very good
compared to the rest of the world,” Bowen said.  Iron ore  prices have dropped 23 percent from a 16-month
high in February on concern that expansion in China is
faltering. Falling commodity values will damp nominal economic
growth and government revenues, Bowen said. Still, he is
maintaining the spending plans outlined in Swan’s May budget,
which forecast an end to deficits in 2015-16.  “That remains our fiscal strategy,” he said. “The
appropriate macro settings are the current macro settings” and
attempting to return to surplus any earlier “would be a judo
chop to the economy,” he said.  The government in late December abandoned a pledge to
return the budget to surplus last financial year and in May
projected a deficit of A$18 billion in the 12 months ending June
30, 2014.  Bowen declined to comment on any specific policy
adjustments the reshaped government may unveil ahead of a
general election later this year. He ruled out any increase in
 sales tax  and said the government faces “constrained fiscal
circumstances” that may limit other initiatives such as
boosting the performance of small businesses.  Bowen, 40, was a key backer of Rudd, who ousted  Julia
Gillard  as Labor leader last month after a caucus vote. Elected
to parliament in 2004, he became Australia’s youngest Cabinet
minister in 2009 when he was appointed by Rudd at age 36. He
resigned in March this year after Gillard called a leadership
ballot that she won uncontested. He had supported Rudd in an
unsuccessful challenge against Gillard in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  