-- Australia Swings Spotlight on Disclosure After Newcrest Slump
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-07T08:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/australia-swings-spotlight-on-disclosure-after-newcrest-slump.html
Australia ’s stock market regulator
will increase scrutiny of analysts as part of a clampdown on
selective briefings after questions were raised over coverage of
 Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)   The Australian Securities & Investments Commission will
make spot checks on company briefings and communications with
analysts in the current half of the year, the regulator said
today in a statement.  Newcrest shares fell 12 percent in the two days before the
company announced a possible A$6 billion ($5.5 billion)
writedown, raising concern of selective briefing. Australia
requires companies to disclose all market-sensitive information
to the Australian Stock Exchange. Newcrest has said it didn’t
selectively brief analysts ahead of the announcement.  “We are effectively a single-platform announcement
jurisdiction,” Evie Bruce, a partner at King & Wood Mallesons
in Sydney, said of Australia in an  interview  posted on the  law
firm ’s website.  Newcrest, the country’s biggest gold producer, and the
analysts who cover it may face sanctions, with ASIC reviewing
whether executives provided analysts with non-public information
ahead of their disclosure.  If it’s determined that material information was provided
to analysts, who passed it on to their clients, that’s a
“classic tipping offense,” Craig Andrade, a partner at Baker &
McKenzie LLP in Sydney, said in a phone interview.  Tipping is considered part of insider trading, which
carries a maximum fine of A$765,000, or three times the total
benefit derived and/or as much as 10 years in jail.  Internal Inquiry  Newcrest named former Australian Securities Exchange
chairman Maurice Newman to head an internal inquiry into the
company’s disclosure and investor-relations policies, the
producer said on June 25 conference call. The Melbourne-based
company has  fallen 20 percent  since the announcement on June 7,
to a market value of A$8.2 billion as of July 5.  “We do not think we have done anything wrong,” Chairman
Don Mercer told reporters on the call. “If we have, we want to
know about it and I can assure you we will hold people
accountable from top to bottom.”  Newcrest Chief Executive Officer  Greg Robinson  said
investor relations staff had held meetings prior to the
company’s announcement and insisted that they acted in
accordance with regulations.  Catastrophic Impact  “It beggars belief that Newcrest knew nothing of the
catastrophic impact that the gold price slump would have on the
value of its assets until the day it announced the writedown,”
 Andrew Watson , head of class action lawsuits at  Maurice Blackburn  in Melbourne, said in a June 12 statement. The law
firm is considering suing Newcrest on behalf of shareholders who
lost money.  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch, Citigroup Inc.,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  were among firms who downgraded Newcrest
stock between June 4 and June 6, ahead of the company’s
statement. Evans & Partners analyst Cathy Moises cut her
recommendation on the stock May 20 and said she had met with
Newcrest before changing the rating.  The  downgrades  had probably been made as analysts began to
understand implications of the Newcrest’s production statement
in April and a speech Robinson made to institutional investors
at a May meeting in Barcelona, the CEO said.  “We don’t believe our message changed,” Robinson told
reporters on the June 25 conference call. “It takes time for
people to review information and make recommendations.”  Increased Monitoring  UBS spokeswoman Erica Borgelt, Credit Suisse spokeswoman
Noel Cheung, Citi Australia spokesman Steven Blaney and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch spokesman Mark Sang all declined to
comment on whether the banks were cooperating with ASIC’s
inquiry, or carrying out their own internal investigations into
changes to their ratings on Newcrest.  Retail shareholders aren’t concerned over the inquiry into
Newcrest’s handling of its disclosure, said Gavin Morton, who
monitors the company for the Australian Shareholders’
Association. The association voted on behalf of 277 investors
holding 388,288 shares at Newcrest’s 2012 annual general
meeting, according to its website.  “It’s a very odd event, because if you look at the track
record of Newcrest, it’s very, very good and they have very good
people,” said Morton.  Under Australian  law,  since 1991, anyone in possession of
non-public information material to a company’s financial
performance is considered an insider, and doesn’t require to be
connected to the corporation.  Surveillance System  ASIC is stepping up monitoring of the stock market, which
it gained responsibility for in August 2010, and prosecutions of
 insider trading . The agency has prosecuted 28 cases of insider
trading since 2010, triple the number over the previous 15
years. It has won convictions in some high-profile cases
including a 27-month jail term for Calvin Zhu, former vice
president at Hanlong Mining Investment Pty, in February. Zhu’s
sentence may be reduced to 15 months with good behavior.  ASIC will also implement a new surveillance system later
this year, giving it more capability to mine data and see
trends, Andre Khoury, a spokesman for the regulator, said in a
June 25 interview. The system has tools similar to those used by
high-frequency traders, according to a December ASIC statement.  The regulator received 19,430 trade surveillance alerts in
the six months ended Dec. 31, according to an ASIC  report , a
marginal decline from the corresponding period a year earlier
when it received 20,029 alerts. In the 2012 period, 27 of the
alerts were referred to the enforcement team for investigation,
an increase from 23 cases in the year-earlier period.  The objective of the new system will be to reduce the
number of alerts, eliminating the false positives, Greg Yanco,
market supervisor, said in a June 25 phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in  Melbourne  at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  