-- Banker’s Thriller Novel Has Bonus Fight Ending in Murder
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-07-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/banker-s-thriller-novel-has-bonus-fight-ending-in-murder.html
Thanks to a looming takeover, happy-go-lucky trader Mickey Summer is in line to share a 150-million-pound ($223 million) cash lock-in. If he can stay alive and out
of jail, that is.  One by one, his colleagues at  London ’s Royal Shire Bank are
being bumped off. As the body count rises, the hero of Michael Crawshaw’s first novel, “To Make a Killing,” finds himself the
prime suspect.  A decade ago, Crawshaw quit his own high-powered City
career to home-school his five children and write fiction. After
trying his hand at the tale of an uncontacted Amazonian tribe,
he realized he needed to write what he knew.  The result is a pacey financial thriller whose mission is
to entertain, he says. He hopes it may also allay some of the
banker bashing that’s accompanied the financial crisis.  Crawshaw self-published the novel at the end of 2012. Any
profits will go to Hands Together’s  Tiplyang Project , which
supports a school in  Nepal .  Joanna Lumley  is the charity’s
patron and Crawshaw a trustee.  Writing it has reconnected him to his past, and he’s lately
been spending a lot of time revisiting old haunts and catching
up with former coworkers.  “The people who haven’t got out generally look just worn
down, like the walking dead,” he says. His wife told him he
should be running a charity for bankers instead.  Trading Floor  We’re chatting on a trading floor at the London Stock
Exchange -- an apt backdrop, he figures, though the quiet
tapping of keyboards is a far cry from the boisterous world he
entered as an energy sector analyst in 1987.  He intended to leave after two years. It was the buzz that
kept him there, he says. And the money, too?  “It was nice to get a Golf GTI but really the money is
just instead of the gold stars. You want to get paid 200,000
because you’ve heard that Noddy down there is getting 150,000.
It’s what it says about your worth to the firm.”  In the end, he stayed for more than 15 years, doing a stint
as head of European research at Credit Lyonnais SA, which he
didn’t enjoy. At Schroder Securities, he joined the lock-in that
came with the Citi Group takeover.  Eventually, he grew to share his protagonist Mickey’s hunch
that he wasn’t doing a proper job.  “I didn’t believe greatly in the value that we’re adding
to the system. I felt it was all smoke and mirrors,” he says.  A church-goer, he denies that there’s anything penitential
about his decision to donate proceeds from the novel.  Redemptive Book  “The book’s redemptive but I didn’t join this charity to
redeem myself,” he says. “I don’t think I did anything wrong.
I just got a job in the City, worked hard and then left.”  One of its key characters, Detective Inspector Frank
Brighouse, might disagree, being firmly of the belief that all
bankers are greedy and unprincipled. For some people, Crawshaw
says, making money will always be bad.  “There’s a certain envy and nothing’s going to change
their view.”  The City doesn’t do PR very well, either, as he discovered
for himself, when he wound up on the losing side of a sexual
discrimination claim.  Crawshaw is giving readers of his novel the chance to pick
between two prizes -- either 1,000 pounds or a day in the City
meeting real bankers, which he’d like to open up into an
educational tour.  Asked what he misses most about the Square Mile, his answer
is immediate: “The community. This was my community.”  Though he doesn’t see himself returning, he’s sticking with
Mickey for a second novel that will see him running a green
hedge fund and getting caught up in some  insider trading .  As Crawshaw says of the world of finance, “There’re always
stories, aren’t there?”  “To Make a Killing” is published by BroadPen Books (7.99
pounds for $11.99, 293 pages). For more information, go to
 http://www.tomakeakilling.com .  (Hephzibah Anderson writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are her own. This
interview is adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Richard Vines 
on food,  Martin Gayford  on art and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S.
theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 