-- Banks Urged by Regulators to Adopt Tougher Internal Auditors
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-07T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/banks-urged-by-regulators-to-adopt-tougher-internal-auditors.html
Banks were pushed by two U.K.
financial regulators to empower internal auditors to stand up to
senior decision makers within the firm and oversee risk taking.  Regulators expect banks to have internal auditors that can
provide a challenge to management, “to help protect the assets,
reputation and sustainability of the organization,”  Andrew Bailey , the Bank of England’s top banking supervisor, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Bailey’s comments support guidelines published today by the
Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors that seek to improve
governance within banks. Internal auditors assess whether
organizations are  managing risk  properly and warn members of the
firm’s board if they anticipate problems.  The guidance “makes clear internal auditors must have the
power and confidence to examine thoroughly that products and
services are in line with the interests of customers,” Martin Wheatley, chief executive officer of the Financial Conduct
Authority, said in the statement.  The new code creates industry-specific benchmarks that can
be checked by regulators, the CIIA said in a separate statement.
It also calls for internal auditors to report to the chair of a
company’s audit committee.  “The new code gives internal audit the potential to play a
much more significant role in supporting better management of
risk in financial services organizations,” said Ian Peters, the
CEO of the CIIA. “The importance of this role is recognized by
the Banking Standards Commission and others, including the
financial services regulators, who see the need to strengthen
internal audit’s independence, role and scope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  