-- Billionaire’s Howitzers to Test Defense Policy: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-08T10:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/billionaire-s-howitzers-to-test-defense-policy-corporate-india.html
India ’s aim to procure 75 percent of
its defense supplies locally in a decade is in jeopardy as
companies struggle to navigate rules on manufacturing and
selling weapons.  Billionaire Baba Kalyani’s group, which plans a prototype
of India’s first privately-built Howitzer gun next year, will be
unable to test it as regulations prohibit firms from using
military facilities, said Amit Kalyani, executive director at
 Bharat Forge (BHFC)  Ltd., the flagship firm of the group.  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (MM) ’s proposal for a venture with Rafael Advanced
Defense Systems Ltd. was denied by the government, which didn’t
give a reason for the rejection.  “This is not rocket science,” Kalyani said in an
interview. “We need to just study what other countries have
done. There are examples of a strong partnership between the
defense establishment and the private industry.”  The world’s  largest  importer of arms last year may miss its
target to boost local supplies as nebulous regulations threaten
to derail Kalyani,  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and Mahindra’s plan to
tap the annual 867.4 billion rupee ($14 billion) market. Rules
don’t specify the type of weapons companies can build or the
restriction on partnerships.  “There is a lot of talk about encouraging private industry
in defense,” said Deba Ranjan Mohanty, chairman of Indicia
Research & Advisory, a New Delhi-based defense researcher.
“When a state decides to open up its defense production, it
needs to devise a strategy to see it through. Otherwise, it’ll
all be empty talk.”  Firing Range  India in 2001 allowed local companies with up to 26 percent
foreign ownership, to bid for arms contracts. A decade later the
country revised its policy on  military production  to reserve
certain manufacturing for Indian companies.  Still, rules to preclude private manufacturers from using
defense testing facilities means Kalyani won’t be able to use
amenities such as the Pokhran range, the country’s largest field
firing area. Without testing products, companies won’t be able
to bid for contracts, said Mohanty.  A venture between Larsen and Cassidian Ltd. formed in 2011
to make avionics, radars and electronic warfare equipment is
still awaiting industrial license. Larsen spokesman Deepak Morada declined to comment. Mahindra in an e-mail declined to
comment on the government’s rejection of the company’s
partnership with Rafael.  “We’re looking at this issue,” said  Satish B. Agnihotri ,
director general of acquisition in the Ministry of Defence.
“It’s not just Kalyani, there may be others too who are
developing products and we may not have a method of taking that
into the procedure.”  Sensitive Areas  In February, V.K. Saraswat, then adviser to the Indian
defense minister, said the government will restrain private
ventures pertaining to highly security sensitive areas. He
didn’t elaborate.  Any change in rules may be slowed by officials’
sensitivities over corruption scandals in previous purchases,
including one that helped drive the ruling Congress party to
defeat in 1989 elections.  India ordered a federal investigation into allegations of
graft in the purchase of 12 helicopters from  Italy ’s
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , claims that led to the Feb. 12 arrest of the
Italian company’s chief executive officer and which could
further slow future deals.  Artillery Guns  The Kalyani Group has invested 1 billion rupees in its
defense venture that’s building artillery guns, armored vehicles
and unmanned ground vehicles. Bharat Forge has separately formed
a venture with a unit of  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  to bid for Indian
Army’s contracts including for towed guns, mounted guns and
upgrade of 130 millimeter artillery guns.  Profit at Bharat Forge, India’s third-largest auto
components maker by market value, fell 40 percent in the year
ended March 31. The company’s  shares , which have fallen 13.4
percent this year, rose for the first time in five days to
218.30 rupees, or up 1.3 percent, at the close in Mumbai.  Local private companies account for 10 percent of India’s
 defense spending , mostly as sub-contractors to state-owned firms
that contribute about 20 percent, according to a 2012 report by
Boston Consulting Group Inc. Foreign suppliers control the
remaining 70 percent of the supplies.  “It’s been 12 years since the sector was opened up, first
for foreign direct investment and then to domestic
manufacturing,” said Nidhi Goyal, director of the aerospace and
defense team at  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.  in India. “But
there’s been no major contract awarded to the private sector.
Then what’s the benefit for the private investor?”  Operation Sunshine  India targets to raise the proportion of defense equipment
produced at home to 75 percent from about 30 percent in the next
10 years. Asia’s third-largest economy plans to spend 2.04
trillion rupees in the year that started April 1, from a revised
1.78 trillion rupees last year on defense. Of the total
expenditure, 867.4 billion rupees will be used to modernize its
forces, up 25 percent from a year earlier.  “A textbook case of how things should be done is joint
ownership of programs,” said Kalyani, who’s building the
Howitzer gun under the code name Operation Sunshine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  