-- Biofuel Investments at Seven-Year Low as BP Blames Cost
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-07-08T09:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/biofuel-investments-at-seven-year-low-as-bp-blames-cost.html
Europe ’s biggest  oil companies  are
scaling back work on the next generation of biofuels, a setback
for the effort to create a gasoline substitute that doesn’t
drain the  food supply .  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA)  Group Plc have halted funds
for four separate ventures because the technology to produce
fuel from woody plants and waste won’t be economical until 2020
or beyond, executives at both companies said in interviews.  “This is very capital intensive,” Phil New, head of BP’s
biofuels program, said in an interview. “There’s lots of
difficult engineering. It will take time for scale-up.”  The decisions helped cut global investment in biofuel
production to $57 million in the first quarter, the lowest since
2006, from its peak of $7.6 billion in the last quarter of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That makes it less
likely the industry will meet the ambitions of U.S. and European
leaders to help reduce fossil fuel pollution and wean motorists
off crude oil-based fuel.  “Progress in deploying these technologies has been slower
than many had anticipated and what’s needed to keep on track
with our aspirations,” Maria van der Hoeven, executive director
of the  International Energy Agency , said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Many potential producers have found it difficult
to secure the capital they need.”  Pollution Target  Biofuels are one of the measures both the U.S. and Europe
are counting on to reduce the emissions blamed for global
warming. The IEA, a policy adviser for industrial nations,
estimates biofuels must supply about 27 percent of road fuels
worldwide by 2050 to meet climate targets, up from 3 percent
last year.  Ethanol made from sugar or corn accounted for almost all of
the 1.9 million barrels a day of biofuel produced last year.
Output grew 10 percent since 2011, helping boost corn prices and
raising concerns at the  United Nations  that fuel production in
rich countries was cutting the supply of food to the poor.  Making the next-generation fuel requires more refining to
break down the tough cellulose found in plant walls. It would
open the industry to supplies that don’t compete with food.
Those include switch grass, corn stalks and jatropha, as well as
waste from the lumber and paper industries and from garbage
heaps. Scientists are also experimenting with using microscopic
bacteria and algae that can make fuel.  ‘Could Help’  BP and Shell have been the “most open” of the major oil
companies to biofuels, said Peder Holk Nielsen, CEO at  Novozymes
A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s largest maker of enzymes for making biofuels.
“They could help to boost investment in cellulosics, but that’s
not what is happening right now.”  Both BP and Shell had trouble making technology that works
in the lab economical at a commercial scale. In October, BP
scrapped a four-year-old project to spend $300 million on a
cellulosic ethanol refinery in  Florida . It ended its work to use
jatropha as a feedstock for fuels in 2009.  BP continues to work with DuPont & Co. and the companies
today opened a 350 million-pound ($520 million) wheat-to-ethanol
facility in the U.K. The plan is for the plant to eventually
make biobutanol, a fuel it says could “unlock the next pulse of
investment” as it’s more efficient than ethanol and doesn’t
require any changes to be made to existing vehicles. It doesn’t
expect to commercialize that fuel before 2016.  Shell in April canceled plans with Iogen Corp. for a
commercial-scale plant in Manitoba,  Canada , that would have made
ethanol from straw. In August 2012, it stopped funding for
biofuel enzymes at  Codexis Inc. (CDXS)  The year before, it exited an
algae venture with HR BioPetroleum Inc.  Cost Issue  “All of these technologies are capable of working
technically,” Matthew Tipper, Shell’s head of alternative
energy, said in an interview. “It was purely on cost that this
technology couldn’t be taken forward. Fuels have to be cheap
enough to burn. Otherwise no-one will buy them.”  In the U.S.,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  already
have pared back on biofuels. Chevron shelved most of its work in
2010 after deciding the 100 feedstocks it examined wouldn’t
provide the returns executives desired. Exxon spent $100 million
over four years on algae without finding a viable fuel.  Both Shell and BP are expanding their traditional biofuel
businesses in  Brazil , where they brew fuels from sugar cane.
Shell has 23 refineries there with  Cosan SA Industria e
Comercio . BP in December announced a $350 million doubling of
the capacity of its Tropical ethanol project in Brazil.  They’ve left development of the next generation of biofuels
more firmly with smaller specialists such as  Kior Inc. (KIOR) , Poet
LLC,  Abengoa SA (ABG)  and Italy’s Gruppo Mossi & Ghisolfi.  Together, those companies will help boost U.S. cellulosic
biofuel output 20-fold in 2013 as the first high-volume
refineries start, the U.S. Department of Energy estimates. The
9.6 million gallons of production expected would be short of the
government’s target for 14 million gallons.  “Growth opportunities for first-generation biofuels are
close to exhausted, while a series of next generation
technologies are not quite ready,” said Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  