-- China’s New Sovereign Fund Chief Under Pressure to Boost Returns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/china-s-new-sovereign-fund-chief-under-pressure-to-boost-returns.html
Ding Xuedong takes over as head of
 China ’s wealth fund facing three challenges: boosting returns,
finding new capital and dealing with rivalry from the manager of
the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves.  His appointment, announced July 5, ends months of
speculation over who would take charge at China Investment Corp.
after  Lou Jiwei  was named Finance Minister in new Premier  Li
Keqiang ’s government in March. Ding, 53, a former deputy finance
minister, will move from the State Council where he was a deputy
secretary-general.  Ding’s need to improve the fund’s returns takes on added
urgency as the U.S. Federal Reserve prepares to slow record
monetary stimulus, raising prospects for higher  interest rates .
He will also face increasing scrutiny over his performance as
the  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  diversifies its
portfolio into higher-yielding assets from its traditional focus
on safer U.S. Treasuries.  “All in all, it won’t be an easy job for Ding Xuedong and
that’s the reason why it took some time to find a replacement”
for Lou, said Victoria Barbary, director at the London-based
Institutional Investor’s Sovereign Wealth Center. “CIC is now
almost fully invested and it’s not sure that they are going to
get any more funds. SAFE is becoming more aggressive in its
investments. It’s becoming more and more of a competitor to CIC
and for that reason they won’t want CIC to get more funds.”  Ding will become the $482 billion sovereign wealth fund’s
second chairman since it was founded in 2007 to earn better
returns on the country’s foreign-exchange reserves. The holdings,
which stood at $1.53 trillion at the end of that year, have
since surged to $3.44 trillion.  Financial Crisis  The fund got off to a bad start under Lou, posting a
negative 2.1 percent return on its overseas investments in 2008
amid the global financial crisis as the value of its stakes in
Morgan Stanley and private-equity firm Blackstone Group LP
slumped.  CIC hasn’t publicly announced its performance for 2012 yet
although the official Xinhua News Agency issued a report last
month citing President  Gao Xiqing  as saying the fund achieved an
investment return of about 11 percent on its overseas portfolio
last year. That compares with a loss of 4.3 percent in 2011 as
declines in global commodity prices roiled the value of its
resource-heavy portfolio.  The fund has met the government’s expectations by
delivering 5 percent annualized returns since its creation,
Xinhua cited Gao as saying.  Diversified Portfolio  CIC is trying to cut an “over-reliance” on  U.S. debt  as
an economic recovery drives up interest rates, Lou told a forum
in  Hong Kong  in January. The fund has diversified its portfolio,
increasing direct investments in oil and gas, mining,
infrastructure and real estate. Its holdings include 10 percent
of  London ’s  Heathrow Airport .  “Lou has made some great changes in terms of the direction
and investment allocation transformation during his tenure,”
Winnie Deng, a Shanghai-based analyst covering sovereign wealth
funds at research firm Z-Ben Advisors, said in an e-mail before
the announcement. “But it is up to the new head to actually
realize returns from the shift in investment strategy.”  Two candidates to replace Lou -- Shanghai Vice Mayor Tu
Guangshao and  Yi Gang , a deputy governor of the People’s Bank of
China -- declined the position because of concerns they may be
blamed for investments that that fare poorly, the Financial
Times reported in May, citing unidentified people.  ‘Good Performance’  Ding spent more than 10 years at the  Ministry of Finance 
and holds a doctorate in economics from the ministry’s research
institute, according to Xinhua. The announcement of his
appointment as State Council deputy secretary-general in 2010
didn’t outline his responsibilities.  CIC, created with an initial $200 billion from the Ministry
of Finance, received a further $30 billion infusion in December
2011 after allocating almost all its initial capital. The
Financial Times reported in April 2011 that the fund would soon
receive $100 billion to $200 billion from the government, citing
three unidentified people familiar with the matter.  “In addition to investment returns, a more important
question is to determine the funding mechanism,” said Z-Ben’s
Deng. “Whether it will be periodic and in what form -- debt or
equity -- because that will also affect how funds are deployed
and the urgency to have good performance.”  ’Innovative’ Use  CIC is ranked the world’s fifth-largest state-owned
investment entity, while SAFE, which is headed by Yi Gang, is
third, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute in  Las
Vegas .  The administration, which holds most of the country’s
foreign-exchange reserves and oversees their day-to-day
management, has set up an office to deliver on a government
mandate for more “innovative” use of the holdings.  The agency is studying the possibility of investing a
portion of its reserves in U.S. property after noticing signs of
a recovery, two people with direct knowledge of the situation
said in May.  The two Chinese government asset managers “share a healthy
rivalry,” Patrick Schena, co-head of the Sovereign Wealth Fund
Initiative at  Tufts University  in Medford,  Massachusetts , said
in an e-mail. “Perhaps a more important question is: if/how
this rivalry may affect investment decision-making at CIC in the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  