-- Ping An of China Said to Buy Lloyd’s of London Building
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-08T15:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/chinese-insurer-buys-london-s-lloyds-building-for-388-million.html
Ping An Insurance Group Co. (2318) , China’s
second-largest insurer, agreed to buy the Lloyd’s of London
building from a Commerz Real AG-managed fund, two people with
knowledge of the transaction said.  A Chinese insurer is purchasing the home of the Lloyd’s
insurance market for 260 million pounds ($388 million), London-based property broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  said in a  statement  today
without naming the buyer. The deal requires regulatory approval,
according to one of the people. Both asked not to be identified
because the purchaser hasn’t publicly been named.  London “seems to be one of those global markets that
everyone in the world is interested in and it seems only natural
that Chinese investors would view it similarly,” said  Michael Klibaner , head of Greater China research at broker  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  “It’s kind of just saying ‘We arrived.’”  The Chinese government in October made it easier for its
insurers to buy real estate and other assets outside the
country, including London and New York. Chinese investors may
spend $5 billion buying overseas real estate this year, 25
percent more than in 2012, Jones Lang predicted.  “Asset management is one of Ping An’s major businesses,
which includes the investment and management of insurance and
third-party capital domestically and abroad,” the insurer based
in Shenzhen, in southern China, said in an e-mail today,
declining to specify its investments.  Inside-Out  Commerz Real bought the building at One Lime Street, near
the Bank of England in the City of  London  borough, for 231
million pounds in 2005. The property, designed by Richard Rogers, opened in 1986 and has been called the Inside-Out
Building because elevators, ducts, pipes and other elements are
on the outside. It’s leased to the Society of Lloyd’s until
2031, Savills said.  Lloyd’s, founded in a London coffee house in the 1680s, is
the world’s oldest insurance market.  “The current liquidity and investor demand within the
London market presented an ideal time for us to seek an exit,”
Roland Holschuh, a member of Commerz Real’s management board,
said in the statement.  Several Chinese companies have announced significant
investments in London real estate in recent weeks. Dalian Wanda
Group, the developer controlled by billionaire Wang Jianlin,
announced last month that it will invest in a London site to
build Western Europe’s tallest residential tower.  ABP ( China ) Holdings Group Ltd., a Beijing-based developer,
in May signed an agreement with London officials to transform
the 35-acre (14-hectare) site at Royal Albert Dock into the
capital’s third business district after the City of London and
Canary Wharf.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  