-- Crash Survivor Clutching Toddler Sensed Danger in Descent
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-07-07T04:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/crash-survivor-clutching-toddler-sensed-danger-in-descent.html
Jang Hyung Lee clutched his 16-month-old son on his lap as  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  Flight 214 neared San
Francisco International Airport, sensing that their descent was
going wrong.  “The approach looked awkward,” Lee, 32, said yesterday in
an interview at the airport after he and his family survived the
accident that left Seoul-based Asiana’s twin-engine  Boeing Co. (BA) 
777 broken and charred. “I squeezed him hard. I didn’t want to
lose him.”  Lee’s account gave a glimpse into the final moments of
Flight 214, which appears to have struck a seawall where the
 runway  meets  San Francisco Bay . The impact broke off the jet’s
tail and sent the aircraft spinning out of control onto the
airport grass before bursting into flames. Two of the 307 people
on board were killed and dozens more injured.  There was no announcement made about a crash landing, and
the engines revved as the 777 was about to hit the runway, as if
trying to gain last-minute airspeed, said Lee, an architectural
designer from Emeryville,  California , who was returning from a
family trip to  South Korea  with his wife, son and in-laws.  Then he felt a soft blow followed by a “pretty big hit”
and then the plane caught fire. “We got out really fast,” he
said. “We pretty much ran away from the plane because it was on
fire.”  Emergency Slides  A gaping hole was burned into the top of the aircraft. Lee
and others on board escaped down emergency slides, and he, his
wife and their child weren’t hurt. His in-laws were taken to a
hospital for treatment and later released.  “It was really scary,” Lee’s wife, Jennifer, said in an
interview with their son secured in a pouch-style child carrier
supported by shoulder straps.  Flight 214  from  Seoul  had been airborne for about 10 hours,
23 minutes, according to industry data compiler FlightAware.com,
following a course that took it across the North Pacific and
then toward what should have been a routine touchdown on  San
Francisco  International Airport’s Runway 28 Left.  Instead, the trip ended with the worst aviation accident on
U.S. soil since February 2009. Families and friends yearned for
news for hours as authorities confronted injuries, a language
barrier with passengers who didn’t speak English, and confusion
that at one point prompted an ultimately unfounded declaration
that about 60 people remained unaccounted for.  Lee Choon Hee, 47, yesterday was waiting outside Asiana
headquarters in Seoul for more information about her daughter,
Lee Ji Eun, and niece, Kim Ye Lim, both 22. Lee had heard from a
flight attendant that both had been taken to a hospital.  At San Francisco International, Flight 214 passenger Vedpa
Singh was greeted by a crush of reporters as he walked through
the terminal, his arm in a sling. He said he was on board with
his wife and 15-year-old son.  “I’m just trying to find my
wife,” he said.  “Everybody screamed,” he said. “It felt like it all
happened in less than 10 seconds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  