-- Crowded ETF Exit Proving Costly as Bonds Trail: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-07-07T21:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/crowded-etf-exit-proving-costly-as-bonds-trail-credit-markets.html
Investors who sought exchange-traded
funds as a faster way to trade corporate bonds are finding that
they can be as expensive to trade as the underlying debt.  As trading in the three-biggest credit ETFs surged to
unprecedented levels last month amid the market’s biggest losses
since 2008, the funds’ shares dropped as much as 1.1 percentage
points more than the net value of the less-traded securities
they hold. The two largest high-yield bond ETFs have lost about
6 percent since reaching a five-year high May 8. That’s about 2
percentage points more than the loss for the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index.  The gap reflects the extra charge investors paid for a
speedier exit in a declining market by using ETFs that trade
like stocks rather than buying and selling the less-liquid debt.
Investors yanked about $1.83 billion of shares from the two-biggest junk ETFs last month, forcing sales of their holdings at
a time when demand was evaporating.  “Just buying ETFs doesn’t solve the liquidity problem,”
said  Andrew Feltus , a  money manager  who helps oversee about 
$37 billion in U.S. fixed-income assets at Pioneer Investment
Management Inc. in Boston. “You’re almost outsourcing your
liquidity, because now your creator is the guy who’s going to
have to go out and source the bonds in order to get it to
work.”  Fed Tapering  Corporate bonds have lost 3.1 percent this year as
investors prepare for the  Federal Reserve  to end an
unprecedented bond-buying program that fueled average annual
gains of 13.5 percent from the end of 2008 through 2012. The
selloff accelerated after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June
19 the Fed may start dialing down its $85 billion monthly debt
purchasing program this year if growth is in line with the
central bank’s estimates.  Shares of BlackRock Inc.’s $13.7 billion  iShares iBoxx $
High Yield Corporate Bond ETF , the biggest of its kind,
plummeted 4.3 percent in the six days ended June 24, while the
 net value  of its assets dropped 3 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The fund’s share price fell to the lowest level
in 12 months on June 24, to $89.04. The lowest value last month
for the underlying assets was $89.66, the data show.  ‘Correct Price’  “The price reflects where you can exchange risk,” said
 Matt Tucker , head of iShares fixed-income strategy at BlackRock,
the biggest ETF provider. “It’s the correct price. The reality
is the majority of the high-yield market doesn’t trade every
day.”  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Investors are clamoring for an easier way to slip in and
out of a $5.3 trillion U.S. corporate- bond market  that’s mostly
traded over the counter, especially as the biggest banks reduce
the amount of money they use to facilitate trading. Primary
dealers that trade with the Fed cut their holdings of the notes
by 76 percent from the peak in October 2007 through the end of
March in the face of new risk-curbing rules.  While the face value of dollar-denominated  junk bonds 
outstanding has almost doubled since 2006, trading volumes have
increased just 14 percent in the period, according to data from
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index and Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Trading Surge  “People are using ETFs to trade risk when investors need
to access the markets and adjust positions, and need to do so in
a quick market,” Tucker said in a telephone interview.
“They’re being more widely used by more investors as a
liquidity tool in stressed markets.”  As debt prices slumped last month, investors
disproportionately turned to the funds, with shares that trade
like stocks, to reduce exposure to a cross-section of bonds that
trade over-the-counter. They’re finding that “while bond ETFs
claim to offer instantaneous liquidity, this is not the case
when liquidity in the underlying securities dries up,”  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts led by Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou wrote in a
July 5 report.  The average daily trading volume in BlackRock’s junk-bond
ETF during the past 30 days soared 71 percent above the six-month average, compared with a 3 percent decline for the broader
high-yield bond market in the same period, Bloomberg and  Trace
data (NTMBHV)  show. Volumes in  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s SPDR Barclays High
Yield Bond ETF, which trades under the ticker JNK, jumped 62
percent. The BlackRock fund trades with the ticker HYG.  With fixed-income ETFs, “you get something that is trying
to track, as closely as possible, prices of assets which are not
necessarily easy to buy or sell,” said Jason Brady, a  fund
manager  who helps oversee about $86 billion at Thornburg
Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . “That
dynamic is a challenge.”  Bernanke’s Timeline  In June, investors pulled about $1.1 billion from State
Street’s  junk-bond ETF  and $760.7 million from the BlackRock
fund after Bernanke told Congress on May 22 that the U.S.
central bank may start reducing its bond purchases. Bernanke
told reporters June 19 that policy makers may end the Fed’s
stimulus, which has funneled more than $2.5 trillion into the
financial system since 2008, by mid-2014 if the economy meets
expectations.  Since May 21, yields on corporate bonds in the U.S. have
risen 85 basis points, with the most-frequently traded
securities leading the selloff.  In June, relative yields on high-yield bonds owned by ETFs
widened 8 basis points more than other debt from the same
issuers, according to data from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
strategists Oleg Melentyev and Neha Khoda. That difference has
more than doubled since the end of May, showing “the extent to
which ETF bonds underperformed just by virtue of being in a
high-yield ETF portfolio,” the strategists wrote in a note
dated July 1.  Reflecting Prices  “Premiums and discounts can be much larger in times of
particularly significant buying or selling pressure, like what
we have experienced in the last few weeks,” BlackRock’s Tucker
said in an e-mailed statement. “In these cases, buyers and
sellers of ETFs adjust the value they place on the underlying
securities, and the ETFs’ prices simply reflect the market’s
collective and ongoing value of the underlying assets at any
point in time.”  BlackRock (BLK) ’s $19.2 billion  investment-grade bond fund , which
trades under the ticker LQD, has lost 7.3 percent since the end
of April, compared with a 5.9 percent decline on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index.  State Street’s $9.1 billion junk-bond ETF has lost 5.2
percent since the end of April compared with a 3.2 percent
decline on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
index.  ‘Quicker Way’  BlackRock’s speculative-grade debt fund has fallen 4.8
percent in the period, with its shares plummeting $1.25 on May
31 compared with a 17-cent decline in net asset value, Bloomberg
data show.  “I don’t think the ETF is giving you anything that the
underlyings can’t give you,” said Mark MacQueen, co-founder of
Sage Advisory Services, which oversees $10.5 billion, with $2
billion in ETF strategies. “It’s an easier, quicker way to do
it.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold investment-grade corporate bonds globally rather
than government debentures rose for a sixth week, reaching the
highest level in more than eight months. Sales fell to the
slowest pace this year, while the cost of protecting corporate
bonds from default in the U.S. and Europe declined for a second
week.  Relative yields on investment-grade company bonds from the
U.S. to Europe and Asia widened 3 basis points to 159 basis
points, or 1.59 percentage points, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate Index. Spreads climbed to
161 on July 1, the highest since Oct. 12. Yields rose to 3.1625
percent from 3.0759 percent on June 28.  Credit Benchmarks  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.5 basis point last
week to 86.6 basis points, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge has fallen from 97.6 on June 24, the
highest since December.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  fell 5.1 basis
points to 113.7.  Both indexes typically decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Oracle Offering  Bonds of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers last week, accounting for 3.3 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, Trace data show.  A two-part, 2 billion euro ($2.57 billion) offering from
Oracle Corp. led $27.7 billion of corporate-bond sales  worldwide 
last week, a 16.7 percent drop from the prior week and the least
since $22.3 billion in the period ended Dec. 28, Bloomberg data
show.  Oracle’s offering was split between 1.25 billion euros of
2.25 percent notes due January 2021 paying 68 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate and 750 million euros of 3.125 percent,
12-year securities at 98 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose for the
first time in eight weeks, rising 0.29 cent from a five-month
low to 97.42 cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the
100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has
returned 2.02 percent this year.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 17.4 basis
points to 336 basis points, the second straight weekly decline,
according to  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
narrowed from 395.3 on June 24, the highest since June 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  