-- Delisting Trumps IPOs as Valuations Fall: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-08T03:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/delisting-trumps-ipos-as-valuations-fall-china-overnight.html
Delistings by Chinese companies that
traded in the U.S. are outnumbering initial public offerings by
the most in at least four years as valuations fall to the lowest
since 2008.  So far in 2013, eight Chinese companies have delisted from
 New York  exchanges, most recently  7 Days Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN)  on
July 5, while only online retailer  LightInTheBox Holding Co. (LITB)  has
completed a U.S. IPO, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In 2010, there were 38 IPOs and three delistings. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks sank 1.9
percent last week, extending declines in May and June, led by
 51Job Inc. (JOBS)  and  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. (HOLI)   Companies on the China-US gauge traded at a 30 percent
discount on average to those for the Nasdaq Composite Index last
month, the biggest gap since 2008, as growth slows in the
world’s second-largest economy and short sellers target the
firms. The  China  measure has slumped 15 percent this year, as
Premier  Li Keqiang  said the nation seeks 7 percent annual growth
this decade, down from more than 10 percent in the previous 10
years.  “I still see companies preparing for going-private deals
and there’s no obvious trend of slowing down according to our
deal flows,” said Catherine X. Pan-Giordano, a partner at
Dorsey & Whitney LLP in New York, an international  law firm  that
handles such transactions. “We didn’t see an obvious pickup of
U.S. IPOs from Chinese companies, while we do see a bigger
pipeline for  Hong Kong  IPOs based on the cases we are
handling.”  ETF Declines  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slumped 1.4 percent last week
for a record eighth weekly decline. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 1 percent on July 5, bringing its weekly rally to
1.6 percent, after data showed faster-than-forecast jobs growth
in the U.S.  7 Days, owner of China’s second-largest budget hotel chain,
will stop trading on the New York Stock Exchange from today
after being acquired by a buyout group led by Keystone Lodging
Company Ltd. and existing shareholders including the company’s
co-chairmen Boquan He and Nanyan Zheng, it said in a statement.
The offer for the Guangzhou-based company was $13.8 for each of
its ADR.  Focus Media  Holding Ltd., a Hong Kong-based digital
advertising company, withdrew its listing from the Nasdaq Stock
Market in May after a $3.8 billion privatization deal. Short
selling firm Muddy Waters LLC first accused the company on Nov.
21, 2011 of exaggerating the size of its ad display network,
sending the shares of Focus Media down 39 percent that day.  51Job, Hollysys  51Job, a Shanghai-based online human resources service
company, sank 5.4 percent July 5 to $61.85, sliding 8.4 percent
for the week. It posted the biggest decline on the China-US
gauge. Hollysys slumped 4.2 percent to a two-week low of $11.89.  Increases in the prices of modules and cells, and declines
in costs for raw materials for solar panels, may boost second-quarter profit margins at manufacturers, Bloomberg Industries
said in a report July 5. Deutsche Bank AG said in a July 3 note
that positive momentum in the solar industry will continue for
the next three to six months. Yingli, the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, jumped 16 percent last week to $3.76, the highest
level since May 2012.  “Investors are beginning to view solar power projects as
an attractive risk-reward opportunity,” Chris Kettenman, Chief
Energy Strategist at Prime Executions Inc. in New York, said by
e-mail. “We are hearing from multiple sources that the market
is picking up.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 1.3 percent today to
1,980.77 as of 11:17 a.m. local time. The gauge advanced 1.4
percent last week, the first rally in five weeks. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong lost 2.2 percent today,
having slumped for seven out of the past eight weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  