-- U.S. Stocks Rise Before Earnings While Natural Gas Surges
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-07-08T20:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/dollar-extends-jump-on-stimulus-view-as-asia-futures-fall.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for a third day as
investors awaited the start of second-quarter earnings season
and euro-area finance ministers approved aid for  Greece .
European equities recovered from a July 5 slide, while shares
and currencies in  Asia  declined.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.5 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York  and the Russell 2000 Index of smaller U.S. companies
rose 0.4 percent to a record. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained
1.4 percent after losing 1.3 percent on July 5, while the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index slid 1.4 percent. The yield on 10-year
Portuguese debt slipped 20 basis points to 6.93 percent.  U.S.
Treasuries  rose after 10-year yields surged to a near two-year
high. Egyptian shares tumbled the most in three weeks. Natural
gas jumped more than 3 percent to lead commodities higher.  The  S&P 500  climbed to a three-week high, adding to a 1
percent rally on July 5 when better-than-forecast jobs growth
overshadowed concern the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.
Alcoa Inc. started the earnings season after markets closed in
New York, reporting a per-share profit of 7 cents that beat the
average analyst estimate of 6 cents. Following the close in
Europe, governments approved 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) in
aid to Greece, according to two European officials.  “The market appears to be discounting a strengthening
economy in the second half and into 2014 and the earnings season
really should give us some clarity as to whether that’s
appropriate,” Gary Flam, who helps oversee $7 billion at Bel
Air Investment Advisors LLC in  Los Angeles , said in a phone
interview. “I really don’t think the earnings season is going
to be so much about the second quarter, but more about the
pickup in the second half that the market appears to be
anticipating.”  Stock Losses  Global equities lost more than $3.8 trillion in value and
U.S. Treasury yields climbed to an almost two-year high since
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled May 22 that the central
bank’s asset-buying program could be tapered should the job
market continue to improve. The purchases, currently at $85
billion a month, helped the MSCI World Index of developed
markets rally 19 percent in the past year.  Trading of S&P 500 stocks was 9 percent higher than the 30-day average while volume for Dow Jones Industrial Average
companies was 17 percent below average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Dell Inc. rallied 3.1 percent after Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc., the biggest shareholder-advisory
firm, said investors should accept founder  Michael Dell ’s buyout
offer. Priceline.com Inc. added 3.9 percent after Morgan Stanley
raised its recommendation on the stock.  Intel Slips  Intel Corp . dropped 3.6 percent, leading a retreat in
technology companies, as analysts at Evercore Partners Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. lowered earnings forecasts for 2013 and 2014 amid
weakening demand for personal computers.  The S&P 500 gained 1.6 percent last week as better-than-estimated economic data tempered concern over a possible scaling
back of Federal Reserve stimulus. Employers added more jobs than
forecast in June, and other data during the week showed jobless
claims decreased and manufacturing improved. While the index has
fallen 1.7 percent since its May 21 record, it’s still up 15
percent for 2013.  “The world looks rosy to investors again, after the U.S.
market rallied on much better-than-expected employment numbers
that investors finally seem to be interpreting as good news,”
said John Plassard, who helps oversee $28 billion as vice
president at Mirabaud Securities LLP in Geneva. “With analysts
having downgraded their expectations in recent weeks, we should
be seeing fewer negative surprises in the U.S. earnings season,
so sentiment is quite good.”  The same equity analysts who lowered second-quarter profit
growth predictions to almost nothing in 2013 are raising price
forecasts, convinced the economy is growing fast enough to lure
more investors and boost valuations.  Earnings Season  S&P 500 earnings grew 1.8 percent last quarter, down from a
projection of 8.7 percent six months ago, according to more than
11,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. At the same
time, share-price targets for companies from GameStop Corp. to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are rising at the fastest rate in two
years. The U.S. equity gauge will increase 8.9 percent from last
week’s close to a record 1,777.91 should the forecasts prove
accurate.  Lower expectations helped about 73 percent of the companies
in the benchmark measure exceed forecasts by an average of 5.1
percent for the first three months of the year, Bloomberg data
show.  Treasury Yields  U.S. 10-year Treasury  yields  declined 10 basis points to
2.64 percent after touching 2.75 percent earlier today, the
highest since August 2011. Volatility in Treasuries as measured
by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch MOVE Index rose to 117.89
on July 5, the highest since December 2010. The index has
averaged 64.26 this year.  European stocks  rebounded, with trading 21 percent less
than the 30-day average. Siemens AG jumped 4.1 percent as Osram
Licht AG traded for the first time following a spinoff from the
German engineering company.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  added 3.8 percent after a person
with knowledge of the matter said former Standard Chartered Plc
Chairman  Mervyn Davies  is assembling a group of investors to bid
for part of the U.K. government’s  stake  in the mortgage lender.
The Sunday Times reported that Singapore’s state-owned
investment company made a preliminary approach about buying a 10
percent stake in Lloyds. Temasek said it does not comment on
speculation.  Portugal, Egypt  Portugal’s PSI 20 Index climbed 2.3 percent. The country’s
prime minister named Paulo Portas, the leader of the junior
party in the governing coalition, as vice premier. The
appointment helps cement a deal to hold the coalition together.  Egypt’s main stocks gauge tumbled 3.6 percent. Supporters
of deposed President Mohamed Mursi clashed with the military
today outside a main security installation, in violence that
authorities said killed at least 40 people.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 1.1 percent, extending
this year’s decline to 14 percent, compared with a 8.9 percent
advance for the MSCI World gauge of developed nation shares.
Benchmark indexes in Shanghai, Indonesia,  Thailand  and the
 Philippines  lost more than 2.4 percent today.  Emerging Currencies  India’s rupee, the Philippine peso, Malaysian ringgit and
 Thai baht  declined at least 0.4 percent. Turkey’s lira rallied
0.9 percent from a record low as the central bank offered $500
million at currency auctions and said it would start “strong”
monetary tightening.  Australia’s 10-year bond  yield  climbed eight basis points
to 3.90 percent.  Greek 10-year bonds rose for a second day, pushing the 10-year yield 39 basis points lower to 10.93 percent. Euro-area
finance ministers approved Greece to receive 2.5 billion euros
this month and the remainder of the 3 billion euro aid in
October, said two people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the decision hasn’t been announced.  Natural gas rallied 3.4 percent to $3.741 per million
British thermal units, leading gains in commodities, on
speculation that hotter weather may spur demand for the power-plant fuel. Forecasts showed above-normal temperatures from the
Northeast into Central and Western states through July 22, said
MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Gas prices  are
down 16 percent from a 21-month high of $4.444 on May 1 as
stockpile gains topped five-year averages for five straight
weeks amid mild weather.  Gold rose 1.1 percent to $1,236.97 an ounce and West Texas
Intermediate oil was little changed around $103 a barrel. Oil
trading in New York was about 25 percent above the average for
the past 100 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  