-- Douglas J. Dayton, Target Stores’ Founding President, Dies at 88
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-07-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/douglas-j-dayton-target-stores-founding-president-dies-at-88.html
Douglas J. Dayton, who served as the
first president of Target department stores when his family’s
retailing  company  created the chain 61 years ago, has died. He
was 88.  He died on July 5 at his home in Wayzata,  Minnesota ,
following a long battle with cancer, his wife, Wendy Dayton,
said.  With four brothers, Dayton took over and reshaped the
Dayton Co., which had begun under their grandfather, George
Draper Dayton, as Dayton’s department store in downtown
 Minneapolis .  When the company in 1961 formed the discount chain called
Target, Dayton became president. The first Target opened in May
1962 in Roseville, Minnesota. By the end of that year, three
other Target stores were open, all in the suburbs of the Twin
Cities of Minneapolis and  St. Paul . In 1966, Target expanded
outside Minnesota, opening stores around Denver.  “We will offer high-quality merchandise at low margins
because we are cutting expenses,” Dayton said, according to
“On Target: How the World’s Largest Retailer Hit a Bullseye,”
Laura Rowley’s 2003 book. “We would much rather do this than
trumpet dramatic price cuts on cheap merchandise.”  Dayton said customers began calling the chain “Tarjay” --
imbuing the name with faux French glamour -- as early as 1962.
“Duluth was the first place I heard it,” he said, referring to
one of the first four Minnesota locations.  Venture Capital  Dayton returned to corporate headquarters in 1968. He
became senior vice president of administration of Dayton Hudson
Corp., formed by the 1969  merger  of Dayton with J.L. Hudson Co.
of  Detroit , which was then the largest privately held U.S.
department-store company.  Dayton left the company in 1974 to start Dade Development
Capital, a  venture-capital  company, and retired in 1994. The
Dayton family ended 80 years of direct family involvement with
the  company  in 1983. In 2000, Dayton Hudson changed its name to
 Target Corp. (TGT)   “Along with his brothers and cousin, Doug was instrumental
in helping to guide the strategic direction of Dayton Hudson
Corp. for many years and institutionalize the values that are at
the heart of Target Corp. today,”  Gregg Steinhafel , Target’s
president and chief executive officer, said in a statement. “We
are thankful for Doug’s leadership and his many contributions to
our company and community.”  The retailer has consistently rewarded investors in recent
decades. Since 1983, Target shares outperformed all other
department-store companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index,  returning  more than 27-fold.  Ribbon Cutting  Douglas Dayton watched with pride as the Target chain grew,
his wife said yesterday in an interview.  “The creativity behind the marketing and merchandising was
fantastic, and he really honored his successors, tremendously,”
Wendy Dayton said.  She said her husband took part in a ribbon-cutting ceremony
about two years ago at a new Target store that opened near their
home in Savannah,  Georgia .  Douglas James Dayton was born on Dec. 2, 1924, in
Minneapolis, the youngest of five brothers born to George Nelson
Dayton and the former Grace Bliss.  He graduated from the Blake School in Minneapolis in 1942
and served in World War II as a U.S. Army mortar sergeant,
joining George Patton’s army in France 30 days after D-Day,
according to the death  notice  in the Minneapolis Star Tribune
newspaper. He was injured during combat and received the Purple
Heart. He then studied at  Amherst College  in  Massachusetts .  Expected Success  Dayton began working at the family’s Minneapolis store,
moving to Rochester, Minnesota, to run its first branch location
in 1954. When Target was started, he predicted it would be a
sales leader.  “I remember telling my brother Bruce that we were going to
do $100 million, and he sent me a nice note when we did it in
1968,” Dayton recalled in an interview two months ago,
according to the Star Tribune. “We laughed at that one. It took
about 10 years to get to $1 billion in sales.”  The Dayton Co. went public in 1967, with Target Stores as
one of its divisions. The others were Dayton’s department
stores, B. Dalton Bookseller, Dayton Jewelers and Dayton
Development Co., according to a Target  corporate history .  In addition to his wife, his survivors include his
children, David, Steve, Bruce and Elizabeth; six grandchildren;
and Bruce Dayton, the last of the five brothers.  Dayton’s nephew,  Mark Dayton , the governor of Minnesota,
said in a statement that his uncle “was an extraordinary
businessman, philanthropist and leader of our family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  