-- Egyptian Army Can Choose Turkish or Algerian Path
-- B y   O m a r   A s h o u r
-- 2013-07-07T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/egyptian-army-can-choose-turkish-or-algerian-path.html
In September 2011, I was part of a
diverse group of Egyptian activists, from liberals to Salafis,
which we set up for a single purpose: To persuade all candidates
running in the presidential elections to commit to keeping the
military out of politics for good.  All but one candidate, the former United Nations diplomat
Mohamed ElBaradei, signed up. When we sent a petition to the
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, asking them to make the
same pledge -- to end military rule and hand over power to
civilians -- they didn’t bother to reply.  I’m telling this story to show how little regard  Egypt ’s
army commanders have had for civilian politicians from day one.
Now, citing demands from the people (and there is no doubt many
Egyptians wanted a coup), the military, led by Defense Minister
Abdelfatah al-Seesi, has deposed the country’s first freely
elected president after just a year in office, and suspended the
civilian constitution that 64 percent of Egyptian voters
approved in December 2012. The generals will probably now
appoint a committee to draw up a new constitution.  The junta overnight voided 14 nationwide rounds of free and
fair democratic votes. Six of these were for the lower house of
the parliament; four were for the upper house; two were for
presidential elections; and two were constitutional referendums.
The winners were the same in every case, and some of them are
now in jail. The losers were the same each time, too. These
included ElBaradei, who on July 6 accepted an offer to become
interim prime minister, only for it to be withdrawn after
opposition from the sole Islamist party that supports the coup.  Three Scenarios  It is important to grasp all of this clearly, in order to
understand the mind sets of the two groups of people who will
determine Egypt’s fate -- the military and the Muslim
Brotherhood. There are broadly three possibilities.  One, the most hopeful and least likely, is that the coup
will serve as a launching pad for liberal democracy in Egypt.  For this to work will require the Muslim Brotherhood to
acquiesce, return peacefully to the electoral system and then
lose in the next election. It assumes, too, that the military
will quickly oversee elections and retire into the background
again, leaving the Brotherhood free to campaign and win re-election unobstructed. Given the deep sense of injustice on one
side and the cynical approach to civilian politics on the other,
this isn’t going to happen. On July 5, 36 people were killed in
pro-Mursi protests in Cairo, and a day later militants blew up
the pipeline that carries natural gas to Jordan.  The second scenario resembles the experience of Turkey in
1997, when a group of generals from the National Security
Council sent a memo to the country’s Islamist prime minister,
Necmettin Erbakan, asking him to resign. Erbakan obliged, and
arrests and mild repression followed, including the closing of
the Welfare Party and the jailing of  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who
was then mayor of Istanbul and a member of the Islamist party.  Turks, who have considerable experience with coups, call
that one “postmodern” for its relative gentility. Parliament
wasn’t dissolved, the constitution wasn’t suspended, there were
no tanks in the streets, the army stayed in the background, and
the renamed sons of the Welfare Party were allowed to run in the
next elections. One of them, the  Justice and Development Party ,
won in 2002 and remains the democratically elected government
today.  The third and most disturbing possible outcome for Egypt is
Algeria in 1992: a harsh crackdown on elected Islamists by the
military, followed by a vicious civil war.  Red Lines  One reason to hope Egypt won’t follow that path is that
Egypt’s military hasn’t yet been threatened. After the fall of
President  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011, the army had three red lines to
protect. It needed a veto in high politics, such as the
relationship with  Israel , and immunity from prosecutions in
civilian courts. It also required security for a commercial
empire that features preferential customs and exchange rates; no
taxation; land-confiscation rights (without paying the
treasury); and a virtually cost-free labor force of conscript
soldiers. This is a black hole in the formal economy that by
some  estimates  accounts for 20 percent to 40 percent of Egyptian
gross domestic product.  Mursi met all of these demands, either verbally or by
writing them into the constitution. Earlier this year, army
officers told me that this contract has held good. This is the
opposite of how  Algeria ’s Islamic Salvation Front approached
cohabitation with the military.  In 1990, the front declared that once in power, it would
hold Algeria’s generals to account for corruption in the oil
industry. When the front won the first round of parliamentary
elections in December 1991, the generals seized control and
canceled the second-round vote. In the civil war that followed,
casualty  estimates  range from 150,000 to 250,000.  So far, Egypt’s coup matches none of the above. The
generals and the Muslim Brotherhood have acted less aggressively
than their 1990s counterparts in Algeria. At the same time,
events have been less “postmodern” than in Turkey. Mursi didn’t
obligingly step down when asked, and the military suspended the
constitution. Troops were sent into the streets, leaders of the
winning party were arrested, their homes were searched, and some
pro-Mursi protesters were shot. It remains possible that the
Muslim Brotherhood will be declared illegal.  Which scenario plays out, Algerian or Turkish, depends on
what the two sides do next. In Algeria, full-fledged civil war
didn’t begin until September 1992, nine months after the army
annulled the elections. If al-Seesi and his junta behave like
Khaled Nezzar, the Algerian defense minister who deposed
Algeria’s reformist president in January 1992 and formed a
military junta, violent confrontations are likely to follow.  Turkish Route  There is another Turkish scenario: the 1980 coup of General
Kenan Evren, who is currently on trial in  Turkey  for his
actions, more than two decades later. As in Egypt today, Evren’s
coup was genuinely popular among swaths of the Turkish
population, but it quickly turned sour, producing a terrible
constitution and widespread abuse of human rights. Evren’s
intervention caused a 20-year setback for democratic progress in
Turkey.  It was beyond imagining to see Tahrir Square, a place that
in 2011 symbolized the struggle for Arab democracy and freedom,
cheering the end of a democratic process and annulling the votes
of millions of Egyptians last week. On July 3, 2013, Tahrir
didn’t celebrate an expansion of liberty, but the exclusion of
one part of the Egyptian people by another. The consequences are
impossible for any of those involved to predict.  (Omar Ashour, an Egyptian citizen, is senior lecturer in
security studies and Middle East politics at the University of
Exeter. He is also a nonresident fellow at the Brookings Doha
Center and author of “The De-Radicalization of Jihadists.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Omar Ashour at  O.Ashour@exeter.ac.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  