-- Egypt’s Crisis Was No Military Coup, Ambassador to U.S. Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-07-07T20:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/egypt-s-crisis-was-no-military-coup-ambassador-to-u-s-says.html
Egypt’s ambassador to the U.S.,
Mohamed Tawfik, denied that the military’s ouster of President
Mohamed Mursi constituted a coup and said elections will happen
as quickly as possible.  “Egypt has not undergone a military coup, and it is
certainly not run by the military,” Tawfik said on ABC’s “This
Week” program that aired today. “Today there is an interim
president in place.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration has avoided
describing the military takeover in Egypt as a coup because that
could force a cutoff in $1.55 billion in annual U.S. aid to the
nation. A U.S. law bars “any assistance to the government of
any country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by
a military coup d’etat or decree,” or a coup “in which the
military plays a decisive role.”  Egypt’s interim leader, Adly Mansour, is seeking to pull
together a government to restore order. Violent protests in
Cairo and elsewhere over the military’s ouster of Mursi have
raised doubts about prospects for an eventual accommodation that
would allow the Muslim Brotherhood, which supports Mursi, to
compete in new elections.  The Obama administration has said that the U.S. is not
aligned with and doesn’t support any particular Egyptian
political party or group.  Egypt ’s Tawfik said on ABC that members of the Muslim
Brotherhood “need to acknowledge the mistakes that they made,”
and should join the national dialogue so elections can take
place “as quickly as we possibly can put it together.”  “We need everybody to be in the process,” Tawfik said.
“Let us look ahead to the future. There is room for everyone in
Egypt, but there is no room for violence, there is no room for
incitement to hatred and incitement to commit acts of
violence.”  Street Protests  In rejecting the word “coup” to describe what happened,
Tawfik said Egyptian leaders had taken action to avert a violent
crackdown on anti-Mursi protests by “over 15 million people in
the streets.”  Mursi, ignoring the protesters’ calls, “whipped up
religious fervor among his supporters, and there was violence in
the air,” Tawfik said. “After more than 20 people have been
killed, leaders from Egyptian parties, from Egyptian religious
establishments, from the military, they came together, they said
we have to stop this. Otherwise, violence will spiral out of
control.”  The Obama administration has urged the Egyptian military to
stop using heavy-handed tactics against the Muslim Brotherhood,
according to two U.S. officials who asked not to be identified
commenting on private communications. They said the U.S. is
concerned that some in the military may want to provoke the
Islamists to violence and provide a rationale for crushing the
movement once and for all.  Such a move would fail and probably prompt a shift to al-Qaeda type terrorist tactics by extremists in the Islamist
movement in Egypt and elsewhere, the U.S. officials said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net 
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for
Anthony Gnoffo at 
 agnoffo@bloomberg.net  