-- First Baby Born After Embryo Gene Sequencing to Cut Miscarriages
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-07-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/first-baby-born-after-embryo-gene-sequencing-to-cut-miscarriages.html
A baby boy born in  Pennsylvania  in
June is the first birth following embryo screening using the
latest gene sequencing technology designed to increase the
success rate of  in-vitro fertilization  and reduce miscarriages.  Gene sequencing of embryos can identify chromosomal defects
that can result in the failure of embryos to adhere to the
lining of the mother’s womb, which is necessary for the fetus to
receive oxygen and nutrients. Researchers at Oxford University
used the technology to select healthy embryos about five days
after fertilization by two couples undergoing IVF, which
resulted in successful pregnancies. The study will be presented
today at the  European Society of Human Reproduction and
Embryology ’s annual meeting in London.  While about 5 million babies have been born worldwide
through IVF since 1978, pregnancy rates per embryo transfer in
 Europe  was about 36 percent in 2010, according to ESHRE. Studies
using older gene sequencing technology to select embryos have
resulted in about a one-third increase in the chance of a
healthy pregnancy and cut the miscarriage rate by about half,
said  Dagan Wells , lead researcher of the study.  “Next generation sequencing provides an unprecedented
insight into the biology of embryos,” Wells, of Oxford’s
Institute of Reproductive Sciences, said in a briefing in London
on July 5.  New gene sequencing technology is more affordable than
older versions, costing between 2,000 pounds ($2,977) and 3,000
pounds, Wells said. It also has an advantage over time-lapse
embryo imaging, which offers limited detection of subtle
chromosome abnormalities, he said.  Funding is now available to conduct a randomized trial to
start by the end of the year, Wells said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  