-- Former President Bush Says Immigration-Reform Bill Can Pass
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-07-07T16:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/former-president-bush-says-immigration-plan-in-congress-can-pass.html
The immigration-reform plan working
its way through Congress “has a chance to pass,” former
President George W. Bush said.  “It’s very important to fix a broken system, to treat
people with respect, and have confidence in our capacity to
assimilate people,” Bush said in an interview on ABC’s “This
Week” that aired today. “It’s a very difficult bill to pass
because there is a lot of moving parts, and the legislative
process can be ugly. But it looks like they’re making
progress.”  He added, “Good policy yields good politics, as far as I’m
concerned.”  The Senate last month passed immigration overhaul
legislation on a 68-32 vote. The plan would create a path to
citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.  House Republicans, who make up the majority in that
chamber, are expected to meet July 10 in  Washington  to discuss
the topic after a week-long July 4th holiday recess. Many of
them oppose the Senate’s citizenship provisions.  The Senate’s immigration bill would cut illegal immigration
by one-third to one-half over a decade, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office , Congress’s nonpartisan scorekeeper.
The measure, if enacted, would add 9.6 million residents to the
U.S. by 2023. The bill also calls for $46.3 billion in border-security measures, including doubling the number of Border
Patrol agents.  Not ‘Responsible’  The Senate border-control measure “is not a responsible
plan,” said Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican
who is chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security.
Without a proposal that can attract bipartisan support,
immigration-reform legislation will stall and instead become an
issue in the 2014 congressional elections, he said in an
interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  “My concern is that the political backdrop is that the
White House would like to see this fail” for its own political
gain, he said.  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has said he
won’t allow debate on the bill unless it has the support of a
majority of House Republicans. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, said Republicans must help pass
the bill if they ever hope to win the presidency. President
 Barack Obama  secured 71 percent of the U.S. Latino vote last
year in his re-election victory over Republican  Mitt Romney .  Republicans’ Challenge  The Republican party has to make sure it handles its
immigration strategy correctly to avoid losing voters,
Representative Paul Labrador, an Idaho Republican,  said on
NBC’s “Meet The Press” today.  “If we don’t do it right politically, it’s going to be the
death of the Republican Party,” he said. “If we do it right, I
think it’s going to be good for us.”  Along with its citizenship and border-security provisions,
the Senate bill would require all employers to check workers’
legal status with an e-verify system, and a visa entry and exit
system would be required at all airports and seaports. Those
items would have to be in place before any undocumented
immigrant could gain permanent legal status, known as a green
card.  “What the Senate did is what the American people are
wanting: Get it done,” said Representative Xavier Becerra on
“Face the Nation.” The California Democrat urged Congress to
pass a bill this year.  “Once you start in 2014, it’s all politics,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Gnoffo at 
 agnoffo@bloomberg.net  