-- Greece Has ‘Reasonable Chance’ of Accord Aid Payment, Rehn Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-07-07T12:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/greece-has-reasonable-chance-of-accord-aid-payment-rehn-says.html
Greece  stands a reasonable chance of
getting an agreement today with European and international
authorities that would allow it to receive support payments due
in coming weeks,  Olli Rehn  said.  “We have a reasonable chance of achieving agreement,” the
European Union’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner said
in an interview in Aix-en-Provence,  France . “That really
depends on Greece and whether it is able to ensure that all the
milestones will be met.”  Greece is now in its seventh day of talks with a team of
inspectors whose approval is needed before euro-area governments
and the  International Monetary Fund  can release an 8.1 billion-euro ($10.4 billion euros) aid payment scheduled to be made in
coming weeks. The loan, part of pledges of 240 billion euros in
support from the euro area and IMF, hinges on Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras meeting creditor demands for reforms, including
cuts to the government’s payroll.  Rehn said that he sees the possibility of the inspectors
and the Greek government reaching an accord today that can then
be considered by euro area finance ministers when they meet in
Brussels tomorrow.  Any talk of international creditors further easing Greece’s
debt burden is “premature,” the commissioner added.  “We have decided we will return to the issue of possible
extension of loan maturities or reduction of  interest rates 
later on, once we see Greece achieve a primary  budget surplus 
and once we see its program is on track,” he said.  ‘Portugal Own-Goal’  Rehn also said that  Portugal  “scored an own-goal” with
two ministerial resignations related to its economic revamp
program that triggered a decline in its government bond prices.  Since then Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho 
announced a plan that sees Paulo Portas, leader of the
conservative CDS party, becoming vice premier as part of an
agreement to hold the coalition government together and avoid
early elections.  Portas, whose resignation as foreign minister created the
crisis, will be responsible for coordinating economic policy and
the relationship with the European an international authorities
overseeing financial support for Portugal.  “A small crisis emerged but now the leaders” of the
country are working to return to “political stability that is
essential for economic stability,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  