-- I Won’t Hear Word Against Oblix, It’s So Loud: Review
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-07-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/i-won-t-hear-word-against-oblix-it-s-so-loud-review.html
Rainer Becker, the founder of Zuma
and Roka, might have gone for fireworks with his food when he
decided to open a restaurant on Level 32 of the Shard.  Instead, he’s gone for subtlety -- and it works.  The views of London are so spectacular, there’s no point
competing. Becker offers a menu that is simple and appealing --
with salads and grills -- yet not unambitious. The attention to
detail in the plates lifts them out of the everyday.  Oblix is striking. The look has been created by Giorgio Armani’s architect,  Claudio Silvestrin . If you’ve eaten in
Princi or L’Anima you may recognize the clean lines. Only here,
you enter through a darkened corridor with flickering lights.
You’re escorted by hostesses dressed in  Ted Baker .  On one side of the floor is the lounge, with the bar to the
left and a corner for musicians. It really is an attractive
space, with big tables and couches facing windows showing the
Thames river and the railway tracks hundreds of feet below.  The only downside here is the noise, amplified by piped
music when the band isn’t playing. This is a place for young
people used to hanging out in clubs, talking and laughing
loudly. The cocktails are excellent, but make things worse as
the drinkers become increasingly animated and talk Oblix.  The restaurant itself is quieter. You enter through the
kitchen and then catch sight of St. Paul’s and  the magnificent
view . The weakness of the menu is that it starts out strong and
individual and then settles into more generic territory for the
mains and desserts. I recommend making a meal out of starters.  Masterpiece Dish  The best dish is an unlikely one: iceberg, blue cheese and
pancetta, at 9 pounds ($13.42). It’s a miniature masterpiece,
balanced between the sweetness of cranberries and the light
acidity of the dressing. Becker must love it -- the ingredients
can’t cost much. I shall never fail to order it.  The other star is a close relative: the Cesar salad. This
version of the dish, which dates back to Becker’s time at the
Park Hyatt in  Tokyo , is the finest I have ever eaten. It’s
layered like a mille feuille and you can eat it with your hands.  Burrata, olives and datterini tomatoes comes with Sicilian
basil; seared beef with lime, chili, garlic and ginger dressing.
The sliced yellow tail is served with toasted coriander seeds
and citrus soy. I could eat all of this right now.  Of the two rotisserie options, the rosemary chicken with
skordalia (garlic dip) is fine but is unlikely to bring you
running back. The duck with mango chutney is let down by the
flaccid skin. I know this isn’t a Chinese restaurant but most of
us have become used to that crispy texture. My favorite main is
lamb chops with harissa & yogurt, which packs a punch.  Desserts, Wine  I can’t get excited about the desserts, though if you want
cheesecake or chocolate brownie sundae, this might be the place
for you. The wine list is more exciting.  Anywhere that serves Bollinger Special Cuvee at 56 pounds
as the house Champagne gets my vote. There are lots of other
interesting and inexpensive wines to try, including a good
showing for Rieslings and for U.S. wines. Some  London
restaurants  are very greedy on wines. At Oblix, there is a
spirit of generosity and of adventure that is admirable.  (Thanks to Alessandro Marchesan, the group sommelier and
wine buyer.)  Some diners find Oblix underwhelming and consider the
unchallenging menu dull. Give me a glass of Bollinger (12.50
pounds), a beautiful salad, maybe some ceviche, and steak
tartare with beef tomato and grilled sourdough on a summer’s day
and I’m happy.  If Oblix’s food is less exciting than the view, who cares?
It’s fresh, it’s reasonably priced and it tastes good.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 40 pounds plus wine.  Sound level? Just about an acceptable 75-80 decibels in 
the restaurant; the bar may appeal to fans of the Who.  Inside tip? Take ear plugs.  Special feature? The view.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Perfect.  Rating? ***  Oblix, 31 Saint Thomas Street, The Shard,  London , SE1 9RY.
Information +44-20-7268-6700,  http://oblixrestaurant.com/en/home   Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  John
Mariani  on wine,  Martin Gayford  on art and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S.
theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 