-- Immigration, Opportunity and the American Ideal
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-07T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/immigration-opportunity-and-the-american-ideal.html
What is the point of immigration
reform? It is not about securing the  political future  of one
political party or the other. Nor is the point to supply
business with an abundance of  cheap labor . And contrary to much
of  what we’ve heard  in recent weeks, the primary goal is not to
create a border so secure it would make Kim Jong Un proud.  Immigration reform is primarily about respect -- for the
dignity of human beings and for the rule of law. Reform should
legalize work, reduce incentives for illegal employment, and
raise the prospects for advancement of millions of people who
lack political power and economic opportunity solely because of
the legal status assigned to them.  The most important objective remains legalization and a
path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants. If the U.S. is a nation of laws -- and we like to
think it is -- then ushering undocumented residents into lawful
citizenship is crucial. If the U.S. is also a nation of
opportunity -- again, we think it is -- then ending employers’
ability to exploit undocumented workers is vital. And if the
U.S. is to be a democracy equal to its ambitions -- and who
doesn’t want that? -- then supplanting a disenfranchised
underclass with empowered citizens is essential.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office   estimated  that
the U.S. Senate’s immigration bill would boost economic growth
and cut the federal deficit by almost $1 trillion over the next
two decades. In part, this is because immigrants create jobs.
They create them both because they consume goods and services --
more so when they are legal -- and because they are far  more
likely  to start businesses and more likely to own businesses
than native workers are. The Senate legislation’s expansion of
visas for highly skilled workers, who are major contributors to
the U.S. technology and science sectors and have a multiplier
effect on national wealth, is especially important.  At the same time it builds citizenship and opportunity, the
U.S. must end incentives for immigrants to cross borders, risk
their lives and flout the law in pursuit of work. The Senate
bill  expands  the E-Verify electronic employment-verification
system nationwide. Fewer than half a million employers use the
system now. Over a five-year rollout, all of the nation’s more
than 7 million employers would be required to adopt the system
to check the legal status of prospective employees.  This process won’t be glitch-free; headaches inevitably
will result for employers and job-seekers alike. But the only
way to curtail the flow of undocumented immigrants is to shut
off their access to jobs. The place to do that is at the
workplace.  If an expansion of E-Verify eliminates the job market for
undocumented immigrants, the border fortifications envisioned by
the Senate bill will appear even more absurd. They never had
much practical value; the Senate’s rationale for the $46 billion
militarization of the Southwest was mostly political. And in
that sense, it worked: The bill passed the Senate with a hefty
majority.  As policy, however, the border boondoggle is largely beside
the point. It does nothing to rationalize immigration law --
just the opposite -- and it will not deter illegal immigration
if the prospect of employment continues to lure undocumented
job-seekers. The border-industrial complex, even if it works,
also risks becoming an international embarrassment. How will
helicopters, radar, ground sensors, fiber-optic scopes and
another 19,000 U.S. Border Patrol agents along hundreds of miles
of new fencing look to the rest of the world?  Other nations have built  similar   monuments  to their
insecurity, with structures variously intended to keep people in
or lock them out. The barriers inevitably tarnish their
builders. If the U.S. pursues this folly, it will fall to
someone with a clearer vision to say, as an American president
 once did  in Berlin, “Tear down this wall.”  Immigration reform is about laws, not walls. That’s what
the U.S. House of Representatives should keep in mind as it
takes up the issue this week. A focus on first principles would
be a welcome respite from an obsession with second-rate
politics.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 