-- Lions Look Forward to 2017 After Rugby Series Drought Ends
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-08T07:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/lions-look-forward-to-2017-after-rugby-drought-ends-in-australia.html
The British and Irish Lions return
home tomorrow after ending their 16-year wait for a rugby series
win by routing  Australia  in the deciding match. Some are already
looking ahead to the combined team’s next tour in 2017.  “If you look at how young that squad is, a lot of them can
be around in four years’ time,” Lions head coach Warren Gatland
told reporters in Sydney yesterday. “You get four more years of
experience on some young shoulders, that potentially makes the
Lions squad in four years’ time incredibly strong. That’s
something to be excited about.”  Gatland’s team secured a 2-1 series victory two days ago
with a record-breaking 41-16 win at ANZ Stadium, where the Lions
had left as losers 12 years previously. A 3-0 defeat in  New
Zealand  and 2-1 loss in South Africa followed, raising questions
about the viability of such tours in rugby’s professional era.  The Lions, who rotate trips between the three Southern
Hemisphere nations every four years, are next scheduled to face
the top-ranked All Blacks, whom they’ve beaten just six times in
38 previous Tests.  Lions tour captain Sam Warburton, who was ruled out of the
decider after tearing a hamstring in the second match, said the
victory in Australia provided encouragement that the Lions can
win a series in New Zealand for only the second time.  “Whoever’s going to be involved in four years’ time, for
some players it might have given them more optimism,” Warburton
said, adding that those already writing off the Lions’ chances
of beating the All Blacks for the first time since 1971 were
“talking rubbish.”  Scheduling Concerns  Gatland, a New Zealander who got the Lions job after
guiding  Wales  to three Six Nations titles and the 2011 Rugby
 World Cup  semifinals, said he would consider carrying on in the
role in 2017 if he got the opportunity. He’s contracted to Wales
through the 2015 World Cup.  If he is in charge for the next Lions tour, Gatland said
he’d like changes made to the rugby season to give them adequate
preparation time in the U.K. before departing. This year, the
squad left two days after a dozen players competed in the finals
of the Aviva Premiership and Rabobank PRO12 club competitions.  “It’s absolutely bonkers that you have a Rabo final and an
Aviva final 48 hours before you fly out,” Lions Tour Manager
Andy  Irvine  said. “Make no mistake, it’s really important that
we try and work together to get a better scheduling. It’s
absolutely essential.”  The combined team’s triumph came after Australia won 16-15
in  Melbourne  the previous week to tie the best-of-three contest.
In Sydney, the Lions outscored the Wallabies by four tries to
one in racking up their biggest score in 108 elite Tests.  Halfpenny’s Records  Leigh Halfpenny kicked the other 21 points, a record for a
Lions player in a Test, lifting his series tally to an all-time
team best 49 points. The Welsh full-back, who also set up tries
for  Jonathan Sexton  and  George North , took the man-of-the-match
and player of the series awards.  At his post-match news conference, Gatland said he felt
unable to savor the victory after suffering “vitriolic”
criticism for his decision to drop  Brian O’Driscoll , the squad’s
most-experienced player, and pick 10 Welshmen in the starting
lineup. By yesterday lunchtime, his mood had mellowed.  “I’m a little bit happier now I suppose,” Gatland, 49,
said with a smile. “There can be a fallout and it can be quite
aggressive in certain areas. Hopefully you learn from your
experiences and you make sure that you’re better prepared for
everything going forward.”  Deans’s Future  Australia also is looking ahead, with the Sydney Morning
Herald reporting that the Australian Rugby Union released
Wallabies coach Robbie Deans six months before his two-year
contract expires.  Ewen McKenzie of the  Queensland Reds  will coach the team
through the 2015 World Cup and his hiring will be announced
tomorrow, the Herald reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Deans, who has coached the Wallabies since 2008 with a 58
percent winning ratio, said after the loss to the Lions that a
decision on his future would be “made by others.”  The Wallabies next face the world champion All Blacks in
Sydney on Aug. 17 in the opening match of the southern
hemisphere’s Rugby Championship, which also includes  South
Africa  and  Argentina .  Gatland said he sympathized with his fellow New Zealander,
the first non-native to coach the Wallabies.  “I know it’s been really tough for him being here in terms
of the fact that a lot of people have been split about whether
he should carry on the job,” Gatland said. “There’s been a lot
of criticism. It’s tough to have a Kiwi involved in coaching an
Australian side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  