-- Ireland’s Dan Martin Wins Tour de France Stage; Froome Leads
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-07-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/ireland-s-dan-martin-wins-tour-de-france-stage-froome-leads.html
Ireland’s Dan Martin won the ninth
stage of cycling’s Tour de  France  yesterday as Britain’s Chris Froome kept the race leader’s yellow jersey.  The stage covered about 105 miles (170 kilometers) from
Saint-Girons to Bagneres-de-Bigorre in the Pyrenees, over a
course featuring four category-one climbs. Today is the first
rest day in this year’s event.  “Every win is important and special in its own way,” of
Garmin-Sharp rider Martin said on the tour website. “It was
such an incredible day today because this team Garmin-Sharp
shows such a team spirit. Some of the guys nearly missed the
time limit because they gave so much for my victory. We decided
this morning on the bus that I was going to try and win the
stage and we’ve succeeded so it’s incredible.”  Froome, the pre-race favorite, took over the yellow jersey
two days ago when he won the eighth stage, from Castres to Ax-3-Domaines, by 51 seconds and finished 1:45 ahead of two-time Tour
winner  Alberto Contador .  Yesterday, Froome kept top spot as  Spain ’s Alejandro
Valverde of the Movistar team jumped into second place, 1:25
behind. Belkin’s Bauke Mollema of Holland is third, 1:44 back.  Saxo-Tinkoff’s Contador is in sixth place, 1:51 behind.  Movistar and Saxo-Tinkoff attacked during yesterday’s stage,
the race’s first in the mountains. Froome’s teammate Richie
Porte, who started the day in second place, was dropped early
and finished 17:59 behind Martin. That left Froome isolated, but
the British rider was able to keep pace.  “That was really one of the hardest days that I’ve ever
had on a bike but I’m just happy to still be in the yellow
jersey,” Froome said. “I was a little bit exposed there in the
front group but I felt like I was riding quite within myself and
I was happy that I was able to follow the biggest challenges.”  Tomorrow’s ride starts in Saint-Gildas-des-Bois and
finishes 197 kilometers later in Saint-Malo. The 21-stage race
ends July 21 on the  Champs Elysees  in Paris.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  