-- Israeli Cabinet Approves Bill to Draft Ultra-Orthodox Jews
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-07T13:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/israeli-cabinet-approves-bill-to-draft-ultra-orthodox-jews.html
The Israeli Cabinet approved a bill
that would make make military or community service mandatory for
most ultra-Orthodox Jews, reversing an exemption policy in force
since the beginning of the state.  The bill allows for a four-year transition period and will
maintain draft exemptions for 1,800 outstanding seminary
students annually. It was approved by a vote of 14 in favor,
none against, and four abstentions, according to government
spokesman Mark Regev.  “Today, after 65 years, we are submitting for Cabinet
approval the outline on increasing equality in sharing the
burden,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said before the
vote, according to an e-mailed statement from his office. “Our
objective is twofold: integrating young ultra-Orthodox into
military and national service, and no less important,
integrating them into the labor market.”  The exemptions initially applied to several hundred top
rabbinical students who were allowed to study, rather than
serve, in a symbolic rebuilding of great Jewish houses of
learning destroyed in the Holocaust. Today about 60,000 ultra-Orthodox men pursue religious studies instead of military
service. Other Jewish men are drafted for a compulsory three
years and women serve two years.  Exemptions Resented  The privileges have irked  Israel ’s secular and modern
Orthodox majority, especially because they have established a
pattern whereby many ultra-Orthodox men continue their studies
after draft age and do not work, plunging many of their families
into poverty. The new government, which took office in March,
does not include ultra-Othodox parties for the first time in a
decade and has pledged to change the military draft law to
restore greater parity.  The bill will now be sent to parliament for approval, a
process that will take at least several weeks. While the
government has sufficient votes for its passage, it is strongly
opposed by two religious parties outside the ruling coalition.  Some members of the government have said the bill should
have also included mandatory community service for Israeli
Arabs, who are exempted from military duty for security reasons.
Israel Arab parties oppose any change in the current law, saying
it is politically inappropriate.  “I attach great importance to Israeli Arabs sharing the
national burden, and this proposal makes reference to the
subject,” Netanyahu said today, “but in my view it is still
not complete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  