-- Japan Mergers Fall to Nine-Year Low as Yen Volatility Surges
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-07-08T06:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/japan-mergers-fall-to-nine-year-low-as-yen-volatility-surges.html
Japanese companies made the fewest
acquisitions in a decade during the first half as the yen’s
volatility climbed to a four-year high, cooling buying interest.  The number of deals announced in the first half of 2013 was
997, with a total value of $45.7 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest number of deals and
value since the first six months of 2004. Total deal value is 47
percent lower from the first half of 2012.  Since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe swept into power in
December on promises to resurrect the economy by expanding
stimulus measures and weakening the yen, the Japanese currency
has whipsawed between 82.36 yen and 103.21 yen to the dollar.
The yen’s 100-day volatility rose to 14.81 points in July, the
highest since August 2009, and more than double the 6.97 figure
at the start of the year.  “Companies had set their budgets for the year as of April-May under certain assumptions, but they’re not sure they will
hold,” said Nobuhisa Ishizuka, a Tokyo-based partner
specializing in mergers at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP. “This makes it difficult for a lot of them to pull the
trigger.”  Currency options show volatility in the yen is set to
continue, which could force companies to cut the size of deals
or delay them.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Group of Seven Volatility
Index, based on currency-option premiums, climbed to 11.96
percent on June 24, the highest since January 2012.  Smaller Size  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,  Japan ’s sixth-most acquisitive company in
the last five years, last month cut the size of its purchase to
buy U.S. grain trader Gavilon Group LLC by $1 billion from the
$3.6 billion announced in May 2012 by excluding the energy unit
from the final agreement. The trader said July 6 that it paid
$2.7 billion for Gavilon in the end because of a “purchase
price adjustment,” without providing details.  Masami Iijima, chief executive officer of  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,
Japan’s most acquisitive company in the last five years, said in
May the trading house doesn’t plan any major acquisitions that
are “significant in size.” The Tokyo-based trader will focus
on expanding existing assets as slowing Chinese economic growth
cooled demand for commodities, Iijima said.  The yen, which traded at 101.00 to the dollar at 3:11 p.m.
in Tokyo, has a 49 percent chance of strengthening to 95 and a
48 percent chance of weakening to 105 within the next three
months, according to Bloomberg data based on options pricing.  The yen was the worst performer among the 10 most-traded
currencies in Bloomberg Correlated-Weighted Indexes this year,
tumbling 9 percent.  Stoked by the yen’s stability and strength in recent years,
companies across Japan’s industries had stepped up acquisitions
overseas.  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  last October announced its takeover of
Sprint Nextel Corp. of the U.S., now valued at $21.6 billion,
the biggest overseas deal by a Japanese company since 2000.  Second-Half Bounce  The total number of domestic and overseas acquisitions
announced by Japanese companies in the first six months of last
year was 1,167, the data show. The total deal value was $85.5
billion, according to the data.  Overseas mergers and acquisitions by Japanese firms fell to
$10.6 billion this year from a record $112 billion for all of
2012, the data showed.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the nation’s biggest trading house,
announced the most deals in the first six months with 12, data
show. The biggest transaction proposed was the $3.25 billion
merger of the thermal power units of  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)   Deal Pipeline  Japanese acquisitions abroad will recover in the second
half as companies make adjustments to cope with the weaker yen,
said Yuichi Jimbo, head of  investment banking  at Citigroup
Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo. The bank has some deals that
may be announced before year-end, he said in June.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  said July 3 that it
plans to buy  Thailand ’s  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl  for as much as 560
billion yen ($5.6 billion) in the largest banking takeover in
the Southeast Asian nation. The tender offer for as much as 75
percent of the Bangkok-based lender’s stock is Japan’s biggest
deal of the year so far.  Consumer companies may need to pursue overseas deals to
offset the country’s long-term population decline and anemic
domestic demand. Newly listed soft drinks company  Suntory
Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  said last week it plans to use some of the
proceeds from its $4 billion initial public offering for
acquisitions in growth markets outside Japan.  Some companies have been slow to react to the yen’s
volatility, and may not trust the currency to stay at current
levels, the weakest in about five years, said Dale Caldwell, a
Tokyo-based partner at  Morrison & Foerster LLP , which advised
SoftBank on Sprint.  “It may be that they see the weakening as a temporary
adjustment and it’s just going to go the other way again,”
Caldwell said. “Until they see things slow down, it may not be
wise to make a move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  