-- JPMorgan Deepens Iraq Business After Citi, Standard Chartered
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-07-07T12:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/jpmorgan-deepens-iraq-business-after-citi-standard-chartered.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is the latest
international bank after  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  to expand business in  Iraq  as OPEC’s second-largest producer
boosts crude oil output and rebuilds its economy.  JPMorgan signed a one-year agreement yesterday to help the
Trade Bank of Iraq finance imports of goods and services, John Gibbons, managing director and EMEA regional executive for the
New York-based bank, said in an interview in Baghdad.  “Our focus is to open more letters of credit through the
Trade Bank of Iraq on behalf of the government and its
ministries,” he said.  Iraq, with the world’s fifth-largest proven oil reserves,
is modernizing its infrastructure and energy industry after
decades of sanctions, war and neglect. It produced 3.2 million
barrels a day of crude in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and targets output of 3.5 million barrels by the end
of the year. The government is boosting spending by 18 percent
in 2013 to $118 billion, and the International Monetary Fund
forecasts an annual economic growth rate of 9 percent, the
fastest after Libya among 18 countries in the region.  Iraqi officials are in talks with international banks about
the opening of offices and branches in the country, Abdul-Basit Turki, acting governor of Iraq’s central bank, said today in an
interview in Baghdad. “It is a rich market and the investment
opportunities are huge,” Turki said.  Banking Growth  Foreign banks were barred from the country until after the
2003 U.S.-led invasion ousted the government of Saddam Hussein.
Today, 15 international banks operate in Iraq, competing with
seven state banks, 23 private lenders and nine banks operating
under Islamic rules, according to the central bank’s website.  Citigroup plans to open representative offices and branches
in Baghdad and the cities of Basra and Erbil to benefit from an
estimated $1 trillion of infrastructure spending, Mayank Malik,
the U.S. bank’s chief executive officer for Jordan, Iraq,  Syria 
and the Palestinian territories, said in a June 27 interview.
The lender is among international banks seeking to finance a
pipeline to export Iraqi oil and natural gas through Jordan,
Nateq Balasem Khalaf, deputy director general of Iraq’s State
Company for Oil Projects, said July 4.  Standard Chartered has said it will open branches this year
in Baghdad and Erbil, followed by a third office next year in
Basra, a southern oil hub.  Import Payments  The agreement with JPMorgan will help the Trade Bank of
Iraq “open more letters of credit that we’re in need of,”
TBI chairman and president Hamdiyah Al Jaff said in an interview
in Baghdad yesterday. JPMorgan helped set up TBI, the country’s
largest bank for trade finance, to facilitate imports needed for
Iraq’s postwar reconstruction.  Banks in the country are set for growth in earnings and
assets as a surge in lending in Iraq outpaces much of the Middle
East, according to Singapore-based Sansar Capital Management
LLC, which runs a fund with $30 million invested in Iraqi
equities.  Iraq’s rising oil exports and a drop in the prime lending
rate to 6 percent from 17 percent in 2008 are feeding the
expansion. The five largest privately owned banks boosted their
combined net income by 207 percent from 2010 to 2012 and more
than doubled earnings per share.  Iraq’s stock exchange drew investors in February when
mobile operator Asiacell Communications PJSC listed after a $1.3
billion share sale, in the Middle East’s biggest initial public
offering since 2008. The country’s two other mobile operators,
Zain Iraq and Korek Telecom, plan to sell shares in IPOs to
comply with their license requirements.  Iraq is the biggest oil producer, after Saudi Arabia, in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  