-- Kate Moss Inspires Gary Hume, Caulfield Heads to the Bar
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-07-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/kate-moss-inspires-gary-hume-caulfield-heads-to-the-bar.html
Gary Hume once told me that he was a
caveman -- stuck in his cavern, attempting to paint the world
outside. It was a neat way of saying that the problems of
painting haven’t really changed much in 40,000 years.  Just as in the days of Lascaux, it’s still a matter of
making a flat image, with pigments, of a wide and complicated
world. The trick is to find a way that feels fresh.  Hume does that , and so too did the late Patrick Caulfield
(1936-2005), an artist from an earlier generation whose work, it
turns out, has a good deal in common with Hume’s.  They’re currently being shown side by side in twin
exhibitions at  Tate Britain  (through Sept 1). It’s an exercise
in compare-and-contrast from which both emerge looking good.  Hume is weathering the difficult mid-career years well;
Caulfield looks more and more like a truly  great painter .  The new wrinkle in Hume’s work could be summarized in two
words: gloss paint. What he does with this household item is
visually brilliant. His starting point was a series of paintings
of hospital swing doors. The point about those is that they’re
simultaneously abstract, geometrical and 100 percent realistic.  In other words, here is an answer to an age-old conundrum -
- one that, in fact, goes back to the Stone Age: How do you pack
a 3D subject into two dimensions? The works at the entrance to
the show carry the joke one step further: They’re paintings of
doors that you can walk through.  Kate Moss  After the doors, Hume continued to work the changes,
finding other subjects that could be reduced to flat, reflective
shapes -- among them plants, birds, and  Kate Moss .  Some work better than others. Yet  Hume  has consistently
found ways to convey a lot with a little. “Yellow Window”
(2002) consists of nine inky rectangles on a corn-colored
background. The black paint makes a mirror surface; at the same
time, it is darkness, depth, mystery.  Caulfield, during his lifetime, sometimes suffered from
what might be called a filing problem: People didn’t know where
to put him. As a young man, he belonged to a generation labeled
the British Pop Artists.  Yet Caulfield belonged to no movement. Like most major
artists, when it came down to it, he was sui generis.  Caulfield’s art is virtually unpopulated. There are hardly
any figures in this exhibition. One exception is an early
“Portrait of Juan Gris” (1963). His world resembles that of
the early cubists, such as Gris. It consists of still-life
subjects and interiors, especially restaurants and bars --places
the artist loved, and where he spent a great deal of time.  Comical Fashion  He found his source material in out-of-date magazines and
cooking spreads. The resulting pictures conjure up a nostalgic
yet comical world of the once fashionable.  Yet Caulfield’s painting, like cubism, is a complex and
witty game of appearance and reality. Much of the picture is
composed of flat areas of color and black lines. Against these,
he often sets just one or two items in brilliantly naturalistic
photo-realism.  “Happy Hour” (1996), for example, is a bar interior with
bottles, a table and a lampshade, all created with colored
silhouettes -- plus a single, utterly naturalistic wine glass,
reflecting the whole scene on its shiny surface.  Caulfield’s work is often funny and full of feeling. That
bar is a place of warmth and shelter, yet it’s shadowed with
mortality; to one side, prominently, hangs an “exit” sign.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  John
Mariani  on wine,  Richard Vines  on food and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S.
theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/MartinGayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 