-- North Korea Thaws Ties With South as Gaeseong Talks Progress
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-08T00:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/north-korea-thaws-ties-with-south-as-factory-park-talks-progress.html
The two Koreas agreed to hold a
second round of talks on July 10 on resuming operations at a
factory park, the biggest progress yet toward mending relations
that soured following the North’s February nuclear weapon test.  Negotiators ended more than 16 hours of meetings at the
Panmunjom border village yesterday with an agreement to hold
follow-up talks this week on normalizing operations at the
jointly run Gaeseong industrial zone, North Korea’s official
Korean Central News Agency reported.  North Korea shuttered Gaeseong in April to protest U.S.-
South Korean military drills and United Nations sanctions
targeting leader Kim Jong Un’s nuclear program. Kim, who had
threatened strikes against the U.S. and South Korea, started
softening his stance last month as the regime proposed dialogue
with the two nations.  The Koreas will “restart Gaeseong when ready” and will
discuss ways to normalize operations and prevent future closures
at the follow-up meeting, according to the joint agreement
carried by KCNA. South Korean businessmen will be allowed to
retrieve completed goods and raw materials from the site and
inspect facilities starting July 10, KCNA said.  While South Korea sees the agreement as the result of its
efforts to resolve disputes through talks, it doesn’t mean it is
“simply willing to go back to the way things have been,” its
Unification Ministry said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“Conditions have to be created for the complex to be run not
only on a company-level but also on the government-level,
through an expansive process of normalization.”  Worker Withdrawal  Shares of companies operating in Gaeseong gained in Seoul.
 Shinwon Corp. (009270) , an apparel maker, rose 2.3 percent and watchmaker
 Romanson Co. (026040)  gained 4.6 percent.  Good People Co. (033340) , an underwear
maker, strengthened 3.1 percent. Leather goods producer  Emerson
Pacific Inc. (025980)  rose 2.9 percent to the highest since July 4, 2008.
The benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of stocks rose 0.3 percent as of 9:30
a.m. and the won fell 0.6 percent against the dollar.  Three officials from each side started talks at 11:45 a.m.
July 6 and finished about 4:00 a.m. yesterday in Panmunjom, the
site for the signing of the armistice that ended the 1950-1953
Korean War without a peace agreement, according to the ministry.  The North on April 3 started blocking South Korean
businessmen from entering Gaeseong. Five days later it decided
to withdraw its workers from the industrial zone.  Last month, the North requested talks with the South on
opening Gaeseong, then scrapped the offer over a protocol
dispute, and less than a week later suggested high-level talks
with the U.S. on a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War.  Any talks between Kim’s regime and the U.S. would be the
first since the North fired a long-range rocket in April 2012,
breaking its pledge of a moratorium on weapons testing in
exchange for 240,000 metric tons of food aid.  Diplomatic Isolation  North Korea faces increasing diplomatic isolation as  China ,
its biggest trading partner, tightens enforcement of UN
sanctions targeting financial transactions and joins the U.S.,
South Korea and  Japan  on no-tolerance for its nuclear ambitions.  Closing Gaeseong, about 10 kilometers (six miles) north of
the demilitarized zone, deprived Kim’s regime of a key source of
hard currency. Recalling nearly 54,000 of its workers employed
by 123 South Korean companies has disrupted the $100 million
that Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean
Studies in Seoul, estimates the North earns in annual profits.  Panmunjom, about 60 kilometers northwest of South Korea’s
capital Seoul, is used for diplomatic engagements and
negotiations. It straddles the military demarcation line that
runs through the four kilometer-wide demilitarized zone -- the
world’s most fortified border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  