-- Novartis Cancer Drug Fails to Win U.K. Cost Agency’s Nod
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-07-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/novartis-cancer-drug-fails-to-win-u-k-cost-agency-s-nod.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Afinitor drug failed to
win the backing of the U.K.’s health-cost regulator, which said
clinical trial data failed to show that the medicine is worth
the cost for use in treating  breast cancer .  Women already receiving the drug, also known as everolimus,
should continue to do so, the National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence said in draft guidance today. If no appeals are
received from the company, health professionals or the public,
the agency expects to publish final guidance next month. NICE
advises the U.K.’s  National Health Service  on the cost-effectiveness of treatments.  While Afinitor taken with an estrogen-blocking drug slowed
cancer by four to five months in a certain group of post-menopausal women, NICE said it couldn’t establish how long the
treatment would work by itself. Novartis had agreed to supply
the first month of treatment for free, NICE said.  “We are disappointed that the evidence for everolimus
isn’t stronger,”  Andrew Dillon , NICE’s chief executive said in
the statement. The drug could represent a new way of treating a
type of breast cancer by restoring a tumor’s sensitivity to
hormone therapy, he said.  Afinitor, which is approved in more than 100 countries, had
$797 million in sales globally last year. The drug is used to
treat breast, renal cell and pancreatic cancer.  “Novartis is extremely disappointed with today’s
announcement given the magnitude of clinical benefit that
everolimus can offer patients with advanced breast cancer who
have limited treatment options available,” the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed statement. The
method used by NICE to quantify the level of clinical
effectiveness, and therefore cost effectiveness, wasn’t
reasonable, the company said.  A pack of 30 10-milligram tablets costs 2,970 pounds
($4,420), NICE said. Patients take one tablet a day for as long
as it stops the tumor growth or until the patient can’t tolerate
the side effects, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  