-- Nunez Comes Off DL to Lead Yankees to 5-4 Victory Over Orioles
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-07T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/nunez-comes-off-dl-to-lead-yankees-to-5-4-victory-over-orioles.html
Eduardo Nunez batted in the game-winning run on his return from an injury to give the  New York
Yankees  their season-high sixth straight Major League Baseball
victory 5-4 over the  Baltimore Orioles .  The Yankees have won the first two of the three-game series
against the Orioles to move a half-game ahead of Baltimore into
second place in the  American League East .  Chris Davis hit his league-leading 33rd home run in the
first inning at Yankee Stadium yesterday as the Orioles got out
to a 2-0 advantage. Alexi Casilla’s run-scoring double in the
second put Baltimore ahead 3-0.  “Anytime you’re leading early in the game, you expect to
continue to lead, or at least put up some more runs,” Davis
told reporters. “One- and two-run leads in this game don’t last
very long, especially in this ballpark and with their offense.”  Luis Cruz got a bases-loaded single while Nunez hit a
sacrifice fly with the bases loaded as the Yankees moved within
3-2 in the bottom of the second inning.  Taylor Teagarden’s run-scoring single in the fourth
restored a two-run lead for the Orioles.  Nunez, who came off the 60-day disabled list, scored on
Ichiro Suzuki’s infield single in the fifth followed by  Robinson Cano ’s run-scoring single that tied the game at 4-4. Nunez
singled in the sixth to send Lyle Overbay home.  Andy Pettitte  (6-6) allowed four runs on nine hits and
struck out four in 6 2/3 innings for the win.  Mariano Rivera  got
his 29th save, giving up one hit and striking out one in the
ninth inning.  Pettitte, who broke his three-game losing streak, remains
undefeated in his last 11 starts against Baltimore since Sept.
19, 2007, going 8-0 with a 2.99 earned-run average.  Yankee pitchers held their opponent without a walk for the
12th time this season, surpassing Washington and Philadelphia
who each have 11 no-walk games.  Chris Tillman (10-3) surrendered five runs on 10 hits,
walked two and struck out three in 5 1/3 innings for the loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  