-- Obama’s Opportunity to Improve U.S. Investment in Africa
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/obama-s-opportunity-to-improve-u-s-investment-in-africa.html
Which continent is home to six of the
world’s 10 fastest-growing economies and is  projected  to grow by
5 percent in 2013, more than twice the U.S. rate? And which one
gets only 1 percent of U.S. foreign direct investment?  The answer, of course, is Africa, from which President
 Barack Obama  returned last week after a six-day trip. His visit
focused much-needed attention on the uneven state of African
development -- and the U.S.’s lack of a strategy to engage the
continent economically.  The U.S. should be doing more, not just to reap the
benefits of increased exports, more jobs and higher growth at
home, but to improve the quality of African lives as well.  If that’s not reason enough, there is the geopolitical
rationale: As of last year, China had poured more than $40
billion into Africa and has pledged $20 billion in  foreign aid 
over the next three years. In 2009, China overtook the U.S. as
Africa’s largest trading partner. Trade between  China  and Africa
totaled  $166 billion  in 2011, compared with the U.S.’s $95
billion trade with Africa. China has more than 150 commercial
attaches in sub-Saharan Africa. The U.S. has six.  Engaging Africa  The single best strategy for engaging Africa over the long
haul is renewal and expansion of the African Growth and
Opportunity Act, signed by President Bill Clinton in 2000. It
allows 40 countries in sub-Saharan Africa to ship products to
the U.S. tariff-free.  The Africa trade agreement is, by all  accounts , a success.
Since 2001, African exports to the U.S. have grown by more than
500 percent, to $54 billion in 2011. The African Coalition for
Trade estimates that the pact has created as many as 1.3 million
jobs.  The treaty expires at the end of next year, but Obama
should ask Congress to renew it now -- and to broaden the law’s
impact. Currently 88 percent of what the U.S. imports under the
agreement is petroleum products. To break Africa’s dependency on
its extractive industries, the Brookings Institution’s proposed
 Africa Growth Initiative  would give U.S. companies a bonus on
certain investments -- a tax rate of zero on repatriated profits
not derived from natural-resource removal. The idea, which could
increase nonpetroleum investment by 20 percent with minimal tax-revenue losses, is worth considering.  Obama could do much more to improve trade relations.  Trade
Africa,  one of four initiatives he announced while in Africa,
focuses on an existing regional trade group, known as the East
African Community, comprising  Burundi ,  Kenya ,  Rwanda ,  Tanzania 
and Uganda. In five years, trade among them has doubled; over
the last decade, their combined output has quadrupled, to $80
billion.  The opportunity to build on this model may arise when U.S.
and African officials meet next month in Addis Ababa to assess
the trade picture. They should push to drop the complex tariffs,
needless checkpoints and other customs barriers that impede
cross-border trade. A coffee exporter in the East African
Community,  for example , requires 29 days to fill out paperwork,
transport the product to a port, clear customs and load it
aboard a vessel -- twice as long as it takes in  Brazil .  Common Market  The African continent includes 54 countries, only some of
which are large enough to warrant a multinational corporation’s
attention. Why not push for customs agencies that use common
technology and ultimately a single customs authority for the
entire region? Or why not think even bigger and open talks over
a continent-wide free-trade agreement, like Europe’s early
common market?  One problem is that U.S. exporters depend on an array of
government agencies for financing. There should be a single
investment-finance agency under a unified trade policy.
The White House should also ask Congress to give the agency
multiyear authorizations, so it can better predict its own
funding, and the power to make equity investments, something now
denied to the Overseas Private Investment Corp.  None of this means much unless African nations get a handle
on corruption, which stifles competition and impedes fair
bidding. U.S. executives point to high levels of corruption as
the single biggest reason they steer clear of  Africa . Obama
could play a role by insisting that African countries, in
exchange for U.S. assistance, adopt the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative, which requires governments to make
regular audited disclosures of their oil, gas and mining
revenue. Such disclosures make it harder, though not impossible,
for corrupt officials to pocket illegal payments.  It is in the U.S.’s interest to increase trade with Africa,
not only to boost American exports, but also to promote U.S.
values of transparency and the rule of law. (It is an added
bonus that increased trade would also improve the U.S. position
on the continent to compete with China, the world’s other
superpower.) It is also in Africa’s interest to increase trade
with the U.S., not only to expand its  burgeoning middle class ,
but also to help lift out of poverty the millions of sub-Saharan
Africans  living on  $1.25 a day or less.  If Obama demonstrates a long-term commitment, and demands
fair play and transparency in return, he could vastly increase
the flow of private money to Africa. The lives of millions of
people would improve in the bargain.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  