-- Israel’s Mobileye Adds Investors in Potential IPO Prelude
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-07-07T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/mobileye-of-israel-adds-institutional-investors-considers-ipo.html
Mobileye NV, a company whose Israeli-developed technology helps stop car accidents, added five
investors, including U.S. global asset managers and a Chinese
firm, in a $400 million sale of equity that is a step toward an
initial public offering.  The transaction valued Amsterdam-based Mobileye at about
$1.5 billion and is likely to close in August, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today. It didn’t identify the new
investors.  “This successful transaction is a testament to the
strength of our business and the company’s future prospects,”
Chief Executive Officer Ziv Aviram said in the statement.  Founded in 1999, Mobileye makes a chip and a system that
alert drivers to pedestrians, unintended lane departure and
speed limit violations among others. It can also execute active
breaking to prevent an accident.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG are among the company’s customers.  The equity sale allowed early investors to exit and brought
in more prominent stakeholders who can help the company move
toward an IPO, said a shareholder, who asked not to be
identified because the new investors haven’t been announced
publicly.  The Chinese government-affiliated financial investor can
help Mobileye expand its sales in China, the shareholder said.
The shareholder named  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  as one of the new investors
in Mobileye. Brian Beades, a spokesman for the New York-based
company, the world’s largest money manager, declined comment.  $35 a Share Report  According to the Israeli financial daily Calcalist,
investors that bought into Mobileye at $15 a share sold at $35
in the transaction. While it wasn’t immediately clear which of
the company’s 280 shareholders sold out, existing investors
include Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Migdal Insurance & Financial
Holding Ltd. (MGDL)  and Africa-Israel Investments Ltd.’s Chairman Lev Leviev.  With the slogan “Our vision. Your safety,” Mobileye’s
technology is currently installed in cars made by 19
manufacturers, including Volvo, GM, BMW and Hyundai Motor Co.,
according to the company’s website.  Mobileye was co-founded by a professor of computer science
at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and employs about 200
people. Its research and development center is in Jerusalem and
it has offices in the Netherlands, U.S., Japan and Cyprus. It’s
focusing now on technology that will compete with Google Inc.’s
self-driving car.  Mobileye would join other Israeli companies such as website
developer Wixpress Ltd., commercially known as Wix.com, and
 Kamada Ltd. (KMDA) , which makes medical treatments, looking to list in
the U.S.  The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. Equity Index of 24 stocks
increased 16 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 21
percent gain for the  Nasdaq Composite Index. (CCMP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  