-- Oil Train Explosion in Quebec Town Kills Five, 40 Missing
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-07-07T23:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/oil-train-explosion-in-quebec-town-kills-five-40-missing.html
Montreal , Maine & Atlantic Railway
Ltd., the company that owned the crude-carrying train that
exploded in a Quebec town killing five people, said the
derailment may have been caused by the release of the train’s
air brakes.  The train, carrying 72 carloads of crude oil, crashed and
burst into flames near the center of Lac-Megantic, in the
southeastern part of the province early yesterday, forcing the
evacuation of 2,000 people, police said. Forty people remain
unaccounted for and police said a criminal investigation is
under way.  While Montreal, Maine & Atlantic has not completed its own
investigation, the company said in a statement the train, which
was parked at a station outside the town, was shut down after
the engineer left. This “may have resulted in the release of
air brakes on the locomotive that was holding the train in
place,” the company, a short-line carrier owned by closely held
 Rail World Inc.  of  Chicago , said.  The crash is the latest in a series of accidents involving
oil on rails as Canadian producers turn to shipping crude by
train, with construction of pipelines such as the Keystone XL
conduit to the Gulf Coast delayed by environmental and
regulatory concerns.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  applied to build Keystone
five years ago and the project was initially rejected by the
Obama administration in January last year.  ‘War Zone’  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper described the
destruction in Lac-Megantic as “like a war zone” after touring
the site this afternoon. The town of about 6,000 lies about 250
kilometers (155 miles) east of Montreal, and 10 miles from the
U.S. border with  Maine .  “This is a very big disaster in human terms,” Harper said
at a press conference today. “This is an enormous area, 30
buildings completely destroyed and for all intents and purposes
incinerated. There isn’t a family here that hasn’t been affected
by this.”  Harper said it was too early to apply blame or to discuss
financial assistance from the federal government. There are
federal laws that govern how funding is distributed in disasters
such as this, and Harper said he’ll work with Industry Minister
Christian Paradis to determine next steps.  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic said it has a dozen
representatives in Lac-Megantic, and is cooperating with
government authorities.  ‘Crime Scene’  “A big fire like this with enormous damage and many dead,
 Quebec  police must investigate,” Lt. Michel Brunet, a spokesman
with the Surete du Quebec provincial police, said at a news
conference in Lac-Megantic this morning. “That’s why it’s
become a crime scene. Investigators will continue to work and
meet with families.”  “You’ve seen the fire, you can deduct the state the bodies
are in,” Brunet said. Genevieve Guilbault, a spokeswoman with
the coroner’s office, said the team has deployed a multiple-victim unit that has not been used in at least five years.  Thomas Mulcair, leader of Canada’s main opposition New
Democratic Party, criticized the Conservative government’s
handling of an increase in crude-by-rail shipments.  “We are seeing more and more petroleum products being
transported by rail, and there are attendant dangers involved in
that,” Mulcair said in Montreal yesterday, CTV television
reported. “We are watching a magnificent little village being
burned to the ground by toxic products that were being
transported through it.”  Local Concerns  The Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train had five locomotive
units when it derailed at about 1:15 a.m. local time, the
company  said  in a statement yesterday.  “We have always been aware of the issue of trains passing
through our city,” Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche said. “But we’re
not the only city where trains go through downtown. Do we say we
didn’t have concerns? That’s a lie. What we have demanded is the
railway company to observe the rules of maintenance. I can’t
tell you the exact condition of it.”  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic was carrying crude to Irving Oil
Corp.’s 298,800-barrel-a-day Saint John refinery in New
Brunswick, according to a  statement  on Irving’s website. Joseph
McGonigle, vice president of sales and marketing at the train
company, did not immediately return an e-mail or phone call.  The refinery, Canada’s largest, is taking as much as 90,000
barrels a day from  Alberta  and North Dakota, a person familiar
with the situation said in December.  Recent Spills  A  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  train car carrying
petroleum diluent derailed on a buckling bridge over the Bow
River that runs through downtown Calgary during flooding last
month. A Canadian Pacific train derailed March 27 in  Minnesota 
and another near Jansen in Saskatchewan in May, both spilling
crude oil.  Ed Greenberg , a Canadian Pacific spokesman, declined to
comment on shipping oil by rail. Edward Burkhardt, president of
Rail World Inc., didn’t immediately return telephone messages
left at his office today.  “We still have a problem with two tankers but we have made
some gains and we hope our strategy is a good one,” said Denis
Lauzon, Lac-Megantic’s fire chief.  The teams have been using
foam as well as water to douse the flames, he said. “We still
have a risk of explosion.”  Tanker Fires  More than 100 firefighters have been battling the fires,
and have managed to extinguish the flames at three of five
tankers, Lauzon said. Firefighters are now able to approach to
as close as 100 feet of the extinguished tankers. They must stay
at least 500 feet from the two tankers that are still on fire,
Lauzon said.  Roy-Laroche said crews were able to repair a “major leak”
in a water main overnight to maintain access to drinking water
for residents. Even so, the town has ordered residents to boil
their drinking water at least 5 minutes as a precaution.  Glen Pilon, an investigator with the  Transportation Safety
Board  of  Canada , said the agency has spoken briefly with
Montreal, Maine & Atlantic.  “The priority right now is for first-responders to do
their jobs,” Pilon said at a conference yesterday. “As soon as
they are done we will collect data, we will look for the black
boxes and any other materials that will help us in our
investigation.”  Train Tied  The locomotive engineer was not on the train when it
derailed, Montreal Maine & Atlantic, said in a statement. Early
reports indicated the train was stopped and tied down by the
engineer for a crew change shortly before midnight Friday night
at a station about 6.8 miles west of Lac-Megantic. The engineer
went to a hotel and the train moved downhill to where it
derailed.  The explosions and fires were concentrated in an area of
about 1 square kilometer (0.39 square mile), and many buildings
have been affected, said Sergeant Gregory Gomez del Prado, a
spokesman with the Quebec police in Montreal. Most evacuees have
been sent to stay with relatives, he said. Some people were sent
to a nearby school, where the Red Cross has set up a shelter,
officials said.  Montreal Maine & Atlantic is working with police and fire
services to investigate the accident, Gomez del Prado said. The
company owns 510 route miles of track in Maine,  Vermont  and
Quebec and employs about 170 people, according to its website.
It operates 15 trains daily with a fleet of 26 locomotives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  