-- Asia Stocks Drop on Fed Stimulus, China Lending Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-08T10:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/hong-kong-australia-equity-futures-drop-on-fed-tapering-concern.html
Asian  stocks  dropped the most in two
weeks amid concern a credit squeeze in  China  will curb growth
and after a better-than-forecast U.S. jobs report fueled concern
that the  Federal Reserve  may begin reducing stimulus this year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, fell
2.1 percent in Sydney as metals prices retreated the most in two
months. Asiana Airlines Inc. tumbled 5.8 percent in Seoul after
one of its planes crashed at San Francisco International
Airport.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899)  dropped 7 percent in Hong Kong
after China’s biggest gold miner by market value said profit may
slump as much as 55 percent.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index slid 1.5 percent to 129.31 as
of 6 p.m. in Hong Kong, with about four shares falling for each
that rose. All 10 industry groups on the gauge retreated.
China’s money-market cash squeeze is likely to reduce credit
growth this year by 750 billion  yuan  ($122 billion), an amount
equivalent to the size of Vietnam’s economy, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “Growth is reasonably soft in China and will probably
undershoot official targets,” Sean Fenton, a Sydney-based  fund
manager  who helps oversee about $1 billion at Tribeca Investment
Partners, said by telephone. “They are struggling competitively
in the manufacturing sector and cracks may appear in the banking
system. In the U.S., it’s highly likely you’ll start to see
tapering before the end of the year.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and China International Capital
Corp. were among brokerages in the past two weeks that reduced
Chinese annual economic growth projections this year to 7.4
percent, below the government’s 7.5 percent goal.  Chinese Credit  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 1.3 percent with volume
12 percent below the 30-day average for the time of day. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.4 percent.  Chinese credit data for June that is due to be released
this week will give investors clues to how much the cash
squeeze, which sent interbank borrowing costs soaring to records
last month, is affecting the world’s second-biggest economy.
Whether a slowdown extends into the second half may hinge on how
effectively Premier Li Keqiang can redirect funding after his
clampdown on speculation.  “The biggest concern is whether this will lead to a
deleveraging cycle where lending and borrowing become more
difficult and then the economy slows dramatically into the later
part of the year,” Hans Goetti, Singapore-based chief
investment officer for Asia at Finaport Investment Intelligence,
which oversees about $1.5 billion, told Bloomberg TV. “The
tapering by the Fed has become much more of a reality after the
jobs report.”  Regional Gauges  Japan ’s Topix index slid 1.4 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX
200 Index sank 0.7 percent and  South Korea ’s  Kospi index 
retreated 0.9 percent. Singapore’s Strait’s Times Index lost 0.5
percent and Taiwan’s Taiex slid 1.4 percent. New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index rose 0.1 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.6
percent. Alcoa Inc. will unofficially start the second-quarter
U.S. earnings season as the aluminum producer reports results
after the market closes in  New York  today.  U.S. payrolls rose by 195,000 workers for a second straight
month, the Labor Department reported July 5 in  Washington . The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey projected a 165,000 gain
after a previously reported 175,000 increase in May. The jobless
rate stayed at 7.6 percent, while hourly earnings in the year
ended in June advanced by the most since July 2011.  Fed Tapering  “We brought forward our forecast for the start of Fed
tapering to September as a result of the payrolls report, having
previously thought early next year,” Paul Brunker, head of
equity strategy in Australia for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by
telephone from Sydney. “The market doesn’t look like a raging
buy. Profit growth is probably stalling and certainly slowing.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, fell 9 percent through last week from a five-year high on May 20 amid concern the Fed will begin tapering
stimulus as  China’s economy  slows and Japan puts off unveiling
economic reform policies until after upper house elections later
this month.  That left the Asia-Pacific gauge trading at 12.8 times
average estimated earnings on July 5 compared with 14.8 for the
 S&P 500  and 12.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Reforms  Japan’s  Topix index  surged 4.8 percent last week, capping
its biggest three-week advance since April 2009, and the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 4.6 percent amid a weakening yen and
optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through economic
reforms after winning upper-house elections on July 21. The yen
capped its biggest three-week drop against the dollar since 1999
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Raw-material shares tumbled after the London Metal Exchange
LMEX Metals Index declined 2.6 percent on July 5, the most in
two months.  BHP Billiton  sank 2.1 percent to A$30.95 and Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company, declined
2 percent to A$51.64. in Sydney.  Zijin Mining slumped 7 percent to HK$1.47 in Hong Kong
after the firm said a drop in gold and copper prices curbed
earnings in the first half.  Asiana Airlines (020560)  retreated 5.8 percent to 4,825 won in
Seoul. Two people died and more than 300 escaped, some sliding
down emergency exits, before a fire swept through Asiana’s
Boeing Co. 777 plane, which crashed while landing in San
Francisco July 6. It was the first fatal passenger crash by a
South Korean airliner since 1997.  Daiwa House Industry Co. slumped 9.4 percent to 1,780 yen
after Japan’s biggest homebuilder said it plans to raise as much
as 137.9 billion yen ($1.37 billion) in Asia’s biggest share
sale this year by a property company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  