-- Hong Kong Property Agents March Against Measures to Curb Prices
-- B y   L u l u   C h e n   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-07T05:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/hong-kong-property-agents-march-against-measures-to-curb-prices.html
Thousands of real estate agents and
industry workers marched in  Hong Kong  today, calling on the
government to lift measures it has put in place to curb  home
prices  in the world’s most expensive housing market.  “It’s affecting everybody, not just the agents, it’s
affecting the economy,” Denys Kwan, a protest organizer and
former president of the Society of Hong Kong Real Estate Agents
Ltd., said by phone. “Stop it, stop it right now.”  Property transactions in the city plunged to a two-decade
low in the second quarter in response to a doubling of stamp
duties on buyers and sellers, and tightened regulations on
marketing material of new apartments. About a third of Hong
Kong’s property agents may lose their jobs over the next year if
the government persists with its real estate curbs, according to
 Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200) , the city’s only listed realtor.  Home prices  have more than doubled since early 2009 on an
influx of mainland Chinese buyers, near record-low  interest
rates  and a lack of new supply, prompting the government to
introduce a raft of measures to quell concerns of an asset
bubble. The total number of property deals fell 42 percent to
14,291 in the second quarter from the previous three months, the
lowest level since 1991, according to Midland.  There were 37,016 individual real estate agents and sales-person license holders in the city at the end of May, up from
34,919 a year earlier, according to government  figures . Since
taking over last July, Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying has imposed extra taxes on non-resident homebuyers, doubled
the stamp duty on all property transactions, raised minimum
mortgage down-payment requirements, and sped up the approval
process of new home sales permits for developers.  As many as 5,500 people participated in today’s protest,
the Hong Kong Police Force said in an e-mailed statement. Kwan
said 23,000 people marched.  The government won’t ease the curbs until there’s a steady
supply of new properties, Leung said in an interview with
 Bloomberg News  in June. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said the
city may introduce more curbs if needed, the Hong Kong Economic
Journal reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  