-- Mongolia Says Rio’s Copper Mine Can Start China Shipments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-07-09T23:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/mongolia-says-rio-tinto-copper-mine-can-start-shipments-to-china.html
(Corrects third paragraph of story that moved on July 7 to
note that  Rio Tinto  runs the operation through its holding in
Turquoise Hill.)  Tensions between Mongolia’s
government and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  over the $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi
mine have eased sufficiently to start shipping copper
concentrate this week, the country’s mining minister wrote in a
post on Twitter today.  “There is no significant problem with the Oyu Tolgoi
mineral export contract,” Davaajav Gankhuyag said. “The first
shipments will start on July 9.”  Scheduled shipments to Chinese smelters were postponed
twice, first on June 14 at the request of Rio Tinto, then on
June 21 at the request of the government. Rio runs the operation
through its  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ)  unit, which holds a 66
percent stake. Mongolia owns 34 percent.  “It all depends on Rio,” said Oscar Mendoza, managing
partner at Mongolia Asset Management, an investment advisory
group based in Ulaanbaatar. “Maybe the government just wants to
say the ball is in Oyu Tolgoi’s court.”  Oyu Tolgoi has produced more than 40,000 tons of copper
concentrate, according to a June 28 press release issued by
Turquoise Hill. The stockpiled concentrate is to be delivered by
truck 80 kilometers (50 miles) south to the border post at
Gashuunsuukhait, and then on to  China .  Delays in shipments scheduled to start by the end of June
are costing Mongolia $2 million in lost  tax revenue  every day,
said Dale Choi, an Ulaanbaatar-based independent analyst.  ‘Losing Millions’  “Every day of delay they are losing millions in lost
investments because they are very cautious and they don’t want
to be perceived as repeating past mistakes,” Choi said by phone
today in Ulaanbaatar.  Gankhuyag told reporters at a press conference on June 28
that the two sides were trying to resolve a request by the
government that Mongolian banks handle sales revenue from the
mine. Mongolia was also insisting that its representatives on
Oyu Tolgoi’s board of directors see Rio Tinto’s  sales contracts 
with Chinese buyers.  “Sales revenue will go through Mongolian and OT LLC
registered accounts,” Gankhuyag said in another Twitter post
today, appearing to suggest that the debate over bank accounts
had been resolved.  A start to copper concentrate shipments would be welcome
news as Oyu Tolgoi, the largest mining project ever in the
country, is expected to account for a third of Mongolia’s
economy by 2020.  “I think it’s going to happen,” Choi said. “I would be
very happy if exports and commercial production would start
because every day Mongolia is losing its credibility with
investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  