-- Orioles Davis Tops All-Stars, Cardinals Molina Is NL Favorite
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-07T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/orioles-davis-leads-all-star-voting-molina-tops-nl-correct-.html
Baltimore Orioles first baseman Chris Davis, the top vote-getter in  Major League Baseball ’s All-Star
balloting, and teammates J.J. Hardy and  Adam Jones  are one-third
of the  American League ’s starting team.  The Orioles trio will join  New York  Yankees second baseman
 Robinson Cano  and pitcher  Mariano Rivera  when the AL team visits
Citi Field in New York as the National League hosts the 84th
All-Star Game on July 16.  “It’s wonderful to be named an All-Star again, especially
with the game being here in New York,” said Rivera, a 14-time
All-Star selection. “New York fans are the best and they
deserve it. I know that they will put on a great show and
hopefully we’ll do a good job.”  New York Mets pitcher Matt Harvey (7-2) and third baseman
 David Wright  are members of the NL team playing in their home
ballpark. Harvey, who could become the third Mets pitcher to
start an All-Star Game, became the fourth pitcher in club
history to make the team in his first full Major League season,
following Tom Seaver, Jerry Koosman and  Dwight Gooden .  St. Louis Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina led the NL with
almost 6.9 million votes. The Cardinals lead the NL with five
selections.  Davis, a first-time All-Star who leads the majors with 33
home runs, received almost 8.3 million votes, passing starting
third baseman  Miguel Cabrera  of the  Detroit Tigers , who also got
more than 8 million votes. Davis is the third Orioles first
baseman to earn a starting assignment, joining Boog Powell and
Hall of Famer Eddie Murray.  The Tigers lead the All-Star selections with six players on
the AL squad, including Cabrera and pitcher Max Scherzer (13-0).  Bruce Bochy of the  San Francisco Giants  will manage the NL
team and  Jim Leyland  of the Detroit Tigers will direct the AL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  