-- Most Read on Bloomberg in June: Stocks, FX Rate Fixing, Bernanke
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-07-07T04:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/most-read-on-bloomberg-in-june-stocks-fx-rate-fixing-bernanke.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports for June.  STORIES  1. U.S. Stocks Fall With  China  in  Bear Market ; Treasuries Pare
Drop  June 24 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks fell after Chinese
equities entered a bear market on concern a cash crunch will
hurt growth. Treasuries pared losses on speculation investors
overreacted to a possible reduction of central bank stimulus.  2. Traders Said to Rig Currency Rates to Profit From Clients  June 12 (Bloomberg) -- Traders at some of the world’s
biggest banks manipulated benchmark foreign-exchange rates used
to set the value of trillions of dollars of investments,
according to five dealers with knowledge of the practice.  3. Stocks Tumble With Bonds as Gold Slides in Global Rout on Fed  June 20 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks tumbled, with the benchmark
index of global equities sinking the most in 19 months, and
bonds fell around the world after the  Federal Reserve  said it
may phase out stimulus and China’s cash crunch worsened. Gold
led commodities lower as the dollar rallied for a second day.  4. Obama Says Bernanke Has Been at Fed ‘Longer Than He Wanted’  June 18 (Bloomberg) -- President  Barack Obama  said Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has stayed in his post “longer
than he wanted,” one of the clearest signals the central bank
chief will leave when his current term expires next year.  5. Bernanke Says Fed on Course to End Asset Buying in Mid-2014  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said the central bank may start dialing down its
unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely
in mid-2014 if the economy finally achieves the sustainable
growth the Fed has sought since the recession ended in 2009.  6. Stocks Drop on Global Stimulus Outlook as Asian Futures
Decline  June 12 (Bloomberg) -- U.S stocks fell and Asian equity
futures dropped on concern central banks are growing reluctant
to add more stimulus after the  Bank of Japan  left its lending
program unchanged. Ten-year Treasury yields fell from a 14-month
high and the yen was little changed after surging yesterday.  7. U.S. Stocks Climb as Asian Futures Signal Rebound After
Tumble  June 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. equities rose and Asian stock
futures signaled a rebound after yesterday’s rout as better-than-forecast U.S. economic data and speculation the Federal
Reserve will look to maintain record-low interest rates
bolstered markets. The yen pared this week’s gains.  8. Trading Desks at Wall Street Banks Defying Second-Quarter
Curse  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Wall Street banks, buoyed by record
stock-market prices and high-yield bond issuance, probably will
report a jump in second-quarter trading and investment-banking
revenue from the same period a year ago.  9. Men Over 40 Should Think Twice Before Racing Triathlons  June 21 (Bloomberg) -- For men competing in triathlons past
the age of 40, the grueling slog to the finish line could be
their last.  10. Sodomy Hazing Leaves 13-Year-Old Victim Outcast in Colorado
Town  June 20 (Bloomberg) -- At the state high-school wrestling
tournament in Denver last year, three upperclassmen cornered a
13-year-old boy on an empty school bus, bound him with duct tape
and sodomized him with a pencil.  COLUMNS  1. Why  Hillary Clinton  Should Part With Bill:  Margaret Carlson   June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Hillary Clinton’s return to the
living was almost flawless. Almost.  2. Why Are So Many College Graduates Driving Taxis?: Peter
Orszag  June 26 (Bloomberg) -- It’s a parent’s nightmare: shelling
out big money for college, then seeing the graduate unable to
land a job that requires high-level skills. This situation may
be growing more common, unfortunately, because the demand for
cognitive skills associated with higher education, after rising
sharply until 2000, has since been in decline.  3. The Real Reason Young People Dislike Republicans:  Ramesh
Ponnuru   June 11 (Bloomberg) --  Mitt Romney , the 2012 Republican
presidential candidate, won among voters over the age of 30, but
lost younger voters by 23 points. That statistic has gotten a
lot of attention from Republicans, especially since they have
now lost young voters in three presidential elections in a row.
They worry that voting Democratic could be habit-forming for
this generation.  4. If John Paulson Wins on  Fannie Mae , America Loses: Jonathan
Weil  June 7 (Bloomberg) -- For years, the White House and many
lawmakers have been saying the government needs to put Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac  out of their misery. Yet they live on. And
now their stock charts look like electrocardiograms.  5. How Poor Students Get Soaked for College Sports: Richard
Vedder  June 18 (Bloomberg) -- As parents and students struggle to
keep up with rising college tuition and take on greater burdens
of debt, universities are being challenged to justify the
ballooning athletic fees they tack on to the bill.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Ferrari-Powered Maserati Ghibli Lures Bored BMW Buyers  June 28 (Bloomberg) -- The 2014 Maserati Ghibli sedan is
seen in a promotional video from Maserati SpA.  2. Draghi Sees Economic Recovery This Year at Subdued Pace  June 6 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  speaks at a news conference in  Frankfurt  about the
decision to keep interest rates unchanged at a record low of 0.5
percent.  3. Bernanke Says Fed May End Asset Buying in Mid-2014  June 19 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke speaks about the  U.S. economy  and labor market, and the
outlook for the central bank’s bond purchases and benchmark
 interest rate .  4. Gross Says Markets Misinterpreted Bernanke on Inflation  June 19 (Bloomberg) --  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks
about bond market reaction to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s remarks that the central bank may begin reducing bond
purchases later this year and end them in the middle of 2014 if
the U.S. economy continues to improve.  5. Massachusetts Police Arrest Aaron Hernandez  June 26 (Bloomberg) --  Aaron Hernandez , a tight end who
played for the New England Patriots football team, was arrested
this morning by police in North Attleboro,  Massachusetts , in
connection with a murder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  