-- Perry Capital Sues U.S. Treasury Over Fannie Mae Takeover
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-07-08T02:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/perry-capital-sues-u-s-treasury-over-fannie-mae-takeover.html
Hedge fund firm Perry Capital LLC
sued the  U.S. Treasury  Department claiming the government’s
seizure of all profits from  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  is
illegal and has destroyed shareholders’ holdings.  Perry Capital, which seeks to represent investment funds in
the litigation, said it wants to stop the U.S. Treasury from
enforcing a so-called third amendment to preferred stock
purchase agreements, according to papers filed yesterday in
federal court in  Washington .  Perry Capital and  hedge funds  including Paulson & Co. have
been lobbying Congress to consider allowing Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac to become independent again. Republican and
Democratic lawmakers, and President  Barack Obama , have called
for both mortgage finance companies to be liquidated, with the
U.S. Treasury forecasting to collect more than $200 billion of
profit from the agencies over the next decade.  “The third amendment fundamentally and unfairly alters the
structure and nature of the securities Treasury purchased,”
according to the statement of claim. “This blatant overreach by
the federal government to seize all of the companies’ profits at
the expense of the companies and all of their private investors
is unlawful and must be stopped.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac paid fixed dividends of 10
percent on the government’s stake until this year, when Treasury
amended the terms of the bailout and began taking all of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac’s quarterly profits instead.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , conservator for Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, which is also named in the lawsuit, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment sent
after regular business hours. The U.S. Treasury Department also
didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Bipartisan  A bipartisan group of senators, led by Tennessee Republican
 Bob Corker  and Virginia Democrat  Mark Warner , last month
introduced a bill that would dismantle the companies and replace
them with a system in which the government would serve as a
catastrophic reinsurer of mortgages.  Shareholders behind the government would only recoup losses
after taxpayers had been made whole. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
purchase mortgages and package them into securities on which
they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  Relief Sought  The Perry Capital lawsuit follows a shareholder claim filed
in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington last month,
which sought $41 billion in damages as a result of the takeover.  Perry Capital didn’t ask for monetary damages in its
lawsuit. It sought a court declaration that the third amendment
isn’t legal, and orders setting it aside and preventing the
Treasury and the Federal Housing Finance Agency from
implementing it.  The U.S. government seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in
2008 after investments in risky loans pushed them to the brink
of bankruptcy. The two companies took $187.5 billion in taxpayer
aid before they began reporting record profits this year as the
housing market rebounded.  Richard Perry  founded his hedge fund firm Perry Capital in
November 1988, after previously working at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. A so-called event-driven manager, he trades stocks and debt
of companies involved in mergers and spinoffs and those emerging
from bankruptcy.  Treasury’s Profits  “This lawsuit seeks to uphold the rule of law,” Theodore B. Olson, partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher which represents
the plaintiffs, said in a statement yesterday about the new
case. “If the government wanted to assume the powers of
receivership, it could have chosen that course.”  With the third amendment, taking all profit, the government
overreached, and exceeded the legal boundaries of the statute,
Olson alleged.  “Treasury’s additional profits from the third amendment
are enormous,” Perry Capital said in the court documents.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac paid the Treasury the biggest
dividend in history of $66.3 billion on June 30, according to
the claim. Without the third amendment, Treasury would have
collected $4.7 billion, the plaintiffs said.  The case is Perry Capital LLC v. Jacob J. Lew. 13-cv-01025.
U.S. District Court for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net  and;
Clea Benson in Washington at   cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  