-- QE2 Transferred to Dubai Company for Transformation Into Hotel
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-07-07T14:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/qe2-transferred-to-dubai-company-for-transformation-into-hotel.html
The Queen Elizabeth II ocean liner
has been transferred to a new Dubai-based entity that will fund
the ship’s $90 million transformation into a 400-suite luxury
hotel to be moored in  Asia .  The new company, QE2 Holding, comprises local and foreign
investors involved in the project’s operations, while the ship
will continue to be owned by the Dubai government, Drydocks
World LLC Chairman Khamis Juma Buamim told reporters in the
emirate today. The project is expected to be finished in 2014
and become profitable within 10 years of completion, said
Buamim, whose company is a unit of state-owned Dubai World.  “There is already a contract and they will have a share in
the new company, which they will gain back from the profit
margin,” Buamim said of QE2 Holding, adding that the deal is
for 15 years and renewable. “It will become an iconic global
ambition for the U.A.E.”  The ship is being moved to Asia to take advantage of the
demand for hotel rooms in the region, Buamim said.  “If you look at the coastline of Dubai, it’s full of the
most magnificent hotels you can ever dream of,” he said.
“Therefore, economics works. You have to look at the return
value.”  As a hotel, the ship will have suites from 60 to 150 square
meters (648 to 1,1615 square feet), some of which will be
available for rental or sale to long-term occupants, he said.
The cost will depend on the country where the QE2 will finally
be moored and will be “expensive,” he said.  The vessel is being made seaworthy before leaving Dubai
Oct. 18 for the overhaul in  China . Buamim declined to answer
questions on where in China the refit will take place or the
ship’s destination as a hotel.  Istithmar World PJSC, a government-owned company in Dubai,
bought the 963-foot (294-meter) ship from Cunard for $100
million in 2007. The Scottish-built QE2 went into service in 
1969. Dubai has no plans to sell the vessel, which will have
maintenance costs of about $2.5 million a year after it goes 
into operation as a hotel, Buamim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  