-- Trichet Says Flexibility Is Implicit in ECB’s Forward Guidance
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-07-07T14:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/trichet-says-flexibility-is-implicit-in-ecb-s-forward-guidance.html
Former European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said his successor  Mario Draghi ’s
pledge to keep  interest rates  low contains implicit flexibility
to move if circumstances change.  “You cannot exclude to move because you might have to
move,” Trichet said in an interview in Aix-en-Provence,  France .
“In any case, it’s always conditional because nobody can think
for one second that you would hesitate to move rates in any
direction if there is a case to do that. Implicitly forward
guidance remains conditional in the eyes of market
participants.”  Breaking with Trichet’s practice of avoiding guidance on
future rates, Draghi said July 4 that the ECB expects to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period” as he tries to
restrain market borrowing costs.  With ECB officials leaving their main refinancing rate at
0.5 percent, Draghi fleshed out their outlook for monetary
policy after investors pushed up long-term bond yields,
threatening the region’s economic recovery. The statement came
on the same day that the Bank of England also tried to manage
investor expectations in  Mark Carney ’s first week as governor.  “The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates
to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of
time,” Draghi said July 4 in  Frankfurt . “What the Governing
Council did today was to inject a downward bias in interest
rates for the foreseeable future.”  Policy Outlook  Trichet said Draghi’s indication that the bank may cut
rates further was probably the most important announcement.
“It’s in a way more important that they didn’t exclude to go
lower than 50 basis points,” he said during the interview at
the annual meeting of France’s Cercle des Economistes.  Trichet said he had faith in the governing council’s
decision, adding that circumstances have changed since he led
the euro area lender because the  Bank of England  and the  Bank of
Canada  have joined the U.S. Federal Reserve in giving a medium-term policy outlook.  “In comparison with my own time, they face a sort of
contagion of forward guidance,” Trichet said. “This is not
necessarily the best concept, but there is in a way an
interaction between all central banks. Even if the concept is
not the best one, it’s probably difficult to be isolated in a
constellation of central banks that are all embarking on forward
guidance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Aix at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Aix at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  