-- Rupee Rout Spurs Biggest SBI Risk Jump Since 2008: India Credit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2013-07-07T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/rupee-rout-spurs-biggest-sbi-risk-jump-since-2008-india-credit.html
Bond risk for  State Bank of India (SBIN)  has
surged the most since 2008’s credit crisis as a plunging rupee
threatens to hurt company finances and boost loan defaults.  The cost to insure debt of the nation’s largest lender
against non-payment for five years rose 86 basis points in June,
the most since October 2008, to 275, according to data provider
CMA. Credit-default swaps on Bank of China Ltd. climbed 43 basis
points to 157. The average swap price for five Indian lenders
jumped 93 basis points to 295 last month, as the rupee slid 4.9
percent and touched a record low of 60.765 per dollar.  Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service’s Indian unit
said the highest exchange-rate volatility in a year could lead
to losses in overseas trade and borrowings for firms, eroding
their ability to meet repayment obligations. Non-performing debt
as a proportion of total lending rose to 3.7 percent in
December, the most in at least five years, amid the slowest
economic growth in a decade, according to the central bank.  “The rupee’s rout could be a further drag on lenders’
asset quality,” Vibha Batra, co-head of financial-sector
ratings in  New Delhi  at ICRA Ltd., the local unit of Moody’s,
said in a phone interview on July 3. “Unhedged overseas
borrowings by companies and reduced profit margins for
manufacturers could add to the bad loans of the banks in the
short to medium term.”  ‘Get Worse’  The rupee tumbled 8.6 percent last quarter in  Asia ’s worst
exchange-rate performance as U.S. policy makers signaled they
will scale back stimulus, sparking a selloff across  emerging
markets . A measure of 10-day historical volatility in the
currency jumped to 18.2 percent on June 28, the most in almost a
year. The rupee lost 0.2 percent to 60.24 per dollar on July 5.  “It is difficult for companies to plan for such sharp
fluctuations in currency as we are seeing now,” said Akhil Jindal, director for group corporate affairs at Welspun Corp., a
supplier of oil pipelines for Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Saudi
Aramco . “The impact of this on the profitability of most
corporates will be negative and it will have an impact on their
debt servicing capability.”  Options signal swings in the rupee will only widen. The
currency’s one-month implied volatility surged 363 basis points
since May 31 to 12.86 percent, signaling a greater potential for
losses. Traders quote the gauge, a measure of expected swings in
exchange rates, as part of options prices.  ‘Significant Damage’  Currency “volatility tends to hit corporates badly,”
Diwakar Gupta, chief financial officer in Mumbai at government-controlled  State Bank , said in an interview with Bloomberg TV
 India  on July 4. “To the extent that it hits the corporates
adversely, it obviously hits banks adversely because already we
are in a situation of extended credit stress and that is only
going to get worse.”  The rupee’s tumble will inflict “significant damage” on
Asia’s third-largest economy, leading to losses on companies’
overseas borrowings and fueling inflation, Sanjay Mathur, head
of research and strategy in  Singapore  at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, wrote in a report last week. The $1.9 trillion
economy expanded 5 percent in the year ended March 31, the least
since 2002-2003, according to official data.  Indian companies’ overseas debt of 6.2 trillion rupees
($103 billion) amounted to about 22 percent of their total
borrowings and central bank estimates show only 60 percent of
these loans are hedged, Mathur wrote.  Asset Quality  “It is also possible that weaker debt servicing capacity
on external borrowings has a knock-on impact on domestic loans
as well,” he wrote. “The prospects of further deterioration in
asset quality of domestic banks and tightening of bank lending
standards have likely increased.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India has advised lenders to evaluate
the risks arising out of corporate clients’ unhedged foreign-currency exposure, which has implications for banks’ asset
quality and profitability, it said in a statement on July 2.  Each one-rupee depreciation against the dollar increases
the losses of Indian  oil companies , which are required to sell
fuels below cost to help rein in inflation, by 80 billion
rupees, P.K. Goyal, New Delhi-based finance director at Indian
Oil Ltd., the nation’s largest refiner, said in a June 24
interview. India is the world’s no. 4 oil consumer, and buys
almost 80 percent of its energy abroad.  “Since oil companies are the largest users of foreign
currency in India, we are concerned about the exchange rate and
subsidies,” said Goyal.  Risk Buffer  India has stepped up efforts to shield its financial system
from loan defaults after the  economic  slowdown and Asia’s
highest funding costs forced companies including Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. to delay repaying liabilities. The RBI ordered
banks to boost reserves against restructured debt to 5 percent
from 2.75 percent, according to a May 30  statement .  In April, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government
directed state-run lenders to slash gross bad loans to 1 percent
of total assets by March 2014 from 4.1 percent in September
2012.  Restructured loans, which give companies a moratorium on
payments, longer maturities or lower  interest rates  to avoid
defaults, more than doubled in the year ended March 2012 to 2.2
trillion rupees, according to Moody’s. State Bank posted a 19
percent decline in  profits  for the three months ended March 31
as provisions for soured assets rose.  Loans renegotiated by firms including those to wind-turbine
maker Suzlon Energy Ltd., which defaulted on bond payments in
2012, totaled 2.29 trillion rupees on March 31, up 65 percent
from a year earlier, according to data from the Corporate Debt
 Restructuring  Mechanism, formed by India’s biggest banks.  Rising Yields  Debt costs for local companies are rising from a four-year
low, threatening their repayment ability, as the rupee’s slide
sparks concern inflation will quicken, reducing scope for the
central bank to cut interest rates.  The yield on 10-year AAA corporate bonds has climbed 67
basis points to 8.67 percent since May 31, and that on similar-maturity  sovereign notes  by 26 basis points to 7.5 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left
the  repurchase  rate unchanged at 7.25 percent on June 17, after
cutting it in May, March and January.  The yield on the 9.95 percent notes due 2026 of State Bank
of India rose to 8.75 percent last week from 8.46 percent at the
end of May, prices from the Fixed Income Money Market and
Derivatives Association of India show.  “The possibility of defaults on unhedged foreign-exchange
exposure is rising with the volatility in the currency,” said
Ananda Bhoumik, a senior director at the Indian unit of  Fitch
Ratings  Ltd. “We are waiting for more data on the quantum of
the impact on asset quality and profitability of lenders before
taking a call on the ratings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  