-- Salafist Party Asserts Role in Egypt as Brotherhood Teeters
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-07-08T10:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/salafist-party-asserts-role-in-egypt-as-the-brotherhood-teeters.html
The dethronement of Egypt’s Muslim
Brotherhood party is giving rise to a new political power.  The ultra-conservative Nour Party was the only Islamist
group to support the military-backed plan to topple Mohamed Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood organization that fielded him
for office. The move has cast them as political power brokers,
evidenced by their scuttling, at least for now, of Mohamed ElBaradei’s appointment as prime minister.  “The Nour Party for the time being has a veto power over
major decisions because the new order needs at least one major
Islamist party on its side,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of
research at the Brookings Doha Center in the Qatari capital.
“It’s never been so influential.”  After state-run media reported that ElBaradei, a secular
Nobel peace laureate, had been tapped by the presidency, Nour
Party leaders labeled him as a figure who would only deepen
political polarization. The opposition prompted the presidency,
in a midnight press conference, to deny reports that anyone had
been asked to take the job of prime minister.  The flipflop underscored the Nour Party’s influence as
Egypt’s interim leaders seek to buttress the legitimacy of a
coalition that supported deposing Mursi and now faces deadly
street clashes. Instead of ElBaradei, the Nour Party demanded a
premier without political affiliations who could revive an
economy stuck in the worst slowdown in two decades.  Suspending Talks  The party today suspended its participation in the talks to
name a new premier after clashes between the military and
Mursi’s supporters killed at least 42 people.  ElBaradei, 71, and Nour Party leader Galal Murra, were
among figures who flanked Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi
when he announced Mursi’s ouster and the suspension of the
Islamist-backed constitution on July 3. Under the plan,
Constitutional Court Chief Justice Adly Mansour became an
interim president charged with forming a government that would
rule the country until presidential and parliamentary elections.  Addressing the nation from the same podium after Al-Seesi,
the Nour Party leader said they “only took this stance and
agreed to these decisions to prevent the spilling of blood” and
stop a civil war. “We didn’t create this situation. It was
created by others,” Murra said, referring to the  Muslim
Brotherhood .  The Brotherhood, Egypt’s oldest and biggest Islamist
movement, has called on its supporters to reject what its
leaders have called a military coup. Clashes since July 5 until
yesterday had killed about three dozen people and wounded more
than 1,000. The military has taken Mursi into custody and police
have rounded up Brotherhood officials, including deputy leader
Khairat el-Shater.  Brotherhood Alternative  The Nour Party is well-situated “to position themselves as
an alternative to the Muslim Brotherhood and to advance their
own agenda,” said Erin Snider, assistant professor for Middle
East politics at  Texas A&M University . “Their ability to block
ElBaradei’s appointment is testament to their power at the
moment; how long that endures though is uncertain given the
ambiguity and rapid pace of this transition.”  Arabic for Party of Light, Nour was set up after the 2011
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . The party calls for the
application of Islamic law in Egypt. Its more conservative views
mean that unlike the Muslim Brotherhood, for instance, it
advocates the gradual abolishment of non-Shariah compliant bank
lending in the country.  Parliamentary Vote  The Salafist group came second after the Brotherhood’s
political wing in parliamentary elections in 2011. The results
of the vote were later annulled by courts.  Brotherhood and Nour Party leaders later sparred over what
the Salafists saw as Mursi’s bid to exclude other groups from
power.  The Nour Party “was disappointed with what they saw as the
Muslim Brotherhood simply taking everything,” said Yasser el-Shimy, an analyst in Cairo at the  International Crisis Group ,
which tracks countries in conflict. “That’s why they were more
inclined to side with” the anti-Mursi protests.  Any appointment of ElBaradei as prime minister risks
repeating Mursi’s errors, Shaaban Abdel Alim, assistant
secretary-general of the Nour Party, said yesterday.  Betray the Cause  By blocking ElBaradei’s appointment, Nour Party leaders may
also be seeking to deflect criticism from their own supporters.  “They’re already under fire for betraying the Islamist
cause,” Hamid said by phone. “They can now say that ‘we
blocked the bad liberal from becoming a prime minister.’”  The Nour Party’s move threatens to drive a wedge in the
coalition that supported the toppling of Mursi. Backers of the
former chief of the United Nations nuclear agency are also
digging in.  “We’re insisting on ElBaradei as a prime minister,” said
Islam Hammam, a member of central committee of Tamarod, or
Rebel, a youth group that served as a catalyst for the latest
protests against Mursi. “Our mistake from the beginning was
that we allowed mediocre and non-revolutionary figures to run
the country, and now it’s our time to correct this.”  For the meantime, the Nour Party is enjoying its
unprecedented status in Egyptian politics.  “If Nour were to drop from this coalition, the situation
would be an even secular-Islamist split” in  Egypt , said el-Shimy. “Maybe some of the other parties think they only need to
appease Nour until the immediate crisis is over, but for now it
seems that they’re going to play the role of kingmaker.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  