-- SIA Engineering Set to Ride Regional Travel Boom: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-07T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/sia-engineering-set-to-ride-regional-travel-boom-southeast-asia.html
SIA Engineering Co. (SIE) , Asia’s second-largest aircraft maintenance company, is set to gain from a
travel boom in the region, according to Maybank Kim Eng Holdings
Ltd. and Samsung Asset Management.  Net income at the unit of  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Asia’s
second-biggest carrier by value, will increase by an average of
6.4 percent annually over the next three years through March
2016, according to analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. SIA
Engineering has climbed 13 percent this year, the second-biggest
advance on the benchmark Straits Times Index.  Carriers from Asia-Pacific, the world’s biggest aviation
market, will lead orders for new aircraft, Airbus SAS Chief
Operating Officer  John Leahy  said in February. The region will
add about 380 million travelers between 2012 and 2016 to 1.2
billion, the  International Air Transport Association  has said.  “SIA Engineering is benefiting from industry growth driven
by airlines expanding their fleet,” said  Alan Richardson , a
Hong Kong-based money manager at Samsung Asset Management, which
oversees more than $100 billion globally. “The company has a
competitive advantage, stable track record and good dividend
return.”  SIA Engineering will probably boost its aircraft engine
overhaul capacity to meet the rising demand, according to
Maybank Kim Eng.  Airlines in the Asia-Pacific region may order 12,820
aircraft by 2032 to cater to increasing demand, according to
Boeing Co.’s estimate. Carriers from  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Asia’s
biggest budget airline, to Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. ordered
at least 1,000 new planes in the past five years. About 15 low-cost carriers started flying in the past decade in the region.  Fleet Maintenance  “Low-cost carriers generally outsource the maintenance,”
said Brendan Sobie, analyst at Sydney-based Centre for Aviation.
“They don’t have their own heavy maintenance capabilities.
Obviously there continues to be a lot of opportunities for
maintenance companies in Asia as the fleet expands, especially
in the medium to long-term.”  SIA Engineering won contracts last year from  Vietnam ’s
VietJet Air as well as  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB) , the  Philippines ’ biggest
budget carrier. Singapore Airlines still accounts for about 63
percent of its revenue, it said.  “I like the company as a play on growing air traffic in
Asia,”  Marc Faber , managing director of Marc Faber Ltd. and
publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, said in an e-mailed
response to queries. “I have owned the stock for years.”  Chia Peck Yong, a spokesman for SIA Engineering, declined
to comment on the company’s prospects or expansion plans before
the release of the quarterly results on July 22.  ‘Main Grouse’  The plane orders may not immediately boost SIA
Engineering’s business as airlines are unlikely to send their
newer aircraft for frequent maintenance check-ups, said Kenneth Ng, head of research at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in Singapore.  “The main grouse we have is valuation,” said Ng, whose
brokerage rates the stock neutral. “We don’t think SIA
Engineering will continue to outperform the market.”  SIA Engineering rallied 21 percent in the past 12 months,
boosting the stock’s  valuation  to 19 times estimated earnings,
compared with the average of 15 times in the past five years.
Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd.,  Asia ’s largest aircraft
maintenance company that has climbed 29 percent, trades at 20
times. The multiple for the Straits Times Index is 14 times.  Remains Undervalued  SIA Engineering “remains undervalued,” said Derrick Heng,
an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng. “We expect the market to
eventually appreciate the strength in its joint ventures.”  Singapore Aero Engine Services Pte. , a joint venture
between SIA Engineering, Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc and Hong Kong
Aero Engine Services Ltd., may see increased orders from
Singapore Airlines and other customers utilizing Rolls-Royce
Trent engines, Heng wrote in a June 20 report.  There’s “hidden value” in the joint venture as it will
probably increase its capacity to serve engine maintenance
requirements of carriers including AirAsia, Malaysian Airline
System Bhd., Thai Airways International Plc and Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd., according to Maybank Kim Eng.  SIA Engineering is building a third hangar for wide-body
aircraft at its maintenance facility at Clark International
Airport, a former U.S. airbase situated north of the Philippine
capital of  Manila , Chairman Stephen Lee said in the company’s
latest annual report.  Apart from its growth prospects, SIA Engineering also paid
out a  dividend  of S$243 million ($191 million) in the year ended
March 2013, equivalent to about 90 percent of its profit,
according to the annual report.  SIA Engineering offers investors a  dividend yield  of 4.4
percent, compared with 3.1 percent for the Straits Times Index
and 2.6 percent for 10-year  Singapore  government  bonds ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect increasing dividends from the company, given
its strong free cash flow generation,” said Heng at Maybank Kim
Eng.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  