-- U.K. Economy Is Gearing Up for Comeback, Capital Economics Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/u-k-economy-is-gearing-up-for-comeback-capital-economics-says.html
Britain’s economy could be in line
for a period of “strong catch-up growth” once it gets through
the current weakness, according to Capital Economics Ltd.  Capital, founded by former U.K. Treasury adviser Roger Bootle, forecast today that the economy could grow at a 4
percent annual rate in the second half of the decade. It said
the recession appears to have done little permanent damage and
the economy should benefit as its supply potential recovers.  The optimistic outlook follows data showing the economy
strengthened in the second quarter and marks a shift in tone for
the often-pessimistic forecaster. In a Bloomberg News survey of
economists last month, Capital projected 2013 U.K. growth of
just 0.2 percent, the lowest among 47 estimates.  “Contrary to the popular belief that we are the eternal
‘Eeyores’ of the economics world, we believe that the U.K.
economy could yet stage a strong comeback once the challenges of
the next year or two are over,” Capital said, referring to the
pessimistic donkey in A.A Milne’s Winnie-the-Pooh books.  In its latest forecasts, Capital sees the economy growing
0.8 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014. While  gross
domestic product  is 15 percent below the level it would have
reached under the pre-recession trend, Capital said its unlikely
the recession permanently eliminated this much supply potential.  Growth could be bolstered “as these idle resources are
fully utilized,” it said. “What’s more, we believe that the
type of growth will be more favorable. With the manufacturing,
energy and construction sectors leading the way, the economy
should finally become better balanced.”  Confidence Rises  Separately today, BDO LLP said its indexes of U.K. business
confidence and output both rose to 13-month highs in June. The
sentiment gauge climbed for a fifth consecutive month to 94.3
from 93.6 in May, while a measure of output advanced to 94.9
from 94.4. Still, both indexes remain below the 95 threshold
that indicates growth, BDO said.  In its analysis, Capital also cited the potential impact of
new Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, whose arrival “could
trigger more support from monetary policy.”  The BOE said July 4 it will keep interest rates at a record
low for longer than investors had expected. The statement after
Carney’s first policy meeting, followed a rout in global bond
markets sparked by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s
comments on the U.S. central bank tapering its monthly stimulus.  “While it’s encouraging to see confidence continuing to
improve, we should be mindful of the zig-zag trend that has
characterized U.K. business confidence since 2008,” BDO partner
Peter Hemington said. “The worry is financial market turmoil
arising from the actions of the Federal Reserve will choke off
yet another nascent U.K. recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  