-- Murray Takes Two-Set Lead Over Djokovic in Wimbledon Men’s Final
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-07T15:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/murray-takes-two-set-lead-over-djokovic-in-wimbledon-men-s-final.html
Andy Murray  took a two-set lead over
top seed Novak Djokovic in the Wimbledon men’s single final as
he tries to become the first British male to win the title at
the All England Club in 77 years.  Murray took the second set 7-5 after winning the first 6-4
on Centre Court in southwest  London .  In a first set full of long baseline rallies, play was back
on serve until 3-3 as both got broken early on. The crowd roared
loudly as Murray broke for 4-3, and easily served out the set
6-4 with a service winner.  In the second, both men put on hats as temperatures reached
28 degrees Celsius (82 Fahrenheit). Djokovic broke to go up 3-1,
and then at 4-2, Murray had two break points. Djokovic got them
back but Murray got a third on a crosscourt forehand that left
the Serb sprawled on the grass. A doublefault put the match back
on serve.  Djokovic had two break points in the following game, but
Murray came back to win to even it at 4-4. The Scot broke at
5-5, and could serve for the second set.  Murray won with an ace, his ninth of the match.  The 26-year-old Dunblane, Scotland-born Murray is trying to
become the first British man to take the singles title on the
London grass courts since  Fred Perry , who won Wimbledon in 1936
during the short reign of Edward VIII, Queen Elizabeth II’s
uncle. Perry’s statue stands next to Centre Court.  Virginia Wade 
was the last Briton to clinch the women’s title, in 1977.  Djokovic, who is seven days younger than Murray, is going
for his seventh Grand Slam title and second Wimbledon
championship after his victory in 2011. A win today will tie him
with  John McEnroe  of the U.S. and  Sweden ’s Mats Wilander in
eighth place for the most major titles for a man since 1968,
when the sport went professional.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  