-- Vettel Wins Home Formula 1 Race to Extend His Championship Lead
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-07-08T00:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/vettel-wins-german-grand-prix-to-extend-his-lead-in-standings.html
Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull secured
his first career victory on home soil at the German Grand Prix
to extend his lead in the Formula One world championship.  Lotus drivers  Kimi Raikkonen  and  Romain Grosjean  finished
second and third in yesterday’s 60-lap race at the Nuerburgring.
It was the fourth win from nine races this season for Vettel,
26, and the 30th of his career.  Vettel, who started second on the grid, and teammate  Mark Webber  overtook pole-sitter  Lewis Hamilton  of Mercedes at the
start. The German, seeking his fourth straight drivers’ title,
went on to control the race and held off a sustained challenge
from Raikkonen in the closing stages to win by a second.  “Kimi was pushing very hard at the end,” Vettel said
after his first-ever win in the month of July. “Incredible to
finally win in  Germany . I’m very happy that the race ended after
60 laps and not 61 or 62.”  After losing ground at the start, Hamilton was troubled by
lack of grip as he tried to get his first win for Mercedes since
switching this season from McLaren.  A round of pit stops took place after four laps as leading
drivers switched from their faster, soft tires. Grosjean stayed
out longer than many and led for a time until he too pitted,
although he resumed the race in second place.  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC)  supplied strengthened tires for the race
and there was no repeat of the blowouts that marred the British
Grand Prix a week previously. Drivers had threatened to boycott
the race if there was a reoccurrence.  Cameraman Injured  Webber had a problem with his right rear wheel in an early
stop. It flew off the axle and bounced down the pit lane into
the back of a television cameraman, who was taken to the
hospital with a broken shoulder and cracked ribs.  “The most important thing is that the cameraman who got
struck by the tire does not appear to have suffered any life
threatening injuries,” Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner
said in a statement. “It’s a timely reminder that working in
the pit lane is dangerous.”  Another incident occurred after Jules Bianchi’s Marussia
had an engine blowout. After he got out of the car it stood
parked at the side before rolling across the track and hitting
an advertising board. That brought the safety car on to the
track after 25 laps and prompted a series of pit stops as the
field closed up.  On the withdrawal of the safety car, Vettel led from
Grosjean, Raikkonen and Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso , and that
pattern was maintained after another round of pit stops.  Radio Problems  One of those stops was by Raikkonen, who was leading at the
time. The Finn said afterward that he could have gambled by
staying out and trying to manage the tires until the finish.  “I wonder if we should have gone to the end,” he added.
“But I had massive problems with the radio. I could hear the
team but they couldn’t hear me.”  Four laps from the finish, Grosjean let his teammate
Raikkonen -- who’s better placed in the standings -- through to
take second spot behind Vettel. As the race entered its final
laps only five seconds covered the first four cars.  Raikkonen stepped up the pressure, ready to take advantage
of any mistake by Vettel, although the German held out for the
victory.  Alonso finished in fourth place, ahead of Hamilton,
McLaren’s Jenson Button and Webber.  The win lifted Vettel to 157 points atop the standings, 34
ahead of Alonso (123). Raikkonen has 116, Hamilton 99 and Webber
93.  Red Bull  leads the constructors’ event on 250 points, ahead
of Mercedes (183), Ferrari (180), and Lotus (157).  The Hungarian Grand Prix, the 10th of 19 races this season,
is scheduled July 28 in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  