-- Hyundai Heavy to Raise Ship Prices as China Yards Falter
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-07-08T07:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/hyundai-heavy-to-lift-prices-on-demand-as-china-shipyards-falter.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540) , the
world’s biggest shipbuilder, plans to raise prices as demand for
fuel-efficient vessels helps it skirt the global supply glut
hurting Chinese yards.  Orders may exceed this year’s target of $11.3 billion, with
about 60 percent of that already met, Ka Sam Hyun, executive
vice president in charge of ship sales, said in a July 3
interview. The Ulsan, South Korea-based company plans to raise
prices in the second half, he said.  “The big focus right now is on fuel efficiency,” Ka said.
“At a time when prices have fallen so much, shipping lines seem
to be willing to pay a bit more to get better performing ships
on time. This is why the top-tier shipyards will benefit.”  Shipbuilders surged in  Seoul  trading today as  Hyundai
Heavy ’s optimism contrasted with gloom over Chinese rivals. A
third of  China ’s yards may shut down in about five years as they
struggle to win orders, an industry group said last week. South
Korean yards, which dominate the construction of mega ships, are
benefiting as lines including  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  order
bigger, fuel-efficient vessels.  Hyundai Heavy  climbed  3.4 percent to close at 184,500 won
in Seoul trading, paring this year’s drop to 24 percent.  Hyundai
Mipo Dockyard (010620)  Co. surged 4.9 percent,  Samsung Heavy Industries
Co. (010140)  advanced 3.6 percent and  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. (042660)  rose 3.3 percent.  “News about ship prices rising is lifting shares of
shipbuilders today,” said Lee Jae Won, an analyst at Tongyang
Securities Inc.  Rongsheng Plunges  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) 
plummeted in Hong Kong trading, extending its loss after
 plunging  to a record low in the previous trading session. The
country’s biggest yard outside state control is seeking
government financial support as orders and prices decline and
may post a  loss  in the first half, it said July 5.  About 483 shipyards in China won $10.5 billion worth of
orders in the first six months of this year, while 94 builders
in  South Korea  got $18.5 billion, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s biggest shipbroker. Chinese yards, which dominate bulk-carrier construction, won 21.2 million deadweight tons of orders
in the first half compared with 16.6 million tons for Korean
companies, according to Clarkson.  China Orders  The order book at Chinese shipbuilders fell 23 percent at
the end of May from a year earlier, according to the China
Association of National Shipbuilding Industry. One-third of the
nation’s yards facing the danger of closing have failed to get
orders “for a very long period of time,” Wang Jinlian, the
group’s secretary general, said July 4.  Hyundai Heavy, which had failed for eight years to win
orders from China, signed a contract in May to deliver the
world’s biggest container ship to China Shipping Container Lines
Co. Hyundai Heavy beat Chinese builders for the $683 million
deal for five vessels that can each carry 18,400 20-foot boxes.  The new ships will use an engine that can automatically
control fuel consumption to suit speed and sea conditions,
helping improve  fuel efficiency  while reducing emissions and
noise. Delivery will start in the second half of next year.  ‘Still Hungry’  “We see more orders for bigger ships made by Korean
companies,” said Sarah Wang, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Masterlink Securities Corp. Shipping lines “require higher
levels of technology and fuel efficiency to cut costs,” Wang
said.  Since 2010, yards in South Korea delivered all except two
of the 144 vessels that can carry more than 10,000 boxes,
according to  Clarkson .  Hyundai Heavy also benefited from demand for ships to haul
liquefied petroleum gas, winning orders for 11 of these vessels
this year, said Ka, the executive vice president. Each ship has
a capacity of more than 60,000 cubic meters. The company’s total
order target of $11.3 billion for this year includes contracts
for its  Hyundai Samho Heavy Industries Co.  unit and is higher
than the $8.6 billion it won last year.  “We are still hungry,” Ka said. “We have invested in new
technologies and improving existing ones to cut fuel burned by
ships. That’s because during hard times, shipping lines become
more interested in cutting costs whichever way they can.”  Oil Rigs  Chinese shipyards are faltering as orders have tumbled
because of the global excess of commodity, oil and container
ships. The surplus fleet and a global economic downturn damped
cargo rates and deterred owners from ordering more vessels.  The yards face labor unrest as they pare employees.
Rongsheng said some workers who were made redundant formed a
blockade outside the headquarters of the group’s production base
on July 2. The company has sought financial support from the
government even as it holds talks with banks for renewing credit
facilities.  “The Chinese shipbuilding industry is still facing
unprecedented challenges,” Rongsheng said in a statement.
“Demand in the global shipbuilding market has continued to
decline and prices for new vessels have failed to rebound.”  Chinese yards are trying to offset the plunge in new vessel
prices and orders by expanding their oil-rig businesses.
Rongsheng announced in October its first order to make a tender
barge while rival  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ)  got its
first rig contract in December.  “A lot of the shipyards in China are now shifting their
focus on offshore because they can no longer survive by building
ships,” Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Korea
in Seoul, said. “We’re going to see a big exodus to offshore
from shipbuilding in China. This could be a very good
opportunity for Korean shipyards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  