-- Zoomlion Expects Profit to Rise on Environmental-Gear Revenue
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-07-07T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-07/zoomlion-expects-profit-to-rise-on-environmental-gear-revenue.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (000157) , China’s second-largest maker of construction
gear, expects to increase profit this year as it boosts sales of
environmental machinery and equipment.  Zoomlion plans to increase revenue from environmental
machinery and equipment to as much as 4 billion  yuan  ($652
million) annually from more than 1 billion yuan at present after
it opens an industrial park in the second half of the year,
Vice-President Sun Changjun said in an interview at its
headquarters in Changsha, China.  “The industry could be as big as construction machinery in
the long term,” Sun said. “We really feel like the sector
could provide huge growth potential for our company in the next
few years.”  The company got  94 percent  of its revenue from  China  in
2012, with concrete machinery accounting for almost half,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Zoomlion plans to raise
sales from outside China to 30 percent in three to five years,
through acquisitions or cooperating with overseas businesses,
Sun said, declining to identify targets.  Profit Warnings  This year’s  profit  “should be better than that of 2012
from what we can see now, as our comparison base from last year
was quite low,” Chairman Zhan Chunxin said. Zoomlion posted a
profit of 7.3 billion yuan last year.  Zoomlion reported earnings of 591.8 million yuan in the
first quarter, and has to post a net income of at least 2.2
billion yuan in the second to avoid issuing a profit warning,
required under  Hong Kong  exchange rules. Companies listed in the
city must give profit warnings if net income is expected to
decline by more than 50 percent from a year earlier.  The construction-gear maker’s profit for the first six
months of 2012 was 5.62 billion yuan.  Zoomlion, 16.2 percent owned by the government of  Hunan
province , and larger competitor  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  face
declines in orders as China’s slowing economic growth and
government curbs on the property market sap demand.  Economic  growth  in China has stayed below 8 percent for the
past four quarters, the first time that has happened in at least
20 years.  Cash Crunch  Chinese companies face a cash crunch in the banking system
as the nation’s clampdown on excessive short-term borrowing sent
the overnight  repurchase rate  to a record 13.91 percent last
month. The worst cash squeeze in at least a decade has eased
after the central bank pumped capital into some finance
companies.  Zoomlion has been buffered from the credit squeeze by a
strong balance sheet, Hong Xiaoming, Chief Financial Officer,
said in the interview.  “We have about 140 billion-yuan credit lines from major
Chinese banks that we haven’t used,” Hong said.  Zoomlion’s Hong Kong-traded  shares  have slumped 55 percent
this year, compared with an 8 percent drop for the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . Its shares in Shenzhen trading dropped 43
percent.  “The share prices, in my opinion, are undervalued compared
with the fundamentals of our company,” said Shen Ke, board
secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  