-- ‘Identity Thief’ Regains Crown With $14 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-25T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/-identity-thief-regains-weekend-crown-with-14-million-in-sales.html
The comedy “Identity Thief”
recaptured first place at the U.S. and Canada box office, taking
in $14.1 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures in its
third weekend in theaters.  “A Good Day to Die Hard,” another film in the Bruce Willis action series, dropped to fifth from first with $10
million for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  “Identity Thief,” starring Jason Bateman, benefited from
weak competition on the weekend of the 85th Academy Awards. In
the pre-Oscar period, studios typically avoid releasing major
new films. The weekend’s two new releases, “Snitch” starring
Dwayne Johnson, also known as The Rock, and the horror film
“Dark Skies,” were second and sixth in sales, respectively.
“Identity Thief” has taken in $93.7 million since it opened in
first place on Feb. 8, according to  Hollywood.com .  “Blame it on the Oscars commanding Hollywood’s attention,
but even a star as powerful as The Rock didn’t have the
muscles” to bump “Identity Thief” from first place, said Paul Dergarabedian, president of Hollywood.com’s box-office unit.  “Escape From Planet Earth,” a 3-D animated feature from
Weinstein Co., jumped to third from fourth, while Relativity
Media’s “Safe Haven” fell to fourth from third.  ‘Good Day’  In “Identity Thief,” Bateman plays Sandy Bigelow
Patterson, whose credit is wrecked by a woman who assumes his
identity. Authorities tell him the only way to resolve the
problem is to find the woman and bring her in. Melissa McCarthy
co-stars as Bateman’s nemesis. Amanda Peet plays Sandy’s wife.  “A Good Day to Die Hard,” features Willis as the
iconoclastic police officer John McClane. The previous four
films in the series, started in 1988, generated $1.13 billion in
worldwide ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo , another
researcher.  In the new film, McClane travels to Russia to rescue his
kidnapped son, only to discover the situation is more complex
and dangerous than he expected. Jai Courtney co-stars as son
Jack.  “Snitch,” inspired by true events, features Johnson as a
divorced father who agrees to infiltrate a drug cartel to keep
his son, wrongly accused of dealing, out of prison. The  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  film, which came in second with $13
million, also features Susan Sarandon and Barry Pepper.  ‘Safe Haven’  The animated children’s tale “Escape From Planet Earth,”
was third with $11 million. In the film, a heroic astronaut from
the planet Baab ignores the misgivings of his brother and
colleagues to respond to an SOS. The mission turns out to be a
trap. The movie features the voices of Brendan Fraser, Sofia Vergara and Ricky Gervais.  “Safe Haven” was fourth with $10.6 million in its second
weekend. The film stars Julianne Hough as a young woman who
seems to have escaped her past by taking a job in a small North
Carolina community. Her idyllic new life is interrupted when a
stranger comes to town asking questions about her.  “Dark Skies,” which finished sixth, tells the story of a
family whose home life is disrupted by a mysterious force. The
film, with $8.85 million in sales, stars Keri Russell and Josh
Hamilton as parents who battle the malevolent presence.  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 22 percent to $89.5
million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first eight weeks of the year are down 7 percent to
$1.41 billion. Attendance is down 8 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Feb.
22 and Feb. 23 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  