-- H.K. Weekend Property Sales Fall on Doubled Stamp Duty
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g ,   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-02-25T08:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/h-k-weekend-property-sales-fall-on-doubled-stamp-duty.html
Residential property sales in  Hong
Kong  fell after the government doubled a  sales tax , saying
bubble risks are spreading in the world’s most expensive place
to buy an apartment.  Secondary sales for the 15 most popular housing estates
fell 15 percent at the weekend from the previous weekend,
according to Buggle Lau, chief analyst at Midland Holdings Ltd.,
the city’s biggest publicly traded realtor. The stamp duty on
all properties above HK$2 million ($258,000) was raised to as
much as 8.5 percent of the purchase price.  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying’s latest attempt to cool
the city’s real estate market sent shares of developers and
realtors lower amid concerns that transactions will dry up and
prices will decline. Since taking office in July, Leung has
added extra property taxes, favored local permanent residents,
tightened mortgages and increased supply after  home prices 
doubled in the past four years on near-record low  mortgage rates ,
an influx of mainland Chinese buyers and a lack of new units.  “The government intends to turn away yield seeking
investors from all property markets,” JPMorgan & Chase Co.
analysts, led by Lucia Kwong, wrote in a report today.
“Developers may see 5 to 10 percent share price downside.”  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the shares of
the city’s nine biggest developers, fell for a seventh
consecutive session, the longest losing streak since the seven
sessions to May 14. It fell 0.3 percent at the close to the
lowest in almost two months, after declining as much as 1.7
percent. The index has outperformed the Hang Seng  Index (HSP)  in the
past 12 months, gaining 14 percent compared to the benchmark’s
7.6 percent.  Retail Transactions  Midland, the largest realtor traded in Hong Kong, fell 4.4
percent to HK$3.48, the most and lowest in three months.  Cheung
Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1) , the city’s second-biggest developer by
market value, slid 0.6 percent to the lowest since Dec. 4, while
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the biggest developer by market
value, declined 1.3 percent.  The government widened its property curbs to cover
commercial transactions as investors turned to parking spaces,
shops and hotels. Earlier last week hundreds of people turned up
to buy hotel rooms being sold by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong in
the city, prompting a warning from the government.  The value of retail shop transactions rose 78 percent from
a year earlier to HK$85 billion in 2012, as curbs on  home prices 
prompted investors to seek other properties, according to
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held
realtor. That’s the highest since at least 1996, when the
realtor began collecting data.  “These measures will likely be effective in slowing the
uptrend of property prices,” Deutsche Bank AG strategist Lin Li
and chief economist  Jun Ma  wrote in a report today.  Singapore Curbs  Hong Kong’s curbs come after  Singapore  introduced measures
last month that included an increase in the stamp duty for
homebuyers by between 5 percentage points and 7 percentage
points and a stamp duty for sellers of industrial buildings,
starting at 15 percent if the property is sold within a year.  Under the new rules, Hong Kong property deals below HK$2
million will incur stamp duty of 1.5 percent of the purchase
price, from HK$100, Hong Kong Financial Secretary  John Tsang 
said at a briefing Feb. 22.  The measures took effect Feb. 23 and local permanent
residents who don’t own homes will be exempted. Buyers of non-
residential properties will be required to pay stamp duties when
they sign the purchase agreement, Tsang said.  ‘Destructive Power’  Hong Kong has the world’s highest shop rents and is the
world’s second-most expensive place to rent  office space ,
property brokers, including CBRE Group Inc. and Cushman &
Wakefield Inc., have said. It is the world’s most expensive
place to buy an apartment, according to London-based property
broker Savills Plc.  “The property market bubble risks have only increased and
not decreased,” Tsang said. “If we allow the risk to continue
to expand, ultimately it will affect the macroeconomic and
financial system’s stability. The destructive power on society
will be considerably large. The price of non-residential
property has also soared.”  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said Feb. 22 it will
tighten mortgage terms for commercial properties and parking
spaces. Hong Kong’s central bank last tightened mortgage lending
in September after saying the U.S. Federal Reserve’s latest
quantitative easing risks pushing up home prices that have
already surpassed their October 1997 peak. That marked the start
of a 70 percent decline to August 2003 as measured by the
Centaline index.  Borrowing Costs  Hong Kong banks’ borrowing costs are tied to the U.S.
because of the currency peg, while the city’s economic growth is
linked to  China .  Concerns that housing is becoming unaffordable have forced
the city’s chief executive to introduce a raft of measures since
taking over in July as the city’s leader. Leung’s government in
October imposed an extra 15 percent tax on all home purchases by
companies and non-permanent residents, adding to earlier steps
including accelerating new home sale approvals and tightening
banks’ mortgage lending.  In September, he said he will restrict homebuyers of two
building sites the government plans to sell to local residents,
a week after announcing a 10-point package to rein in prices,
including accelerating new home sale approval and giving
preference to local buyers.  Delaying Sales  Leung said in his policy address last month that the
government will provide land to build 75,000 homes in the next
five years, and the private sector may sell 67,000 in the next
three to four years. The total of 142,000 compares with the
124,000 built in the previous five years.  Hong Kong homes cost 13.5 times the gross median household
income, up from 12.6 times a year ago, the most expensive
housing market in an annual affordability survey by Belleville,
Illinois-based consulting company Demographia released last
month. The survey examined housing prices in Australia, Canada,
Hong Kong, Ireland,  New Zealand , the U.K. and the U.S.  “Developers may delay new launches of apartments for two
to three months or until they believe buyers have finished
adjusting to the new measures,” said Alfred Lau, analyst at
Bocom International Holdings Co. “As with previous measures,
there probably won’t be too much impact on prices, but
transactions could dry up further by as much as 50 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  