-- McIlhenny, CEO Who Expanded Tabasco Brand, Dies at 68
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-02-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/tabasco-maker-ceo-and-chairman-paul-mcilhenny-dead-at-68.html
Paul McIlhenny, the fourth-
generation family member who led Tabasco-maker McIlhenny Co. and
expanded its product line to include new flavors of the pepper
sauce, has died. He was 68.  He died Feb. 23, according to a statement by the Avery
Island, Louisiana-based company, of which he was chief executive
officer and chairman. He died at his New Orleans home, the
Times-Picayune reported. The cause was an apparent heart attack,
the newspaper said.  McIlhenny presided over “years of record growth in sales
and earnings,” according to the statement. He introduced
several new Tabasco-brand pepper sauce flavors, expanding the
product line for the first time, according to Shane K. Bernard’s
2007 book, “Tabasco: An Illustrated History.” The new
varieties included Green, introduced in 1993, Chipotle in 2001
and Sweet & Spicy in 2006.  “We will clearly miss Paul’s devoted leadership but will
more sorely feel the loss of his acumen, his charm and his
irrepressible sense of humor,” Tony Simmons, the company’s
president and a fifth-generation McIlhenny family member, said
in the statement.  McIlhenny also furthered the expansion of the Tabasco brand
around the world, where today the products are distributed to
more than 165 countries and territories.  He was the sixth descendant of Edmund McIlhenny, who
founded the company 145 years ago, to lead the business,
according to its  website .  Aged Sauce  In the 1860s, Edmund McIlhenny, an avid food lover and
gardener, had acquired seeds of Capsicum frutescens peppers from
Mexico or Central America, planted them and enjoyed their spicy
flavor. He decided to create the hot sauce to liven up the
bland, monotonous diet of the U.S. South following the Civil
War, according to the website. The peppers were crushed, blended
with salt and French white-wine vinegar, aged and packaged in
small, cologne-type bottles.  Paul Carr Polk McIlhenny was born on March 19, 1944,
according to the statement. He was born, along with his twin
sister, Sara, in Houston because their mother was staying there
with her mother while their father was away in the military
during World War II,  according  to the Times-Picayune.  McIlhenny attended Metairie Park Country Day School in
Louisiana, the Woodberry Forest School in Virginia and the
University of the South in Sewanee, Tennessee. He served in the
U.S. Marine Corps Reserve.  He joined the family business in 1967, the company said. In
2010, he was inducted into the James Beard Foundation’s Who’s
Who of Food & Beverage.  McIlhenny is survived by his wife Judith Goodwin McIlhenny;
two daughters, Barbara McIlhenny Fitz-Hugh and Rosemary
McIlhenny Dinkins; and four grandchildren, the company said. He
also is survived by his sister, Sara McIlhenny Ringle, and a
brother, Gustaf McIlhenny, according to the Times-Picayune.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at   sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  