-- Abe Seen Nominating Kuroda as Next Bank of Japan Governor
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-02-25T08:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/abe-preparing-to-name-kuroda-as-bank-of-japan-head-kyodo-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
is likely to nominate  Asian Development Bank  President Haruhiko Kuroda as  Bank of Japan  governor, according to two officials
with knowledge of the discussions.  Abe is also likely to tap Kikuo Iwata, an academic who has
urged a ramping up in  Japan ’s monetary base to end deflation,
and Hiroshi Nakaso, a senior BOJ official, as deputy governors,
according to one government official and a ruling coalition
executive, who asked not to be named as the talks are private.
Finance Minister Taro Aso lauded Kuroda in remarks to reporters
today. The yen fell and Japanese stocks rose on the plans.  The picks would raise the odds of further BOJ  stimulus 
after Kuroda, 68, who advocated an inflation target more than a
decade before the bank adopted one in January, said this month
additional easing can be justified for 2013. Iwata briefed Abe
on monetary policy and the economy during his stint in
opposition, when he decided to make reflation the main plank of
his campaign for the  Liberal Democratic Party  to retake power.  “Kuroda has a degree of credibility, having been there
relatively early” with arguing for an inflation target, said
 Richard Jerram , chief economist at Bank of Singapore Ltd., who
has analyzed the Japanese economy since the 1980s bubble years.
“The end of a toleration of deflation” means the nation is at
an inflection point, where growth could return to 1 percent to 2
percent a year as real  interest rates  are brought down, he said.  Yen Drop  The yen slid in anticipation of more liquidity from the BOJ,
with the currency reaching its lowest level against the dollar
in 2 1/2 years. It was at 94.14 as of 5:14 p.m. in  Tokyo . The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  jumped 2.4 percent, bringing its rally
since mid-November to about 35 percent.  The ruling LDP needs support from other parties to win
confirmation for the nominations in the upper house of
Parliament, where it lacks a majority. Abe today informed his
coalition ally New Komeito of his picks, according to Komeito
head Natsuo Yamaguchi, speaking to reporters.  The opposition  Democratic Party  of Japan, the largest party
in the upper chamber, last week agreed to abandon a rule of
opposing nominees whose names had been reported in the press,
reducing the risk of Kuroda failing to win confirmation. Local
media including Kyodo and the Nikkei newspaper previously
reported Abe’s plans to name Kuroda.  Confirmation Efforts  The head of the smaller opposition Your Party said in a Feb.
14 interview that Kuroda would be an unacceptable choice due to
his background as a  finance ministry  bureaucrat. Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshihide Suga today told reporters that Abe hasn’t
made his decision yet.  Kuroda was the Finance Ministry’s senior official in charge
of foreign-exchange issues from 1999 to 2003, succeeding  Eisuke Sakakibara , who was known as “Mr. Yen” for the influence he
wielded over  currency markets . He also served as a special
adviser to the cabinet of Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi . He
has led the Asian Development Bank since 2005.  “He has a lot of experience in international finance at the
ADB and elsewhere,” Aso told reporters in  Seoul  today. “Picking
a person like that is a correct decision.”  Nakaso, 59, is a career  Bank of Japan (8301)  official who
currently serves as head of international affairs, a position in
which he liaises with other central banks, and a veteran of
Japan’s 1998 financial crisis. Iwata, 70, was a critic of BOJ
monetary policy as long ago as the early 1990s, according to a
research paper  published  in December by  Columbia Business
School ’s Center on Japanese Economy and Business.  Iwata, Nakaso  Having an academic as one deputy offers “intellectual
weight,” and a BOJ senior staff member as the other gives
“institutional continuity,” said Jerram.  Outgoing Governor Masaaki Shirakawa earlier this month said
he would step down on March 19, the same day as the expiration
of the terms of his two deputies, bringing forward his scheduled
departure by almost three weeks.  The new leadership team will complete an overhaul of the
central bank’s board after the former government placed Takahide Kiuchi, a former Nomura Securities Co. economist, and Takehiro Sato, previously of Morgan Stanly MUFG Securities Co., on the
nine-member panel.  Sato and Kiuchi in November voted for a more-expansionary
wording of the bank’s policy objectives. In January, the pair
dissented from adopting a 2 percent inflation target, as they
said setting the goal itself was unlikely to have a major impact
on inflation expectations, and because it was more important to
focus first on efforts to generate higher consumer prices.  Shirakawa Record  The BOJ policy board next meets on March 6-7, the last to
be overseen by Shirakawa, 63, who helped avert damage to Japan’s
financial system during the 2007-2009 global credit crisis and
in the aftermath of Japan’s record March 2011 earthquake, while
failing to defeat deflation. The central bank in January planned
to shift to open-ended asset purchases starting next year, with
no additional stimulus for 2013.  Kuroda said in a Feb. 11 interview that it was important to
end price declines because they cause households and businesses
to postpone spending and because they worsen the real debt
burden. He said Japan’s central bank has “really substantial
room” for further easing.  An advocate of an inflation target as high as 3 percent in
2002, Kuroda said this month that the current 2 percent goal is
“appropriate.” Abe pushed for a target during his campaign for
office ahead of December 2012 elections that were swept by his
party.  Asset Options  Kuroda said that the BOJ has the equivalent of trillions of
dollars of assets it could purchase to expand its balance sheet.
Iwata said in an interview last month that the best bet to
achieve 2 percent inflation is to increase the cash that
commercial lenders have at the central bank. Boosting the so-
called current account holdings would expand the monetary base.  The most likely option for additional stimulus in coming
months is purchases of longer-dated  government bonds , according
to analysts including Jerram and Barclays Plc’s Chotaro Morita.  “It seems likely that Mr. Kuroda and Mr. Iwata will judge
it inadequate to strengthen the BOJ’s monetary easing as an
extension of the current framework,” Morita wrote in a research
note today. “The new leaders will probably want to make a
visible change to JGB-buying policy.”  Foreign Bonds  One option considered last year by the LDP and advocated by
a one-time potential contender to succeed Shirakawa -- ex BOJ
Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata -- was purchases of foreign-
currency securities.  Abe last week backed away from the policy proposal after
Group of 20 nations pledged to refrain from targeting exchange
rates for competitive purposes, saying in parliament that such a
plan would be unnecessary under a new central bank chief.  The new central bank leadership will face an economy that
shrank for the past three quarters, and with no sign of an end
to deflation. Consumer  prices fell  in seven of eight months
through December.  A surge in the yen to a postwar high against the dollar by
late 2011 had undermined exporters including  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and
Nissan Motor Co. By December 2012, the number of manufacturing
jobs slid below 10 million for the first time since 1961.  The yen has dropped about 15 percent since mid-November,
when it began falling in anticipation of Abe winning the
election and forcing additional monetary stimulus. Kuroda said
this month that the currency is going through a “natural
adjustment” from an excessive value.  Risks Posed  Success in rekindling inflation may either stoke a rebound
in growth or add diminishing purchasing power as a new woe for
the indebted nation, the world’s third-largest economy.  “The market is moving and that’s making people happy, but
there are a lot of question marks,” Shunsuke Motani, a former
senior economist at Deutsche Bank AG and founder of independent
research firm Sphynx Investment, said in an interview last week.
“This isn’t the first time the BOJ has tried money printing: In
the early 2000s there was a roughly 70 percent increase in the
monetary base and it had absolutely no effect on prices.”  Besides Kuroda, a graduate of the University of Oxford and
Tokyo University, speculation over possible candidates for the
BOJ role has centered on people including Tokyo University’s
Takatoshi Ito and former BOJ deputy governors Kazumasa Iwata and
Toshiro Muto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  