-- Affymax Plunges After Recall of Omontys due to Reactions
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-25T13:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/takeda-affymax-recall-omontys-drug-after-serious-reactions.html
Affymax Inc. (AFFY)  fell as much as 87
percent after the company and partner  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) 
voluntarily recalled an anemia treatment for kidney dialysis
patients after reports of fatal reactions.  Affymax  declined  to $2.97 at 8:36 a.m. New York time, after
dropping to $2.14. The shares of the  Palo Alto , California-based
company had gained 61 percent in the 12 months through Feb. 22.  All lots of Omontys, sold in 10 milligram and 20 milligram
vials, have been recalled and health-care professionals have
been told that patients shouldn’t receive the medicine, the
companies said in a statement. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration , which approved Omontys in March, agreed to the
recall, they said.  “Our company is working with the FDA and Affymax and
decided to voluntarily recall Omontys to put patients’ safety
first,” said Kazumi Kobayashi, a spokesman for Osaka-based
Takeda. “We will swiftly provide information to patients and
health-care professionals.”  Affymax’s drug is used to alleviate anemia in kidney
dialysis patients, who can suffer from low red blood cell
counts. There have been 19 reports of anaphylaxis from U.S.
dialysis centers, three of which resulted in death, the FDA
said. Some patients were able to be resuscitated by doctors.  The fatal reactions amount to 0.02 percent of some 25,000
patients who have received first-dose injections of Omontys,
Takeda and Affymax said in the statement. About 0.2 percent of
patients have had reactions that needed medical intervention.  The FDA is alerting health-care providers and patients of
the recall, which is due to reports of anaphylaxis, a “serious
and life-threatening” allergic reaction, the agency said in a
statement yesterday.  “Serious and fatal” hypersensitivity reactions have been
reported in some patients within 30 minutes of receiving their
first doses of the drug by intravenous injection, the FDA said
in the statement. There have been no reports of reactions in
subsequent doses or in patients that have finished their
dialysis session, the agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ; 