-- Michigan’s Rogers Says U.S. Should Punish Cyberattacks
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-24T22:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/alabama-s-rogers-says-u-s-should-punish-china-for-cyberattacks.html
Representative Michael Rogers,
chairman of the U.S. House Intelligence Committee, urged the
federal government to retaliate against Chinese officials tied
to cyberattacks on American companies.  “You need to start impacting individuals’ ability who are
participating in this activity in  China  to get visas,” Rogers,
a Republican from  Michigan , said on ABC’s “This Week.”  Rogers’ comments follow a report from computer security
firm Mandiant Corp. of Alexandria,  Virginia , that said the
Chinese army is behind hacking attacks on U.S. companies. The
New York Times reported in January that its computer systems
were breached by Chinese hackers, a claim that China has denied.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  on Feb. 12 directed the
government to boost U.S. cybersecurity by developing voluntary
standards for companies operating critical infrastructure such
as power grids and air-traffic-control systems.  Rogers, during his appearance on ABC, said that the Chinese
government uses its “military and intelligence structure” to
steal intellectual property from American businesses. He added
that a “very large well-known” American manufacturing company
had its blueprints stolen.  Intellectual Property  “This has never happened in the history of the world,
where one nation steals the intellectual property to repurpose
it,” Rogers said.  New York  Representative Eliot Engel, the senior Democrat on
the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said “there’s a price to
pay” should China continue cyberattacks on the U.S. “We have
to make it very clear to them” that “this cannot be business
as usual,” he said.  Engel also said during the ABC interview that he will
introduce legislation authorizing President Obama to arm Syrian
rebels.  “I think it’s time to do that,” Engel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  