-- Algeria Resumes Some Operations at Plant Hit by Militants
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   S a l a h   S l i m a n i
-- 2013-02-24T17:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/algeria-resumes-some-operations-at-plant-hit-by-militants.html
Algeria  resumed some operations at
the In Amenas natural-gas complex more than a month after
militants killed 38 workers during an attack on the facility
near the border with  Libya .  Sonatrach, the state-run energy company, reopened a unit of
the plant with an annual output of 3 billion cubic meters, a
third of the location’s total capacity, Chief Executive Officer
Abdelhamid Zerguine said in an interview with state radio today.  Algeria is seeking to attract more international investment
in its oil and gas industries amid increasing domestic demand
for the resources.  The North African country’s gas exports dropped to 60
billion cubic meters a year, out of a total annual production of
80 billion cubic meters, due to higher domestic requirements,
Zerguine said. Algeria will establish its first offshore-
drilling project by the beginning of 2014 and in April will
initiate a liquefied natural gas output with a capacity of 4.7
million metric tons a year, Zerguine said.  The country also plans to build five oil refineries with a
combined annual capacity of 30 million tons a year by 2017, with
four of the plants each having a capacity of 5 million tons. A
fifth plant will be built offshore with a capacity of 10 million
tons to support exports, he said.  Algeria, whose current refining capacity is 22 million tons
a year, also plans to complete an upgrade of the Skikda refinery
by the end of June, Zerguine said. The facility in the east of
the country can process as much as 353,000 barrels of crude
daily, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Salah Slimani in Algiers at 
 sslimani2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  