-- Anastasiades Wins Cyprus Presidential Race, Exit Polls Show
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-02-24T16:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/anastasiades-wins-cyprus-presidential-race-exit-polls-show.html
Nicos Anastasiades, leader of
Cyprus’s main opposition Disy party, was poised to win his bid
to become the country’s seventh president as Cypriots voted to
choose a savior for their crisis-ravaged economy.  Anastasiades, 66, was seen winning between 58 percent and
62 percent of the vote, according to an exit poll by private
broadcaster ANT1 today. He got between 57.5 percent and 61.5
percent in a poll by state broadcaster RIK, between 57 percent
and 60 percent in a survey by private Mega TV and between 58.6
percent and 62.6 percent of the vote in a poll by Sigma.  Anastasiades, who was endorsed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, faced a run-off vote against Stavros Malas, 45, a former
health minister, after a first-round presidential election on
Feb. 17 failed to deliver an absolute winner. The two candidates
placed first and second respectively in that ballot.  Cypriots voted today for a new president who will have to
revive stalled talks with European partners on aid that is
needed to avert a financial meltdown. Cyprus, a European Union
member since 2004, has been negotiating for eight months with
the so-called troika of the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  over the terms
of a bailout that could equal the size of its near 18 billion-
euro ($24 billion) economy.  None of the four polls, which were published after voting
centers closed, gave Malas more than 43 percent of the vote.
Malas was backed by the communist Akel party of outgoing
President Demetris Christofias.  The country became in June the fifth euro-area member to
request international aid. It has been shut out of debt markets
for almost two years, with lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc 
and  Cyprus Popular Bank (CPB)  Plc losing 4.5 billion euros in  Greece ’s
debt restructuring last year. Cyprus needs the bailout to
recapitalize its lenders as well as to finance the government
over the next three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net 
Georgios Georgiou in Nicosia at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  