-- Beckham May Face Paris Saint-Germain’s Archrival in Debut
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-24T20:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/beckham-may-face-paris-saint-germain-s-archrival-in-debut-today.html
David Beckham could make his debut
for Paris Saint-Germain in French soccer against the team’s
archrival Marseille tonight.  The former Manchester United, Real Madrid and Los Angeles
Galaxy midfielder was named among the substitutes in coach Carlo Ancelotti’s squad for the game in Paris, one of the biggest
rivalries in European soccer. The match started at 9 p.m. local
time.  Earlier, Ancelotti said the 37-year-old former captain of
England is “capable of playing a full match.”.  “He will be available, but I don’t want to reveal the
team,” Ancelotti was cited as saying by Agence France-Presse.
“He has worked well and is in a good state physically and
mentally. He wants to play and he is in a condition to start.”  PSG leads the French league on goal difference from Lyon,
which beat Lorient 3-1 this afternoon. Marseille is five points
back in third place.  Beckham’s last competitive game was on Dec. 1 when he
helped the LA Galaxy beat the Houston Dynamo 3-1 to retain the
MLS Cup.  He’s on a five-month contract with PSG, which he joined at
the end of January.  The club, backed by an investment arm of the Qatari
government, has spent 250 million euros ($330 million) on
players including Zlatan Ibrahimovic,  Thiago Silva  and Ezequiel
Lavezzi as it seeks to join the world’s elite.  “I have played in a lot of big matches in my career, games
like AC Milan against Inter, Real Madrid against Barcelona, and
the Galaxy against Chivas,” Beckham told PSG’s website. “For
me, it is very exciting to play in another very special match.”  Beckham could come up against another English player, as
midfielder Joey Barton is on loan at Marseille from Queens Park
Rangers, currently bottom of the Premier League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 