-- Bringing Down Health-Care Costs Isn’t Always Complicated
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-24T23:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/bringing-down-health-care-costs-isn-t-always-complicated.html
Accustomed as we are to thinking of
hospitals as beneficent providers of lifesaving and often
charitable care, it comes as a shock to learn how many are
engaging in, not to put too fine a point on it, price gouging.  As Steven Brill shows in his  cover story  in this week’s
Time magazine, nonprofit hospitals, even more than for-profit
ones, chase 12 percent profit margins with eye-popping markups
on everything from cardio stress tests to gauze pads.  The U.S.  spends  more per capita on health care, almost
$9,000 a year, than any other country, yet it stands in the
 lowest quartile  for life expectancy of developed countries.
There is no doubt the U.S. health-care system is plagued by
warped incentives, overtreatment, poor quality of care and
administrative waste. Part of the value of Brill’s report is
that it exposes a problem easier to understand, if not easier to
solve: plain old overcharging.  The good news is that health-care economists know many ways
to bring prices down. To begin, make them transparent. Providers
of medical care charge widely  varying amounts  for the same
services, even within a single geographic area. Brill’s
reporting on hospital price lists -- called “chargemasters” --
explains why this happens.  Outrageous Prices  Chargemasters contain laughably high prices that hospital
administrators don’t even try to justify. (They don’t seem to
know how they were set to begin with, and argue that they’re
misleading because insurance companies always negotiate lower
ones.) Yet people without insurance, or with too little
insurance, often end up paying chargemaster prices. One woman
described in the Time article was billed more than $6,500 for CT
scans for which Medicare would have paid less than $1,000.
Another patient was billed $24 apiece for five-cent niacin
pills. This kind of price gouging should be outlawed.  If health-care payers -- Medicare, Medicaid, insurance
companies, public-employee health-care plans -- were to make
public the prices that they pay, then maybe fees for services,
equipment, facilities and medicines would fall. They could also
reveal how much their beneficiaries pay out of pocket. Aetna and
the state of  New Hampshire  have started doing this.  It is exactly this kind of transparency that will improve
the health-care system. Unfortunately, many contracts between
hospitals and insurers contain gag clauses prohibiting the
public release of pricing information. These gag clauses should
be prohibited.  This was one of several recommendations made last fall in
 an article  in the New England Journal of Medicine by a group of
health-care experts (including Bloomberg View columnist  Peter Orszag ) that address medical overcharging. Another good idea is
to use competitive bidding for all medical equipment, lab tests,
imaging services and other products. A requirement for Medicare
to do so for some equipment reduced spending on wheelchairs
alone by more than 42 percent in 2011.  The state health insurance exchanges that are to be set up
this fall will provide still another mechanism for attacking
prices. Insurance companies selling their products through these
online marketplaces should be required to offer at least one
“tiered” plan that would give people lower copayments in return
for using providers with a record of charging reasonable prices
for high-quality health care.  Price Control  Another strategy against overcharging is for all insurers,
not just Medicare and Medicaid, to bar doctors from referring
patients for medical tests at facilities in which they have some
financial involvement.  In a similar vein, Medicare should eliminate the conflict
of interest that’s inherent in having doctor payment rates be so
heavily influenced by the  American Medical Association ’s
Relative Value Scale Update Committee -- a 31-member group that
is dominated by specialists, with only one seat reserved for a
primary-care doctor. Medicare accepts almost nine out of 10 of
this committee’s recommendations, according to  a study  published
in Health Affairs. The committee should instead investigate how
physician services are priced.  Of course, the best way to set medical prices would be the
same way prices are set in any well-functioning marketplace: by
what customers are willing to pay. Ideally, hospitals, clinics,
doctors and all other providers would  compete for patient
dollars  by providing the highest-quality, lowest-cost care. In
the U.S. system, Medicare, Medicaid and insurance companies foot
most of the bills. So it is these payers that need to keep a
sharper eye on prices.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 