-- Bulgarian President to Make Last Tries to Avert Snap Poll
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-25T13:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/bulgarian-president-to-make-last-try-to-avert-snap-poll.html
Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev
will make two more attempts to find parties willing to form a
new Cabinet and avert early elections after outgoing Premier
Boyko Borissov’s party refused.  Plevneliev will ask the Socialists to cobble together a new
administration on Feb. 27, and if that fails the ethnic Turk
Movement for Rights and Freedoms on March 1, though all the
Balkan country’s parties have said they prefer a snap vote. If
the move fails, the president has said he’ll call a special
ballot for late April or May.  The ruling party “Gerb rejected the mandate to form a
government,” Plevneliev told reporters in Sofia today. Borissov
quit Feb. 19 after street violence broke out in the European
Union’s poorest member. “If all three political forces refuse”
on March 4 “I will make a statement, clearly outlining the
priorities of the caretaker government. The members of the
caretaker government will probably be named between next
Wednesday and Friday.”  Bulgaria  is experiencing political turbulence after anti-
austerity protests that have sunk prime ministers across  Europe 
forced out Borissov, a former special-forces soldier elected on
an anti-corruption platform in 2009. His government focused on
budget cuts to ward off bailouts and turbulent bond markets,
boosting unemployment to the highest in eight years.  Mass Demonstrations  Thousands marched yesterday in the capital Sofia and
several other cities including Plovdiv and Varna opening a third
week of protests against high utility bills, low wages and
corruption. Dozens were injured in clashes between police and
demonstrators last week, who pelted the parliament building and
officers with stones, paint and firecrackers, smashed windows
and damaged cars. More protests are planned for 5:30 p.m. in
Sofia.  Protesters handed Plevneliev a five-page declaration
yesterday with their demands ranging from nationalization of
power distributors controlled by Prague-based CEZ AS, Austria’s
 EVN AG (EVN)  and Energo-Pro, to imposing a ban on payment of December
utility bills and changing the constitution and the political
system. In a brief address to protesters, the president pledged
to set up a Public Council with representatives of the
protesters to discuss their demands.  “Bulgaria is under the spotlight not only from its
citizens, but also from Europe and all of the world,”
Plevneliev said. “I expect responsible behavior from all and
everyone. This week is very important.”  Plevneliev said he will convene the National Security
Council tomorrow to ensure law and order are observed and
address Parliament on Feb. 28.  ‘Best Option’  “The best option now is to go through the consultations
quickly, schedule early elections and appoint an interim
Cabinet, which in itself will be a difficult task,” Daniel
Smilov a political scientist at the Center for Liberal
Strategies in Sofia said on Feb. 22.  The benchmark  Sofix (SOFIX)  stock index fell 1.09 percent to 383.45
at 2:08 p.m. in Sofia, after it plunged 2.7 percent on Feb. 20,
its biggest drop since Oct. 30. The yield on Eurobonds maturing
in July 2017 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage points, to
2.1135 percent. The yield rose 10 basis points on Feb. 20 to the
highest this year.  ‘Negative Implications’  The fall of Bulgaria’s Cabinet “has negative implications
for fiscal consolidation,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report today. “Whichever party comes into power next, it will
be mindful of voter opposition to continued austerity and a
desire for stimulus spending and increased welfare payments and
subsidies.”  Higher electricity and heating bills caused by cold weather
combined with low wages and rising  joblessness  triggered the
nationwide demonstrations.  Bulgarians have lived under strict fiscal and financial
rules since 1997, when a crisis closed one-third of the
country’s banks.  Gross domestic product  expanded 0.5 percent
from a year earlier in the three months through December, the
consecutive 10th quarter of growth. Unemployment rose to 11.9
percent in January, the highest since April 2005.  Minister Fired  Borissov fired Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov , who had won
EU and International Monetary Fund plaudits for tight spending
controls. Borissov’s government froze incomes and delayed value-
added-tax reimbursements to businesses, which forced many of
them into bankruptcy, fueling unemployment and poverty,
according to Bozhidar Danev, chairman of the Bulgarian
Industrial Chamber.  The cost of insuring the country’s debt with credit-default
swaps rose 2.34 percent to 132.9 at 11:45 a.m. in Sofia today,
the highest intraday level since Oct. 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness
worsen, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should an issuer fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Government debt was 18.7 percent of GDP at the end of the
third quarter, the EU’s second lowest behind  Estonia , compared
with the 27-nation bloc’s average of 85.1 percent, according to
Eurostat. The government wants to keep this year’s budget
deficit at 1.3 percent of GDP, the same level as last year.  Policy Direction  Bulgaria will exceed Moody’s budget-deficit estimate of 1.8
percent of GDP, the rating service said today.  “The lack of a fully functioning government creates
uncertainty about policy direction until a new government
settles in, damaging investor and  consumer confidence  and
undermining the 2013 outlook for an already weak economy,”
Moody’s said.  Borissov’s Gerb party, which has 117 lawmakers in the 240-
seat assembly, won’t participate in an interim Cabinet, he said.  The opposition Socialists control 40 seats and the ethnic
Turks’ Movement for Rights and Freedoms, a former coalition
partner of the Socialists, has 35 seats. Borissov has previously
relied on the support of some of the 24 independent lawmakers.  “Obviously we are moving toward a caretaker government,”
Plevneliev told reporters in Sofia on Feb. 22. “The capacity of
the 41st National Assembly is depleted at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  