-- McCain Says Hagel Not Qualified for Defense, Sees Full Vote
-- B y   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-24T22:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/mccain-says-hagel-not-qualified-for-defense-sees-senate-vote.html
U.S. Senator John McCain said Chuck Hagel isn’t qualified to be secretary of defense while
predicting that the former lawmaker will receive a Senate vote,
barring any further disclosures about his past statements.  “I do not believe that Chuck Hagel, who is a friend of
mine, is qualified to be secretary of defense,” Republican
McCain said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program today.  Asked whether there is anything standing in the way of a
Senate vote on the former senator’s nomination, McCain
responded: “I think it will happen, barring some additional
revelation concerning his comments about Israel and all those
other really unfortunate things he said in the past.”  Democrats, who have a majority in the Senate, scheduled a
vote for Feb. 26 on Hagel’s confirmation. McCain said on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program Feb. 17 that Hagel “will probably
have the votes necessary” to win confirmation as senators
return from a week-long break.  Hagel, 66, a Nebraska Republican who served two terms in
the Senate, has faced challenges from members of his own party
because of his past opposition to unilateral sanctions against
 Iran , his comment in 2006 about the influence of what he called
“the Jewish lobby,” and his statements against the U.S. troop
buildup in 2007 that hastened the end of the Iraq war.  Effectiveness Questioned  Tom Coburn, a Republican Senator from  Oklahoma , said that
Hagel may receive confirmation now that McCain and other
opponents of the nomination are willing to allow a vote to
proceed. Even so, Coburn questioned whether Hagel could be
effective, given that at least 35 Republicans are still expected
to vote against him.  “That sends a signal to our allies as well as our foes
that he doesn’t have broad support” as secretary of defense,
Coburn said on “Fox News Sunday” today.  Some Republicans pushed to delay consideration of Hagel’s
nomination partly to press the Democratic Obama administration
for more information about its response to the Sept. 11, 2012,
attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, that
killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  McCain, asked about the possibility he would put a “hold”
on the nomination of John Brennan to become director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, said he is still seeking
information from the nominee about the Benghazi attack as well
as his position on the interrogation technique known as
“waterboarding.”  Examine Options  “I think you examine your options when you decide” on the
information, McCain said. “Look, I don’t want to put a hold on
anybody, but the American people deserve answers about
Benghazi.”  The White House will provide the Senate Intelligence
Committee with more documents related to Benghazi, including e-
mail messages, the Associated Press reported Feb. 22, citing an
unidentified congressional aide.  In a letter to McCain and two other Republican senators
earlier this month, White House counsel  Kathryn Ruemmler  said
that the administration had cooperated with Congress to provide
“an extensive amount of information” about the Benghazi
attack, including 10,000 pages of documents.  McCain is a senior member of the Armed Services Committee,
which after a party-line vote on Feb. 12 sent the Hagel
nomination to the full Senate for consideration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Costelloe at   kcostelloe@bloomberg.net .
Miles Weiss at 
 Mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  