-- China Investment Delay Spurs Greenland Independence Calls
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-02-24T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/china-investment-delay-spurs-greenland-independence-calls.html
Chinese interest in  Greenland ’s
mineral wealth is reigniting the Arctic island’s campaign to
sever ties with Denmark after almost 200 years of colonial rule.  The calls for independence follow Danish opposition to
Greenland’s plan to import Chinese workers and capital to help
with its mineral extraction. And as lawmakers in Denmark, which
controls Greenland’s foreign policy, debate whether to allow the
island full control over its resources, Greenland’s second-
biggest party, Siumut, last week proposed breaking with the
Scandinavian nation as islanders prepare for March 12 elections.  The world’s most scarcely populated nation is trying to
attract offshore funds to help harness its energy and mineral
wealth as global warming disrupts fishing patterns and threatens
its main source of income. The nation of 58,000, which gets
about half its  exports  from shrimp, is also propped up by about
$600 million in subsidies from  Denmark .  “The legal process has been put on hold until the
Greenland election is done,” Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said in an interview last week. “My belief is
that both Denmark and Greenland can become stronger because of
the commonwealth, not despite of it.”  Yet Greenlanders are eager to prevent political delays from
Denmark hampering their dream of tapping their mineral wealth.
The island is struggling to get projects off the ground after
the financial crisis curtailed investments. Oil and gas
explorers have spent more than $1 billion on failed attempts to
discover oil, further jeopardizing continued investor interest.  Long Path  “There is still some way to go before one sees the first
minerals being shipped out of Greenland,” Joergen Huno
Rasmussen, chief executive officer at FLSmidth & Co. A/S, a
Copenhagen-based company that makes machinery for the  mining
industry , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “I don’t
expect any extraction to start for at least two to four years.”  Among companies that have oil exploration licenses off
Greenland are  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
ConocoPhillips. Shell, ConocoPhillips and others last year
carried out seismic studies to gauge where to drill. Edinburgh-
based  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  drilled eight unsuccessful wells in 2009
to 2011.  There’s only one active mining project, a gold mine, and
there have been no production licenses granted since 2008,
according to Joergen T. Hammeken-Holm, head of the license
Department at the Bureau of Minerals and Petroleum in Nuuk.  Oil Licenses  The government expects to hand out two exploration licenses
this year, including one to  London Mining Plc. (LOND)  The company is
looking for funding for its $2 billion Isua iron-ore project
north of the capital, which local authorities estimate will
create 700 permanent jobs.  “Greenland will need many more mines like the Isua project
to gain economic independence, while it’ll only take one single
major oil discovery,” Finance Minister Maliina Abelsen said in
an e-mailed response to questions last month. “None of these
scenarios seems likely in the short term.”  This year, the home rule government also hopes to grant a
license for rare earth elements to Tanbreez Mining Greenland
A/S, a unit of Australia’s Rimbal Pty Ltd.  The deposit has been estimated to contain more than 4
billion tons of ore, enough for “several hundred years of
production,” according to a report last year from Greenland’s
mineral agency.  Harsh Environment  While the  U.S. Geological Survey  estimates that waters
around the island could hold 50 billion barrels of oil and gas,
the area is also among the “highest-risk exploration regions in
the world” and has a higher threshold for commercial finds
because of the harsh environment, said analyst Nathan Piper at
 RBC Capital Markets , which has a sector-perform recommendation
on the Cairn share.  Although explorers are turning to other basins than those
where Cairn failed to make a commercial find, no drilling is
planned before 2014, Piper said by phone from  London .  “We’re very much at the very start of the exploration
process in Greenland,” he said.  Local authorities target five to 10 active operating mines,
including two so-called large-scale projects, according to a
2025 fiscal plan published last year. The plan calls for half of
all workers in the natural resource industry to be Greenlanders
and for local businesses to become subcontractors on all mining
projects.  The Isua project, 150 kilometers north of Nuuk, will create
jobs for 2,100 Greenlanders during its construction, according
to government estimates.  Veto Power  As part their plan to lure investments, Prime Minister
Kuupik Kleist and Business Minister Ove Karl Berthelsen met with
 China ’s Land and Resources Minister Xu Shaoshi three times in
2011 and 2012. Berthelsen has also held talks with  China
Development Bank  in Tanjing. Kleist last year met with then
South Korean President Lee Myung-bak and that country’s foreign
minister.  “Hopefully it isn’t the only option, but it’s a very big
opportunity,” the Danish premier said of Greenland’s natural
resources. “Obviously fishing is the biggest part of the
Greenland economy, while there are only so many options to
capitalize on fishing, and therefore the Greenlanders are
looking for other options, and mining, including large scale
projects, is what they’re trying to build the economy on going
forward.”  Still, the home rule’s efforts to attract Chinese cash and
labor have raised concern in Denmark, which still has power to
block legislation.  Arctic Politics  In 2009, nine of 10 Danish parliamentarians backed giving
natural resource rights to Greenland as the island achieved
greater autonomy. The anti-immigration Danish People’s Party
plans to vote against and the Liberal has said it may oppose new
immigration laws that would allow companies to bring in foreign
workers for as long as six months.  “It’s not an unimportant issue we have on our hands,”
Claus Hjort-Frederiksen, the former Liberal Party finance
minister, told parliament in Copenhagen on Jan. 23. “This may
allow for 3,000-4,000 underpaid Chinese miners to arrive in
Greenland. There are geopolitical concerns. Chinese interest in
the Arctic is no minor matter.”  Denmark is also concerned about what will be mined. A poll
by newspaper Berlingske showed that 64 percent of Danes agree,
or mostly agree, that Denmark should stick to its zero-tolerance
policy on Uranium mining within its territories.  El Dorado  Kleist said any exploration in Greenland must be done on
commercial terms, without state funding and be open to all
nations. His government refused to disqualify Chinese mining
investments even after several European Parliament members asked
for the home rule to ban Chinese mining companies, Kleist said.  Thorning-Schmidt told parliament last week she was “very
reluctant” to invest Danish money in Greenland mining. For now,
the island itself is playing down expectations that mining might
uncover the next El Dorado.  “The sense that gold is abundant and Greenlanders are all
wearing turbans and thousands of Chinese are on the streets of
Nuuk simply isn’t true,” Kleist said. “All companies are
welcome to join our efforts, no matter where they’re based, as
long as they do it on commercial terms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  