-- China’s Leaders Plan Government Revamp as Xi Set to Take Reins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-24T16:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/china-s-new-leaders-plan-first-government-overhaul-in-five-years.html
China ’s new leaders will this week
consider plans to revamp the central government as part of
efforts to streamline bureaucracy and boost an economy that’s
recovering from the slowest growth in 13 years.  The Communist Party’s 25-member Politburo endorsed draft
reforms that will be discussed by the broader  Central Committee 
on Feb. 26-28, the official  Xinhua News Agency  reported on Feb.
23 without giving details. The changes will be approved at the
annual session of the nation’s legislature next month when  Li Keqiang , the party’s No. 2, succeeds  Wen Jiabao  as premier and
General Secretary Xi Jinping takes over from  Hu Jintao  as
president.  The revamp is meant to reduce red tape in the world’s
second-biggest economy as it grapples with the need to boost
consumption and tackle issues including environmental
degradation and corruption that are spurring social unrest. Xi
and Li, though, will face entrenched interests that may limit
their ability to revamp key ministries, said Ding Xueliang, a
professor at  Hong Kong University  of Science and Technology who
teaches contemporary Chinese politics.  “Whenever a new leadership takes over, they try to push
forward with government restructuring but it’s very difficult
because everyone is vying for power and no one wants to give it
up,” Ding said. “Xi and Li may only be able to push through a
watered-down version of what they want.”  In its Feb. 23 report, Xinhua said Politburo members agreed
reform should be carried out in an “active yet prudent, step by
step manner.”  Impede Growth  If the changes to the  State Council , or Cabinet, go ahead,
that might be a “sign that this new leadership know their task
now is to produce economic growth through efficiency and not
just raw economic activity, and the system as it is will impede
that,” said Kerry Brown, a former British diplomat in Beijing
who is now a professor of Chinese politics at the  University of
Sydney .  The State Council is the country’s top executive and
administrative body and includes the premier, four vice
premiers, five state councilors and ministers in charge of 27
 ministries  and commissions. Organizations under the State
Council include the ministries of defense and finance, the
National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of
China.  The changes, which will be unveiled during the National
People’s Congress that starts in Beijing on March 5, coincides
with the completion of a once-a-decade  power transfer  to a new
generation of leaders that started in November. Institutional
reforms have been announced every five years since the 1980s.  Super Ministries  The Communist Party has been attempting to adapt the
bureaucracy to the changing structure of the economy as it moves
from a system based on central planning to one driven by the
market.  Changes introduced in 2008 included five new so-called
super ministries: the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology ; the Ministry of Human Resources and  Social Security ;
the Ministry of Environmental Protection; the Ministry of
Housing and Urban-Rural Construction; and the Ministry of
Transport. A National Energy Administration was also set up
under the NDRC, the top economic planning body, which was
stripped of some of its powers.  The scandal-hit Ministry of Railways may be the biggest
casualty of the latest revamp.  Caijing  magazine said on its website on Feb. 23 it will be
merged into the Ministry of Transport. New York-based  Duowei
News , which accurately predicted in July that the Politburo
Standing Committee would be reduced to seven members from nine,
said on its website last week that the transport ministry will
take over railway construction and network planning, while the
railway ministry’s operational units will be separated into a
new company.  Food Safety  The breakup of the ministry, a body accused of being run
like an independent kingdom, may have been hastened by the July
2011 crash of a high-speed train that killed 40 people and the
removal of Minister  Liu Zhijun  in February that year on
allegations of corruption.  Caijing said the Ministry of Civil Affairs may widen its
responsibilities over social management and there will be a
nationwide reform of  food safety .  The country has been rocked by food scandals, most notably
in 2008 when infant formula tainted with melamine killed at
least six infants and sickened about 300,000 others.  Blame, Punish  The reforms may help the party improve accountability and
responsibility, according to Ding. “Whenever there’s a crisis
or a scandal, top leaders always face the dilemma of who to
blame, who to punish and who will fix the problem,” he said.
“So if you want a higher level of administrative efficiency and
accountability to you have to make these reforms.”  Institutional reform is needed to support growth, former
central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said at the  World Economic Forum 
in Tianjin, China, in September. “Dividends” from previous
institutional reforms are running out, he said.  China’s expansion, which averaged an annual 10.2 percent
over the past two decades, may slow to 6.5 percent by 2020 as
investment moderates, the population ages and labor supply
tightens, JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated in a Feb. 1 report. The
economy grew 7.8 percent in 2012, the least since 1999.  Speaking during November’s Party Congress that saw Xi
appointed general secretary, Li Jiange, head of the country’s
biggest investment bank, said new leaders must make changes as
government intervention, ranging from excessive regulation to
rigid price controls, has become “unbearable.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net ;
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 