-- Correlation at 2008 Low Leaves European Stocks Trailing
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-02-25T16:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/correlation-at-four-year-low-leaves-europe-stocks-missing-rally.html
Euro-region stocks are missing this
year’s global rally as four years of lockstep moves in markets
break down amid diverging outlooks for economic growth.  Correlation between the  Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E)  Index and the  MSCI
All-Country (MXWD)  World Index of 45 developed and  emerging markets  has
fallen to 77 percent, the lowest level since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The European gauge has dropped 0.2
percent in 2013, hurt most by utilities  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  RWE AG. (RWE) 
Benchmark equity indexes in the U.S., U.K., Japan, Switzerland,
Sweden and Australia gained an average 8.5 percent.  While bonds of Europe’s most indebted nations lead global
debt markets and the euro strengthens as concerns about a
breakup of the single currency evaporate, the region’s stocks
reflect  economies  in a fifth straight quarterly contraction.
Investors should sell euro-area equities as  European Central
Bank support  shrinks while elections in  Italy  may derail
austerity efforts, according to Fidelity Worldwide Investment
and Pictet & Cie.  “The outlook for European equities is discouraging,”
Supriya Menon, who helps oversee $408 billion as a multi-asset
strategist at Pictet in Geneva and favors Japanese shares, said
in a phone interview on Feb. 21. “Stock valuations are high,
earnings forecasts are overly optimistic and the  European
Central Bank  is beginning to reduce its balance sheet.”  Diverging Economies  The 120-day correlation between the Euro Stoxx 50 and the
MSCI All-Country has fallen from a near-record 90 percent in
April 2012. The relationship averaged 86 percent from 2009
through 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A reading of 100
percent would indicate moves are in lockstep, while minus 100
percent would show they always move in opposite directions.  While the gauge of stocks in the 17-nation euro area rose
0.6 percent last week, it’s off to the worst start to a year
since 2008 compared with the rest of the world. Shares fell as
Italy’s former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who presided
over a slump in  government bonds  that sent yields to a euro-era
record in November 2011, seeks a comeback in today’s elections.  The Euro Stoxx 50 gained 0.8 percent at the close of
trading, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4
percent as of 11:56 a.m. in New York.  The MSCI All-Country gauge slipped 0.5 percent last week,
trimming its 2013 advance to 4.1 percent. The measure has surged
105 percent since dropping to a six-year low in March 2009 as
policy makers from Washington to Frankfurt to Tokyo bought
unprecedented amounts of bonds to revive their economies. The
 Federal Reserve  has injected more than $2.3 trillion into the
financial system, and the  Bank of Japan  is providing over $800
billion of support.  Risks, Rewards  The ECB flooded markets with about 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of three-month loans via so-called Longer-Term
Refinancing Operations, or LTROs, last year, helping spur a 14
percent gain in the Euro Stoxx 50.  While the Fed and BOJ are continuing to add liquidity to
their economies, ECB funds are already being drained from
Europe’s financial system. Banks will have repaid  212.3 billion
euros  of the emergency cash by Feb. 27, according to figures
last week from the Frankfurt-based ECB.  “The countries that have been doing more monetary easing
have seen better equity performance,” Juan Nevado, who helps
manage $330 billion at M&G Investments in London, said in an
interview on Feb. 20. “Euro strength and LTRO repayments are
effectively a tightening of monetary policy.”  Bonds Climb  Even as euro-area equities have fallen this year, the
region’s currency and the bonds of its most indebted nations
have rallied. Greece’s debt returned 7.4 percent through Feb.
21, for the best performance among indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Spanish bonds gained 2.2 percent as the  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  gauge of
equities fell 1.9 percent. Italy’s notes climbed 0.6 percent,
compared with a 1.6 percent drop in the FTSE MIB stocks index.  The euro appreciated 2 percent through Feb. 22, the third-
biggest gain among 10 developed-market currencies, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. It strengthened
7.7 percent against the yen in 2013 and is little changed versus
the  U.S. dollar .  For Alec Letchfield, who helps oversee $416 billion as
chief investment officer for the Wealth division at HSBC Global
Asset Management in London, the region’s shares are cheap given
the steps policy makers are taking to keep the currency union
together. The Euro Stoxx 50 trades at 10.9 times estimated
earnings, compared with a multiple of 13.7 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 14.8 for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
Bloomberg data show.  Valuations Focus  “You have more chances of upside coming through than in
other regions,” Letchfield, whose team holds more European
equities than are represented in global benchmarks, said in a
phone interview on Feb. 20. Once “people realize that any
prospects of euro problems are not there anymore, then they’ll
focus on valuations, and they’ll see that actually those
valuations are too low,” he said.  Stocks in the euro region will beat U.S. equities in the
remaining 10 months of 2013, because American stocks already
climbed 6.3 percent as measured by the  S&P 500 , according to
analysts’ predictions. The Euro Stoxx 50 will climb 9.3 percent
through the end of the year from the Feb. 22 close, according to
a Bloomberg poll of four strategists who track the gauge. That
compares with an estimated 1.8 percent gain for the S&P 500 in a
separate survey.  Europe Shrinking  The euro-area economy contracted in every quarter of 2012
and will continue to shrink for the first nine months of this
year, according to 32 economists’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. U.S. gross domestic product will grow 1.8 percent in
2013, Switzerland’s will expand 1.2 percent and Japan’s will
increase 0.95 percent, the data show.  The euro region’s risks “far outweigh the potential
rewards,” Michael Howell, the founding managing director at
CrossBorder Capital in London who correctly forecast that the
U.S. housing-market outlook would lead to losses in equities in
2007, said in an interview on Feb. 19.  “Right now, it’s one of the worst times to buy Europe,”
said Howell, who studies fund flows and helps oversee $350
million of assets. “The ECB should expand its balance sheet
massively. What you’ve got is the euro-zone swimming against the
tide.”  Iberdrola, RWE  Companies from Bilbao-based Iberdrola, Spain’s largest
electricity company, to RWE in Essen, Germany’s second-biggest
utility, have  led losses  in the Euro Stoxx 50 this year as euro-
area manufacturing contracted for a  19th straight month  in
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Iberdrola and RWE have each lost 11 percent. Shares of  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  have also slumped 11 percent as the biggest Dutch
financial-services company reported fourth-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the Paris-based
former phone monopoly, has dropped 9.8 percent as full-year net
income sank 79 percent.  Sales for Euro Stoxx 50 companies will drop 1.6 percent in
2013 from last year while S&P 500 revenue will climb 3 percent,
according to more than 10,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Companies in the European gauge will post combined
profit that is 30 percent below the 2007 peak, while those in
the U.S. will exceed that level by 31 percent, the data show.  In addition to the shrinking economy, any setback to
efforts by Italy or Spain to cut budget deficits is likely to
hurt European stocks, according to Pictet’s Menon.  Italian Vote  Italy’s election, in its second day today, may end Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s government, which has overseen a decline
in two-year note yields to 1.66 percent from 8.12 percent since
succeeding Berlusconi in November 2011.  Italy may be left with a hung parliament as partial results
suggested Berlusconi may have built a blocking minority in the
Senate to deny outright victory to Pier Luigi Bersani. Prime
ministers require control of both houses of parliament.  Spain’s  Mariano Rajoy  faces corruption allegations that
threaten to undermine his austerity drive. The prime minister
denied reports in El Pais newspaper that he received more than
250,000 euros in illegal cash payments.  The European Commission cut its forecast for the  euro-area
economy  on Feb. 22. Gross domestic product will decline 0.3
percent this year, compared with a November prediction of 0.1
percent growth, the Brussels-based organization predicted.
Unemployment will climb to 12.2 percent, up from the previous
estimate of 11.8 percent and 11.4 percent last year, it said.  For  Trevor Greetham , who helps manage $240 billion as
director of  asset allocation  at Fidelity Worldwide in London,
the economic outlook makes the euro area the least attractive
region globally.  “We remain very underweight Europe,” Greetham, who
recommends buying S&P 500 futures and selling contracts on the
Euro Stoxx 50, said at a presentation on Feb. 13. The region
will have “sub-par economic growth for years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  