-- Cuba’s Raul Castro Says This Five-Year Term to Be His Last
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-02-25T15:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/cuban-president-castro-says-he-ll-step-down-after-five-years-1-.html
Cuban President Raul Castro said he
won’t seek another term after being re-elected yesterday for
five years, signaling an end to the Castros’ rule over the
communist island by 2018.  Miguel Diaz-Canel, 52, was chosen as first-vice president
by Cuban lawmakers, which would put him next in line to be
president.  “This will be my ultimate mandate,” Castro said in a
speech yesterday to the National Assembly, joined by his
brother, Fidel. The decision “represents a defining step in
shaping the future direction of the country through gradual and
orderly transfer to new generations of top leaders.”  Castro, 81, also called for term limits and said there
should be a “maximum” age for those who hold power, without
specifying what that would be. While another successor may yet
emerge as Cuba’s next ruler, Castro is grooming younger leaders
who may offer different policies from the country’s traditional
party members, said Tomas Bilbao of the Cuba Study Group.  “Castro has essentially disqualified the historical
commanders of the revolution,” Bilbao, who heads the
Washington-based organization that seeks to change U.S. policy
toward Cuba and encourage a market-based economy on the island,
said in a phone interview today. “We need to be prepared for a
Cuban government without the Castros.”  Diaz-Canel was born a year after the Castro brothers and
outgoing first vice president Jose Ramon Machado Ventura toppled
the Fulgencio Batista dictatorship in 1959. Having earned an
electrical engineering degree, Diaz-Canel served with the
communist party’s ruling committee since 1991 and headed the
Higher Education Ministry before his promotion to vice
president.  Castro has initiated measures to open Cuba’s economy after
he assumed the presidency from his brother in 2008, including
loosening of property laws and controls prohibiting private
enterprise such as taxi and mobile-phone companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  