-- CVC Said to Seek 44% More for Matahari After Aeon Walks Away
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-25T03:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/cvc-said-to-seek-44-more-than-aeon-s-bid-for-retailer-matahari.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. may ask
equity investors to pay more for PT Matahari Department Store
than a tentative bid for the retailer by Aeon Co. that was later
retracted, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Aeon proposed making an offer of about $2.6 billion last
month for Matahari, CVC’s biggest investment in  Southeast Asia ,
one of the people said, asking not to be identified because the
matter is private. A 40 percent stake may be sold for as much as
$1.5 billion in a stock offering, five people with knowledge of
the matter said last week, valuing the whole Indonesian company
at as much as 44 percent more than the Aeon offer.  Aeon decided to withdraw its non-binding bid, made on Jan.
15, because the $3.5 billion enterprise value sought by CVC for
the asset was too high, according to a Feb. 9 letter sent by
Aeon to the fund and seen by  Bloomberg News .  Japan ’s largest retailer indicated in a Feb. 4 meeting that
it was unable to meet CVC’s expectations for the price, Masaaki Toyoshima, an executive at Aeon’s business development unit,
wrote in the letter. The private equity firm’s asking price was
equivalent to 15 times Matahari’s estimated earnings before
interest, depreciation and amortization for 2013, he wrote.  CVC is also seeking about $3 billion this year in its
fourth Asia fund, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  A
successful divestment and returning money to earlier investors
may help raise those funds.  High Growth  Aeon’s stance hasn’t changed since its Jan. 25 statement,
spokesman Tomohiro Itosaka said today. The Japanese company had
at that time said it wasn’t considering buying Matahari. An
official at CVC in  Asia  on Feb. 22 declined to comment on the
valuations and the fundraising plans.  The British fund, which began investing in Matahari in
2010, is valuing the asset at about 25 times to 30 times its
estimated 2013 profit for the stock offering, one of the people
said. The price-to-earnings ratio, which exceeds that of most
Indonesian retailers, was set at that level because the
company’s annualized profit will probably grow more than 40
percent over the next three years, the person said.  Matahari’s valuation is “not that cheap,” said Harry Su,
the Jakarta-based head of research at PT Bahana Securities.
Salaries and rental expenses account for 60 percent of operating
expenses for Matahari, and an increase in minimum wages may put
pressure on the company’s profit growth, he said.  Rivals’ Valuations  Earnings on a per-share basis at  PT Ramayana Lestari
Sentosa (RALS) , the biggest Indonesian department store by floor space,
are forecast to grow at least 14 percent annually for two years,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  PT Mitra
Adiperkasa (MAPI) , which operates Starbucks Corp. and Domino’s Pizza
Inc. outlets across  Indonesia , will expand by about 25 percent,
the data show.  Ramayana is trading at about 17.5 times estimated earnings
for this year, while Mitra is trading at 21.7 times, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Robinson Department Store Pcl (ROBINS) , based in Bangkok, is
forecast to grow 27 percent this year, the data show. The stock
is trading at about 30.7 times estimated profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  