-- Cyclone Threatens Western Australia as Floods Strike East
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-24T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/cyclone-threatens-western-australia-as-floods-strike-east.html
Western Australia’s  iron-ore 
operations are bracing for a  severe tropical cyclone  crossing
the coast early this week, as flooding forced evacuations in
towns in the eastern state of New South Wales.  A tropical low off the coast of northwestern Australia will
probably become a cyclone overnight, the Bureau of Meteorology
said yesterday on its website. There’s a high risk it will cross
the Pilbara coast as a severe tropical cyclone tomorrow or Feb.
27, it said.  The Pilbara, the world’s biggest exporting region of iron
ore, is home to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group’s mines
and Port Hedland, the world’s biggest bulk export facility. In
addition to high winds, cyclones can bring widespread rainfall
disrupting mining. The tropical low may become a category 3
cyclone, the bureau said, potentially bringing very destructive
winds.  “Widespread very heavy rainfall is expected during Tuesday
and Wednesday and is likely to lead to major flooding in the De
Grey catchment,” the weather bureau said on its website.
“Significant flooding in the Fortescue is also likely.”  Port Hedland  suspended inbound shipping and started
anchorage evacuation yesterday as a result of the bad-weather
system, the port authority said in an e-mailed statement.  In the east, two people were confirmed dead as a result of
flooding caused by a slow-moving low pressure system that has
made its way down the coast over the past few days. About 20,000
people have been isolated in the north and mid-north coast of
New South Wales, the  emergency service  said yesterday on its
 website . The weather bureau has issued flood warnings for 15
rivers.  Evacuation Orders  Evacuation orders are in place for several towns, including
Kempsey, Port Macquarie and Bellingen on the state’s mid-north
coast. Storms also damaged homes and cut electricity in Sydney.  Australia  experienced record temperatures that triggered
wildfires in southern and eastern states in January. In the same
month, New South Wales and Queensland were hit by floods that
forced thousands of people to flee their homes and caused
millions of dollars in damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  