-- Cypriots Hand Anastasiades Mandate to Secure Financial Rescue
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-02-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/cypriots-hand-anastasiades-mandate-to-secure-financial-rescue.html
Nicos Anastasiades defeated opponent
Stavros Malas by the biggest margin in 30 years to become
Cyprus’s seventh president and begin the process of steering the
country away from economic ruin.  Anastasiades, 66, head of the main opposition Democratic
Rally party, won 57.5 percent of the vote, compared with 42.5
percent for Malas, who was backed by the communist Akel party of
outgoing president Demetris Christofias. The two faced off after
a first-round vote on Feb. 17 failed to deliver an outright
victory to Anastasiades.  The new president, who is backed by German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, is charged with reviving stalled talks with
European partners on aid needed to save the island from a
financial meltdown. Cyprus needs aid that could equal the size
of its near 18 billion-euro ($24 billion) economy to rescue its
banks and finance the government over the next three years.  “The biggest challenge right now is to get the economy on
a path to stabilization and growth,” Anastasiades said in
statements televised live on state-run CYBC TV last night. “We
will speak and work with our European partners to complete the
loan agreement with them as quickly as possible.”  Shut Out  Cyprus, a European Union member since 2004, has been
negotiating for eight months with the European Commission,
European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund over
conditions for the rescue. The country became the fifth euro-
area member to request international aid in June.  It has been shut out of debt markets for almost two years,
with lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and Cyprus Popular
Bank Plc losing 4.5 billion euros in last year’s restructuring
of Greek sovereign debt. The country faces a funding cliff on
June 3, with bonds worth 1.4 billion euros due to mature.  “Anastasiades is soon likely to realise that winning the
presidential election was the easiest part of the job given the
challenges that lie ahead,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst
at Eurasia Group Plc in London. These are “concluding the
bailout deal and securing the needed parliamentary approval by
early May at the very latest, and then putting together and
implementing a new model of economic development for the
island.”  After Greece, the Cypriot rescue is set to be the biggest
in the 17-nation euro area as a proportion of gross domestic
product. As much as 10 billion euros may be required to rescue
the banks and 7.5 billion euros will be needed by the
government, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said on Nov. 22.  Russian Capital  Talks have dragged in part over insistence by Merkel’s
government, in charge of  Europe ’s biggest economy and the
largest contributor to euro-area bailouts, that  Russia 
contribute to any bailout. German officials argue that Russian
capital, legal or illegal, dominates the bloated Cypriot banking
system, drawn by the island’s low-tax rate and a double-tax
avoidance treaty.  The risk of a Cypriot sovereign default is “material and
rising,” Standard & Poor’s said on Feb. 20. There is “at least
a one-in-three chance” that it will cut Cyprus’s CCC+ credit
rating this year, S&P said.  Anastasiades’s victory is unlikely to trigger immediate
resolution of the problem as “the main political challenge to a
deal lies elsewhere,” Alexander White, a European political
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in a Feb. 19
note. “A deal in March or April is certainly possible, but
given the complexity of the issue in  Germany , and elsewhere,
this may be optimistic.”  Reaching agreement with Russia on contributing to a rescue
will be an “immediate priority,” Anastasiades said Feb. 21 in
answer to e-mailed questions. He repeated last night that his
goal was to “reinforce and strengthen” those ties.  Anastasiades won by the widest margin since 1983, according
to official data on the Cyprus government’s website. This
presidential election was the first since the island was divided
in 1974 in which the economy was the main issue rather than
reunification.  Cyprus was divided when  Turkey  invaded the northern third
of the island following a coup by supporters of the country’s
union with  Greece .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  