-- Cyprus Picks Anastasiades as President to Fix Economy
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-02-24T18:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/cyprus-picks-anastasiades-as-president-to-fix-crisis-hit-economy.html
Nicos Anastasiades defeated opponent
Stavros Malas to become Cyprus’s seventh president and begin the
process of steering the country away from a financial collapse.  Anastasiades, 66, who leads Cyprus’s main opposition
Democratic Rally party, or Disy, won 57.5 percent of the vote,
compared with 42.5 percent for Malas, who was backed by the
communist Akel party of outgoing president Demetris Christofias.
The two faced off after a first-round vote on Feb. 17 failed to
deliver an outright victory to Anastasiades.  “We will support him in actions and politics that we
believe are followed for the good of the country,” Malas said
as he conceded defeat, in comments televised live on state-run
CYBC TV. “Right now the priority is the unity of the Cypriot
people.” Anastasiades plans to make his first statements later
tonight in Nicosia, the capital.  Cyprus’s new president, who was endorsed by German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, will have to revive stalled talks with
European partners on aid needed to save the island from a
financial meltdown. Cyprus, a European Union member since 2004,
has been negotiating for eight months with the European
Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary
Fund over conditions for a rescue that could equal the size of
its near 18 billion-euro ($24 billion) economy.  Shut Out  The country became the fifth euro-area member to request
international aid in June. It has been shut out of debt markets
for almost two years, with lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc 
and Cyprus Popular Bank Plc losing 4.5 billion euros in last
year’s restructuring of Greek sovereign debt. Cyprus needs the
bailout to recapitalize its lenders as well as to finance the
government over the next three years.  The country faces the payment of a 1.4 billion-euro bond on
June 3. The risk of a Cypriot sovereign default is “material
and rising,” Standard & Poor’s said on Feb. 20. There is “at
least a one-in-three chance” that it will cut Cyprus’s CCC+
credit rating this year, S&P said.  After  Greece , the Cypriot rescue is set to be the biggest
in the 17-nation euro area as a proportion of gross domestic
product. As much as 10 billion euros may be required to rescue
the banks and 7.5 billion euros will be needed by the
government, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said on Nov. 22.  Political Challenge  A change in government in Nicosia is unlikely to trigger
immediate resolution of the problem as “the main political
challenge to a deal lies elsewhere,” Alexander White, a
European political analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London ,
said in a Feb. 19 note. “A deal in March or April is certainly
possible, but given the complexity of the issue in  Germany , and
elsewhere, this may be optimistic.”  Merkel’s government insists that  Russia  contribute to any
bailout, arguing that Russian money dominates the Cypriot
banking system. Reaching agreement with Russia on contributing
to a rescue will be an “immediate priority,” Anastasiades said
Feb. 21 in answer to e-mailed questions.  Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when  Turkey  invaded the
northern third of the island following a coup by supporters of
the country’s union with Greece. This presidential election was
the first since the invasion in which the economy was the main
issue rather than reunification of the divided island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  