-- Danske’s Biggest Shareholder Maersk Targets ‘Strong’ Danish Bank
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/danske-s-biggest-shareholder-maersk-targets-strong-danish-bank.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the biggest
shareholder in  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said its decision to participate
in the lender’s most recent share sale was based on a goal of
ensuring  Denmark  has a strong flagship lender.  Danske, Denmark’s biggest bank, raised gross proceeds of
about 7.15 billion kroner ($1.26 billion) in October to build
its capital ratio and persuade  rating  companies to upgrade its
debt. Maersk, which has said its investment in Danske needs to
be self-financing, took part pro rata in the private placement
to maintain its 20 percent stake.  “We participated because we believe Denmark needs a strong
bank that’s based in Denmark and we wanted to support that,”
Maersk Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said in
a Feb. 22 phone interview from Copenhagen.  The endorsement follows weeks of criticism in local media
after Danske introduced a price strategy that rewarded clients
who do the most business with the bank. While newspapers
including Jyllands-Posten and Borsen said Danske was losing
customers because of the move, investors welcomed the step. The
bank’s  stock price  has risen 12 percent this year, beating a 7
percent increase in the 40-member  Bloomberg index of European
financial companies .  “If Danske Bank needs more capital, which is not something
we have any reason to expect will happen right now, we would
probably get an approach from the bank,” Andersen said. “We
will take a decision if it happens.”  Twice GDP  Maersk also participated pro rata in Danske’s 2011 share
sale, which generated gross proceeds of about 20 billion kroner.
Andersen is defending Maersk’s ownership in a bank whose total
assets are twice Denmark’s gross domestic product as the nation
struggles to surface from a regional banking crisis that has
claimed more than a dozen lenders since 2008.  At the same time, Denmark’s banking crisis is widening the
divide between the country’s biggest lenders, which are building
up capital and winding down bad loans, and regional lenders too
small to attract investors.  Danske Bank saw a fivefold surge in net income to 1.15
billion kroner last quarter as impairments dropped. The bank is
eliminating 3,000 jobs to stay competitive, as it closes
branches and cuts back on corporate lending.  Yet the split between investor and customer perceptions of
Danske looks set to continue. The bank scored lowest in a
Voxmeter customer satisfaction survey of any company in the five
years the pollster has conducted the study, Jyllands-Posten
reported on Feb. 6. The bank has lost about 100,000 private
customers in the past year, the newspaper said.  Loan Market  Danske Bank’s share of the Danish loan market was about 28
percent last year, unchanged from 2011, according to its Feb. 7
annual report. It has 5 percent of both the Swedish and the
Norwegian markets and 11 percent in  Finland .  Maersk, Denmark’s biggest company comprising about 1,000
subsidiaries and employing 117,000 people, invested 9.7 billion
kroner in its divisions last year. About 90 percent of that
amount went to its four main units, shipping, oil, drilling rigs
and terminals. The company plans to invest about 9 billion
kroner in 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  