-- Dictator’s Daughter Returns to S. Korea President Mansion
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-02-25T07:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/dictator-s-daughter-returns-to-s-korea-president-mansion.html
Thirty-four years ago, Park Geun Hye
spent her last night in  South Korea ’s presidential mansion
washing her assassinated father’s blood-soaked shirt. Today she
returns as the country’s first female president.  The eldest daughter of the late President Park Chung Hee
assumed executive power at midnight, and took the oath of office
this morning at an outdoor ceremony in front of the National
Assembly. Park moved out of her home in Seoul’s Gangnam district
with two Korean Jindo puppies, a present from her neighbors to
“protect her.” She officially moved into the presidential Blue
House at 1:15 p.m. local time.  “We are confronted anew with a global economic crisis and
outstanding security challenges such as North Korea’s nuclear
threat,” Park said in her inauguration speech. “The tasks we
face today are unlike any we have confronted before.”  In succeeding  Lee Myung Bak  for a single five-year term,
Park, 61, inherits an economy burdened by a widening income gap,
record household debt and the won’s 25 percent gain in six
months against the yen that’s hurting export competitiveness
with rival  Japan .  Her success may hinge on whether she can escape the shadow
of her father’s dictatorial 18-year rule, which was marked by
double-digit growth, as well as torture and censorship to quash
dissent. She also faces a North Korea emboldened by this month’s
nuclear test, which has forced her to amend pledges to engage
with the totalitarian state.  ‘Work Cut Out’  “Park has her work cut out for her, at least more than
what Lee faced when he took office five years ago,” said Jeong
Han Wool, deputy director of the Center for Public Opinion
Research at the East  Asia  Institute in Seoul. “She not only has
a longer roster of issues to tackle, but most are vulnerable to
external factors, such as the global financial crisis and the
North Korean threat.”  Park campaigned on pledges to raise wages, boost welfare
spending and rein in the influence of the chaebol, the business
conglomerates such as  Samsung Group  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  that
her father helped create. Her new government’s first priority is
to create jobs by funding more research in information
technology and science.  “One of my critical economic goals is to ensure that
anyone that works hard can stand on their own two feet,” Park
said in her speech today. Small and medium-sized enterprises
must prosper alongside large companies, she said.  First Lady  When Park’s mother was killed by a North Korean agent in a
1974 assassination attempt on her father, the never-married Park
became South Korea’s first lady at the age of 22. She left
public life when her father was killed by his intelligence chief
in 1979, before returning as a legislator in 1998.  Older South Koreans, who make up most of her fan base, are
nostalgic for an economy that grew an average 10.3 percent in
the last nine years of her father’s regime. Younger voters tend
to associate her with his dictatorship, and she vowed after her
December victory to heal the scars of his legacy.  Park takes office with a 61.4 percent approval rating,
according to a Feb. 18-22 survey by Seoul-based Realmeter. The
poll of 2,500 respondents had a 2.0 percentage-point margin of
error.  Asia’s fourth-biggest economy grew an average 4.3 percent
over the five years through 2007, before a U.S. housing market
crash triggered a global recession. In the fourth quarter of
last year, gross domestic product expanded 1.5 percent from a
year earlier, less than the 1.8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  ‘People’s Happiness Era’  The economy is likely to achieve 2.8 percent growth this
year, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said in an interview
on Feb. 19. South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index has gained 0.8
percent since the presidential election on Dec. 19.  The new president promises to usher in a “People’s
Happiness Era” by broadening both the middle class and the
proportion of working citizens to 70 percent of the country’s 50
million population.  While the country’s unemployment rates is 3.2 percent, only
40 percent of youths aged 15 to 29 are engaged in economic
activity, according to a report by the finance and labor
ministries published earlier this month.  “More jobs please,” Shim Yo Sup, a 20-year-old student at
Hanyang University in  Seoul , said while waiting to take a photo
of Park’s motorcade. “More jobs is the answer to a lot of
problems in Korea and Park should push to create jobs for us
young people.”  Wages, Welfare  Park has portrayed herself as emblematic of South Korean
women’s push for equality, pledging incentives to companies to
increase the number of females in management roles, and tripling
child-support subsidies for single-parent homes to 150,000 won
per month.  Her government has allocated 72 percent of the budget in
the first half of the year to aid a recovery. She hasn’t
announced how she will finance her pledges to raise wages,
increase welfare spending and immediately introduce an 18
trillion won ($16.6 billion) fund to help avert loan defaults.  “The current economic climate doesn’t allow for front-
loading the budget to fund new welfare and employment
programs,” said Jeon Young Jae, a research fellow at the
Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul. “There will be
many costs that would require a boost in affordability but she
still hasn’t announced how she will practically realize these
pledges without raising taxes.”  Ratings Upgrade  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings boosted South Korea’s sovereign rating last year, all
citing strong fiscal fundamentals and room to respond to
external shocks.  S&P sees no major policy shifts under Park, while “much
hinges on the details and capacity to deliver on her pre-
election policy pledges of revitalizing small businesses,
boosting social spending and enacting conglomerate-related
measures,” Elena Okorochenko, managing director and lead
analytical manager for Asia-Pacific sovereign ratings, said in
an e-mail on Dec. 20.  While  North Korea ’s militarism remains a “credit negative
factor,” its Feb. 12 nuclear test isn’t expected to affect
South Korea’s “strong financial and economic fundamentals,”
Moody’s said earlier this month.  The detonation forced Park to shift from calling for more
engagement with Kim Jong Un’s regime. While during the campaign
she expressed willingness to hold a summit with Kim and expand
economic aid, the new government’s stance is “based on strong
deterrence, not one of appeasement,” Park told her advisers a
day after the test.  Nuclear Challenge  “North Korea’s recent nuclear test is a challenge to the
survival and future of the Korean people,” Park said today. “I
urge North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambitions without delay
and embark on the path to peace and shared development.”  During her term, Park will oversee South Korea’s taking
back operational control of its troops during wartime from the
U.S. force stationed on the peninsula. She has proposed reducing
mandatory military service for males to 18 months from the
current 21 months, drawing criticism that the cut may weaken the
South’s ability to respond to increasing threats.  Park is now commander-in-chief of South Korea’s 649,000
troops, compared with the North’s 1.2 million soldiers. The two
Koreas remain technically war as the 1950-1953 conflict ended in
a truce, not a peace treaty.  About 70,000 people were invited to Park’s inauguration
today, including Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and
Thomas E. Donilon, President  Barack Obama ’s national security
adviser. Park held her first summit as with Yingluck, followed
by a meeting with Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso.  Singer and rapper Psy of South Korean record label  YG
Entertainment Inc. (122870)  performed “ Gangnam Style ” ahead of Park’s
swearing in ceremony. His song last year became the most-viewed
video on Google Inc.’s YouTube website, propelling him to global
fame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  