-- Egypt’s Mursi Seeks Talks on April Election, MENA Says
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-25T09:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/egypt-s-mursi-seeks-talks-on-april-election-mena-says.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
invited opposition leaders to talks on parliamentary elections
which many opposition groups have threatened to boycott.  Mursi, in an interview with Al-Mehwar television, invited
parties to a dialogue today to discuss how to guarantee the
integrity of the elections. Opposition groups have largely
shunned his calls for talks and say voting is premature amid
economic and political crisis.  Voting is set to begin April 22, after a shift to
accommodate a Coptic Christian holiday, and conclude in June.
The president and his Islamist backers say it’s key to restoring
stability and reviving the economy. With growth at a two-decade
low and reserves down more than 60 percent since 2010,  Egypt  is
seeking a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan.  Opposition groups including the Constitution Party headed
by Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei have called for a boycott of
the vote, which was pushed forward a few days to avoid clashing
with a Coptic Christian holiday. ElBaradei said on Feb. 23 he
would not be “part of an act of deception.”  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party has
criticized the boycott calls as an example of the opposition’s
failure to win over the masses. The Salafi Nour Party, followers
of an ultra-orthodox brand of Islam, will meet today to discuss
the vote, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. It had
backed calls for a national unity government by ElBaradei and
other opposition leaders,  ‘Acceptable’ Performance  Nour and the secular opposition say the government of Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil has failed to provide stability or
improve the economy. Mursi conceded there were problems, saying
the government’s performance was “acceptable” while noting a
new one would take over after the parliamentary vote.  “We’re in an era of freedom and social justice, but we’re
still at the beginning of a long road to stability,” Mursi
said.  The president criticized the past week’s protests in Port
Said over death sentences handed to local soccer supporters.
Clashes in the Suez Canal city last month left at least 30
people dead.  “Civil disobedience should come through the people’s will
to express their opinions in peaceful ways, and not by
threatening people at gun point,” he said.  Mursi, the country’s first democratically elected civilian
president, was asked about the calls by protesters for him to
leave -- an echo of the demands that helped engineer  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in February 2011. He said it was important to
differentiate between opinions and “real legitimacy that
reflects the real will of the Egyptians.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  