-- Egyptian Protests Against Mursi, Elections Spread Through Cities
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-24T13:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/egyptian-protests-against-mursi-elections-spread-through-cities.html
Protests in the Mediterranean
coastal city of Port Said spread to other Egyptian cities,
casting doubt on President Mohamed Mursi’s ambition for
elections set to begin in April to stabilize the country.  The demonstrations have been accompanied by mounting calls
for a boycott of the parliamentary vote, which Mursi yesterday
rescheduled to accommodate Coptic Christians’ observance of
Easter. The opposition Tagammu party today joined Nobel laureate
and Constitution Party head Mohamed ElBaradei in urging voters
to shun the election. The Wafd party has criticized the
elections, while leaving the National Salvation Front, an
opposition alliance of which ElBaradei is a prominent leader, to
set a strategy.  The NSF, the broadest secular group, wants voting to be
delayed to allow tensions to ease and for the economy to pick
up. Mursi, backed by the Muslim Brotherhood, has resisted
opposition calls for a national unity government and expressed
the hope that the vote would end the unrest and violence that
has spooked investors and damaged the economy since the uprising
that ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak  in February 2011.  Protesters in Port Said blocked entrances to the city,
halting work at government offices and the customs authority,
while also preventing more than 35,000 workers from reaching
their jobs in its investment zone as demonstrations entered an
eighth day, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. The
unrest hasn’t affected operations in the Suez Canal, the
military said yesterday.  Soccer Protesters  Authorities clashed with some of hundreds of protesting
quarry workers in the Nile Delta city of Kafr el-Sheikh after an
attempt to storm the provincial governor’s building, Al-Jazeera
Mubashir Misr, the Egyptian branch of the Arabic satellite
channel, reported. Similar protests broke out in the northern
city of Mansoura, with hundreds of people protesting outside the
provincial government’s building.  The Port Said protests, spearheaded by supporters of a
local soccer team, have been the largest expression of
discontent with Mursi. The president, who faces a rift with some
of his Islamist allies, has pushed ahead with setting a date for
the vote despite the opposition calls for a delay.  Islamist parties welcomed Mursi’s initial decree last week
to hold a four-stage parliamentary election starting April 27
and ending in June. Mursi shifted the start of the elections
yesterday to avoid clashing with the Christian holidays. The
first round of polling in Cairo, Buheira, Minya, Port Said and
North Sinai provinces will be held April 22 and 23, with the
last round held on June 15 and 16, with parliament due to
convene on July 2.  Cairo Protests  The threat of boycotting the vote is the “biggest
indicator of the opposition’s failure” to reach out to the
public, Mourad Ali, media adviser to the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, was cited as saying by MENA.  Protesters in Cairo and Port Said gathered for anti-
government rallies last week urging the dismissal of the Mursi-
appointed Prosecutor General Talaat Abdullah and the immediate
release of detained political activists. Organizers said the
rallies are the first step toward a nationwide civil-
disobedience campaign, drawing on continuing protests in
Alexandria and the Suez Canal cities of Ismailia and Suez.  Protesters blocked the entrance of a key government
building in Cairo’s Tahrir Square today, angering many people
who had come from other provinces to complete paperwork.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  