-- Emaar Rises to 4-Year High on Project, Dividend Bet: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-24T10:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/emaar-rises-to-4-year-high-on-project-dividend-bet-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  rose to the
highest level in more than four years as the real estate company
said it would start offering units of a new project and on bets
it would pay a higher annual dividend.  Shares of the developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper
climbed 4.6 percent to 5.26 dirhams, the highest close since
November 2008. The stock was the  biggest gainer  on the benchmark
 DFM General Index. (DFMGI)  Emaar, whose board will meet tomorrow to
discuss the  dividend,  said it will build two hotels and serviced
apartment towers in Dubai that will include 532 apartments and
180 hotel rooms.  “New projects create more and more interest from investors
and build momentum,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset
management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital. “Investors are also
buying stock ahead of the dividend announcement.”  Emaar said it will offer units of The Address Residence Sky
View in Dubai and  Riyadh  on March 2 following a sell-out
response to those made available at a separate luxury hotel
development in Downtown Dubai last month. In January, Emaar
shares surged 30 percent, the best start to a year since the
company went public in 2000.  Dubai’s  property market  is recovering amid a broader pickup
in the economy, which probably expanded 5 percent in 2012, the
fastest pace since 2007, according to government forecasts.
Tourism, hotel and restaurant industries grew 16 percent in the
first half, official data show. The developer’s full-year profit
increased 18 percent after it sold more than 80 percent of
projects available in 2012.  Theme Parks  “The project builds on the growth of the property market
and tourism sectors of Dubai,” Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar  said in
the e-mailed statement yesterday.  Dubai announced in November plans to develop a new district
with the world’s largest mall, 100 hotels and gardens larger
than  London ’s Hyde Park, which Emaar will co-develop. The
sheikhdom also plans to build five theme parks for $2.7 billion.  About 43 million shares were traded today, more than double
the three-month daily average. The company’s  14-day relative
strength index  rose to 78. A reading above 70 indicates to some
analysts that a security is poised to drop.  Ten analysts  recommend investors buy Emaar shares, while
three say hold them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said earlier this month it expects Emaar’s
shares to rise to 6 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  