-- Hewlett-Packard Takes on Apple, Samsung With Slate Tablet
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-02-24T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/hewlett-packard-takes-on-apple-samsung-with-slate-tablet.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , an also-ran in
the mobile-device business, unveiled a 7-inch consumer tablet
today in its second attempt to break into the growing market as
demand wanes for desktop computers and laptops.  The Slate 7, introduced at the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona today, runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system
and will go on sale in the U.S. in April with a planned starting
price of $169. It will be the first in a line of new consumer
products that Hewlett-Packard will start selling this year, said
Alberto Torres, a former  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  executive brought in to run
the computer maker’s mobility unit.  “We’re moving very fast,” Torres said in an interview.
“It’s an important part of being successful in this market.”  Hewlett-Packard, the largest personal-computer maker,
exited the consumer tablet market in 2011 when it killed its
TouchPad device running on the WebOS operating system from its
Palm Inc. unit. As more consumers replace their PCs with
tablets, the company is taking another shot at the market now
dominated by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  as it tries
to stem declining sales and profit.  Making devices that run a plethora of software is also a
strategy that Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard is
pursuing, enabling it to target a variety of price bands.
Earlier this month, it announced a laptop running Chrome,
another Google operating system. The company also sells a tablet
running Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 operating system for
business customers.  Tablet Shipments  “We’re moving to a world that’s going to be a multi-OS
world,” Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman said in an
interview last week.  In the consumer-tablet market, Hewlett-Packard faces stiff
competition from rivals including Amazon.com Inc., which sells
the 7-inch Kindle Fire for $159 and Google itself, which sells
the  Nexus 7  for $199.  Apple’s iPad and  iPad Mini , which has a 7.9-inch screen and
starts at $329, controlled a 44 percent share of global tablet
shipments in the fourth quarter of last year, according to
market researcher IDC. Samsung’s tablets, with a 15-percent
global share, start at $200 with the Galaxy Tab and Galaxy Note
devices.  Hewlett Packard’s Slate has embedded sound-enhancing
technology licensed from Beats Electronics LLC and its own
ePrint wireless printing software, offering appeal over its
rivals, Torres said.  The Slate features a dual-core 1.6 gigahertz processor from
 ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , eight gigabytes of memory, Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth, according to a statement by the company. The device
will be offered in overseas markets later this year, said
Marlene Somsak, a spokeswoman for Hewlett-Packard.  Hewlett-Packard on Feb. 21 forecast fiscal second-quarter
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates, signaling its
turnaround efforts are progressing. The shares surged 12 percent
to close at $19.20 the following day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  