-- Factories in U.S. Probably Expanded on Capital Spending
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-02-24T05:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/factories-in-u-s-probably-expanded-on-capital-spending.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
expanded for a third month in February as the global economy
stabilized and businesses invested more in new equipment,
economists said before reports this week.  A reading of 52.5 is projected for the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s  factory index  after a nine-month high of 53.1 in
January, according to the median estimate of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. A number greater than 50 shows growth in
the industry that accounts for about 12 percent of the economy.
Other data may show  consumer spending  and orders for  durable
goods  excluding transportation equipment rose in January.  The healing in some overseas markets and the need for U.S.
businesses to replenish their capital stock are helping underpin
manufacturing, which stumbled in the second half of 2012. A
pickup in factory production along with a rebounding housing
market would help soften the blow to household incomes from the
payroll tax increase, fueling spending and the economy.  “The global economy is modestly expanding, and it’s
certainly in a better place than where it was,” said Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC
in  New York . “Capital spending intentions are improving. You’ll
also likely see some inventory acceleration in the current
quarter. All of those things are going to be good for industrial
production, which is good for the manufacturing sector.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will outline to
Congress the central bank’s view of the economy’s progress when
he gives his semi-annual monetary policy testimony on Feb. 26
and Feb. 27.  Fed Purchases  The Fed at its January meeting decided to keep buying $45
billion a month of Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage debt
without setting a limit on the duration or total size of the
purchases. Officials affirmed their pledge to keep the target
interest rate near zero to keep driving the economy. Speculation
about scaled-back asset purchases by the Fed was fanned by the
Feb. 20 release of minutes of the meeting.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM will release its manufacturing
index on March 1. Estimates ranged from 50.5 to 55. The gauge
averaged 50.8 in last year’s second half after averaging 52.6 in
the first six months.  Commerce Department figures on Feb. 27 are projected to
show orders for durable goods excluding transportation equipment
such as commercial aircraft  rose  0.2 percent in January after a
1 percent gain, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Durable Goods  A decline in demand for airplanes probably led to a
decrease in total durable goods  orders , which dropped 4.6
percent during the month, the survey median shows, after a 4.3
percent surge. Boeing Co., contending with regulators’ safety
concerns related to batteries on its 787 Dreamliner, reported
orders for two aircraft in January, down from 183 in December
and 124 a month earlier.  A global economy that is regaining its footing is providing
support for American manufacturers. Goods exports  climbed  to a
three-month high in December, Commerce Department figures showed
Feb. 8. Domestic demand from U.S. companies is recovering, as
well. Spending on equipment and software  advanced  at a 12.4
percent rate in the fourth quarter, the fastest in more than a
year.  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest producer of chipmaking
equipment, forecast fiscal second-quarter sales that beat most
estimates, indicating that some customers are expanding output
on brisk demand for mobile devices. Sales in the current period
will rise 15 percent to 25 percent from the prior quarter, the
company said in a statement Feb. 13.  Strong Momentum  “Momentum in the business is strong,” Michael Splinter,
the  Santa Clara , California-based company’s chief executive
officer, said at a conference the next day. The “display
business is starting to come back. Orders are picking up there
as well.”  Since the start of the fourth quarter, manufacturing shares
have outpaced the broader market. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has advanced 13.2 percent since
Sept. 28, compared with a 5.2 percent gain in the  S&P 500 .  Strength in manufacturing would help nudge the economy as
Americans deal with higher payroll taxes. While avoiding
sweeping income-tax increases, a fiscal agreement by Congress on
Jan. 1 let the  payroll tax  used to pay for Social Security
benefits return to the 2010 level of 6.2 percent from 4.2
percent.  So far, the effect on household spending has been limited.
Consumer purchases advanced 0.2 percent in January for a second
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median before the
Commerce Department’s report on March 1.  Fourth Quarter  While household spending picked up in the fourth quarter,
it wasn’t enough to keep the economy from shrinking at a 0.1
percent annual rate, the Commerce Department’s first estimate of
gross domestic product showed. The agency on Feb. 28 may revise
its GDP estimate to show a 0.5 percent increase, as more recent
figures showed a narrower trade deficit, more construction
spending and a pickup in business investment.  A healthier housing market may help consumers feel more
optimistic and wealthier. Economists project sales of  new homes 
probably rose 3 percent in January to a 380,000 annual rate,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. The Commerce
Department will release the report on Feb. 26.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  