-- LG to Boost Smartphone Sales 52% in Shift From Basic Handsets
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-02-24T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/lg-to-boost-smartphone-sales-52-in-shift-from-basic-handsets.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  intends to boost
smartphone shipments 52 percent this year after a shift away
from basic devices ended a streak of two straight annual losses
at its phone-making division.  The company plans to sell 40 million smartphones this year,
helped by rising demand in  emerging markets , Park Jong Seok,
head of its mobile-communications division, said ahead of the
 Mobile World Congress , which starts today in Barcelona. LG sold
26.3 million smartphones last year and 20.2 million in 2011.  South Korea’s No. 2 phone-maker will roll out the upgraded
Optimus G Pro in overseas markets this year as it seeks to lure
buyers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy lineup. The Seoul-based company is turning more toward
the premium sector after its total phone sales halved in two
years amid slowing demand for basic models competing with
handsets from Chinese manufacturers led by  ZTE Corp. (000063)   “LG’s brand image in the premium league has improved,”
said Kim Ki Young, an analyst at Seoul-based LIG Investment &
Securities Co. “The company also seems to have higher growth
potential than HTC and BlackBerry.”  HTC Corp., whose global smartphone market share has fallen
by more than half in 18 months, introduced the One model last
week. BlackBerry, the struggling smartphone maker, is rolling
out its new BlackBerry 10 lineup this year.  Smartphone First  ZTE plans to boost smartphone sales 50 percent from last
year’s tally of 35 million, the company said last month. The
Shenzhen, China-based company surpassed LG as the world’s
fourth-biggest phonemaker last year, according to International
Data Corp.  Smartphones accounted for more than 50 percent of LG’s
phone shipments for the first time in the fourth quarter of
2012. The phone division posted an operating profit of 58.6
billion won ($54 million) last year.  “The developed markets are becoming ever more saturated,”
Park said. “In the smartphone area, we definitely felt the need
to diversify our business portfolio.”  The Optimus G Pro, which went on sale in  South Korea  last
week, features a Qualcomm Inc. quad-core processor and a 13-
megapixel rear-facing camera. The device also has a function
that lets users record from the front and rear cameras
simultaneously. Like all LG smartphones, the new model runs on
Google Inc.’s Android operating system. The device is mainly
aimed at developed markets.  China, Middle East  LG also plans to focus on high-end smartphones in  China 
because of competition in the low end of the market from local
suppliers. In other parts of Asia, as well as in  Latin America ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa , LG is more focused on low-end
smartphones with its Optimus L products.  Last year, LG sold 56.6 million mobile phones, including
both smartphones and more basic models. That compares with 116.7
million in 2010, according to IDC data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company dropped to fifth from fourth in global phone
sales last year after being surpassed by ZTE. Its total
shipments fell 37 percent to 55.9 million, according to the
market researcher.  In the smartphone market, LG was outside the top five.
Samsung was top with sales of 215.8 million, or a 30 percent
share. It was followed by Apple,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , HTC and BlackBerry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  