-- Indonesia Central Bank Choice Elicits Mixed View: Southeast Asia
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-02-25T12:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/indonesia-central-bank-choice-elicits-mixed-view-southeast-asia.html
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s
surprise choice of Agus Martowardojo to run  Indonesia ’s central
bank met with mixed reactions, with some questioning his record
as finance minister and others praising his banking experience.  Yudhoyono nominated Martowardojo as his only candidate to
succeed Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution, whose term ends
May 23. Martowardojo, 57, former president director of PT Bank
Mandiri, was rejected for the top central bank post by the
parliament’s finance committee when Yudhoyono picked him in 2008.  “He is a very experienced senior banker,” Eugene Galbraith, deputy president director of Bank Central Asia, the
country’s biggest bank by market value, said in a mobile-phone
text message. “He has done well as finance minister and now
combines top-level knowledge of both the government regulators
and the banking community.”  At stake is Martowardojo’s ability to shepherd Southeast
Asia’s biggest economy as it faces a weakening currency, a
widening current-account deficit and inflation stemming from
power tariff increases and higher wages. While PT Samuel
Sekuritas economist Lana Soelistianingsih says he failed to
provide fiscal support for the economy last year, Bank of
America Corp.’s Chua Hak Bin says the minister has helped keep
the budget deficit in check.  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite index  rose 1 percent today.
The rupiah was little changed at 9,705 a dollar, having fallen
about 2 percent in the past six months, the biggest decliner
after the yen among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Fuel Subsidies  Martowardojo said today he will continue Bank Indonesia’s
“good policies” if selected to lead the authority. The central
bank’s focus should be managing inflation and it must continue
preparations to transfer its supervisory role of commercial
banks to the Financial Services Authority, he told reporters in
Jakarta. The next challenge is to persist with reforms, the
finance minister said.  Since Martowardojo became finance minister in 2010,
Indonesia’s government has sought to reduce fuel subsidies and
allocate more spending to infrastructure. The country limited
the use of partially government-funded diesel last month, after
protests derailed plans to raise fuel prices in 2012.  “The ministry of finance has been the one that has been
more advocating that fuel prices should be hiked and
highlighting the financial cost of such subsidies,” said Chua.
“The fiscal deficit has been kept in check, public finances are
in order, it’s hard to find fault with any track record.”  Still, the president’s decision to tap Martowardojo for the
central bank surprised analysts including Fauzi Ichsan, Jakarta-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, who said the move
would mean a second change in the Finance Ministry’s leadership
during Yudhoyono’s second term.  Experience Issue  “We know that Martowardojo has no experience to maintain
monetary policy,” Ichsan said. “The challenge for the next
governor is not easy as he needs the ability to maintain the
rupiah and manage the reference rate. Looking at the experience
of Martowardojo, I’m afraid the finance committee may reject him
as it’s happened before.”  The parliament’s finance committee will conduct a so-called
fit-and-proper test on Martowardojo before he can be approved by
lawmakers in a plenary meeting. Martowardojo replaced former
Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati in May 2010, when Mulyani
joined the World Bank as a managing director.  “Parliament will decide whether we will receive
Martowardojo’s nomination for the next governor,” Harry Azhar Azis, vice chairman of the finance committee, said Feb. 22. “We
realize that the previous finance committee rejected
Martowardojo’s candidacy for Bank Indonesia governor. This time
it will depend on the fit-and-proper test.”  Career Banker  Martowardojo started his career at Bank of America Corp.,
according to the Finance Ministry’s  website . He was president
director of PT Bank Mandiri, the country’s largest lender by
assets, before becoming finance minister. The Amsterdam-born
banker holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
University of Indonesia, according to Bank Mandiri’s website at
the time of his appointment to the finance role.  Martowardojo worked at the Jakarta branch of then-Bank of
America and several local banks before joining Bank Mandiri in
1999. Asiamoney magazine named him Indonesia’s best executive in
2009, crediting him with turning around the lender and reducing
its bad debts.  Nasution, 64, assumed the central bank governor post in
September 2010 after more than a year as acting governor. He has
a doctorate in economics from University of Paris, Sorbonne,
 France , and is the 14th governor in the central bank’s six-
decade history. He became acting governor after Vice President
Boediono resigned in May 2009 to become Yudhoyono’s running mate
in the last presidential election.  Banking Knowledge  No one expected the president to nominate Martowardojo for
the Bank Indonesia job, according to Soelistianingsih at PT
Samuel Sekuritas.  “This is like, we need a cardiologist but the president
gives us a dentist,” Jakarta-based Soelistianingsih said in a
phone interview. “He failed to reach 2012 budget assumptions
such as GDP growth target, budget deficit, rupiah level, oil
lifting, slow government spending. This shows he has no
knowledge of macroeconomics even though he was a good banker.”  Martowardojo has knowledge of the banking system and
Indonesia’s new Financial Services Authority, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa told reporters today.
There are many reasons Indonesia couldn’t reach its 2012 budget
and macroeconomic targets, including external and internal ones,
he said.  “Slow government spending is because other ministries
can’t disburse their budget in line with their target, so it’s
not because of the finance minister,” Rajasa said.  Growth Slowing  The economy expanded 6.11 percent last quarter, the slowest
pace in more than two years. The central bank this month kept
its  reference rate  unchanged for a 12th meeting at a record-low
5.75 percent.  Bank Indonesia has stepped up intervention to support the
rupiah and narrow the gap between local and overseas prices,
Hendar, executive director for monetary policy at the central
bank, said in a Jan. 28 interview. Bank Indonesia may take
action on its benchmark rate if the currency’s depreciation
causes inflation to accelerate, Deputy Governor  Hartadi Sarwono 
said last month.  Foreign Debt  Indonesia must watch its private foreign debt, Martowardojo
said in December. “There’s a phenomenon of rising private
foreign debt that needs to be watched out for” because of
currency and tenor mismatch concerns, and banks need to urge
clients to bring their foreign-exchange export revenue back into
the domestic market, he said then.  “Most impressions would have come across more of him as a
banker rather than a central banker per se so I think it’s still
a big question mark on his views on monetary policy,” said Chua
at Bank of America. “I think the Ministry of Finance has been
fairly silent on currency issues or interest rates.”  The central bank is hoping for a “good result” as it
faces new challenges with the Financial Services Authority
taking over bank supervision next year, spokesman Difi Johansyah
said today.  The central bank is an independent institution that is
ready to work in harmony with the government, Martowardojo said
today. The next finance minister should be a professional, a
technocrat or someone from within the bureaucracy so that
reforms and coordination between fiscal and monetary authorities
will continue, he said.  Martowardojo said he will discuss with the central bank and
Financial Services Authority officials regarding the activities
of foreign banks in Indonesia. It’s important that a reciprocal
principle regarding foreign banks becomes the “first
guideline,” he said, declining to comment on a plan by
 Singapore ’s DBS Group Holdings Ltd. bid to buy Bank Danamon
Indonesia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  