-- Iran Says Uranium Reserves Almost Tripled as 16 Plants Planned
-- B y   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d
-- 2013-02-24T04:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/iran-says-uranium-reserves-almost-tripled-as-16-plants-planned.html
Iran  said recent discoveries of
uranium resources have almost tripled the country’s reserves of
the radioactive fuel and that it plans to build reactors at 16
new locations, Iranian news agencies reported.  Finding domestic supplies of uranium to fuel Iran’s
civilian power program is the country’s top priority,  Atomic
Energy Organization of Iran  head Fereidoon Abbasi told reporters
yesterday at an annual industry meeting in Tehran, Fars News
Agency  said .  Iran now has about 4,400 tons of raw uranium, up from 1,527
tons, the  Islamic Republic News Agency   said , citing Abbasi.
 World demand  for uranium used in power plants was 63,875 metric
tons in 2010, according to the United Nations International
Atomic Energy Agency.  Generating nuclear energy would allow Iran to increase
exports of oil and gas, IRNA  said . The country has the world’s
third-biggest  oil reserves , according to the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy.  Abbasi’s announcement comes just days before multilateral
talks are to resume over Iran’s disputed nuclear program. The
so-called P5+1 group --  China ,  France , Germany,  Russia , the U.K.
and the U.S. -- will meet Iranian officials in Astana,
 Kazakhstan , on Feb. 26 to resume talks over the atomic work
after an eight-month lapse.  Iran insists its nuclear program is for civilian energy and
medical research. The U.S., other UN Security Council members
and the European Union suspect a covert atomic weapons program.
Iran is installing more advanced centrifuges, which will
multiply its enrichment capability, the IAEA reported last week,
adding that it was unable to conclude that all material in Iran
was intended for peaceful purposes.  ‘Serious Doubts’  “On our side, we have very serious doubts about their
disinterest in nuclear weapons; on their side, they have very
serious doubts about our disinterest in regime change,” Thomas Pickering, a former undersecretary of state for political
affairs and former U.S. ambassador to the UN, said in a Feb. 21
interview.  Sanctions by the U.S. and EU that aim to force Iran to
cease activities that could have a military application are
costing Iran about $98.9 million a day in lost oil sales, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The U.S. imposed new sanctions
earlier this month that would keep importers from paying for oil
with dollars and euros.  The penalties have yet to persuade Iran to bow to
international demands to curtail its atomic program. Iran says
it needs to enrich uranium to 20 percent levels -- four times
more concentrated than that used in reactors -- for medical
research. The U.S. and its allies worry that stockpile may be
more easily converted into weapons-grade fuel.  North Korea  Iran’s public avowal of its determination to push ahead
with the program follows the detonation of a military nuclear
device by  North Korea  on Feb. 12, less than 24 hours before
President  Barack Obama ’s  State of the Union  address. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  said the underground detonation posed a
threat to the U.S. and to global peace and that the response to
North  Korea  would have to be swift and clear, because it would
also send a message to Iran.  “This is not only about the DPRK and its continued
flaunting of its obligations under three separate Security
Council resolutions, this is about proliferation and it’s also
about Iran because they’re linked,” Kerry said Feb. 13. DPRK
refers to the country’s official name, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea.  The blast took place weeks after UN Security Council
members, including China, imposed additional sanctions after
North Korea’s December launch of a long-range rocket in
violation of a Security Council ban.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Richardson in  Hong Kong  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  