-- Iraqi Groups Fail to Agree Oil Payments, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 2013-02-24T14:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/iraqi-groups-fail-to-agree-oil-payments-lawmaker-says.html
Iraq’s political factions failed to
agree on the amount of money due to international  oil companies 
working in the semi-autonomous Kurdish region, said Ammar Tohme,
a lawmaker from the ruling coalition.  Kurdish lawmakers said the companies are owed 4.2 trillion
dinars ($3.6 billion), while the central government’s accounting
bureau said the amount is $1.5 billion, Tohme said in a
telephone interview from Baghdad. Iraq’s government-sponsored
Iraqiya earlier said that the political groups had reached an
agreement.  Lawmakers from the ruling coalition met Kurdish parties,
along with government ministers and other officials, in
parliament in Baghdad to discuss the issue. “The groups met
today but the issue has not been settled,” Tohme said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , DNO International ASA and  Genel Energy
Plc (GENL)  are among companies caught in a dispute between Iraq’s
central government and the Kurdistan Regional Government over
production contracts, territorial claims and the sharing of oil
revenue. Tensions have deepened in recent months, with armed
clashes in the disputed Kirkuk area in November and a suspension
in exports of Kurdish oil through the central government’s
pipeline network since December.  The groups may call for a future meeting between Oil
Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi and  Ashti Hawrami , the KRG
natural resources minister, together with the parliamentary
finance committee to reach an agreement on the payments, Tohme
said.  Iraq, the largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after Saudi Arabia, holds the world’s fifth-
largest crude reserves, according to data from  BP Plc (BP/)  that
include Canadian oil sands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  