-- Israel Sends Funds to Palestinians in Bid to Cut Tension
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-02-24T19:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/israel-transfers-tax-funds-to-palestinians-in-bid-to-cut-tension.html
Israel  has approved the transfer of
 tax revenue  it collects on behalf of the Palestinians in a bid
to reduce tensions in the West Bank after a week of
demonstrations.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  demanded the
Palestinian leadership take steps to reduce the protests,
according to a text message sent to journalists today by an
Israeli government official. The message to the Palestinians was
conveyed by Netanyahu’s chief envoy, Yitzhak Molcho, according
to the official, who commented anonymously because he wasn’t
authorized to speak on the record.  Demonstrations have been held throughout the week in the
West Bank in support of four Palestinian prisoners hunger-
striking to gain early release from Israeli jails. The protests
intensified after Israel announced yesterday that another
prisoner had died, with over 3,000 jailed Palestinians holding a
one-day hunger strike today.  Palestinian Minister of Prisoners Issa Qaraqi said Israel
was responsible for the prisoner’s death “due to medical
negligence and bad treatment.” He added that the prisoner had
been subjected to “severe torture.” An independent
international committee should be formed to investigate the
circumstances, Qaraqi said in a Ramallah press conference today.  The Israeli Health Ministry issued a statement saying its
autopsy of the body found no signs of external violence other
than those caused by attempts at resuscitation.  Israeli troops used tear gas and stun-grenades to disperse
crowds of stone-throwing Palestinians in and around the  West
Bank  city of Hebron today, said an Israeli army spokeswoman,
speaking anonymously in accordance with military regulations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  