-- Lithuanian Siauliu Bankas Agrees to Assume Insolvent Ukio Assets
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-24T10:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/lithuanian-siauliu-bankas-agrees-to-assume-insolvent-ukio-assets.html
Siauliu Bankas AB (SAB1L) , the Lithuanian
lender part-owned by the  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development , will assume the insured deposits of insolvent  Ukio
Bankas AB (UKB1L)  in a deal that will almost double its size.  Siauliu will take over 2.7 billion litai ($1 billion) of
Ukio deposits and assets of the same value, according to a
contract signed last night with Ukio’s administrator and the
state deposit-insurance fund, the Siauliai, Lithuania-based
lender said in an e-mailed statement. The EBRD will grant
Siauliu a 20 million-euro ($26 million) 10-year subordinated
loan to strengthen its capital base for the expansion, it said.  Siauliu, which had assets of 2.9 billion litai on Dec. 31,
will overtake Danske Bank A/S to become  Lithuania ’s fifth-
largest bank by assets, after local units of Nordic lenders SEB
AB, Swedbank AB, DNB ASA and Nordea Bank AB. The transaction
will reduce payouts from the Baltic nation’s deposit insurer to
800 million litai, which the government plans to lend the fund.  “The achieved agreement will result in new and bigger
possibilities of growth for our bank’s clientele, staff and
shareholders, while the entire banking system in Lithuania will
become stronger and even more competitive,” Siauliu Chairman
Algirdas Butkus said in the statement.  Renewing Services  The contract, which the Lithuanian government and central
bank supported, obliges Siauliu “to renew banking services for
the customers of Ukio Bankas in the shortest time possible,”
the Bank of Lithuania said in a separate e-mailed  statement .  The Bank of Lithuania suspended Ukio’s activities Feb. 12
and appointed an administrator, saying the lender was insolvent
after risky lending to related companies. Just over a year after
the collapse of Snoras Bankas AB, the government was eager to
avoid another bankruptcy that would test the state deposit-
insurance fund.  The agreement “has ensured stability in the sector,”
Sylvia Gansser-Potts, the EBRD director for financial
institutions, said in an e-mailed statement.  The preliminary value of the assets transferred to Siauliu,
determined by auditor KPMG Baltic, may be revised in three
months after a more detailed assessment, in which case the
liabilities of the parties to the contract will also be revised,
the central bank said.  Bankruptcy proceedings are planned to recover remaining
assets of Ukio, including property in  Scotland  and elsewhere,
for creditors, among whom the deposit-insurance fund will be the
largest, according to the Bank of Lithuania.  The EBRD owns 19.6 percent of Siauliu, which after Ukio’s
collapse is Lithuania’s only publicly traded bank. Siauliu
shares rose 10 percent to 0.267 euro in Vilnius on Feb. 13, when
the lender announced plans to negotiate for Ukio’s assets, and
closed at that same level on Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  