-- Karzai Orders U.S. Special Forces Out of Key Afghan Province
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-02-25T06:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/karzai-orders-u-s-special-forces-out-of-afghan-wardak-province.html
Afghanistan President  Hamid Karzai 
ordered U.S. special forces to leave a province neighboring the
capital within two weeks after investigators said Afghans aiding
the troops were torturing and murdering fellow citizens.  A probe ordered by Karzai found Afghans working for U.S.
special forces in the strategically important Wardak region were
“harassing, annoying, torturing, and even murdering innocent
people,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
president’s office yesterday. Investigators had been asked to
identify causes of insecurity in Wardak and Logar provinces,
located west and south of Kabul.  A national security committee meeting led by Karzai also
decided that NATO’s International Security Assistance Forces, or
ISAF, should stop all special forces operations in Wardak from
yesterday, according to the statement.  The announcements came as Karzai seeks to ease opposition
to his administration generated by civilian casualties in the
11-year war with the Taliban, and amid an international effort
to resurrect peace talks with the insurgents. Afghan forces are
taking over the lead security role nationwide as the Obama
administration cuts its troop strength in the country.  “We take all allegations of misconduct seriously and go to
great lengths to determine the facts surrounding them,” ISAF
said yesterday in a statement. It said it wouldn’t comment
further until officials speak with Afghan government leaders.  Airstrike Ban  The team sent to Wardak investigated the disappearance of
nine people and the death of a student, whose body was found
with signs of torture two days after he was taken from his home
at night. The U.S. denied the involvement of its forces in
either incident, according to the statement.  Karzai also decided that any country seeking to keep troops
in  Afghanistan  after 2014 would only be allowed to do so after
the “Afghan government’s formal agreement, to be achieved
bilaterally,” the statement cited him as saying.  Earlier this month, Karzai barred Afghan forces from
calling in NATO airstrikes while conducting operations in
residential areas. The order followed reports that 10 civilians,
including women and children, were killed by coalition aircraft
in a bombardment in eastern Kunar province.  Afghan soldiers are taking a more prominent combat role as
the U.S. is set to withdraw 34,000 troops within 12 months,
cutting its military presence in the country by half.  In its annual survey, the United Nations Assistance Mission
in Afghanistan said Feb. 19 at least 2,754 civilians were killed
amid clashes between Afghan and U.S.-led troops and the Taliban
in 2012, a 12 percent drop from a year earlier and the first
fall in six years. The number who died in aerial bombing by
international forces dropped 42 percent to 126.  Jail Torture  A separate investigation ordered by Karzai this month found
evidence of torture and mistreatment in the country’s prisons,
supporting the conclusions of a UN report.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  held talks with Karzai
and  Pakistan  President Asif Ali Zardari at the beginning of this
month, the latest step aimed at brokering peace talks to end the
conflict in Afghanistan. Pakistan, which the U.S. and Karzai
have accused of aiding the Taliban, has released some of the
movement’s members from its jails, a move intended to convey its
seriousness in achieving a negotiated end to the war.  The Taliban has repeatedly expressed its unwillingness to
talk to Karzai’s government, branding it a puppet administration
propped up by the U.S.  A suicide bomber detonated an explosives-laden minivan near
a security post on the highway between Logar and Kabul
provinces, killing one Afghan policeman and wounding three
others, including a civilian, Afghanistan’s intelligence agency
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Another insurgent blew himself up yesterday near a police
building in Logar, wounding an officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  