-- Kerry’s Trip Dominated by Challenges From Syria to Mali
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-24T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/kerry-s-trip-dominated-by-challenges-from-syria-to-mali.html
     Feb. 25 (Bloomberg) --Secretary of State  John Kerry  is
quickly differentiating himself from his predecessor,  Hillary Clinton , by making his first official trip to Europe and the
Mideast, while she made a point of heading first to Asia.  In contrast to Clinton, who spearheaded a U.S. “pivot to
Asia,” Kerry is reverting to well-trod diplomatic terrain,
meeting with key Western allies and continuing to the Arab world
that’s long been a quagmire for American diplomacy.  The Middle East and North Africa will dominate his trip as
he consults with U.S. allies on Islamic extremism in  Mali ,
 Egypt ’s deteriorating economic situation, the Syrian civil war
that threatens to destabilize the region further, and Iran’s
suspected nuclear weapons program. While President  Barack Obama 
has signaled his intent to pursue a more hands-off U.S. policy
in conflict areas, Kerry’s early comments suggest that the new
secretary of state has ambitions to leave a mark on the region.  “In general, the Obama administration’s preference has
been to decrease the high level of intervention in the Middle
East, but these problems have a way of forcing themselves upon
you,” said Daniel Byman, a security studies professor at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington . “It may be hard to say,
’No, we don’t want to be involved.’”  Obama’s 2009 “new beginning”  speech  in Cairo reflected
his administration’s hopes that supporting the removal of the
region’s authoritarian rulers would lead to greater democracy
and better relations between the Islamic world and the U.S.
Instead, a tide of instability has swept from Mali to Iraq,
while Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations have remained
frozen since 2010 and Iran has continued enriching uranium.  Oil, Shipping  Kerry, a former Democratic senator from Massachusetts who
took office Feb. 1,  has made clear his interest in asserting a
prominent American role by attempting to thaw the talks between
Israelis and Palestinians and broker an exit for Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad. He said Feb. 12 that he was drafting
diplomatic proposals to that end.  Kerry’s choice to head to the region -- home to key U.S.
military bases, crucial shipping routes and about 30 percent of
world oil supplies -- was applauded by analysts such as Michele Dunne who warn of the dangers when the U.S. pulls back.  “President Obama was very clear he was all about getting
out of the  Middle East , and these enormous tectonic shifts in
the region don’t seem to be changing his mind,” said Dunne,
director of the Middle East program at the Atlantic Council, a
Washington policy group. “But it’s important to see that not
acting has costs and presents big risks to U.S. interests.”  Russia Talks  Kerry is due to arrive in London today and to meet tomorrow
in Berlin with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to address
their differences in dealing with the Assad regime. The
secretary of state will go on to Paris, Rome and Ankara,
Turkey’s capital. Along the way, he will sit down with Syrian
opposition members, discuss the flow of arms from post-
revolutionary  Libya  to Islamic extremists and review support for
Mali’s government.  He’ll then go to Cairo,  Riyadh ,  Abu Dhabi  in
the United Arab Emirates, and Doha, Qatar.  Kerry’s initial Mideast tour -- he plans to go to  Israel 
next month with Obama -- doesn’t lack for challenges. The Arab
Spring protest movement has created leadership vacuums and
heightened public discontent as weak new regimes have had
difficulty stamping out corruption and delivering the security
and economic opportunity protesters are demanding.  Youth unemployment rates in North Africa and the Middle
East are projected to remain higher than 25 percent for the next
five years, and might rise higher in some nations, according to
a November 2012 report by the International Labor Organization.  Approaching Bankruptcy  Egypt, a signatory to the 1978 Camp David peace accord with
Israel, is approaching bankruptcy, with only enough  currency
reserves  to cover three months’ of food and fuel imports. The
turmoil is jeopardizing $1.5 billion a year in U.S. aid, about
80 percent of it for the military, and a long-pending $4.8
billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund .  Egyptians are facing an official 13 percent jobless rate
and 6.3 percent consumer price inflation. That gives Egypt the
sixth-worst misery rate -- inflation plus the  unemployment rate 
-- among 59 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  Egypt can’t emerge from its economic crisis without
reaching an accord with the IMF, Planning and Investment
Minister Ashraf El-Arabi told reporters Feb. 21 in Cairo.  With its economic hardships, recurring protests and
political gridlock, Egypt is already a problematic partner, said
Emile Hokayem, a senior fellow at the International Institute of
Security Studies in London.  Egypt ‘Convulsed’  “An Egypt that’s convulsed by violence every few months is
not a reliable partner for the U.S. and cannot be trusted to
uphold its end of the bargain on the  peace process ,” Hokayem
said.  Almost 70,000 people have died in Syria’s civil war, and
violence has spilled into Lebanon and Jordan, as have more than
850,000  refugees . The Jordanian monarchy, a pro-Western bulwark
that provides Israel with a secure border, faces political
unrest over the pace of promised reforms.  In  Morocco , where the official unemployment rate in the
cities exceeds 13 percent, political opposition is warning of
popular revolt. Tunisia’s newly democratic government is in
disarray after an opposition politician’s assassination.  Libya has restored  oil production  -- and with it the
nation’s  gross domestic product  -- since the 2001 uprising that
toppled leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Still, the weak new government
has little control over the country, allowing weapons from
Qaddafi’s stockpiles to fall into the hands of Islamic militants
in Africa’s Sahel region, where  France  has sent troops to battle
them in Mali.  U.S. Reluctance  Obama has made clear that the U.S. won’t be as actively
engaged in the Sahel, the semi-arid underbelly of North Africa
that some have said is becoming a terrorist haven, or elsewhere.  In his  State of the Union  speech Feb. 12, he said the U.S.
doesn’t have to send “tens of thousands of our sons and
daughters” to the latest clash with Islamic extremism. Instead,
he said, it’s enough to help countries help themselves.  Dunne, of the Atlantic Council, said that the contagious
collapse of Syria could force the Obama administration to get
more involved, especially as it could trigger more sectarian
conflict in Iraq.  “Syria is already in a disaster scenario, and we can see
the ripple effects on the neighbors, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel,
Turkey,” she said  Aram Nerguizian , a fellow at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington policy group, said in an
interview that “events in the Middle East have been so fast-
paced, policy hasn’t been able to keep up.”  Along with the administration’s decision to pull back from
some direct engagement, “we’ve lost a great deal of access,
we’re flying blind in a lot of cases,” he said of the U.S.
reach in the Arab world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  