-- Knight Said to Agree to Sell Debt Brokerage to Stifel Financial
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2013-02-24T19:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/knight-said-to-agree-to-sell-debt-brokerage-to-stifel-financial.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , the
market maker that’s being acquired by Getco LLC, plans to sell
its credit-brokerage unit to  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , according
to six people with knowledge of the matter.  The team includes investment-grade, high-yield and asset-
and mortgage-backed debt brokers in the U.S. and  Europe , said
the people, who asked not to be identified before an
announcement set for as soon as tomorrow.  Knight hired Bank of America Corp. to help sell the debt
unit after the Jersey City, New Jersey-based firm’s computers
generated a flood of errant orders last year that brought it to
the brink of bankruptcy. Stifel, which has spent at least $1.7
billion on 24 acquisitions since Ron Kruszewski became chief
executive officer in 1997, is seeking to grab a bigger share of
the debt-brokering business as rivals retreat with lower yields
and volatility reducing commissions.  “There’s this huge consolidation” of U.S. regional and
local brokerages that cater to mid-size companies, Kruszewski,
54, said in an interview last month at the firm’s St. Louis
headquarters. His goal is to build Stifel into a “bigger
version of what we are today” by adding employees and letting
the balance sheet grow along with it, he said.  Knight sought to sell the unit, led by Al Lhota and Bob Lyons in New York, in part to reduce costs from long-term
property leases, three of the people said. The firm plans to
retain BondPoint, the electronic system for corporate, municipal
and government debt, one of the people said.  Independence Ends  Jonathan Mairs, a Knight spokesman, and John Yiannacopoulos
of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America declined to
comment on the agreement. Sarah Anderson at Stifel didn’t
respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment.  Knight agreed in December to be purchased by Getco in a
$1.4 billion deal, ending its 17 years of independence. Knight,
which lost more than $450 million from the trading glitches, was
bailed out by six financial firms including Getco and Stifel in
August. Suitors for the debt team included Guggenheim Partners
LLC, Canaccord Financial Inc. and Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.,
people with knowledge of the matter said in January.  Stifel, which is set to release fourth-quarter results
after the close of trading tomorrow, managed $411.6 million of
dollar-denominated junk-bond sales last year, up from $40.25
million in 2011 and none in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chapdelaine, Citadel  Knight was among firms that bolstered its debt unit in 2009
following the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,
hiring Lhota as head of high-yield, distressed and bank loan
sales. Earlier, he headed junk-bond teams at RBS Greenwich
Capital Markets and UBS AG.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  Knight started a European credit trading and sales group
led by Neil Robertson that included 14 people, according to a
June 2009 statement. At least half of them had previously worked
at UBS.  Chapdelaine & Co., Citadel LLC and Ticonderoga Securities
LLC have shuttered or scaled back credit units since 2010 as the
biggest banks regain their dominance over debt markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  