-- Nissan Promoting More Women Opens Doors to Japan Sales
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-02-24T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/nissan-promoting-more-women-opens-doors-to-japan-sales.html
Among the 780,000 people employed in
Japan’s auto industry, only three are women responsible for the
rollout of new models. They all work at  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)   Mie Minakuchi is behind the newest Note hatchback, Nissan’s
top domestic seller, which has seen sales triple in five months.
A popular feature among buyers: its easy-to-open doors.  “I myself am not very strong and I didn’t want to make a
car that I wouldn’t find easy to use,” said Minakuchi, the 44-
year-old chief product specialist for the Note.  Though it’s a laggard internationally, Nissan leads Japan’s
car manufacturers in the number of women in executive jobs.
Women account for 6.7 percent of managers at the company,
Japan’s No. 2 automaker. In the U.S., about one in three auto
industry managers are women, according to  Catalyst , a nonprofit
group in  New York , while at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267)  they account for less than 1 percent.  “Nissan stands out among companies in a country and
industry that lags behind in female workplace participation,”
said Tetsuo Kitagawa, a professor at the  business school  of
 Aoyama Gakuin University  in Tokyo. At Japanese companies with at
least 5,000 employees, women made up about 2.9 percent of
managers, figures from the Labor Ministry show.  Less than 5 percent of listed-company board members in
Japan are women, one of the lowest rates among members of the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development,
according to an OECD  report . New Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has
 said  his administration will support women at work by increasing
nursery places.  Untapped Resource  “Women are a very important, still untapped resource,”
Nissan Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said in a  statement 
on the company’s website. “The market requires much more female
input in terms of product design, engineering, and even
manufacturing and distributing the product.”  Globally, companies with at least one woman on the board
from 2005 to 2011 had a higher return on equity than those that
didn’t, according to a Credit Suisse  report  last year. Those
with female board members had faster profit growth, according to
the report, “Gender Diversity and Corporate Performance.”  Nissan aims to increase female managers to 10 percent of
its total by 2017. Toyota and Honda, which together with Nissan
account for more than 80 percent of car sales in  Japan , said
they haven’t set targets, though Toyota says it has a team to
boost diversity and has established childcare centers.  In Japan, three of every four big-ticket purchasing
decisions are made by women or jointly with their husbands, a
survey last year by the Ministry of Economy showed.  Bitter Chocolate  At a Nissan showroom in the company’s hometown of Yokohama
last month, Fumiko Koyama, a 33-year-old housewife, weighed her
options. “The Note is cute but not too feminine, and is also
very easy to drive in narrow alleys.”  Her view counts more than her husband’s, she said. “I
drive the most.”  Half of Note buyers are women, said Minakuchi, who joined
Nissan in 2001. She became the automaker’s first female chief
product specialist in 2009 after working on the redesign of the
Cube, a people carrier that became a favorite of Japanese
women’s magazines as Nissan targeted female buyers with colors
such as “ Bitter Chocolate .”  “I knew the company wanted to confirm whether a woman
could really do the job,”  Minakuchi said over tea at an
Italian restaurant in a  Tokyo  suburb. “I thought I lacked
experience, but colleagues gave me support.”  Corolla Beater  Nissan last April appointed two more women as product
chiefs, who oversee all aspects of a car, from conceptualization
to design to rollout. Yoko Yanai, 45, took charge of the Qashqai
crossover SUV, and Sachiko Aoki, 44, is leading a new model
whose details Nissan declined to provide. The company says it
has one product chief for each of about 30 car models.  “I’ve never felt that I’m different from men in this
company,” Minakuchi said. “A car reflects the designer’s
personality.”  Nissan sold more than 63,000 Notes in the five months
through January, versus about 21,600 for the same period a year
earlier, according to the Japan Automobile Dealers Association.  The Note’s growth outstripped that of the latest Corolla,
introduced in May, and the Honda Fit, which went on sale in
2007. Honda plans to release a new Fit in the second half of
this year.  The Note’s appeal to female buyers has helped Nissan in the
competitive compact segment, said Yoshiaki Kawano, an analyst at
researcher IHS Automotive in Tokyo. “The vehicle’s design,
interior and color variation together project an image that
women prefer.”  Hidden Women  Promoting women also helps Nissan retain  employees , said
Rika Kiritake, who heads the diversity development office that
the company set up in 2004.  That year, 22 percent of women who quit Nissan cited
childcare concerns as a reason for their departure. By 2011, the
figure had fallen to 4 percent, according to the automaker,
which opened a third daycare center last month in Yokohama.  Nissan says it last year exceeded targets set in 2004 for
women to comprise at least 50 percent of new college hires in
administration and 15 percent in technical divisions.  Targets force the company to find talented women “hidden
behind men,” said Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga, who
declined to specify the financial impact of the program. “Not
all male employees understand the importance of diversity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  