-- North Korea Shows Dangers of Half-Deal With Iran
-- B y   G a r y   M i l h o l l i n
-- 2013-02-24T23:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/north-korea-shows-dangers-of-half-deal-with-iran.html
Negotiators from the world’s major
powers sit down with Iran this week for more talks on its
nuclear program, just weeks after  North Korea  tested another
nuclear weapon.  If the connection between these two events isn’t obvious,
it should be: North Korea’s nuclear saga is a cautionary tale
for anyone attempting to bargain with the Islamic Republic.  Back in the 1980s, when suspicions were first raised about
North Korea’s  nuclear ambitions , the country’s leadership was
keen to distract attention with a show of clean hands. It joined
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation  Treaty , promised not to make the
bomb and said it would report the whereabouts of all its nuclear
material to international inspectors.  Iran has been hiding nuclear work and sites since about the
same time, although it was one of the treaty’s original
signatories. Like  Iran , North Korea was soon suspected of hiding
things after that initial show of clean hands. It stiffed
inspectors and made lame excuses for doing so. And, like Iran,
North Korea built plants that generated fissile material that
was useful for making bombs, but unnecessary for producing
civilian nuclear power.  By 1994, matters had come to a head. North Korea’s lies
were bolder, and the pace of its nuclear program had
accelerated. Its scientists, rounding the last turn, could see
the finish line. The U.S. and other world powers had to decide
how to stop them: Would it be United Nations resolutions, or
economic sanctions, or war?  Interim Deal  The response was to negotiate a deal. The U.S. agreed to
send North Korea much-needed shipments of heavy oil and to
endorse the building of a new nuclear-power reactor, for which
 South Korea  would be the lead supplier. In return, North Korea
agreed to stop producing nuclear material, on the condition that
it could keep its nuclear sites, plus the fuel it had already
made. This deal was to be a first step only. North Korea would
later give up all of its nuclear material and dismantle its
sites, at which point the U.S. would drop sanctions and restore
normal relations.  The deal fell apart in 2002, when a U.S. diplomat accused
North Korea of secretly building a facility to enrich uranium.
Oil shipments stopped, and the promised nuclear reactor wasn’t
built. Then, as everyone now knows, North Korea used its
material and its sites to make nuclear bombs. The tremors from
weapon testing arrived in 2006.  What should this experience teach us about the talks with
Iran? Last year, the U.S. and its negotiating partners in the
so-called P5+1 --  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. --  offered  an interim deal for limited economic and
technical aid. In exchange, Iran would lower (but not stop) its
production of nuclear fuel, and would send a portion of its
stock out of the country.  Most important under the proposed agreement was that Iran
would be able to keep its nuclear sites and all of the low-
 enriched uranium  it had already made. It would ship out only its
much smaller stock of medium-grade fuel.  CNN  reported last week
that a similar deal will be on the table again at the talks in
 Kazakhstan .  This initial agreement with Iran would be just the first
step in a process. Later, the parties would move to a
comprehensive arrangement in which Iran would, perhaps (the
details are still vague), get rid of its enriched uranium and
limit -- to a token, face-saving level -- its ability to make
more of it. The U.S. would, perhaps, drop most of its sanctions
and move toward normal relations.  Same Deal  Sound familiar? It should. The North Korea and Iran deals
are essentially the same. After the agreement with North Korea,
the country’s leaders were left with enough plutonium in the
form of spent reactor fuel to make about six nuclear weapons,
after further processing. The deal being floated for Iran would
leave it with sufficient enriched uranium to make about six
nuclear weapons, after further processing.  Of course, North Korea did the processing and made the
bombs. What we have to ask ourselves is this: Why won’t Iran? Is
there any reason to believe that this time the outcome would be
different?  The mistake in the North Korea talks was not to insist from
the outset that all nuclear fuel should be shipped out of the
country, and all nuclear sites should be dismantled. The U.S.
made a deal that lowered the diplomatic pressure on Supreme
Leader Kim Jong-Il, but left the danger in place. North Korea
got an agreement with the U.S. without giving up its ability to
make nuclear weapons. It was in a position to restart the
program at any time.  If Iran accepts the interim deal being floated this week,
it will do even better. Iran will not have to stop producing
nuclear fuel and will only have to cut its production back by a
small percentage, while keeping enough to produce a small
arsenal. Nor will it have to dismantle its production sites.
Like North Korea, it will be able to restart production at any
time.  The lesson from North Korea is that an interim agreement of
this kind won’t work. In addition to leaving too much fuel in
place that can be enriched to weapons grade, the proposed
agreement inevitably renders legitimate what it doesn’t
prohibit. If nuclear fuel, production or equipment is permitted,
then it becomes Iran’s right.  Once such a notion is accepted, the interim deal becomes
the only one, because it dissipates the crisis atmosphere. The
public starts thinking that things are safe, or at least safe
enough, though they aren’t. The effect is to diminish the
support for sanctions that was so difficult to win, and to make
it almost impossible to reinstate these measures once it becomes
clear that Iran is not taking the next steps, which -- just as
with North Korea -- it won’t.  Before making any halfway deal, U.S. and European diplomats
should insist that Iran remove itself from the path that North
Korea so easily followed. If Iran wants to  convince  the world
that it has no desire to acquire nuclear weapons, then it should
be willing to give up the means to make them. When the talks
resume this week, let’s hope history isn’t forgotten.  (Gary Milhollin is executive editor of Iranwatch.org, a
website on Iranian weapons programs that is published by the
Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Milhollin at  info@wisconsinproject.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 