-- America Movil Seeks to Boost Profit on Mozilla Smartphone
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-25T21:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/mozilla-boosts-partners-for-2013-firefox-smartphone-debut.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the wireless
carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , predicts a new
smartphone running Mozilla Corp.’s Firefox operating system will
help boost revenue and profit.  “The opportunities for growth are huge” as only 15
percent of the 261.6 million wireless customers of Mexico City-
based America Movil use smartphones, Chief Marketing Officer
Marco Quatorze said in an interview in Barcelona yesterday. The
highest adoption rates will come from Peru and Central America,
he said.  In addition to America Movil, more than a dozen wireless
carriers including  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  are supporting an open mobile operating system by
Mozilla to make a range of cheaper smartphones to counter  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s dominance in the market with Android. Firefox-based
devices may arrive as early as the second quarter, said Mozilla
Chief Technology Officer Brendan Eich.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Huawei Technologies Co. will
introduce smartphones running on software developed by the maker
of the Firefox browser, Eich said.  ZTE Corp. (763)  and  TCL
Communication Technology Holdings Ltd. (2618) ’s Alcatel One Touch brand
are also planning to introduce phones, according to executives
at an event on the eve of the  Mobile World Congress .  America Movil fell 2.3 percent to 13.63 pesos at the close
in Mexico City.  ‘Higher Control’  The new smartphones will cost about $100, a price that
“should decline in the future, which will make the device
affordable for more people,” Quatorze said. Still, it will take
more two years for all its customers to have one, he said.
America Movil has more mobile-phone subscribers than any other
carrier in the western Hemisphere.  “Operators will benefit from a higher control of the
mobile ecosystem,” Franco  Bernabe (BNBC) , CEO of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,
one of the carriers that have agreed to carry the devices, said
yesterday in Barcelona.  The first Firefox OS devices will be available in Brazil,
Colombia, Hungary, Mexico, Montenegro, Poland, Serbia, Spain and
Venezuela. For the U.S., “we’ve been talking to all the
operators,” Eich said.  Carriers in the alliance are trying to reduce their
dependence on Android, which dominates the smartphone market
with about 70 percent of shipments. Deutsche Telekom plans to
introduce the operating system in Poland this summer before
expanding distribution to other eastern European markets, Chief
Executive Officer Rene Obermann said yesterday.  Project Delays  “It’s going to be important, but of course it’s going to
take some time before it’s widely spread and before it’s really
relevant,” Obermann said in an interview. “We need to go
through this initial period and keep promoting it. Then it can
make a difference.”  Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone company and America
Movil’s biggest competitor in Latin America, expects to sell
Firefox phones in all 24 markets where it operates by 2014,
Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta said in Barcelona.  “Smartphone penetration will grow a lot in Latin America,
more than three times, to reach one-third of the region’s
population by 2016,’ Alierta said. ‘‘It will be the fastest-
growing region in the world in coming years.”  The deadline for the project has already slipped at least
twice. Telefonica, which was first to announce a partnership
with Mozilla at the same conference a year ago, had initially
planned to offer the first devices in Brazil at the end of 2012.
In July, it said that the first handsets built by ZTE and TCL
would be offered from early 2013.  Market Gains  Latin America is “the highest growing Internet society in
the world,” Mozilla Chief Executive Officer Gary Kovacs said in
an interview. “Telefonica and America Movil are very
important.”  Market gains will probably come from Android and more
basic-feature phones, Eich said. Devices will also be available
from  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,  KDDI Corp. (9433) ,  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and
other wireless operators, he said.  “By the end of 2013, we’ll be on the map,” Eich said.
“In 2014 we’ll be growing. We are just going as fast as we can
to gain share.”  The Firefox smartphones will have access to Mozilla’s
mobile application store later this year. Developers will be
able to create apps using a common Web-programming language
called HTML5, letting them save time and money, Eich said.  Many developers and consumers are already familiar with
Firefox, a desktop Internet browser that has a 20 percent market
share behind Microsoft Corp.’s Internet Explorer, according to
 Net Applications .  “They have a lot of familiarity, they are a known
entity,” Will Stofega, program director at IDC, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  