-- Saudi Arabia Completes Regulations for 3 of 5 New Mortgage Laws
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-02-25T08:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/saudi-arabia-completes-regulations-for-3-of-5-new-mortgage-laws.html
Saudi Arabia  issued final
 regulations  on real estate financing, leasing and the
supervision of financial companies as the kingdom tries to ease
a housing shortage by opening up its mortgage market and
enacting the first home-loans law.  The regulations outlining three of the five laws that make
up the package of changes were posted yesterday on the  website 
of the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency . Rules on the enforcement
of foreclosures and mortgage registrations have yet to be
completed.  The package goes into effect when regulations for the two
remaining laws are finished and the final version of the
legislation are publicized in the  official newspaper , which
should be in the next few weeks, said Abdulaziz AlGasim, the
managing partner at Abdulaziz AlGasim Law Firm who helped draft
the mortgage measure.  The mortgage law, which has been debated for more than a
decade, will overhaul the kingdom’s home-finance market, from
registering mortgages to allowing judges to prosecute police
officers who fail to carry out eviction orders. The changes
could increase residential lending to about $32 billion
annually, according to estimates by  Capitas Group International
Ltd. , a Saudi company focused on  Islamic finance .  The law “will transform home financing in Saudi Arabia to
property-secured lending from the current practice of extending
loans based on salary assignment, or banks’ automatic deductions
from borrowers’ salaries to repay home loans,” according to a
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services report on Feb. 18.  Lending Growth  Home lending in Saudi Arabia grew at the fastest pace in at
least four years in the second quarter of 2012, evidence that
banks in the largest Arab economy are more willing to take risks
as the mortgage law progresses. Real estate financing jumped 83
percent to a record 48 billion  riyals  ($12.8 billion) from a
year earlier, according to data compiled by the central bank.  Consumer real estate financing, after surging in 2012,
accounted for 5.1 percent of total loans as of June 30, which is
less than 5 percent of gross domestic product, according to S&P.
That’s much lower than residential mortgages penetration at
other  G-20 countries , which is about 40 percent in  France  and 50
percent in  Germany , S&P said, citing the  International Monetary
Fund .  Most buyers rely on savings or help from family to buy
homes in the kingdom. The government’s  Real Estate Development
Fund  provides low-income buyers with interest-free loans.  Licensed Providers  The rules will lead to the creation of licensed private
mortgage providers as well as a state-run company for
refinancing resembling  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  in the U.S.
The Saudi Real Estate Refinancing Corp. would be responsible for
issuing Islamic bonds or securities backed by mortgages or real
estate, AlGasim said.  Mortgage lenders in Saudi Arabia must have minimum paid-up
capital of 200 million riyals, the state-owned  Saudi Press
Agency  said yesterday. They will be given two years to comply
with all new requirements set for mortgage providers. They also
must inform Saudi Arabia’s central bank, which will regulate
them, of their plans to conform to the regulations within nine
months of their enactment, SPA said.  The regulations also bar mortgage lenders from providing
loans for other purposes and prohibit home-financing providers
from developing property.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in  Riyadh  at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net . 