-- U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Clegg Denies Sex Harassment Cover Up
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-24T20:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/u-k-deputy-prime-minister-clegg-denies-sex-harassment-cover-up.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said today he did not try to cover-up allegations of
sexual harassment against former Liberal Democrat party chairman
Chris Rennard.  Clegg, the Liberal Democrat party leader, denied in an e-
mailed statement today that he knew about specific allegations
against Rennard, who oversaw the Liberal Democrat’s election
strategy and sits as a lawmaker in the House of Lords. Chief
secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander, then Clegg’s chief of
staff, spoke to Rennard when he heard non-specific claims about
him five years ago, Clegg said in the statement.  There will be an investigation into the claims by women who
used to work for the party that Rennard harassed them, Clegg
said. The allegations, which were first reported by Britain’s
 Channel 4 news , are denied by Rennard.  “When indirect and non-specific concerns about Chris
Rennard’s conduct reached my office in 2008, we acted to deal
with them,” Clegg said in the statement. “My Chief of Staff at
the time,  Danny Alexander , put these concerns to Chris Rennard
and warned him that any such behavior was wholly unacceptable.
Chris Rennard categorically denied that he had behaved
inappropriately and he continues to do so. He subsequently
resigned as Chief Executive on health grounds.”  Because the complaints were made indirectly and anonymously
the party was limited in how far it could proceed once Rennard
had resigned, Clegg said. There will now be an investigation
into the allegations against Rennard and another probe into
whether the party followed the correct procedures in dealing
with the complaints.  “I am absolutely determined that both these investigations
will be carried out thoroughly and comprehensively,” Clegg
said. “These investigations may well reveal flawed procedures,
and clearly the women concerned feel they were not properly
listened to, but I totally reject the insidious suggestion that
my office or I are responsible in any way for a deliberate cover
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  