-- U.S. Said to Push Syrian Opposition Group to Attend Rome Meeting
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-24T22:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/u-s-said-to-push-syrian-opposition-group-to-attend-rome-meeting.html
The U.S. is urging  Syria ’s political
opposition to reverse a decision to boycott an international
meeting in Rome, where the U.S. and allies will meet Feb. 28 to
discuss support for those fighting the regime of President
Bashar al-Assad.  The Syrian Opposition Council announced its decision Feb.
22 to protest the international community’s “shameful”
position on violence that has wracked the country for almost two
years, leaving almost 70,000 people dead. The SOC, an umbrella
group, also canceled planned visits to the U.S. and Russia.  The decision reflects long-standing rifts within the
opposition movement, particularly between those representing
rebels politically, who favor international engagement, and
those doing the actual fighting, who back the protest, a U.S.
official said today. The decision to boycott the  Rome  meeting
also robs the opposition of a chance to get greater support,
said the official, who asked for anonymity to discuss diplomatic
issues.  The group has an opportunity in Rome to see countries that
have been their greatest supporters and to make the case for
what further support they need and why, said the official, who
spoke as Secretary of State  John Kerry  flew to London to begin a
10-day trip across Europe and the  Middle East .  Kerry will discuss the crisis in Syria, as well as
developments in North Africa and nuclear tensions with Iran in
stops to London, Berlin, Paris, Rome, Ankara, Cairo, Riyadh,  Abu
Dhabi  and Doha.  The official said the Syrian opposition leadership is under
severe pressure now from its membership to get more support from
the international community. In that context, the official said,
there’s quite a bit of discussion within the Syrian opposition
about the value of going to international conferences.  The U.S. Ambassador to Syria,  Robert Ford , will travel to
Cairo tonight to meet the opposition coalition in advance of the
Rome meeting to make the case for visiting Rome, the official
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in London at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  