-- Turn Down the City Lights and Make Streets Safer
-- B y   P a u l   B o g a r d
-- 2013-02-24T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/turn-down-the-city-lights-and-make-streets-safer.html
The City of Light dimmed? It’s true.
Thanks to a  new law , not only Paris but all of  France  will see
its lighting level reduced, beginning this July. Window lighting
in commercial buildings and the lights on building facades will
be turned off after 1 a.m., and interior lighting in office
buildings will be off an hour after the last employee departs.  The new law promises to reduce  carbon emissions  and save
energy -- the annual equivalent of 750,000 households’ worth.
Most significant is its potential to turn the tide against  light
pollution  by changing attitudes about our unnecessary overuse of
light at night.  In almost every U.S. city, suburb and town, the streets,
parking lots, gas stations, and commercial and public buildings
are lit through the night. Over recent decades, the growth of
this pollution has been relentless, yet slow enough that most of
us haven’t noticed. Parking lots and gas stations, for example,
are now often 10 times  brighter  than they were just 20 years
ago, and light pollution continues to grow at 6 percent every
year.  The cost of all this light, monetary and otherwise, is
high. The connections to sleep disorders, cancer, diabetes and
other disease are serious enough that the  American Medical
Association  has  declared  its support for light-pollution control
efforts. Every ecosystem on Earth is both nocturnal as well as
diurnal, and light destroys habitat just as easily as any
bulldozer can. And when eight out of 10 children born in the
U.S. today will never see the Milky Way, we have even lost the
stars.  Safety Improves  The usual justification for these costs is that we need all
this light for safety and security. This simply isn’t true.  No one doubts that artificial light can reduce the risks of
being out at night, and no one is saying that we ought to exist
in the dark. But increasingly, police, doctors, astronomers,
economists, business leaders, communities and now the French
government  agree  that we should reduce the light we use, and
that too much brightness at night actually reduces our safety
and security. Bright lights may make us feel safer. Alone,
however, they don’t actually make us safer.  The research bears this out. In 2008,  PG&E Corp. (PCG) , the San
Francisco-based energy company, reviewed the research and found
“either that there is no link between lighting and crime, or
that any link is too subtle or complex to have been evident in
the data.”  Others are even more to the point. Australian astronomer
 Barry Clark  went so far as to conclude that “advocating
lighting for crime prevention is like advocating use of a
flammable liquid to try to put out a fire.”  Our own eyes tell the same story. Too much light at night
actually blinds us with “disability glare” -- something
middle-aged and elderly drivers know all too well -- and bright,
unshielded lights make it impossible to see past them to where
criminals might hide. (The next time you face a bright
streetlight, block it with your hand and notice how much better
you can see the area beneath and beyond the light.)  Numerous villages, towns and cities in  Europe  and the U.S.
have initiated programs to shut off streetlights for at least
part of the night. European cities such as Berlin and Copenhagen
already have much lower levels of light than their U.S.
counterparts, and even some major American cities, such as
 Tucson, Arizona , have strict lighting ordinances that require a
level of light that most Americans would consider dim. None of
these towns and cities has reported related increases in crime.  The new French law is to be applauded, not only for what it
may do to save energy and reduce carbon emissions, but also for
what it may help us to understand: True safety and security at
night comes from making smart decisions, being aware of our
surroundings and using lighting wisely.  If the City of Light can do it, why shouldn’t we?  (Paul Bogard, who teaches creative nonfiction at James
Madison University in  Virginia , is the author of “ The End of
Night : Searching for Natural Darkness in an Age of Artificial
Light,” to be published this July, and the editor of “Let
There Be Night: Testimony on Behalf of the Dark.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul Bogard at  bogardpw@jmu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 