-- VW Braces for First-Quarter Proift Drop on Europe Market
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-02-25T09:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/volkswagen-s-start-to-year-is-worse-than-in-2012-poetsch-says.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
carmaker, is preparing for a drop in first-quarter earnings as
the region’s auto market enters its sixth year of declines.  Profit in the first three months “will be clearly below”
the first quarter of 2012, Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said in an interview with Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung, without providing additional details.  Christine Ritz , a VW spokeswoman, confirmed his remarks.  Sales growth in China,  North America  and  Russia  helped the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based company to more than offset the market
drop in Europe last year. The region’s downturn is expected to
deepen in 2013, though, with auto executives forecasting new-car
sales will shrink as much as 5 percent.  “The situation in Europe won’t get easier this year,”
Fairesearch analyst Hans-Peter Wodniok said via telephone. VW’s
footprint in  emerging markets  and growth in the U.S. should help
it to cope with increasing headwinds in region, he said, adding
that the share price slump of 7.1 percent on Friday was “a bit
exaggerated.”  The stock  climbed  as much as 3.95 euros, or 2.6 percent, to
168 euros and was up 2.5 percent as of 10:08 a.m. in  Frankfurt .
The shares have dropped 2.5 percent this year, valuing the
German company at 75.3 billion euros.  Volkswagen said Feb. 22 that 2013 operating profit will
match last year’s level, falling short of analysts’ estimates.  Earnings before interest and taxes, which rose 2.1 percent
to 11.5 billion euros ($15.2 billion) in 2012, probably won’t
increase this year as the shrinking car market in its home
region weighs on earnings, it said then.  Europe Sinks  Moody’s last week lowered its estimate for European light
vehicle sales this year to a 5 percent decline from a 3 percent
decrease previously.  “This is mainly due to weaker-than-expected demand in
northern European countries, especially Germany and the U.K.,
and the absence of a recovery in southern Europe,” Moody’s
analyst Falk Frey said in a report.  New-car registrations in the region last month were the
least for a January since records began in 1990, following a
drop to a 17-year low for all of 2012, according to the ACEA
auto-industry association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  