-- Western Australia Faces Cyclone Threat as Floods Strike East
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-24T06:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/western-australia-faces-cyclone-threat-as-floods-strike-east.html
Western Australia’s  iron-ore 
operations face the threat of a  severe tropical cyclone  crossing
the coast early this week, as flooding forced evacuations in
towns in the eastern state of New South Wales.  A tropical low off the coast of northwestern Australia will
probably become a cyclone later today or tomorrow, the Bureau of
Meteorology said on its website. There’s a high risk it will
cross the Pilbara coast as a severe tropical cyclone on Feb. 26
or Feb. 27, it said.  The Pilbara, the world’s biggest exporting region of iron
ore, is home to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group’s mines
and Port Hedland, the world’s biggest bulk export facility. In
addition to high winds, cyclones can bring widespread rainfall
disrupting mining. The tropical low may become a category 3
cyclone, the bureau said, potentially bringing very destructive
winds.  “Widespread very heavy rainfall is expected during Tuesday
and Wednesday and is likely to lead to major flooding in the De
Grey catchment,” the weather bureau said on its website.
“Significant flooding in the Fortescue is also likely.”  Shipping Suspended  Port Hedland  is suspending inbound shipping and started
anchorage evacuation as the weather system nears the coast as of
2 p.m. local time today, the port authority said in an e-mailed
statement. Outbound shipments are continuing for now, it said.  In the east, two people were confirmed dead as a result of
flooding caused by a slow-moving low pressure system that has
made its way down the coast over the past few days. About 20,000
people have been isolated in the north and mid-north coast of
New South Wales, the  emergency service  said on its  website . The
weather bureau has issued flood warnings for 15 rivers.  Evacuation orders are in place for several towns, including
Kempsey, Port Macquarie and Bellingen on the state’s mid-north
coast. Storms also damaged homes and cut electricity in Sydney
during the night.  Australia  experienced record temperatures that triggered
wildfires in southern and eastern states in January. In the same
month, New South Wales and Queensland were hit by floods that
forced thousands of people to flee their homes and caused
millions of dollars in damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  