-- When Presidents Can’t Wait and Act on Their Own
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-24T23:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/when-presidents-can-t-wait-and-act-on-their-own.html
Quiz question: Of the last seven
U.S. presidents, which one issued, by a large margin, the most
executive orders per year?  Answer:  Jimmy Carter .  Gerald Ford  is second,  Ronald Reagan 
is third,  Bill Clinton  is fourth, and  George H.W. Bush  is fifth.
George W. Bush and  Barack Obama  bring up the rear and are
essentially tied.  The numbers are  revealing , because executive orders are the
most formal steps that presidents can take to make policy on
their own, and yet no one would rank Carter as the most muscular
president in recent decades. On the contrary, the conventional
wisdom probably sees him as the weakest. Nonetheless, he issued
319 executive orders -- almost 80 a year, a much faster pace
than Reagan’s 47, and far ahead of Obama’s 36.  True, it is important to know not only the number of
executive orders, but also their  content  -- what they do and
why. An answer to that question will help inform the
increasingly heated debate about “executive actions” by
President Obama -- and about whether they illegitimately bypass
Congress. Executive actions are nothing new, and presidents,
both Republican and Democratic, have properly undertaken a large
number of them. They are an established part of our
 constitutional  system -- and are typically legitimate because
Congress itself has previously authorized them.  Executive actions fall into many categories. Executive
orders are official, numbered documents, binding on the
executive branch, through which the president publicly orders
his appointees to act in specified ways (for example, to issue
rules only when the benefits justify the costs).  Binding Regulations  Presidential memoranda are similarly binding, but they
often have a narrower focus and may be directed at a single
Cabinet member (for example, ordering the secretary of health
and human services to extend visitation rights to members of
same-sex couples).  National regulations, binding on the public, are usually
issued by agencies and departments, and rarely by the president
personally, though the most significant ones are subject to
White House review. They are a primary vehicle by which any
administration makes policy, especially when Congress is
stymied. In addition, the president oversees the enforcement of
national law. He can target his efforts to areas that seem to
him of greatest concern, and he has a degree of  prosecutorial
discretion  as well, authorizing him to decline to act in certain
areas.  Everyone agrees that to initiate action, the president must
be able to show that the Constitution or Congress authorizes him
to do so. In fact, Congress has authorized the overwhelming
majority of executive actions undertaken by both Republican and
Democratic presidents.  Consider the current controversy over recent and potential
actions by the  Environmental Protection Agency  to regulate
greenhouse-gas emissions. Some critics have noted (correctly)
that Congress failed to enact a “cap and trade” law to
regulate such emissions. They object that EPA action would be an
inappropriate and even illegal end run around Congress.  Nothing could be further from the truth. In 2007, the
 Supreme Court  ruled that greenhouse-gas emissions count as air
pollutants within the meaning of the  Clean Air Act . For this
reason, the EPA is permitted, and probably required, to reduce
such emissions. A federal court of appeals has  upheld  the EPA’s
efforts to do precisely that.  Like their predecessors, all recent presidents have taken
numerous executive actions to achieve their policy goals.
Clinton promoted tobacco control and paid leave for new mothers
and fathers.  George W. Bush  protected financial assistance to
faith-based organizations and combated human trafficking. Reagan
maintained restrictions on the export of technical data and
promoted drug-free federal workplaces.  Legitimate Authority  The Obama administration’s “we can’t wait” initiatives
fall comfortably under this general framework. In undertaking
initiatives to increase the fuel economy of gasoline, to improve
outcomes at Head Start (by requiring more competition among
facilities for federal funds), to reduce student-loan payments,
to prevent prescription-drug shortages, and to help young people
find summer jobs, the administration acted well within the
 authority  granted to it by Congress.  True, there are limits on the nature and scope of executive
actions. The Supreme Court struck down Clinton’s tobacco-control
initiative, carried out by the  Food and Drug Administration , on
the grounds that it exceeded legal limits (set by Congress) on
FDA authority.  Obama’s “we can’t wait” initiatives included recess
appointments to the  National Labor Relations Board . While both
Republican and Democratic presidents have made such
appointments, a court of appeals recently  ruled  that Obama
exceeded his constitutional authority. That ruling is
controversial, and the Supreme Court may ultimately reject it,
yet the general point is clear: Courts are available to police
executive actions.  All presidents find that the national legislature is
unwilling to enact some of their highest-priority proposals. But
existing law also grants the executive branch a lot of power to
act on its own. In exercising that power, presidents hardly
“bypass Congress.” On the contrary, they act because a
previous Congress has authorized them to do just that.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University Professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” to be published in April.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 