-- Wi-Fi Flaws Turn Off Outdoor Users, Cost Mobile Web Traffic
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-25T08:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/wi-fi-flaws-turn-off-outdoor-users-costing-wireless-web-traffic.html
Wi-Fi networks, having become a
household fixture in the past decade, remain too annoying to
use outside the home for many, hindering carriers’ ambitions to
leverage the wireless Internet technology.  As hotspots pop up across cities and public transportation,
multiple passwords, spotty coverage, extra charges, and phones
that connect to unauthorized Wi-Fi by mistake and disable
wireless data are turning some customers off. Home remains the
most popular place to use Wi-Fi -- some operators see as much as
75 percent of mobile traffic carried on personal routers, while
as little as 5 percent goes over outdoor hotspots, industry
group Wireless Broadband Alliance found in a November  survey .  “The phone connects to the network automatically: you
appear to have Wi-Fi and all connection is in fact lost,” said
Dave Field, a public relations consultant in  London  who uses
Sky’s Cloud Wi-Fi service and  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) ’s hotspots in
the Underground subway. “Auto-connect is also a real pain as
you often need to complete long forms and bank cards -- quite
difficult on an iPhone.”  Such complaints make it more difficult for providers such
as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , which are increasingly
counting on the technology to ease traffic on their mobile
networks, and companies like  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  and  British Sky
Broadcasting Group (BSY) , which want to use Wi-Fi to win user loyalty.  Wi-Fi Dreams  At the  Mobile World Congress  this week, over 70,000 are
gathering to discuss the future of wireless communications.
Companies’ ambition of streaming videos through wireless
networks and marketing to consumers by location largely depend
on full and frequent access to the mobile Web. To assist
bloggers, analysts and media swarming the Fira Gran Via
convention center, organizers have promised 50 percent more Wi-
Fi hotspots than last year for 250 percent more capacity.  The WBA is working to ease access, pushing for so-called
next-generation hotspots to cut the need for user names and
passwords. More than 50 companies, including AT&T, BT and  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  agreed in December to roaming deals integrating Wi-
Fi networks, billing and security as part of the initiative. It
will begin deploying in the first half of this year.  The group is also testing a system using mobile-phone
smartcards to identify users so they won’t have to log in. By
using SIM cards, which store a user’s identity in the phone,
customers won’t have to log in to the best available networks
and their credentials will work across them all, said WBA
program director Tiago Rodrigues.  Managing Traffic  “It’s a mechanism that is in some ways similar to the
experience we have on our mobiles when we go abroad,” Rodrigues
said. “Our mobiles select the network that is available
automatically.”  As carriers expand their Wi-Fi hotspots in public places,
they have to ensure they can handle the traffic so users aren’t
driven away as soon as they try to get on. In the U.K., Wi-Fi
use drops to its lowest points when customers leave home, a
Nielsen survey of people with devices using Google Inc.’s
Android found in September. It accounts for about 90 percent of
data use between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m. and drops to a low of about
65 percent at midday, according to the study.  Most operators saw less than 20 percent of smartphone
traffic offloaded onto Wi-Fi networks, the WBA survey found.  BT, with 4.5 million U.K. hotspots, has sought to boost
non-home usage. It’s tripled the minutes of traffic in the last
year when people are out in part by partnering with retailers
and places such as train stations where people have to wait,
said Andy Baker, the Wi-Fi division head.  Duty-Free Shopping  BT aims to ease frustration by adding Wi-Fi access to
broadband packages and offering the service through retailers
such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and John Lewis Plc, Baker said. BT also
has an application for iPhones, Windows, BlackBerrys and Android
devices to point users to hotspots.  Partnerships also open new lines of business for providers
that can compile data on how customers move around a store, for
example, or what they buy for tailored coupons. One service BT
plans would allow an airport to track how long passengers spend
in duty-free shops and how often they visit, Baker said.  “You’ll see a lot of pretty cool stuff over the next 12 to
18 months,” Baker said.  FCC Vote  BT rose 0.3 percent to 278 pence at 8:54 a.m. in London.
BSkyB gained 0.2 percent to 828.5 pence.  Worldwide, governments and carriers are finding ways to
facilitate outdoor Wi-Fi access. The Federal Communications
Commission last week voted to write rules opening more airwaves
to Wi-Fi devices to help ease wireless congestion in places such
as airports and conference halls.  China Mobile boosted the number of sites to 2.2 million by
the end of 2011 from 300,000 that June. The world’s biggest
wireless carrier then saw traffic jump 103 percent in the first
half of last year, according to the WBA.  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and U.S. Wi-Fi service provider  Boingo
Wireless Inc. (WIFI)  announced a roaming agreement in December that
gives the Japanese carrier’s customers access to 600,000
hotspots globally. In New York,  Norwegian Cruise (NCLH)  Line has
sponsored free access to clients on the subways and airports
this month through a sponsorship deal with Boingo. Google also
partnered with Boingo to offer free Wi-Fi in exchange for
advertising to users in New York City last summer.  “Over the last two or three years, there’s been a dramatic
increase in the number of places where that is free,” BT’s
Baker said. “It’s a much easier world now, you’re not in the
world of passwords.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  