-- Brent Trades Near Four-Day High Before Iran Nuke Talks
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-02-25T13:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/wti-oil-trades-near-two-day-high-china-increases-fuel-prices.html
Brent crude  traded near the highest
level in four days before international talks with  Iran  on its
nuclear program.  China  increased fuel prices for the first time
since September.  Futures rose as much as 1.6 percent after gaining 0.5
percent on Feb. 22. Iran, which is under a Western embargo on
its oil exports, will meet the U.S., China,  France ,  Germany ,
 Russia  and the U.K., or the so-called P5+1 group, tomorrow in
Almaty,  Kazakhstan , after an eight-month lapse in negotiations.
The lack of a breakthrough may mean U.S. and European Union
sanctions on Iran will continue to cost the Islamic republic
about $98.9 million a day in lost oil sales, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Any hopes that progress might have been made between Iran
and the P5+1 at their meeting this week appear to have been
dashed by provocative comments from Iranian spokesmen trumpeting
advances in  uranium enrichment ,” Nic Brown, head of commodities
research at Natixis SA in London, said in an e-mailed response
to questions today. The talks will probably be “another missed
opportunity,” he said.  Brent for April settlement advanced as much as $1.77 to
$115.87 a barrel, the highest level since it settled at $117.52
on Feb. 19. It was at $115.54 as of 1:28 p.m. local time on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The volume of all
futures traded was 0.6 percent more than the 100-day average.
The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $21.42 to West
Texas Intermediate, up from $20.97 on Feb. 22.  Significant Producer  WTI for April delivery was at $94.14 a barrel, up $1.01, in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The
contract rose to $93.13 on Feb. 22, the highest settlement since
Feb. 20. Volume was 3 percent above the 100-day average. Front-
month prices fell 2.9 percent last week, the most since
December.  “Iran is still a significant producer and any major
changes one way or the other to its production has the potential
to have an impact on overall global supply,” said Ric Spooner,
a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.  Atomic Weapons  The country’s revenue from oil sales has dropped because of
the sanctions, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in a speech
aired on state television Feb. 23. The nation says its nuclear
program is for civilian use, while the U.S., the EU suspect it
is developing atomic weapons.  Recent discoveries of uranium resources have almost tripled
Iran’s reserves of the radioactive fuel to 4,400 tons, the
 Islamic Republic News Agency  reported Feb. 23, citing Fereidoon
Abbasi, the head of the  Atomic Energy Organization of Iran .  The Persian Gulf nation is installing more advanced
centrifuges that will multiply its uranium enrichment
capability, the  United Nations ’  International Atomic Energy
Agency  reported last week, adding that it was unable to conclude
that all material was intended for peaceful purposes.  “There’s not much sign there will be any advancement in
the negotiations this week,” Robin Mills, the head of
consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy Consulting and Project
Management, said yesterday. “I’m not hopeful for any deal being
reached in Kazakhstan. I haven’t seen any signs the U.S. will
offer Iran any sanctions relief.”  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline in China will increase by 300  yuan  ($48) a metric
ton and diesel by 290 yuan today, the National Development and
Reform Commission said.  The fuel-price increase by China, the world’s second-
biggest oil consumer, reflects recent international crude costs,
the NDRC said in a statement on its website yesterday. Brent,
the benchmark price for more than half the world’s oil, has
gained 2.9 percent this year. The pump price of 90 octane, China
III gasoline in Beijing will rise 3.1 percent to 10,030 yuan a
ton, or $4.60 a U.S. gallon, according to NDRC data.  The average price of regular gasoline at U.S. pumps
advanced 20.32 cents in the past two weeks to $3.795 a gallon,
according to Lundberg Survey Inc. The survey covers the period
ended Feb. 22 and is based on information obtained at about
2,500 filling stations by the Camarillo, California-based
company. The average has jumped 53.71 cents this year and is
10.33 cents higher than a year earlier.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators reduced bullish
crude bets for the second time in three weeks as surging U.S.
output boosted supplies. Money managers cut net-long positions,
or  wagers  on rising prices, by 6.1 percent in the seven days to
Feb. 19, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments
of Traders report on Feb. 22 showed. That was the biggest drop
since the week ended Dec. 11.  They cut bullish bets on Brent crude for the second week,
according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will advance, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered long positions by 190,701 lots in
the week ended Feb. 19, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report. That’s down 1,453
contracts from a week earlier. Net-long positions rose to the
most in more than two years in the week to Feb. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  