-- Yen Drops to Near 3-Year Low on BOJ Bets; Pound Slides
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-02-25T16:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-24/yen-hits-2-1-2-year-low-on-boj-speculation-pound-slides.html
The yen dropped to the weakest since
May 2010 against the dollar on speculation Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe will select as next central-bank governor Haruhiko Kuroda,
seen as a supporter of aggressive monetary easing.  The euro pared gains as a poll showed Silvio Berlusconi’s
coalition leading in  Italy ’s parliamentary elections over
parties supporting Pier Luigi Bersani, the ex-communist who
campaigned to maintain budget rigor. Japan’s currency fell by
the most in two weeks against the euro as Finance Minister Taro
Aso told reporters that Kuroda would the “right choice.” The
pound dropped for a second day against the euro after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the U.K.’s credit rating.  “Kuroda is seen as being helpful towards the Japanese
government’s thoughts regarding yen weakness,” Douglas Borthwick, a managing director and head of foreign exchange at
Chapdelaine FX in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Now
that they understand they can move the yen lower as long as they
don’t talk about a specific level, I think we’re looking at it
going to 100 in the next month or so.”  The yen depreciated 0.4 percent to 93.79 per dollar as of
10:56 a.m. in New York after sliding to 94.77, the weakest level
since May 5, 2010. It last touched 100 in April 2009.  Japan ’s
currency declined 0.6 percent to 123.93 per euro after losing as
much as 1.7 percent, the most since Feb. 11. The euro rose 0.2
percent to $1.3216.  The yen has tumbled 7 percent this year, the biggest
decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The pound has the second
biggest loss, sliding 6.2 percent. The euro gained 2.5 percent
and the dollar has added 1.7 percent.  Krones Gain  The Norwegian and Danish krones rose with the euro,
appreciating versus the majority of their most-traded peers.
Norway’s currency added 0.1 percent to 5.6615 per dollar after
earlier gaining 1 percent, its biggest increase since Jan. 10.
The Danish currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 5.6459 per
dollar.  Chile’s peso ended a seven-day stretch of losses versus the
greenback, its longest since June 2010, as copper rose and the
dollar weakened against emerging-market counterparts. The
currency gained 0.1 percent to 472.45 per dollar after rising as
much as 0.3 percent.  The Australian dollar fell the most in eight days against
the dollar after a preliminary survey showed  China ’s
manufacturing is expanding at a slower pace, dimming the outlook
for the South Pacific nation’s exports. The so-called Aussie
declined 0.6 percent before trading down 0.3 percent at $1.0294.  Italy Election  The euro pared gains as former Prime Minister Berlusconi
and his allies attracted 31 percent of the vote to Bersani’s
29.5 percent, according to a survey conducted by Istituto
Piepoli for the Italian public television.  Italian bonds gained earlier as another poll showed the
populist campaigns of Berlusconi and Beppe Grillo falling short
against the austerity advocates. Staying the course in the
world’s third-biggest debtor is crucial to  Europe ’s effort to
contain the turmoil that forced Berlusconi out of office in
2011.  “Heightened political uncertainty following Italian
elections remains a downside risk in the near term,” said Lee Hardman, a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UJF
Ltd. in London.  BOJ Shuffle  With BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and two deputies will
step down March 19, the prime minister is set to reshape the
leadership of a central bank that has adopted his 2 percent
inflation target and plans to begin open-ended asset purchases
next year.  “The market seems to have formed an opinion that Kuroda is
a dove and if he indeed becomes the new BOJ governor, he would
be willing to do much more to support growth,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a senior currency strategist at UBS AG in London. “The yen
is weakening on speculation there will be more policy easing.”  The central bank had “substantial room” for further
loosening and additional measures may be justified this year,
Kuroda, currently president of the Asian Development Bank, said
in a Feb. 11 interview.  Futures traders increased bets the yen will weaken against
the dollar, figures from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed. The difference in the number of wagers by
hedge funds and other large speculators on a decline compared
with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 65,891 on
Feb. 19, compared with 61,306 a week earlier.  U.K. ‘Deleveraging’  The pound slid to the weakest since July 2010 versus the
dollar after Moody’s cut the U.K.’s rating by one level to Aa1
on Feb. 22, citing weakness in the nation’s growth outlook and
challenges to the government’s fiscal consolidation program.  “We’ve been expecting the U.K. to get downgraded this
year,” Michael Amey, a money manager at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in  London , wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. While the impact on gilts will be limited, the
pound’s decline “is a symptom of the challenge of deleveraging
the U.K. economy,” he wrote.  The pound fell 0.5 percent to 87.42 pence per euro after
depreciating to 88.15, the weakest since October 2011. Sterling
dropped 0.3 percent to $1.5115 after slipping to $1.5073, the
lowest since July 13, 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  