-- Aberdeen Said to Near Purchase of Lloyds’s SWIP Division
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-11-17T15:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/aberdeen-said-to-near-purchase-of-lloyds-s-swip-division.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  is
close to buying Scottish Widows Investment Partnership from
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , a purchase that will make it  Europe ’s
largest publicly traded money manager, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Aberdeen, Scotland’s largest money manager, may pay about
500 million pounds ($806 million) in shares for the division,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. The agreement may be announced as soon as
tomorrow, the people said.  The purchase would increase Aberdeen’s assets to about 350
billion pounds, allowing it to surpass  Schroders Plc (SDR)  as Europe’s
biggest publicly traded fund company. It would also mark a
reversal of Aberdeen’s strategy to focus on growth without
acquisitions and returning cash to investors. Chief Executive
Officer Martin Gilbert had previously called an acquisition of
 Scottish Widows (SWIPRTA)  Investment “highly unlikely.”  Lloyds CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, has been seeking to
strengthen the lender’s balance sheet by selling assets, cutting
costs and eliminating jobs following the bank’s bailout by the
government in 2008. The London-based lender purchased Scottish
Widows, which runs a life-insurance business and the SWIP fund-management operation, for 7.3 billion pounds in 2000.  The Sunday Times reported the talks earlier today.  Lloyds hired Deutsche Bank AG this year to advise on the
sale of SWIP, which oversaw 145.8 billion pounds at the end of
the first half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  