-- Abu Dhabi Banks Maneuver for $137 Billion in Asia to Africa
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-11-18T09:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/abu-dhabi-banks-maneuver-for-137-billion-in-emerging-markets.html
Abu Dhabi ’s largest lenders are
embarking on an overseas expansion drive in pursuit of a $137
billion corporate-banking market stretching from  Asia  to Africa.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the emirate’s biggest
lender, is planning hubs in cities such as Mumbai and Lagos to
boost growth and fees, while second-ranked  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) 
is seeking to more than double the share of profit at its
international unit and plans offices in China and  Indonesia .  Abu
Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB) , the emirate’s largest bank complying
with Muslim banking rules, is expanding in North Africa.  The banks, stifled for growth in a nation of 8.3 million,
are expanding to cut dependence on local real estate markets and
access trade flows across the  Middle East , Africa and Asia which
National Bank of Abu Dhabi estimates are driving a $137 billion
revenue opportunity for corporate-banking deals and advice.
International expansion may also help banks beat new regulations
that will restrict lending to government-related companies.  “There isn’t much growth left domestically, especially for
the big balance sheet banks,” Aybek Islamov, a Dubai-based
banking analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said by phone on Nov. 13.
“It would be hard for a bank like NBAD to achieve 15 to 20
percent growth unless they start growing again into the public
sector, real-estate and construction. Banks are increasingly
looking for growth opportunities outside the U.A.E.”  Planning Hubs  NBAD, as National Bank of Abu Dhabi is known, also plans
hubs in  Singapore ,  Hong Kong , London, Paris and Washington DC to
serve clients in five key industries, Chief Executive Officer
Alex Thursby said Oct. 31. The banks will build “more than a
one-branch presence” in five large, fast-growing developing
economies with an expanding middle class, Thursby said.  Egypt 
will be the first and Malaysia probably the second, he said.  “A key part of our strategy is to build a wholesale bank
across the west-east corridor,” which for NBAD extends from the
west coast of  Africa  to the east coast of China, Thursby wrote
in e-mailed comments on Nov. 14. “This area will have the
greatest growth of the middle class.”  NBAD already has a presence in 17 countries from China to
the U.K. and its international business contributed 17 percent
of revenue in the nine months through September.  The U.A.E., with about 51 lenders, has the biggest banking
market in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which also
includes  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar. Abu Dhabi, the biggest and the
richest of the seven emirates that make up the U.A.E. and holder
of about 6 percent of the world’s oil reserves, is joining
neighboring Dubai in investing in tourism, metals, ports and
real estate to diversify its economy.  Similar Issues  Other banks in the region are confronted with similar
growth issues. Qatar National Bank SAQ, the Persian Gulf
country’s biggest bank by assets, agreed to pay $1.97 billion to
buy the Egyptian unit of  France ’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , while
Dubai-based Emirates NBD PJSC agreed in December to buy BNP
Paribas SA’s Egyptian unit for about $500 million.  Banks from the region should keep their foreign businesses
small because those markets are “not their strength,” said
Shabbir Malik, a Dubai-based analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  “It would be better to concentrate on the region and have
some presence in other parts of the world with links to the
U.A.E. that could support their local business,” he said.  First Gulf Bank, controlled by the emirate’s ruling family,
plans offices in  South Korea , China and Indonesia over the next
18 months, adding to its presence in Singapore,  India , Hong
Kong, Qatar and  Libya , CEO Andre Sayegh said in August.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank applied for licenses in Algeria and
Libya and is considering Tunisia and Morocco, CEO Tirad Mahmoud
said in August.  Customers Trading  “You have customers trading between  China  and Africa and
the aim is to capture as many of those kind of deals that can
provide very attractive fee income,” HSBC’s Islamov said.  NBAD has a medium-term return on equity target of 15
percent, while First Gulf Bank is targeting 18 percent. NBAD
rose 2.2 percent to 11.85 dirhams as of 1:15 p.m. in Dubai,
while First Gulf Bank rose 0.6 percent to 16.50 dirhams.  Lending growth in the U.A.E. rebounded to 6.1 percent in
the eight months through August, according to Central Bank data.
While that’s better than the 1 to 4 percent after the 2008
financial crisis, it’s short of the 30 percent annual expansion
registered in the four years before 2008 and the 15.6 percent
gain posted in July by Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy.  NBAD, which had assets of $94 billion at the end of
September, boosted earnings at an annual rate of 9.4 percent
over the past five years. First Gulf Bank, with assets of $52
billion, posted earnings growth of 8.4 percent on that basis.  Revenue Streams  Abu Dhabi-based lenders “are trying to diversify their
revenue streams, because they’re over-capitalized and looking
for growth,” EFG’s Malik said by email on Nov. 14. They want to
“continue to grow their loan book by 10 percent, which will be
challenging just by focusing on the U.A.E.”  The push to diversify revenue comes after U.A.E. banks set
aside more money for bad debt as defaults by local companies
jumped during the credit crisis. The lenders extended cheap
credit to government-related companies to purchase assets near
peak prices, while others bought real estate prior to the
collapse of the U.A.E.’s property market.  New central bank regulations, likely to come into effect
this year, will restrict lending to the government and its
companies. The central bank in April 2012 said that banks
mustn’t lend more than 100 percent of their capital to local
governments and the same amount to government-related entities.  Problem Loans  The average non-performing loans ratio of U.A.E. banks
probably peaked at about 12 percent in 2011, after rising from 8
percent to 10 percent in 2010, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Non-performing loans at Dubai banks rose to between 15
percent and 17 percent of total lending at the end of 2011.  The local banks are hiring international executives to aid
the expansion push. NBAD’s Thursby joined in July from  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  where he was CEO for
international and institutional banking. First Gulf Bank hired
earlier this year Simon Penney,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc ’s former CEO for the Middle East and Africa, to head its
wholesale banking division and also recruited Steve Perry from
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to head its debt-markets business.  International expansion “will enable banks to create some
buffers, so when the U.A.E. slows down some of the other markets
would be doing well,” Malik at EFG-Hermes said. “Right now
loan growth in the U.A.E. is about seven percent, but it is
difficult to see how it can continue growing at high single
digit rates over the long-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  