-- AIG’s ILFC Bidders Said in Talks to Add Backers to Group
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-11-18T06:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/aig-s-ilfc-bidders-said-to-be-in-talks-to-add-backers-to-group.html
Taiwanese tycoon Richard Tsai and
Chinese financier Xiao Jianhua are in talks to help fund a $4.2
billion bid for  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s aircraft-leasing unit, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Tsai’s family, and companies it controls, would take as
much as a majority stake in the group that has agreed to buy
International Lease Finance Corp., said two people, who
requested anonymity because the details are private. Xiao would
mainly be involved in providing financing, one person said.  The involvement of Tsai and Xiao may help the group, which
has been led by Hong Kong-based P3 Investments Ltd., bridge a
funding gap that’s held up the deal for several months. AIG has
sought to sell ILFC since 2008 when it began divesting units to
repay a U.S. bailout. Closing the deal, which was announced last
year, would help AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
cut debt at the New York-based insurer.  The makeup of the group has not been finalized and there
are several parties considering taking part in the deal, the
people said. Tsai, the son of  Taiwan ’s second-richest man, is
also a limited partner in P3 Investments, two people said. The
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. will only approve a
sale of ILFC if there is no dominant shareholder in the
consortium, one of the people said.  The deal has suffered several missed deadlines by the
original group of investors, who agreed last December to pay
$4.2 billion for 80 percent of the unit. AIG had previously said
it expected the deal to be completed in the second quarter. New
China Trust Co. pulled out of the bidding group in May, a person
with knowledge of the matter said earlier.  IPO Option  The bidding group is seeking to borrow $2.1 billion from
lenders including Taiwan’s Mega International Commercial Bank
Co. and  Bank of Taiwan  for the ILFC purchase, two people said.  Tsai declined to comment on in an e-mail from his office,
as did a representative for Xiao and spokesmen for AIG and ILFC.  Xiao said in an interview with 21st Century Business Herald
in May that he is interested in participating in the bid for
ILFC, citing the potential to profit from an initial public
offering of the company immediately after buying it.  Fubon
Financial (2881)  Holding Co. is also interested in the deal, Xiao told
the Chinese newspaper at the time. Tsai is vice chairman of
Fubon Financial.  Fubon Financial shares gained 2.1 percent as of 2:30 p.m.
local time today, the biggest increase since Oct. 3.  Impairment Charge  The insurer said in 2011 that it could cut its stake
through an initial public offering, and CEO Benmosche said as
recently as Nov. 1 that AIG can pursue an IPO to divest ILFC if
the China deal collapses.  ILFC took the third-quarter impairment charge after
determining that four-engine jets in its fleet, such as the
Airbus A340-600, have fallen out of favor as airlines turn to
more fuel-efficient twin-engine planes. The impairment had no
effect on AIG’s results because the company booked a loss on
plans to sell the unit that was recognized last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  