-- Haiyan to Cost Insurers Sliver of $14.5 Billion Estimated Damage
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-17T21:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/haiyan-to-cost-insurers-sliver-of-14-5-billion-damage-estimate.html
Super Typhoon Haiyan, one of the
strongest storms to hit land, may cost insurers as much as $700
million in the  Philippines , a fraction of estimated damage,
because few people are covered, a catastrophe modeler said.  Total damage to residential, commercial and agricultural
properties from the storm will be as much as $14.5 billion, AIR
Worldwide said yesterday in a statement. Insured losses will
probably be at least $300 million, AIR said.  Haiyan slammed into central Philippines on Nov. 8, knocking
down buildings and trees, flattening crops and destroying an
airport. The storm displaced more than 3.9 million people,
authorities said, and foreign governments have been increasing
pledges of assistance as the scope of the destruction becomes
clear. Soldiers were dispatched to prevent looting as survivors
scoured for food.  “Tacloban City was particularly hard-hit as storm surge
depths as high as 4 meters destroyed every coastal home and left
many inland neighborhoods inundated with floodwaters,” Peter
Sousounis, senior principal scientist at AIR, said in the
statement. “The storm maintained impressive wind speeds as it
traversed the Philippines.”  The storm killed at least 4,460 people, making it one of
the deadliest in Philippine history, according to the  United
Nations . The storm left 18,175 people injured and 1,590 missing,
according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Council.  It’s difficult to accurately estimate insured losses in the
Philippines as no known anemometers in the area of the storm’s
landfall remain intact to provide the storm’s strength, AIR
said.  The Philippines is one of the countries most at risk of
natural disasters, according to Maplecroft, a research company
based in Bath,  England . The  Asian Development Bank  estimates
that losses from typhoons and earthquakes in the Philippines
average $1.6 billion annually, the highest in  Southeast Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  