-- Gold Drops With Crude as Dow Average Fails to Hold 16,000
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-11-18T21:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/asian-futures-signal-rally-as-yen-holds-drop-kiwi-gains.html
Gold and silver sank with oil, while
the dollar weakened against most peers and Treasuries rose as
investors dissected speeches from Federal Reserve officials to
gauge the outlook for stimulus. Most U.S. stocks fell after the
Dow Jones Industrial Average exceeded 16,000 for the first time.  Gold and silver lost more than 1 percent as crude closed at
a five-month low. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against 10 major peers, slipped to the lowest level
in 1 1/2 weeks, while 10-year Treasury yields dropped four basis
points. The Dow pared gains to 15,976.02 by 4:35 p.m. in New
York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent after
climbing above 1,800 for the first time. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 5.7 percent, the most since 2011.  Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said while
he’s “getting more hopeful” the  U.S. economy  is gaining
strength, policy will probably remain accommodative for a long
time.  Janet Yellen , nominee for Fed chairman, said last week she
wants to maintain bond purchases until the economy improves
further. Investor  Carl Icahn  warned of a “big drop” in the
stock market, Reuters reported. China’s leaders vowed to allow
more private investment as part of a package of new reforms.  The dollar weakness “is partially being fueled by
expectations the Fed taper will remain sidelined until next
year, which is largely based on the testimony from Yellen last
week,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at the
currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a
phone interview.  ‘Lingering Uncertainty’  Charles Plosser , president of the Philadelphia Fed, said
the central bank’s policy committee needs to set a fixed size
for its current quantitative easing program and “bring it to an
end” after reaching that amount.  “We cannot continue to play this bond-buying game by ear
and risk the Fed’s credibility while creating lingering
uncertainty about the course of monetary policy,” Plosser said
in text of speech in Philadelphia. Minutes of the last Federal
Open Market Committee meeting will be published Nov. 20.  Gold for December delivery declined 1.2 percent to
$1,272.30 an ounce, the first drop in four days, while silver
futures for delivery next month lost 1.8 percent to $20.357 an
ounce. Platinum and palladium slid more than 2 percent.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell 0.9 percent to
$93.03 a barrel, the lowest level since May 31. Crude also fell
as Saudi Arabia exported more oil in September than in any month
since November 2005, according to data from the Joint
Organisations Data Initiative.  Corn dropped 2.2 percent after the U.S. proposed a cut in
the amount of ethanol that must be blended into gasoline,
curbing demand for the crop in biofuels.  Yen Gains  The dollar weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, losing
more than 0.5 percent against Brazil’s real and the South Korean
won. India’s rupee strengthened 1.2 percent. The Bloomberg
dollar gauge dropped 0.2 percent to 1,015.35, the lowest close
since Nov. 6.  The yen rallied for the first time in three days, gaining
0.2 percent to 99.97 per dollar.  The difference between the five-year Treasury rate and
similar-maturity swaps narrowed to as little as 9 basis points,
the least since March 2010, based on closing levels. The spread
shrinks as investors seek to receive a fixed  interest rate  on
contracts backed by a bank instead of less risky Treasuries.  Yields on the U.S. 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.66
percent. German bunds also rose, with yields slipping three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.68 percent.  Boeing, JPMorgan  Almost two stocks retreated for each that rose as U.S.
benchmark equity indexes fell to their lows of the session after
Reuters reported billionaire Icahn was “very cautious” on
equities because because low interest rates, rather than
management strength, are fueling earnings at many companies.  Among U.S. stocks moving today, Boeing Co., JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  rose at least 0.8 percent to
lead gains in the  Dow (INDU) , which closed 0.1 percent higher after
earlier jumping as much as 0.4 percent.  Boeing rallied after securing record plane orders on the
first day of the Dubai Air Show.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest
U.S. meat processor, advanced 2.3 percent after reporting
revenue that exceeded analysts’ estimates on higher prices and
sales volumes for beef and chicken. Microsoft Corp. fell 1.7
percent after Bank of America Corp. cut its stock rating to
underperform from neutral.  The S&P 500 has climbed 26 percent in 2013, poised for its
best year in a decade. The benchmark index of U.S. stocks trades
for 17 times reported profit, the highest valuation since May
2010.  ‘Pullback’ Potential  “We’ve moved pretty far pretty fast,” Kevin Caron, a
Florham Park, New Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $150 billion. “We’re up 25
percent on the major averages, earnings are up low single
digits. Obviously there’s a potential for a little bit of a
pullback.”  Of the more than 460 S&P 500 members that have reported
earnings, 75 percent  exceeded  analysts’ estimates on profit,
while 54 percent beat projections on sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cheap is converging with expensive in the American equity
market, narrowing options for investors looking for bargains
after the broadest rally on record lifted almost 90 percent of
the S&P 500.  The difference in valuations shrank to the smallest since
at least 1990 after companies such as  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL)  and
CenterPoint Energy Inc. rose to levels that match Ralph Lauren
Corp. and Citrix Systems Inc., whose five-year average profit
growth rate is twice Hormel’s and CenterPoint’s. A measure of
the dispersion of price-earnings ratios in the S&P 500 compiled
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. narrowed to 41 percent in June, the
lowest on record, and held around that level since.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 2 percent today, the
most in two months. The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.9
percent. India’s Sensex advanced 2.2 percent and benchmark
gauges in Brazil, Indonesia, Turkey, Poland and the Czech
Republic climbed more than 1 percent.  China’s plan will guide the country toward a market-based
economy, “significantly” raise its growth potential and help
reduce macro risks,  Jun Ma , chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG
in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report today. “We expect a 20-25
percent upside to the MSCI China” index in the next 12 months,
Jun wrote.  China’s  interest-rate swaps  touched a five-month high. The
country will accelerate convertibility of the  yuan  along with
the freeing-up of interest rates, according to the party
statement Nov. 15.  ‘Bull Run’  “We believe China is on the cusp of a massive multiyear
bull run,” Christie Ju, managing director at Jefferies Group
LLC in Hong Kong, wrote in a note to clients.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.5 percent. Trading
volumes were 19 percent less than the 30-day average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge capped a six-week
advance on Nov. 15, the longest rally in 15 months, and has
climbed 16 percent this year.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)   jumped  15 percent after
Lloyds Banking Group Plc agreed to sell its Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership division to Scotland’s largest money
manager.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  advanced 5.4 percent as the world’s
largest hearing-aid maker  raised  its full-year forecast after
first-half revenue beat analyst estimates.  Petrofac Ltd. slumped 17 percent, the most since going
public in 2005, after the U.K. oil engineer in the Middle East
predicted “flat to modest” profit growth in 2014. Korian fell
2.8 percent after agreeing to buy Medica SA for 1.1 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) in a merger that will create the largest
French operator of nursing homes.  European Bonds  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Societe Generale SA are selling bonds in
euros after the cost for banks to borrow in the currency dropped
by the most in six months. Italy’s biggest lender is marketing
500 million euros of securities due May 2019 while SocGen is
issuing floating-rate notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps measure that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.2 basis
point to 71.43 basis points in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier, the benchmark declined to 69.5
basis points for the lowest level since since Nov. 6, 2007, in
data that adjusts for the effects of the market’s shift to a new
version of the index in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  