-- Bankers Poised for ECB Oversight to Meet Draghi’s Troops
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-18T12:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/bankers-poised-for-ecb-oversight-meet-draghi-s-troops-this-week.html
Regulators outnumber bankers at
Frankfurt’s biggest finance conference this week, underlining
their importance as the  European Central Bank  prepares to
scrutinize the books of the euro area’s largest lenders.  ECB executive board member Yves Mersch is among 14
regulators, lawmakers and government officials speaking at Euro
Finance Week, which started today. Their ranks eclipse the eight
bankers set to speak, who include  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief
Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen .  “The dice have fallen and there’s a clear hierarchy with
the ECB as the new regulator,” said Markus Rudolf, a professor
of banking and finance at the WHU Otto Beisheim School of
Management in Vallendar,  Germany . “Banks want to meet the ECB
because they’re all asking themselves what the tests next year
will look like and how they may fare.”  The ECB will carry out a three-step examination of about
130 of the euro region’s biggest lenders before taking over
banking supervision next year.  Europe ’s leaders entrusted the
Frankfurt-based central bank to oversee the financial system to
restore confidence in the region’s banks after the credit crisis
of 2008 and Europe’s sovereign-debt debacle triggered the
continent’s worst recession since World War II.  Banks globally are facing a torrent of new rules to avert a
repeat of the taxpayer-led bailouts that followed the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. That stretches from higher
 capital requirements  under the Basel III framework, which have
made some businesses unprofitable, to rules in individual states
requiring companies to shed certain risky activities.  Power Shift  The power to drive financial stocks has shifted away from
executives and toward regulators. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
told Bloomberg Television last month the central bank won’t
hesitate to fail banks in the stress tests, contributing to the
biggest decline in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  in almost two months.  The index, which tracks 44 firms, has jumped 50 percent
since July 26 of last year, when Draghi said the central bank
was ready to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro.  “There have been significant shifts in power and the
dominance lies with the regulators,” said Martin Hellmich, a
professor of risk management and regulation at the Frankfurt
School of Finance & Management. “Bankers across Europe are
looking to Frankfurt.”  Bankers Outnumbered  Regulators are outnumbering bankers at the main event of
this year’s  conference  in  Frankfurt , continental Europe’s
financial capital, for the first time in at least four years.
The line-up this year compares with a ratio of 11 regulators to
13 bankers last year and nine regulators to 11 bankers in 2011.
All three opening keynote speeches have been assigned to ECB and
government officials.  The ECB, in conjunction with national authorities, will
review the euro-area banking industry before officially taking
over supervision next year. Stress tests, which subject the
banks’ balance sheets to a range of adverse scenarios, will be
conducted with the European Banking Authority as the final step.  The ECB has yet to reveal which loans it will scrutinize
most closely on banks’ balance sheets and how it will treat
sovereign debt in the stress tests. It set a benchmark capital
ratio of 8 percent last month.  Three-Year Horizon  The ECB is “tending toward” using a three-year horizon to
the end of 2016 in the stress tests late next year, Mersch told
the conference today. While the central bank has yet to take a
decision on how to treat  government bonds , they will be “under
pressure” during the test, reflecting market risk, he said.  Draghi, 66, met bank CEOs from five countries last week to
discuss the assessment and has scheduled group meetings for
today and Nov. 25, according to the central bank. In the closed-door briefings, Vice President  Vitor Constancio  is giving
presentations on plans for the asset review, while Mersch is
briefing bankers on preparations for the ECB’s takeover of
supervision.  Mersch, 64, was one of the first to take the podium at the
Frankfurt conference to discuss the ECB’s vision for Europe’s
banking union. Fitschen, the 65-year-old Deutsche Bank co-CEO,
is one of three bankers who spoke about “strategies for a post-crisis era.”  He said global banks with investment and retail banking
under one roof are best positioned to serve their clients and
that lawmakers should wait for rules already in progress to be
implemented before planning further action.  Restore Confidence  Fitschen said he is “quite confident” that the ECB’s
assessment along with “the steps that may be necessary in the
process” can restore the confidence of investors in the euro
area’s banks.  The ECB, which unveiled its three-part plan to assess the
financial strength of banks last month, has begun the first
stage: the selection of businesses to review early next year.  “This is about determining the riskiest assets and
portfolios,” Mersch told the conference. “We’ll take a look at
factors like refinancing and liquidity risks.”  The central bank will probably examine toxic assets that
lenders acquired before the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
caused credit markets to seize, according to Hellmich.  Shipping Loans  “Shipping loans is just one area the ECB will probably
look at,” Hellmich said. “Banks have a lot of assets from
before the financial crisis that are weighing on their balance
sheets.”  That puts Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG, the bank rescued
by the German government in an 18.2 billion-euro bailout in
2009, and Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank AG, the world’s biggest
ship financier, in the spotlight.  Commerzbank became the world’s biggest financier of ships
with its purchase of  Dresdner Bank  and still ranks among the top
lenders in the industry, with 16 billion euros of maritime
assets at the end of September.  Commerzbank has valued its assets correctly and remains
“cautious” when assessing maritime loans, Stephan Engels, the
company’s finance chief, told analysts on a conference call this
month.  Eleni Papoula, a London-based analyst with Berenberg Bank,
says she wants to know what bad-loan definitions and stress-test
scenarios will be used so she can determine which lenders may
need to raise capital. The ECB has said it will hire about 1,000
new staff to carry out oversight tasks.  Restore Credibility  “If this review restores credibility of the banks’ balance
sheets, it can be a catalyst for the sector,” said Papoula.
European leaders also need to create a vehicle that can absorb
bad loans and express support for weaker banks as “euro-zone
banks face share price underperformance until these other two
pillars are in place,” she said.  Mersch said establishing the ECB as a supervisor for the
euro area’s biggest banks won’t be enough to solve the
industry’s problems.  “We need a European mechanism for winding down banks,” he
said. “We seem to be moving millimeter by millimeter in the
right direction, so the glass is more half-full.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  