-- Beijing Conclave’s Freedoms Push to Extend Advance
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-11-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/beijing-conclave-s-freedoms-push-to-extend-advance.html
Chinese stocks will extend their
rally after the government vowed to carry out the broadest
expansion of economic freedoms since at least the 1990s,
Wilmington Trust said.  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the biggest U.S.-listed
exchange-traded fund, jumped the most since July on Nov. 15,
gaining 4.4 percent to $38.44. The Bloomberg China-US Index of
the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 5 percent in
the biggest weekly advance in 10 months, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 1.4 percent.  China  pledged to allow more private investment in the
state-controlled industries, loosen its one-child policy and
expand farmers’ land rights, according to a Communist Party
policy decision published by Xinhua News Agency on Nov. 15. The
nation is liberalizing its policies in an effort to bolster an
economy that’s heading to its weakest annual expansion since
1999. The Shanghai benchmark index has slumped 5.9 percent this
year as the sluggish growth has cut into corporate earnings.  “Now that we have confirmation that policies are moving in
the right direction, valuations and stock prices should rise
through the end of 2013 and into early 2014,” Clement Miller,
an investment strategist at Wilmington Trust, which manages
about $79 billion in assets, said by phone Nov. 15 from
Baltimore. “As the economic power is gradually shifting from
the state-owned enterprises to the private sector, investors
need to look at opportunities with companies that are able to
take advantage of the liberalization.”  Two Children  The Shanghai gauge traded at 8.3 times 12-month projected
profit on Nov. 13, the lowest since August, after falling 12
percent from February. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4
percent on Nov. 15, extending a record, as investors assessed
data on factory production amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will maintain stimulus.  The Communist Party document, covering 60 measures, follows
a communique issued Nov. 12 after a four-day party conclave in
Beijing that pledged to elevate the role of markets in the
nation while keeping the state in a “dominant” position.  Couples may have two children if either parent is an only
child, according to the party decision. Under China’s current
family-planning policy, couples are allowed to have a second
child if both parents are only children. Last week’s document
said the party plans to implement the reforms by 2020.  China will develop a “mixed ownership economy” that helps
state-owned assets maintain or increase their value and boost
their competitiveness, according to Xinhua.  The nation will accelerate convertibility of the yuan and
freeing-up of  interest rates , improve treasury yield curves and
let qualified private investors set up small-to-medium sized
banks, according to the decision.  ‘Pretty Positive’  “On balance, the news has been pretty positive,” Julian Mayo, who helps manage $2.5 billion in emerging-market assets as
the co-chief investment officer at Charlemagne Capital Ltd. in
 London , said by phone Nov. 15. “It will continue to have a
positive impact in the medium term as markets adjust to these
changes.”  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  led a rally in Chinese stocks in  New York 
after saying it will make a profit this quarter. Its American
depositary receipts climbed 11 percent to $29.30 on Nov. 15,
with volume four times the 90-day average. It jumped 13 percent
for the week, the best performance in three months.  The Beijing-based company, owner of China’s biggest video
websites, forecast it will make a profit in the fourth quarter
on a non-generally accepted accounting principles basis,
according to its Nov. 14 statement. The company’s third-quarter
revenue of $140.2 million was in line with the average
projection of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Happier’ Market  Home Inns, the biggest operator of budget hotels in China,
rallied 11 percent to $41.31, the biggest advance since November
2010. Its weekly surge of 17 percent was the steepest since
November 2009.  The Shanghai-based company reported adjusted profit of 3.7
 yuan  (61 cents) for each of its ADR, beating the average 3 yuan
mean estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
compared with 2.9 yuan per ADR in the year-ago period, according
to its statement Nov. 14.  “The market will be happier with this more specific
document,” Wilmington’s Miller said. “Big state-owned
companies are gradually losing their monopolies to private
companies. As the economic power is gradually shifting from the
state-owned enterprises to the private sector, investors need to
look at opportunities with companies that are able to take
advantage of the liberalization.”  Wider Premium  ADRs of  China Petroleum (SNP) ,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, known as
Sinopec, jumped 4.5 percent to a six-month high of $85.69 in New
York. They traded 2.2 percent above the stock in  Hong Kong , the
widest premium this month. Each ADR represents 100 underlying
shares in the company.  Simon Powell, head of oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd.,
said Nov. 12 investors had expected an announcement on
liberalization of resource prices and the opening of the  energy
industry  to more private investment, while any fuel price
reforms would be “mildly positive” for Sinopec.  China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s biggest insurer,
surged 6.4 percent to $42.45 in New York, 3.3 percent above its
Hong Kong stock. The premium was the biggest since December
2011.  “The support to the private sector and liberalization of
certain industries is the most important one for the investment
case in China,” Elena Ogram, a Zurich-based investor at Bank
Bellevue AG, who oversees $50 million in emerging-market assets
including Chinese stocks, wrote by e-mail Nov. 15. “More
details are needed, especially on land reform, SOE reform and
Hukou,” or China’s residence registration system.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong advanced
3 percent last week to 10,702.70, after rallying the most in
three months on Nov. 15. The Shanghai Composite jumped 1.7
percent to 2,135.83 on Nov. 15 before the report by Xinhua
detailing the changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  