-- Boeing 737 Crashes in Russian City of Kazan, Killing 50
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-11-18T16:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/boeing-737-crashes-in-russian-city-of-kazan-killing-50.html
A Russian airliner  crashed  in the
Tatarstan capital of Kazan, killing all 50 people aboard, after
the jet aborted its first attempt at landing.  The  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-500 hit the ground moments after trying
to pull up and burst into flames between the runway and the taxi
strip at 7:26 p.m. yesterday at Kazan airport, about 720
kilometers (450 miles) east of the Moscow, Rosaviatsiya, the
state airline watchdog,  said  today on its website.  The plane, operated by  Tatarstan Airlines , first flew in
June 1990 and was delivered to Air France a month later,
according to data published today by Flightglobal’s  Ascend 
aviation consultancy. In 2001, while operating with Brazilian
carrier Rio Sul, the plane undershot the runway on approach to
 Belo Horizonte  in poor weather, touching down before the start
of the landing strip and ripping off its left main
undercarriage, according to the bulletin. No one was seriously
hurt and the aircraft was repaired.  The crash,  Russia ’s deadliest this year, took the lives of
the elder son of Tatarstan President Rustam Minnikhanov and the
head of the regional branch of the Federal Security Service,
Rossiya 24 said. A professor from Moscow’s Higher School of
Economics was also killed in the crash, according to a statement
on the university’s website.  A U.K. citizen was among the dead, according to a  list  of
the 44 passengers and six crew members published by the regional
Emergencies Ministry. The Briton’s death was confirmed by U.K.
authorities, Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in a
 statement .  Moscow, Yaroslavl  Russia’s last fatal crash of a commercial passenger
airliner was in December, when four people died after a plane
flying into Moscow’s Vnukovo Airport from the  Czech Republic 
tore through a runway barrier. A disaster in 2011 killed the
entire Lokomotiv Yaroslavl professional hockey team.  Transport incidents  have killed 17,400 Russians in the
first eight months of 2013, more than have died from alcohol
poisoning and murders combined, according to the Federal
Statistics Service.  The crash in Kazan marks the sixth loss of a Boeing
737-500, and the fourth with fatalities, according to Ascend.
The worst accident, in 2008, involved a unit of Russia’s
national carrier OAO Aeroflot, with the jet coming down at Perm,
killing all 82 passengers and six crew, it said.  Failure, Error  Officials are weighing “technical failure, pilot error and
bad weather conditions” as possible causes of the crash, the
Investigative Committee said in a  statement . Poor-quality fuel
is also under consideration, Itar-Tass reported, citing Marat
Zaripov, first deputy head of the law-enforcement agency’s
Tatarstan division. Fuel samples have been taken from the crash
site to test its quality, investigators  said .  The airline, based in Kazan, said it’s suspending flights
of Boeing 737s until the cause of the disaster is uncovered,
according to a  statement . Its fleet includes another a Boeing
737-400, four Airbus SAS 319 jets, two Tupolev 154 planes and 15
Cessna Grand Caravan aircraft, the carrier said.  The aircraft that crashed yesterday was delivered to
Tatarstan Airlines in December 2008, Ascend said. It changed
hands several times after Air France returned the plane to
lessor AWAS in 1995, being hired to Uganda Airlines, Rio Sul,
Blue Air of  Romania  and Bulgaria Air, according to the bulletin.  Flight Recorders  “Badly damaged” flight recorders were recovered from the
scene, according to a  statement  from the Interstate Aviation
Committee, a body that oversees air safety in the  Commonwealth
of Independent States .  “Videos from airport cameras, which recorded the
trajectory of the plane’s fall, were also seized for detailed
analysis,”  said   Vladimir Markin , a spokesman for the
Investigative Committee.  President  Vladimir Putin  has instructed the government to
set up a commission to probe the catastrophe, according to a
 statement  published on the Kremlin’s website. Putin and Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  extended condolences to the families of
those lost.  Alexander Bastrykin , head of the Investigative Committee,
held  a meeting  in Kazan to discuss progress in trying to
establish the cause of the crash. Boeing said in a statement
it’s prepared to provide technical assistance as the accident is
investigated.  Infrastructure Spending  The  carrier  that operated the flight is the flagship
airline of Tatarstan, an oil-rich and predominantly Muslim
region in central Russia. The airline, founded in 1999, operates
domestic and international flights, according to its website.  Russia faces a shortage of long-term capital that is
thwarting a revamp of aging infrastructure, Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov said last year. The amount of long-term
investment from pension funds, insurers and mutual funds in
Russia is equivalent to 8 percent of gross domestic product,
below the global average of 120 percent of economic output,
according to Siluanov.  This month, the government delayed the allocation of 150
billion rubles ($4.6 billion) from one of the country’s two
sovereign wealth funds for a high-speed rail link between Moscow
and Kazan, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said Nov.
6.  “The catastrophe in Kazan is tragic,” Ovanes Oganisyan, a
strategist at MidLincoln Research in Moscow, said in e-mailed
comments. “By coincidence it occurred at a time when policy
makers are discussing Kazan transport routes and whether or not
to build a rapid train track link and to launch fast train
service between Moscow and Kazan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  