-- Bachelet to Face Matthei in Chile’s Presidential Runoff
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-11-18T14:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/chile-votes-on-bachelet-bid-to-regain-presidency-with-higher-tax.html
Former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet  and ruling alliance candidate Evelyn Matthei will face
each other in a presidential runoff next month, pitting an
advocate of higher taxes to fund education against a supporter
of continuity.  Bachelet won 46.7 percent of the votes in the race to
succeed President Sebastian Pinera, the electoral service said
on its website after 99.9 percent of ballots were counted. That
is short of the 50 percent she needed to avoid a second round.
Matthei had 25 percent.  Bachelet, 62, said Chileans had backed her plan to raise
corporate taxes to the highest level in at least 30 years to
fund free education for all and to improve  health services .
Matthei, 60, who won almost twice as many votes as opinion polls
forecast, said Bachelet would jeopardize thirty years of
economic growth that has made Chile the  wealthiest country  in
 Latin America . Voters will choose between the two of them on
Dec. 15.  “Chileans voted for a  tax reform  that allows us to
undertake an enormous transformation of our education system, to
improve public health services, our pension system and our
social policies,” Bachelet told supporters after yesterday’s
vote. “We are going to have a decisive and convincing victory
in December.”  Continuity  Matthei said she represented continuity of “a successful
economic model,” which allowed unemployment to drop to the
lowest in at least 30 years, and warned against Bachelet’s
proposals to change the constitution.  The opposition believes “in tearing everything down and
starting from zero with a new constitution,” Matthei told
supporters. “We believe that we have managed to build a solid
country, one that needs to be improved, to become more just, but
we are very proud of what Chile has achieved.”  Chile has averaged economic growth of 5.2 percent a year
since 1983, raising income per capita to about $19,100, the
highest in  South America , according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  An opinion poll by Santiago-based CEP between Sept. 13 and
Oct. 14 had given Bachelet 47 percent of the vote and Matthei 14
percent, with a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  “A second round will be good for Chile because it will
call for moderation,” Matthei told cheering supporters after
the preliminary count was announced. “We have big differences
with the left and these are going to become more apparent in the
next 30 days.”  Military Daughters  Both Matthei and Bachelet are daughters of air force
generals. While Matthei’s father was promoted after the 1973
coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power to help lead the
military junta, Bachelet’s father was imprisoned and tortured to
death by the regime, according to a report by the state forensic
medical service.  Bachelet supporters won 67 of the lower house’s 120 seats
and 12 in the senate yesterday, giving them 21 of 38 seats in
the upper chamber. The simple majority isn’t big enough to
change the Constitution, one of the pledges Bachelet has made in
her manifesto.  “She’s going to have to negotiate,”  Patricio Navia , a
political scientist at  New York University  in  New York , said in
a phone interview from Santiago. “She wanted to have a victory
in the first round and it didn’t happen. She wanted to get a
large enough number of seats in the Chamber and Senate and that
didn’t happen either.”  Tax Overhaul  A simple majority in the congress will be enough for
Bachelet to overhaul the tax system, including an increase in
the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 20 percent and the end
of a 30-year incentive to reinvest profits.  The changes will bring Chile more into line with its
counterparts in Latin America, where  Colombia  has a corporate
 tax rate  of 25 percent, and Peru and  Mexico  have 30 percent.
Five years ago, Chile had a tax rate of 17 percent, half
Colombia’s 33 percent.  Bachelet, who ran Chile from March 2006 to March 2010,
denies she will put economic success in jeopardy. During her
presidency, dollar-denominated bonds returned 32 percent, three
times more than under the current administration and more than
the 27 percent gain on similar Latin American bonds during her
tenure, according to Bank of America Corp.  Chile has the most socially segregated schooling system in
the OECD, with few of the poor entering the top performing
schools, according to research released by the organization on
Sept. 13, 2011. More than 85 percent of higher education is
financed by students and their families, the OECD said.  Approval Rating  More than two years of student protests, which often
brought more than 50,000 people onto the streets, led Pinera’s
approval rating to fall as low as 26 percent in April of 2012,
according to monthly polls by GFK Adimark. The rating climbed to
40 percent last month, compared with Bachelet’s 83 percent when
she left office.  Three of the student leaders, including Camila Vallejo, won
seats in the chamber of deputies yesterday.  Economic growth averaging 5.7 percent since Pinera came to
power has failed to boost the popularity of the ruling alliance.
Gross domestic product expanded 4.7 percent in the third
quarter, the central bank reported today, above the 4.4 percent
median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  With social demands mounting in  Chile  as its economic
prosperity improves, Bachelet’s promise of better public
services will probably guarantee her victory next month, said
Robert Funk, a political scientist.  “It’s very hard to see Bachelet losing,” said Funk, who
runs the center for public opinion studies at the University of
Chile in Santiago. “It’s conceivable that Bachelet could get
something like 60 percent of the vote.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  