-- China’s Greenland Plans 1,000 Melbourne Apartments, Sydney Hotel
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-11-17T21:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/china-s-greenland-plans-1-000-melbourne-apartments-sydney-hotel.html
Greenland Holding Group Co., the
builder of one of  China ’s tallest towers, plans to construct
1,000 apartments on a Melbourne site and expects to open a five-star, 180-room hotel in Sydney by 2015.  The state-owned developer is seeking to finalize the
purchase of the land from the Victoria Racing Club by the end of
2013, Sherwood Luo, managing director of Greenland  Australia ,
its Sydney-based subsidiary, said. It will also convert one of
the two buildings it agreed to buy in Sydney’s center in March
into a boutique five-star hotel, he said.  Greenland, which entered Australia this year to capitalize
on rising home prices and growing demand from Chinese buyers,
plans to turn the other building on the site into Sydney’s
tallest residential tower. The push into  Melbourne , following a
7 percent increase in apartment prices in the nation’s biggest
cities this year, is part of Greenland’s plan to invest more
than A$1 billion ($934 million) in Australia in two years.  The Sydney tower “will attract both local and mainland
buyers, because it’s the best location in town, it’s close to
public transport and it’s an iconic building,” Luo said in an
interview in Sydney on Nov. 15. “Australia is a great
destination for investment and we’re looking for other sites.”  The company expects to begin sales at the Sydney tower this
month, and sell about half of them within a month, Chairman
Zhang Yuliang told reporters in  Shanghai  in October. It will
market the 500-plus units -- which start at A$528,000 for a
studio apartment and could climb to “a few million” for the
penthouses -- in Sydney, Shanghai,  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , Luo
said.  A date for the start of construction depends on development
approval, which it is in the process of obtaining, he said.  Melbourne Development  In Melbourne, Greenland  entered into talks  with the
Victoria Racing Club last month on two parcels of land next to
the Flemington Racecourse, home of the Melbourne Cup Carnival.
The company will build a tower that includes some retail, Luo
said.  Greenland joins Chinese developers, including Dalian Wanda
Group and ABP (China) Holdings Group Ltd., which are moving
overseas as the government steps up a three-year campaign to
cool the housing market. The company last month reached an
agreement with Forest City Ratner Cos. to co-develop the
Atlantic Yards project in  New York , following an announcement in
July that it’s investing $1 billion in a Los Angeles project.  Greenland is seeking projects including hotels, apartments
and retail in  London , Zhang said last month.  The company said in 2010 that it will invest 30 billion
 yuan  ($4.9 billion) to build a 606-meter (1,988-foot) skyscraper
in the central Chinese city of Wuhan.  The 660-meter Ping An Finance Center in the southern city
of Shenzhen will be China’s tallest building when it is
completed 2016, according to the  skyscraper  center database of
the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. China’s tallest
building currently is the 492-meter Shanghai World Financial
Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  