-- China Police, Assailants Die in Xinjiang Attack, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-17T04:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/china-police-assailants-die-in-xinjiang-attack-xinhua-says.html
Two auxiliary police officers and
nine assailants died after an attack on a police station in
northwestern  China ’s province of Xinjiang.  The assailants, armed with knives and axes, were shot dead
during the attack in Serikbuya township of Bachu county in
Kashgar prefecture, the official Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing local police. Another two police officers were injured,
the report said.  China’s westernmost province is beset by tensions between
the mostly Muslim Uighur minority and ethnic Han Chinese, whom
the government has encouraged to migrate to Xinjiang. Communist
Party leaders this month set up a state committee to better
coordinate security issues.  All the assailants were ethnic Uighur and they went to the
police station to protest, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the
Munich-based World Uyghur Congress, said in an e-mail responding
to questions. He didn’t say what prompted the protest.
Authorities also arrested “tens” of Uighur protesters, Raxit
said.  China’s government faces a growing number of strikes,
protests and riots that it considers threats to domestic
stability, alongside ethnic tensions in western regions
including  Tibet . On Oct. 28, a sport-utility vehicle crashed and
burst into flames near Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in front of
the gate bearing the portrait of Chairman Mao Zedong, killing
its three occupants and two bystanders. The government called
the incident a terrorist attack.  Violence near the ancient Silk Road city of Kashgar killed
21 people, including 15 neighborhood officials and police and
six attackers in April. Unrest in the city of Urumqi in 2009
left almost 200 people dead.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  