-- Coffee Farmers in Vietnam to Maintain Output Even as Prices Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/coffee-farmers-in-vietnam-to-maintain-output-even-as-prices-drop.html
Coffee farmers in  Vietnam , the
biggest producer of robusta beans used in instant drinks, plan
to maintain production even after costs increased and prices
slumped to the lowest level in three years.  Nine out of 10 growers surveyed by Bloomberg in Dak Lak
province, the main producing region, said that while margins had
narrowed they would continue to apply fertilizer and invest in
their plantations to preserve output. Farmers are now harvesting
a record crop of 1.7 million tons, 13 percent more than a year
earlier, according to the median of 11 trader and shipper
estimates compiled separately.  Futures traded in  London  slumped 17 percent in the past
month and reached a three-year low as supplies of the beans used
by  Nestle SA (NESN)  outpaced demand. The survey of farmers shows prices
may have to decline further to spur production cuts. Global
harvests are set to expand 7 percent this crop year to 68.4
million bags (4.1 million tons), exceeding a 1.9 percent gain in
demand to 66 million bags, according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  on
Nov. 11. A bag weighs 60 kilos (132 pounds).  “Farmers in my area definitely will not chop down trees or
cut investment,” said Tran Van Nguyen, 54, head of the farmer
association in Hoa Thuan Commune in Buon Ma Thuot City, Dak Lak
province. “They will keep applying fertilizer and pesticide to
boost yields in the next season.”  Bean prices in the province slumped 35 percent from a March
high to 29,600 dong ($1.40) a kilogram on Nov. 7, the lowest
level since October 2010,  data  from the Trade & Tourism Center
show. While rates fell, spending on everything from fertilizer
and pesticide to labor rose about 30 percent in the past three
to five years, said Van Thanh Huy, general director of Daklak
Investment Export-Import Joint-Stock Corp.  Government Help  Assessing the exact level of output costs is hard because
it varies with location, yield and tree maturity, said Huy. The
government may help if farmers don’t have enough funds. The
agriculture ministry and Vietnam Coffee and Cocoa Association
will propose stockpiling as much as 300,000 tons to stem price
declines, Thoi Bao Kinh Te Saigon said last week, citing Nguyen
Viet Vinh, Vicofa’s general secretary.  Futures in London dropped 46 percent from a 2011 peak to
$1,431 a ton on Nov. 7 and traded at $1,447 on Nov. 14. Robusta
slumped 25 percent this year as raw sugar dropped 9.6 percent
and cocoa gained 20 percent.  “When farmers in Vietnam say they’re going to keep
producing regardless, it’s because the margins are still fairly
decent,” said  Abah Ofon , a Singapore-based analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc. “After three years, if they make losses, it will
be a different story altogether.”  Vulnerable Crops  While most growers will continue to invest in their
plantations, others may be tempted to switch crops or convert
their land to residential use, said Huy from Daklak Investment
Export-Import Joint-Stock Corp.  “I may turn to other plants that require less investment
if prices stay this low,” said Vo Xuan Thang, a 52-year-old
farmer, who has grown coffee for two decades. “It would be a
good time to let the soil recover, and I’ll switch back after a
few years if prices are good.”  The harvest in Vietnam is about 30 percent complete, more
than the 20 percent rate at the same time last year, according
to the survey of traders and shippers compiled on Nov. 4-7. Less
than 10 percent has been sold, a similar level to a year
earlier, it shows. The farmers were surveyed on Nov. 5-7.  “Other crops like fruit are more vulnerable to weather
than coffee,” said Huynh Van Phuoc, a 45-year-old grower, who
is among farmers who stayed in the industry even during periods
of depressed prices. Coffee-growing had allowed him to provide
for his family, build a good home and buy a motorbike, he said.  “Now it’s essential for me to boost yields to make up for
rising costs and lower prices,” said Phuoc. “We want a steady
income and a stable life.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  