-- Colbert Revived as Montebourg Pushes State Role in France Inc.
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-17T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/colbert-revived-as-montebourg-pushes-state-role-in-france-inc-.html
French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg , an unabashed admirer of Louis XIV’s mercantilist
finance minister  Jean-Baptiste Colbert , says he has no intention
of loosening his grip on  France  Inc.  Over his 17 months in the job, the 51-year-old Socialist
has brought a whiff of Colbertism to the Finance Ministry’s
corridors, seeking greater state control over French commercial
interests. He courted controversy demanding the nationalization
of a part of steelmaker ArcelorMittal; blocked the sale of the
YouTube-like unit of phone company Orange SA to Yahoo! Inc. and
started a flag-waving “Made in France” campaign.  In a Nov. 8 interview, Montebourg said the government’s
investment arm will do his bidding to keep control of many of
France’s largest companies, sounding more like Colbert’s
sovereign Louis XIV, who famously said, “L’etat, c’est moi,”
or “I am the state.”  “The French state investment agency works when I tell it
to work,” said Montebourg, who gives a speech today at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  on “ A New Industrial
Policy in France .” “The agency doesn’t matter; I matter. We
want to keep our majority stakes, our points of influence. As a
shareholder, we have the power to make demands.”  The minister is charged with re-industrializing France,
boosting output and capping unemployment, which has reached
about 11 percent, a 14-year high, as companies hit by  Europe ’s
economic slump slash thousands of jobs. President  Francois Hollande  has in the past raised the possibility of selling some
of the state’s shares in listed companies as France struggles to
fund social projects after two years with barely any growth.  State Holdings  Montebourg wants the state to hang on to its holdings in
companies such as GDF Suez, Electricite de France SA and Orange,
giving it a say in their activities. He has also sought to exert
pressure -- with mixed success -- over companies in which the
state holds no stake, like carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroen and
telecommunications equipment maker  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  SA.  The French government  owns  84.5 percent of EDF, 36.7
percent of GDF Suez and 26.9 percent of Orange.  France’s controlling stake in EDF gave Hollande leeway to
direct the country’s policy on energy, deciding to shut one of
the company’s nuclear plants -- an election campaign promise.  As Orange’s single-biggest shareholder and through
representatives who sit on its board, France last year blocked
the sale of Dailymotion SA, a YouTube rival, to Yahoo!.
Montebourg summoned executives of Yahoo and Orange to the
 finance ministry  in April, gave them a dressing down and accused
Orange of selling one of France’s “crown jewels,” according to
a person with direct knowledge of the discussion.  Peugeot Involvement  “We need to keep our spots as board members and our
pressure points to execute our industrial policy,” Montebourg
said. “The state’s holdings have become a tool for that.”  Montebourg has thrown the state’s weight around even with
companies in which it holds no stake. When Peugeot Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Varin unveiled a plan to shut a plant
in France -- its first such closing in two decades -- and cut
more than 11,000 jobs, Montebourg called it “unacceptable.”  Varin was able to convince Montebourg and the French
government that the plan was crucial for the survival of Peugeot,
Europe’s second-largest carmaker after Volkswagen AG, which was
unprofitable, burning cash and hit by a car glut because of the
region’s economic slump.  Wringing Concessions  With Peugeot getting a French government guarantee for 7
billion euros in bonds it sold to bolster its auto-financing
unit, the minister was able to wring a concession out of the
Paris-based carmaker: The government would have a say over
strategic decisions made by the company.  Louis Gallois , former
head of Airbus-parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
and now the government’s competition czar, sits on Peugeot’s
board as the state’s representative.  Peugeot, which has an alliance with General Motors Co., is
seeking new partnerships to escape the downturn in the region
and expand globally. The company is considering a deeper
partnership with Chinese manufacturer  Dongfeng Motor Corp. (489) ,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  “Our strategy is to look for alliances for Peugeot,”
Montebourg said. “The company first and foremost has to define
a restructuring plan and improve its costs.”  The minister has been less successful in getting a foot in
the door at Alcatel-Lucent. While Montebourg said he is in
discussions with Alcatel executives and unions, he has not been
able to get the company to back off from planned job cuts.  Alcatel Woes  Michel Combes , who took over as the unprofitable company’s
CEO in April, wants to cut 10,000 jobs, including 900 in France,
as he tries to break the curse of almost seven years of failed
management changes and restructurings.  The most Montebourg has been able to do is to talk about
the need for national power over telecommunications.  “Like many countries, we’re looking to make sure we have
control over the technological part of our telecoms networks,”
Montebourg said. “It’s part of our telecoms sovereignty plan.”  Among other projects of Montebourg, who carries two iPhones
-- one with the French flag on its back -- has been a “Made in
France” campaign. Posing before the French flag to promote
local products, he has attacked what he says is unfair trade and
dumping -- where imported products are sold below cost.  Also, in line with the government’s efforts to design a
state-driven industrial policy, the minister in September
unveiled plans to make 34 new high-tech products, including an
electric plane, an ultra-low-energy-consumption car and a faster
high-speed train, within a decade in France. His goal is to
recreate the 750,000 jobs destroyed in the last 10 years.  Not Alone  Montebourg likes to point out that the French government is
not alone in intervening in business, alluding to the U.S.
rescue of General Motors and American International Group.  His policies have done little to scare the stock market,
which has rallied as the  European debt crisis  has eased.
France’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  has advanced 36 percent since
Hollande’s May 6, 2012 election. That compares with a 28 percent
gain in the STOXX Europe 600 Price Index.  Still, some economists say Montebourg’s piecemeal efforts
do little to address the real issues companies face, like taxes.  Taxes in France have risen by 70 billion euros in the last
three years and will take the tax burden this year to 46 percent
of gross domestic product. That’s up two percentage points from
2011 when it was already the third-highest in the world behind
Denmark and  Sweden , according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Old Instinct  “People in the end see that if you operate in France you
have the highest  tax rate  in Europe,” said  Tomasz Michalski , an
economics professor at HEC business school near Paris. “It’s
unclear why Montebourg’s marketing would help that at all.”  Michalski also notes that Montebourg’s instincts are not
unusual for France. Although the minister will be speaking about
France’s “new” industrial policy at MIT today in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , Michalski points out that Montebourg’s activist
state is a rather old model for the country.  “Government intervention in France has been huge for a
very long time; it’s not something new,” he said. “Montebourg
is trying to sell it as such because he has to show he’s doing
what it takes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  