-- Copper-Rich Congo Province Sees More Cash After Rebel Defeat
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-11-18T13:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/copper-rich-congo-province-sees-more-cash-after-rebellion-ended.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo’s
provincial governments expect a windfall of reconstruction and
development funds after an insurgency by M23 rebels ended, said
Moise Katumbi, governor of the copper-rich Katanga province.  Congo’s government diverted cash meant for the provinces to
pay for its fight against the M23 insurgents in the east of the
country, Katumbi, 48, said in an interview in Lubumbashi,
Katanga’s capital. The rebels ended their 20-month rebellion on
Nov. 5 after Congo’s army seized key positions, including the
rebel stronghold of Bunagana.  “Our budget for reconstruction has been blocked by the
central government because of the war,” Katumbi said on Nov.
11. “Without this war, there will be more money.”  Congo’s provinces have complained that the central
government in Kinshasa keeps too much of their revenue. The
state is required by law to send 40 percent of a province’s
revenue back to the provincial government in a process called
retrocession. Last year, when M23 began its rebellion, the
government provided only 43 percent of $1.06 billion it budgeted
for retrocession to Congo’s 11 provinces, according to documents
on the  Budget Ministry ’s website. It spent about $330 million on
national defense, compared with the $310 million the department
was allocated, the documents show.  In the nine months through Sept. 30, the central government
disbursed only about 16 percent of the more than $440 million
budgeted for Katanga for 2013, according to provisional Budget
Ministry data.  Copper Mining  Katanga is home to almost all of Congo’s copper and cobalt
production, the main source of the country’s mining income,
which accounted for more than 15 percent of Congo’s economy in
2012, according to the International Monetary Fund. Miners
including  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  have projects in the province.  An increase in revenue for Katanga will allow the
provincial government to fix its transport, electricity, and
water infrastructure, which are dilapidated after decades of
mismanagement and conflict, Katumbi said. Faster development
will also help address growing resentment among some Katangans,
who have increasingly turned to separatist armed groups in the
face of few job prospects, he said.  “When there’s misery, people say: ‘Ah, if we were
autonomous we’d have more money,’” Katumbi said. “I think the
day when we’re self-sufficient with food, when we’ve realized
the promise of elections, I think this problem will end.”  Fighters Surrender  Hundreds of members of local militias, often called by the
generic name Mai Mai, have already surrendered in recent months
amid a campaign by the government and army to convince them to
lay down their weapons, Katumbi said.  The governor, a former mining investor, called for publicly
traded companies to come to Congo to increase transparency in
the mining industry. He also called for the government to sell
state-owned companies to private investors, including Gecamines,
which is based in Lubumbashi.  Gecamines is facing scrutiny for recent sales of its
assets, which advocacy groups like U.K.-based corruption
watchdog Global Witness say were sold well below market prices.
Earlier this year, the company also failed to tell the Mines
Ministry of a possible sale of its stake in Glencore’s Kamoto
Copper Co. to billionaire Dan Gertler.  The company should be able to sell stakes in its joint
ventures if it holds international open tenders, Katumbi said.  ‘Respect Tenders’  “If they think that in selling X project, or in reducing
their stake, for example, in Freeport’s Tenke mine -- because
one day that will happen -- to invest in their own mine, and
they do an open tender,” that would be acceptable, Katumbi
said. “What’s important is that Gecamines respect the tender.”  This year, Congo’s miners may ship about 750,000 metric
tons of copper, a 20 percent increase from 2012, Katumbi said.
Output could be as high as 1.5 million tons if the province had
enough electricity, he said. Congo is the world’s eighth-largest
producer of copper and the biggest source of cobalt, which is
used in rechargeable batteries  Katanga has a power deficit of more than 300 megawatts,
according to the Energy Ministry. Katumbi, who also owns TP
Mazembe, one of  Africa ’s top soccer clubs, said he would return
to private life after leaving the governorship, in spite of
speculation he may seek Congo’s presidency once current
President Joseph Kabila’s final term ends in 2016.  “I will start another career and I’ll continue to
contribute to my country outside politics,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  