-- Democrats Downplay Lawmaker Defections Over Affordable Care Act
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/democrats-downplay-lawmaker-defections-over-affordable-care-act.html
Democratic lawmakers downplayed the
support some members of their party gave to a Republican bill
that would let insurers sell for another year health policies
that don’t meet the requirements of the Affordable Care Act.  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California ,
speaking yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” said the 39
 House Democrats  who supported the Nov. 15 measure were basically
those who had already opposed an insurance mandate for
individuals and businesses.  “Democrats stand tall in support of the Affordable Care
Act,” Pelosi said. “The rollout of the website, that’s
terrible. But the fact is that will be fixed.”  Almost a fifth of House Democrats joined Republicans last
week to pass legislation revising the health-care law. The
legislation puts pressure on the Senate to advance proposals to
fix technical problems with its insurance exchange and
cancellation notices sent to hundreds of thousands of
policyholders.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York  Democrat, said the
Democrats who voted for the Republican bill were “just
responding to the worries of their constituents.”  Speaking yesterday on ABC’s “This Week,” Gillibrand said
President  Barack Obama  should have been “more specific” about
the impact of the law on existing insurance policies. “This is
a fixable problem,” she said.  Veto Threat  Jay Carney , Obama’s press secretary, said Nov. 15 that
Obama would veto the Republican measure if it reaches his desk,
maintaining it would permit insurers to “sell substandard
policies to new customers.”  Fifteen insurance industry representatives -- including
from  Aetna Corp. (AET)  and Blue Cross Blue Shield -- met on Nov. 15
with Obama at the White House, where they expressed concern that
a one-year reprieve he gave to people whose policies were
canceled because of the law would make it harder to draw healthy
enrollees, according to a person familiar with the meeting.  Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican, said Obama’s
proposal was “a false fix” that won’t address policy
cancellations that have plagued the law’s rollout.  “The president may call these junk policies or substandard
policies, but they’re policies that work for those people,”
Barrasso said yesterday on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program.
He cited the case of a Wyoming woman whose health insurance was
canceled because it didn’t include pregnancy coverage required
by the health-care law, even though the woman had had a
hysterectomy.  Expenditures on health care accounted for about 17.6
percent of U.S. gross domestic product in 2010, according to the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .  Taking Responsibility  Since opening Oct. 1, the federal online marketplace
serving 36 states has been plagued by delays, error messages and
hang-ups that have prevented customers from completing
applications. Obama’s acceptance of responsibility for the law’s
troubled rollout and his efforts to defuse the furor over policy
cancellations by allowing states to reinstate canceled plans for
one year have fallen short of quelling criticism.  The Obama administration would consider the new market for
health insurance a success if 80 percent of users can purchase
plans online, the Washington Post reported, citing unidentified
government and industry officials.  Website Improvement  Marilyn Tavennar, head of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, has said that the experience on the website
“will be smooth for the vast majority of users” by the end of
November. The agency also says the website should be faster,
with fewer error messages and time-outs.  Obama, in his news conference on Nov. 14 made clear that
the website wouldn’t be fully operational by the November 30
deadline, only that it would work for a “majority” of users.  “We’re going to have to continue to improve it even after
November 30th, December 1st,” he said. “But the majority of
people who use it will be able to see it operate the way it was
supposed to.”  Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican, said the
rollout of the health-care law “is a mess.”  Ayotte, speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” said “the
president said he fumbled the rollout, now it’s time for a
timeout.”  Representative Jim Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat, said
on CNN’s “State of the Union” that only about nine of the
Democrats who voted for the Republican bill had “real serious
concerns” about the law.  “The fact of the matter is this is a rollout problem,”
Clyburn said. “This is not a values problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  