-- ‘Thor: The Dark World’ Tops Theaters for Second Weekend
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/disney-s-thor-the-dark-world-tops-theaters-for-second-weekend.html
“Thor: The Dark World,” the
superhero sequel from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel studios, led
ticket sales in U.S. and Canadian theaters for a second weekend,
collecting $38.5 million.  “The Best Man Holiday,” from  Universal Pictures , placed
second in its debut with $30.6 million,  Rentrak Corp. (RENT)  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The dramatic comedy, a
sequel to the 1999 film from writer-director Malcolm D. Lee, was
the only picture opening in wide release.  “Thor: The Dark World,” starring Chris Hemsworth and
 Natalie Portman , gave Disney its largest November opening ever,
marking the start of the holiday season for Hollywood. Another
big sequel, “The Hunger Games: Catching Fire” opens on Nov. 22
for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   “It was a pretty decent weekend, given there were no major
releases,” said  Paul Sweeney , a Skillman, New Jersey-based
analyst at Bloomberg Industries, in an interview. “The box
office year-to-date has been pretty flat, so to the extent
Hollywood is able to generate any growth this year, it will have
to be over the holidays.”  The latest “Thor” outsold its 2011 predecessor in its
debut, underscoring the box-office draw of Disney’s Marvel
superheroes. “Iron Man 3,” released in May, is the top-grossing movie this year with $1.22 billion worldwide.  $168 Million  In “Thor: The Dark World,” Hemsworth returns as the title
character, a Norse god battling to save Earth and the Nine
Realms from the Dark Elves, who are armed with a universe-destroying substance. Thor’s challenge is complicated when his
love interest, played by Portman, is infected with the
substance. Thor must also contend with his scheming brother
Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston.  The film was projected to generate $38 million in its
second weekend, the estimate of Box Office Guru. So far it has
taken in $147 million in theaters.  “Hunger Games: Catching Fire,” is projected to take in
$168 million this coming weekend in its debut, according to
BoxOffice.com. That would surpass the first installment, which
opened with $152.5 million domestically and reached $691.2
million in its worldwide theater run.  “The Best Man Holiday,” made for an estimated $17 million
according to Box Office Mojo, beat the BoxOffice.com projection
for $24.5 million in sales.  Oscar Contender  The film follows a group of college friends reuniting after
15 years, with actors Taye Diggs, Terrence Howard and Regina Hall returning from the original.  Old rivalries and emotions are stirred when Lance, a
football superstar played by Morris Chestnut, and his wife Mia,
Monica Calhoun, host a Christmas reunion. The movie centers on
the wary friendship of Lance and Harper, a bestselling author
played by Diggs, who once had a dalliance with Mia.  The other friends’ stories enter the fray. Hall plays a
happily married mom with kids, rocked by a video of her earlier
indiscretions that has gone viral.  The movie got a 64 percent rating on RottenTomatoes.com, a
review aggregator site.  “Nebraska,”  considered a potential Oscar contender,
opened in four theaters. It features Bruce Dern as Woody Grant,
a grouchy Korean War vet who gets a junk-mail sweepstakes letter
he thinks will make him rich. He embarks on a road trip from
Billings,  Montana , to Lincoln,  Nebraska , to claim his prize,
bringing his son, played by Will Forte.  ‘Free Birds’  The movie, which collected $140,000 in sales for  Paramount
Pictures , according to Rentrak, garnered a 90 percent rating on
RottenTomatoes.  Among returning films, “Last Vegas,” the buddy movie with
 Robert De Niro ,  Michael Douglas ,  Morgan Freeman  and  Kevin Kline ,
placed third, up from fourth, collecting $8.87 million for CBS
Films.  “Free Birds,” the animated movie from Relativity Media,
placed fourth, down from third last week, taking in $8.3
million. The Thanksgiving-themed movie features the voices of
 Owen Wilson  and Woody Harrelson.  “Jackass Presents: Bad Grandpa,” from Paramount Pictures,
was fifth, down from second, collecting $7.67 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 10 films fell 50 percent to
$119 million from the year-earlier period, Rentrak said. Revenue
is down almost 1 percent to $9.25 billion year to date.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Rentrak. The amounts are based on gross
ticket sales for Nov. 15 and Nov. 16, and estimates for
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  