-- Dollar Falls to Lowest in a Week on Fed; Real Jumps
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-11-18T22:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/dollar-holds-declines-as-fed-speakers-may-follow-yellen-signal.html
The dollar fell to the lowest in
more than a week as Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William C. Dudley said he’s “getting more hopeful” about the
economy while indicating no change in bond buying anytime soon.  India ’s rupee and  Brazil ’s real led gains among emerging-market currencies as Asian and European equities strengthened
after  China  vowed to carry out the broadest expansion of
economic freedom since at least the 1990s. The dollar dropped
last week after Fed Chairman-nominee  Janet Yellen  said monetary
stimulus was still needed to spur growth.  “The market is risk-on today, so there’s no need to hold
 U.S. dollar ,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a phone interview.
“The appointment of Yellen as chairwoman of the Fed has created
a lot of expectations that tapering will most likely be delayed,
as she’s a dovish person.”  Bloomberg’s U.S. Dollar Index, which monitors the greenback
against 10 major counterparts, fell 0.2 percent to 1,015.35 at 5
p.m. New York time, and touched 1,013.49, the lowest level since
Nov. 7.  The dollar declined 0.1 percent to $1.3506 per euro after
touching $1.3542, the weakest since Nov. 6. The U.S. currency
dropped 0.2 percent to 99.99 yen after rising to 100.44 on Nov.
15, the strongest level since Sept. 11.  Japan ’s currency rose
0.1 to 135.05 per euro after depreciating to 135.40, the weakest
level since Oct. 30.  Rupee, Real  Emerging-market currencies advanced with global stocks as
China’s leaders vowed to allow more private investment in state-controlled industries and expand farmers’ land rights. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of shares jumped 2.9 percent to the
highest since Oct. 22 on a closing basis, and the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of shares rose for a third day, climbing 1
percent.  The Indian rupee jumped as much as 1.2 percent to 62.375
per dollar, the strongest since Nov. 7.  South Africa ’s rand
strengthened for a fourth day, increasing as much as 0.8 percent
to 10.0828 per dollar, the strongest since Nov. 1.  Korea ’s won
gained 0.5 percent to 1,057.90 per dollar.  Brazil’s real climbed the most among emerging-market
currencies amid plans of eased economic rules in China, the
nation’s biggest trading partner. The currency rose as much as
2.3 percent, the largest increase since Sept. 18, to close at
2.2639 per dollar.  Dudley’s View  “While growth in 2013 has been disappointing, I believe a
good case can be made that the pace of growth will pick up some
in 2014 and then somewhat more in 2015,” Dudley, 60, said in
the text of remarks given in Flushing,  New York , today. “As
growth picks up, I expect to see more substantial improvement in
labor market conditions.”  At her Nov. 14 congressional hearing, Fed Vice Chairman
Yellen indicated she’ll press on with the central bank’s
unprecedented monetary stimulus until she sees a robust
recovery, downplaying risks the policy is inflating asset
bubbles.  “The market is treating the dollar with benign neglect,”
said Peter Kinsella, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London . “Yellen was dovish and some of the
structural U.S. data isn’t fantastic. As long as equity
sentiment remains as good as it is, I don’t see a reason for the
dollar to appreciate strongly.”  Retail Sales  The Commerce Department will say on Nov. 20  retail sales  in
the world’s biggest economy were little changed in October after
a 0.1 percent decline the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . A
report on the same day will show consumer prices stagnated last
month after rising 0.2 percent in September, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Economists forecast the Fed will delay tapering asset
purchases until March even after a report showed employers added
more jobs than forecast in October.  Policy makers will pare the monthly pace of bond buying to
$70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting from the current pace
of $85 billion, according to the median of 32 economist
estimates in a Bloomberg survey on Nov. 8.  “We’re seeing a broad risk-on type of sentiment, which is
playing out through underperforming safe-haven assets like the
U.S. dollar,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington 
at the currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc.,
said in a phone interview. “This is partially being fueled by
expectations the Fed taper will remain sidelined until next
year, which is largely based on the testimony from Yellen last
week.”  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $51 billion, from $53 billion on Nov. 15, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $12 billion, the largest share of
trades at 23 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$11 billion, or 22 percent.  Greenback-yen options trading was 25 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
89 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  