-- Doris Lessing, Nobel-Winning Writer on Race, Gender, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-11-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/doris-lessing-nobel-winning-writer-on-race-gender-dies.html
Doris Lessing, the British author
awarded a  Nobel Prize  in literature for a lifetime of writing
about gender and race, drawing on her own upbringing in Africa,
has died. She was 94.  Lessing died yesterday at her home in north  London , where
she lived for the past two decades, her publisher,
HarperCollins, said in an e-mailed statement.  Born to English parents in present-day Iran, and raised in
what is now  Zimbabwe , Lessing witnessed the demise of the
British Empire, race-based governments in Africa and the
communist movement she briefly joined after World War II. Her
novels and short stories challenged the notion of fixed truths
and permanent institutions.  Her best-known work, the largely autobiographical 1962
novel “ The Golden Notebook ,” tells the story of an
independent, modern woman in  Africa  who records her varied life
experiences in four notebooks and tries, in a fifth, to weave
them into a coherent picture of a complex life.  The Swedish Academy, in awarding Lessing the  Nobel Prize ,
called her “that epicist of the female experience, who with
skepticism, fire and visionary power has subjected a divided
civilization to scrutiny.”  Lessing was 87 when the award was announced in October
2007, the oldest recipient of the literature prize. In
presenting it, writer Per Wastberg, chairman of the Nobel
Committee for Literature,  said  Lessing “has displayed an almost
limitless empathy with odd lives and a freedom from prejudice
regarding every form of human behavior.”  Storyteller Inside  In her acceptance  speech , read by her publicist because
Lessing was unable to travel to the event, she addressed the
importance of writing and the “astonishing phenomenon, this
hunger for books,” particularly in Africa.  “The storyteller is deep inside every one of us. The
story-maker is always with us,” Lessing said. “It is our
stories that will recreate us, when we are torn, hurt, even
destroyed. It is the storyteller, the dream-maker, the myth-maker, that is our phoenix, that represents us at our best, and
at our most creative.”  Lessing’s early work in the 1950s and 1960s focused on the
oppression of Africa’s black population by white colonists. Her
first novel, “ The Grass is Singing ” (1950), revolved around
the murder of a white woman by her black servant.  Against Apartheid  An outspoken critic of apartheid, Lessing was banned from
 South Africa  and Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) in 1956. She made a
1995 visit to post-apartheid South Africa, where her daughter
and grandchildren were living.  Though viewed as an early inspiration for 20th-century
feminists, she refused to let herself be typecast. In a 1971
introduction to a reissue of “The Golden Notebook,” she said
the book “was not a trumpet for Women’s Liberation.”  At the Edinburgh International Book Festival in 2001,
Lessing seemed to side with men in the gender wars, blaming
“nasty women” for “the unthinking and automatic rubbishing of
men which is now so part of our culture that it is hardly
noticed.”  Lessing’s writing likewise took an unexpected turn in the
1970s, when she began producing works of science fiction.  Doris May Tayler was  born  Oct. 22, 1919, in Kermanshah, a
town in Persia, now part of  Iran . Her father, Alfred Cook
Tayler, was a bank official and a former captain in the British
army during World War I. Her mother, Emily McVeagh Tayler, was
formerly a nurse.  ‘Mud Hut’  When Lessing was about five years old, her family moved to
a farm in Southern Rhodesia, where they grew corn and tobacco.
She recalled her home as “virtually a mud hut, thatched” that
was “full of books,” many of which her mother ordered from
 England .  “Books arrived in great brown paper parcels, and they were
the joy of my young life,” she said in her Nobel speech.  Lessing left school at 13 and worked as a nursemaid, a
chauffeur and a telephone operator, and also wrote short
stories. By the time she moved to London in 1949, she also had
married and divorced twice and given birth to three children,
one of whom moved to England with her.  During her first four years in London she was active in the
Communist Party and in the campaign against nuclear weapons. In
a 2006 interview with the  Associated Press , she said she quit
communism “as it became evident that the  Soviet Union  was a
very bad place.”  Breaking Away  After the success of “The Grass is Singing,” Lessing
wrote “ Children of Violence ,” a five-volume series published
between 1952 and 1969. The main character, Martha Quest, breaks
away from her impoverished African farm to take a job as a
typist in a city, awakening both to her womanhood and to a
society corroded by racial fears and conflicts.  “The Golden Notebook,” set in Rhodesia, established
Lessing as a feminist leader.  “The burgeoning feminist movement saw it as a pioneering
work, and it belongs to the handful of books that informed the
20th-century view of the male-female relationship,” the Swedish
Academy said.  Lessing said in an  interview  with the academy: “When I
wrote ‘The Golden Notebook,’ I was writing about things in fact
I didn’t know anything about, until later. When I read ‘The
Golden Notebook’ 10 years later, I said, ‘My God, look what I
said then.’”  Inner Space  Lessing used the term “inner-space fiction” to describe
the science-fiction novels she began writing in the 1970s. They
include “ Briefing for a Descent into Hell ” (1971), which goes
inside the mind of a professor experiencing a mental breakdown.  Her  other  novels include “The Summer Before the Dark”
(1973), “The Good Terrorist” (1985) and “The Fifth Child”
(1988).  Lessing was appointed a Companion of Honour in 1999, an
order to reward “conspicuous national service” to the U.K. She
turned down the offer of becoming a Dame of the British Empire,
noting that the empire no longer exists.  Jonathan Clowes, Lessing’s long-time friend and agent, and
her editor at HarperCollins, Nicholas Pearson, both paid tribute
to her in yesterday’s e-mailed release. “The Golden Notebook”
was a handbook to a whole generation, Pearson said. Even in very
old age Lessing was always reinventing herself and curious about
the world.  Lessing is survived by her daughter Jean and granddaughters
Anna and Susannah.  The writer was out shopping for groceries in 2007 when it
was announced that she had won the Nobel prize. Lessing returned
home to find reporters waiting for her, and she greeted the news
with “Oh Christ!” She told reporters that she had won every
other prize so was especially pleased to get “a Royal flush.”  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  and  Katya Kazakina  on
auctions,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Martin Gayford  on art,  Warwick
Thompson  on U.K. theater and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  