-- Dubai Expat Rents Exceed Pay Hitting Competitiveness
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-11-18T14:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/dubai-expat-rents-exceed-pay-hitting-competitiveness.html
Sarah El-Said is relocating for the
fourth time since coming to Dubai from  New Jersey  in 2008. The
mother of two and her husband will pay 43 percent more for a
similar-sized apartment, moving their children away from friends
after disagreeing with their landlord over terms of a new lease.  “This is insane,” said El-Said, who pays 8,750 dirhams
($2,400) per month for an apartment on the Palm Jumeirah manmade
island. “It’s like you have to move house every two years. You
feel no stability in where you live and you’re always at the
mercy of landlords whose sole interest is making more money.”  Rent increases and the conflicts that go with them are
climbing in the city of about 2.2 million, rattling a workforce
that’s mostly foreign, as a rebounding  property market  and a
surging economy embolden landlords. Buying a home has become
more difficult after the central bank damped lending for most of
the year by proposing tighter mortgage restrictions and imposing
new transaction fees.  Rents rose by 15 percent for apartments and 14 percent for
single-family homes on average in the past year, Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. wrote in an October report, citing data compiled by
researcher Reidin.com. Salaries for non-government employees
increased 5.6 percent in the  United Arab Emirates  during that
time, according to a survey of more than 200 companies by Mercer
LLC, a New York-based consulting firm.  “Dubai should be worried about rising rents because there
is no upside to the government or society,” said Farouk Soussa,
the London-based head of  Middle East  economics at Citigroup
Global Markets Ltd. “It goes against Dubai’s best economic
interest because it erodes its competitiveness.”  Conflicts Rise  Legal disputes over leases have jumped since the property
market began to rebound, Sultan Bin Mejren, director general of
Dubai’s Land Department said in September. The regulator in
September said it will create a rental dispute tribunal to
simplify the way disagreements are handled and more than double
the capacity to about 250 cases a week. The purpose of the
center is to achieve “social and economic stability for all
concerned,” the Land Department said in a statement.  Dubai’s economy is headed for the fastest expansion in six
years as it benefits from an increase in hotel occupancy and
manufacturing. Gross domestic product grew 4.9 percent in the
first half, compared with a 4.4 percent increase in 2012, the
statistics office said Nov. 6.  Employers Concerned  Rents are “definitely becoming a concern for companies as
prices have shot up in the past 12 to 18 months,” said Nuno
Gomes, who advises businesses on employee compensation for
Mercer. “If things continue at this pace, the allowances that
are being provided won’t be enough.”  Average annual rent for a mid-range three-bedroom home in
Dubai is equal to about $58,000. Rents range from $46,000 to
$92,000 a year depending on the quality and location, according
to Cluttons LLC. That compares with $46,344 a year in  Manhattan ,
where rents, charged monthly, rose 0.2 percent in 2012 to an
average of $3,862 per month.  Rents started to climb in Dubai’s more sought-after
developments in 2012 and the gains spread to most parts of the
city this year,  Jones Lang  said in a report last month.
Increases will continue over the next 12 months, although at a
slower rate, it predicted. The broker estimates that about
45,000 new homes will be completed in Dubai by the end of 2015,
tempering rent growth in a market that already has
“significant” vacancies.  Mortgage Effect  Leasing costs in Dubai rose this year amid expectations
that the government would step in to cool the emirate’s surging
homebuying market. Mortgage lending stalled in the first quarter
after the United Arab Emirates central bank said it would cap
the value of mortgages taken by foreigners to 50 percent of a
first home’s value.  After holding talks with lenders, the central bank in
October limited mortgages to foreign buyers to 75 percent of the
value of a first home valued at 5 million dirhams or less. It
also capped loans for second homes and barred down payments made
with credit cards or personal loans. Dubai doubled property
sales fees to 4 percent from 2 percent in October.  “Making it more difficult to buy will force more people to
stay in the rental market,” said Craig Plumb, head of Middle
East research at Jones Lang. “Rents are going up a bit more
than prices at the moment, which makes properties that are
completed and rented more attractive investments.” That pushes
up values and leads to more landlord-tenant disputes, he said.  Strong Returns  Landlords in Dubai are already getting yields that are
twice the global average. Rental income as a percentage of the
purchase price ranges from 5 percent to 6 percent in Dubai
compared with a world average of 2 percent to 3 percent,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in an Oct. 21 report.  Ludmila Yamalova, a partner at law firm HPL Yamalova &
Plewka JLT, said the number of tenant cases her firm handled
this year has more than tripled from 2012 and risen more than
fivefold from 2011, when the property market was mired in a
slump. While some clients are landlords seeking advice on
evictions and sales, the overwhelming majority are occupants
battling owners trying to charge more, she said.  “Dubai is unique because it’s a cocktail of nationalities
and cultures with different expectations and sense of
entitlement,” said Yamalova, who regularly argued cases before
the rent committee that’s being replaced. “A prevalent mindset
among landlords is ‘this is my property and I can raise the rent
or evict any time. On the other hand, you live in the property,
so if a pipe bursts and floods the whole place, it isn’t my
problem.’”  Foreigner Mix  Creating one set of rules for such diverse landlords isn’t
easy. Foreigners make up more than 80 percent of the population
of the U.A.E., which includes Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , according to
government estimates.  Dubai residents come from more than 200 countries and most
property investors are from  India ,  Pakistan ,  Iran ,  Russia ,
Central Asia,  Europe  and the Middle East and North Africa.
Construction was the biggest industry as of 2012, accounting for
almost 26 percent of jobs, according to government data.
Wholesale and retail trade, and manufacturing were the next
biggest group and 12 percent worked in real estate and related
industries.  Dubai’s’ Real Estate Regulatory Agency allows increases of
5 percent to 10 percent based on an  index that tracks the values 
across the city. Conflicts arise when the owners try to get
tenants to move out to achieve a bigger increase, Yamalova said.
Some try to push occupiers to leave or sign renewals promising
to leave in a year by halting payment of fees to the property
manager, resulting in suspended maintenance and services, she
said.  Evictions Restricted  Owners must inform tenants of their plans to impose an
increase at least three months before the expiry of a contract
and evictions must be justified. The committee handling disputes
charges 3.5 percent of the annual rent to review cases, an
amount the losing party has to pay.  Limits on rental increases may reduce Dubai’s appeal to
global property investors, many of whom reside outside the city,
Vikash Shah, managing director at Amoli  Hong Kong  said in a Nov.
6 interview. The company, which spent more than 100 million
dirhams on real estate in the emirate since 2004, slashed rents
by 25 percent to 45 percent after the market collapsed as
tenants threatened to move out, he said.  ‘No Protection’                       “Now, when the market goes back up, landlords can’t raise
the rents to make up for losses in previous years,” he said.
“As an investor, you are limited on the upside and you have no
protection on the downside.”  Amoli gets a rental yield of as much as 6 percent now,
compared with 8 percent to 10 percent before the crash. That
compares with 3 percent for properties Amoli owns in Hong Kong,
Shah said.  “The eviction process is long and cumbersome with a lot of
documentation required for landlords who don’t live in Dubai,”
he said. “Investors need to do their due diligence before
looking at the high return.”  Even with greater government involvement, landlords in
Dubai have more leverage than their peers in most other markets.
Rents are usually paid a year in advance, often with several
post-dated checks. A disgruntled tenant who stops payment on an
advance check would be committing a criminal offense in the
U.A.E.  “More and more people are standing up to their landlords
as they become aware of their rights,” Yamalova said. “It’s a
huge change from the boom days, when many viewed Dubai as a
place they can make money in for a couple of years before moving
on. Now more people are putting down roots here.”  Faced with a rent increase they couldn’t accept, El-Said
and her husband agreed to vacate the house in one year. Their
new home, also on the Palm Jumeirah island, will cost 45,000
dirhams more, plus another 20,000 dirhams in moving costs and
fees.  “This isn’t justified, because salaries didn’t climb
anywhere near the rents,” she said. El-Said is already making
plans to return to the U.S. before her children reach school age
because the additional costs “make moving back a no-brainer
financially.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 