-- Heart Disease Top Cause of California Pregnancy Deaths
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-11-17T19:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/heart-disease-top-cause-of-california-pregnancy-related-deaths.html
Heart disease is the top cause of
pregnancy-related deaths in  California  and probably throughout
the U.S., many of which could be prevented by addressing related
ailments, a study found.  Those most at risk of dying from pregnancy-related heart
disease were black, obese or had a substance abuse issue,
according to research presented today at the  American Heart
Association meeting  in  Dallas . About one third of the heart
disease deaths could be prevented by better diagnosis and
treatment as well as patient awareness, the authors said.  The number of California women dying of pregnancy-related
complications tripled from 1996 to 2006, according to the study.
U.S. rates have risen as well, the researchers said. Doctors and
women need to be aware that symptoms like shortness of breath
and being extremely tired are not only signs of pregnancy or
being a new mom but could be indicative of an underlying medical
issue like heart disease, said lead study author Afshan Hameed.  “In pregnancy and after pregnancy if there are any cardiac
symptoms, there should be a workup more aggressively,” said
 Hameed , an associate professor of maternal fetal medicine and
cardiology at the University of California at  Irvine , in a
telephone interview. “We should pay attention to the symptoms,
to the clinical clues.”  After heart disease, preeclampsia, or high blood pressure
during pregnancy, hemorrhage and blood clots in the amniotic
fluid and in a blood vessel were the next top reasons for
pregnancy-related deaths, she said.  About one in eight babies in the U.S. are born in
California, Hameed said.  Study Findings  Researchers in the study examined the medical records of
732 women who died while pregnant or within one year of their
pregnancy and found that 209 of the deaths were pregnancy
related. Of those, 51, or about one quarter, were from some form
of heart disease. Only about 6 percent of those women had been
diagnosed with heart disease before pregnancy, the study found.  About 25 percent of women who died of heart causes were
diagnosed with high blood pressure during their pregnancies, the
paper showed. One third of patients who died had failed to seek
care or delayed care, 10 percent refused medical advice and 27
percent didn’t identify their symptoms as heart related, the
study found. The research also showed that the majority of those
who died received incorrect or delayed diagnoses or doctors had
given them ineffective or inappropriate treatments.  The study was funded by the California Department of Public
Health, Maternal Child and Adolescent Health Division.  The
California Pregnancy Associated Mortality Review , a project of
the state’s public health department to determine causes of
pregnancy-related deaths and make recommendations, was initiated
to address the rise in maternal mortality seen in California.  Exposure Study  In a separate study of pregnancy health, researchers from
the University of Alberta in  Canada  found that congenital heart
defects, when the heart or blood vessels don’t develop properly
before birth, in children may be linked with their mothers’
exposure to certain environmental toxins while pregnant. The
findings suggest that some chemical emissions, particularly
industrial air emissions including benzene, chloroform,
methanol, lead, mercury and sulfur dioxide, may be linked to the
heart abnormalities.  Congenital heart defects have dropped slowly in Canada
since 2006, around the time the government tightened rules to
lower industrial air emissions, said lead study author  Deliwe
Ngwezi , a student and research fellow in pediatric cardiology at
the University of Albert.  “For now, consumers and health care providers should be
educated about the potential toll of pollutants on the
developing heart,” she said in a statement. “As we have
observed in the preliminary results, when the emissions
decrease, the rates of congenital heart defects also decrease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  