-- Energy Week Ahead: U.S. Plots Move Up Energy Efficiency Rankings
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-11-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/energy-week-ahead-u-s-plots-move-up-energy-efficiency-rankings.html
Efforts to reduce the amount of
energy needed to run the economy will be the subject of a
briefing this week that will include a representative from the
largest U.S. industrial trade group.  It takes about 50 percent less energy today than in 1973 to
produce the same amount of gross domestic product, according to
the  Environmental and Energy Study Institute , which is hosting
the Nov. 20 briefing. Still, the U.S. ranks ninth among 12 of
the world’s largest economies in  energy efficiency , according to
the  American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy .  “There’s always more to do,” Ross Eisenberg, vice
president of energy and resources policy at the National
Association of Manufacturers, said in an interview. “Our
economy is doing well while we’re also saving energy and
reducing emissions.”  Eisenberg, who will speak at Wednesday’s briefing on
 Capitol Hill , supports legislation introduced in May by senators
Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat and  Rob Portman , a
Republican from Ohio. The bill includes measures to increase
energy conservation in the federal government, establish
voluntary national model building codes and boost energy
efficiency in the manufacturing sector. It was pulled from the
Senate floor in September.  The U.K. came in first in the ACEEE’s  2012 energy
efficiency ranking  which included China, Brazil, Russia and
Japan. The U.S. landed in ninth place in the survey which found
that in the last decade the U.S. has made “limited or little
progress toward greater efficiency at the national level.”  U.S.  energy intensity , the amount of energy needed to
produce $1 of gross domestic product, has been declining since
the 1970’s, according to the Energy Information Administration,
the statistical arm of the Energy Department. Since 1973, energy
intensity has declined by around 2 percent a year, a pace that
is expected to continue through 2040.  Other speakers Wednesday will include Representative Cory Gardner, a Republican from Colorado and Representative  Peter Welch , a Democrat from Vermont.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  POST-FUKUSHIMA REVIEW: The Senate Environment & Public Works
Committee holds a hearing Thursday on how well the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission  is implementing safety recommendations at
U.S. nuclear plants following a post-Fukushima review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  