-- Henrik Stenson Adds Golf’s Race to Dubai Title to FedEx Cup Win
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-17T23:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/henrik-stenson-wins-golf-s-world-tour-race-to-dubai-titles.html
Henrik Stenson of Sweden became the
first golfer to win the Race to Dubai and FedEx Cup titles in
the same year with a six-stroke victory at the European Tour’s
season-ending event.  Stenson, 37, shot an 8-under-par 64 in yesterday’s final
round to win the DP World Tour Championship in Dubai with a
tournament-record total of 25-under par. England’s  Ian Poulter 
finished second and Victor Dubuisson of France third, two shots
further back.  Stenson’s first European Tour title of 2013, the eighth of
his career, earned him 985,476 euros ($1.3 million) and secured
first place on this season’s European money list. He captured
the U.S. PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup and its $10 million bonus in
September after winning two of the four playoff tournaments.  “It’s been a dream season,” Stenson told reporters. “I
played so well this week. I knew the guys would try to catch me,
especially Ian, who never gives up. I wanted to stay ahead of
him and I managed to do that.”  The European Tour said yesterday that the Race to Dubai,
which replaced its Order of Merit in 2009, will be extended
until 2017. Stenson is the second Swede to win the European
money list after  Robert Karlsson  finished atop the final edition
of the Order of Merit in 2008.  In  Melbourne , world No. 2  Adam Scott  successfully defended
his Australian Masters title, beating  Matt Kuchar  of the U.S by
two shots after an even-par final round of 71.  It was Scott’s second straight victory in his home country
after winning the Australian  PGA Championship  the previous week.  “I’ve never won back-to-back weeks so this is a first and
something that I like,” Scott said. “It’s very hard to win two
tournaments full stop, let alone back-to-back, so I’m quite
pleased with myself.”  In April, Scott became the first Australian to win the
 Masters Tournament  at Augusta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  