-- Merkel Party Flirting With Greens Signals German Future
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-11-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/merkel-party-flirting-with-greens-signals-german-future.html
Even before  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
finishes negotiations on her third-term coalition, German
political leaders have begun jostling over its successor.  In the state of Hesse, where  Frankfurt  is the biggest city,
Merkel’s Christian Democrats are talking about their most
ambitious partnership with the Green party. Meantime, Social
Democrats voted at a national convention to break a self-imposed
taboo and consider governing with the Left, the descendants of
the East German Communists, as they seek a path back to power
after three losses to Merkel.  The tentative shifts suggest a threat to the consensus
backing economic competitiveness that has dominated policy
making for more than a decade. The political wrestling centered
on Frankfurt, Germany’s bastion of financial stability and home
of the  European Central Bank , is reviving the region’s role as a
testing ground for political alliances.  “We’re thinking in new terms when we think about
coalitions now,” Andrea Roemmele, a professor of politics and
civil society at the Berlin-based Hertie School of Governance,
said by phone. “It’s an exciting time.”  As the two biggest parties flirt with unconventional
partners, the CDU and SPD are struggling at the national level
to renew Merkel’s first-term coalition, in which the  Social
Democrats  were junior partners. In Hesse, SPD and CDU leaders
meet today in the latest attempt to form a state government.  “Everything is still wide-open,” eight weeks after the
state vote on Sept. 22, said Uwe Jun, a political-science
professor at the University of Trier. The CDU, which won the
most votes, has yet to choose between the SPD and the Greens.  SPD’s Lesson  That means overcoming tribal party allegiances and mistrust
from Merkel’s first term, when the Social Democrats tried to
form a minority government in Hesse that was tolerated by the 
Left. The effort, which collapsed after eight months, hurt the 
SPD nationally before the 2009 election, when Merkel won a 
second term.  Hesse has a history as a political laboratory.  Joschka Fischer , a former stone-throwing student radical from Frankfurt,
took the Greens into a state government there for the first time
in 1985. In 1998, he led them to national power as junior
partner in the first SPD-Green administration under  Gerhard Schroeder .  This year’s attempt to break the mold is playing out in the
state capital of Wiesbaden, a spa town 40 kilometers (25 miles)
west of Frankfurt. Legislators walk up a thick red carpet to an
annex to the former palace of the 19th-century dukes of Nassau,
a stately surrounding that belies Hesse’s reputation for
polarized politics.  Bad Blood  As recently as 2011, the Left published a study naming
former Nazi party members elected to the state legislature after
World War II. Among them was Alfred Dregger, the CDU national
parliamentary leader during the 1980s and namesake of the state
party’s headquarters.  “The divide between CDU and SPD is deeper in Hesse than
elsewhere,” Janine Wissler, the Left’s leader in the state
parliament, said at her legislative office in Wiesbaden. “The
political climate is traditionally rough.”  That hostility is the Greens’ opportunity. A CDU-Green
government “is possible if we get a stable program,” acting
state premier Volker Bouffier, a  Christian Democrat , was quoted
as saying in an interview with Die Welt on Nov. 9. The CDU won
38.3 percent of the vote on Sept. 22, the SPD 30.7 percent and
the Greens 11.1 percent.  Backing Finance  The CDU and Greens agree that Frankfurt’s financial
industry is indispensable to the economy and back snaring a
share of overseas trading in  China ’s  yuan  for the city. “Of
course that’s in our interest,” Al-Wazir said.  The main obstacle to a coalition is the proposed third
terminal at Frankfurt’s Rhein-Main Airport, which the CDU
supports and the Greens oppose. In the meantime, the CDU is
keeping its options open with the SPD.  Bouffier and Thorsten Schaefer-Guembel, the regional SPD
leader, split their time between Hesse and Berlin, where both
are taking part in the national talks led by Merkel. Schaefer-Guembel keeps track with three red booklets, two for the
national talks and one for his home state, he said in an
interview.  After three consecutive defeats to Merkel, the Social
Democrats are also feeling their way toward new allies.  Convention delegates in Leipzig backed a proposal by SPD
leaders on Nov. 14 to consider an alliance with the Left party
as early as the next federal election in 2017. The SPD says that
would require changes by the Left, which wants to nationalize
banks and dissolve the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Resisting Stasi  Reaching out to the Left is anathema to Merkel, who grew up
under Communism in former East  Germany  and says she rebuffed
recruiters of its Stasi secret police. She has been pragmatic
since coming to power; in 2005, she allied with the SPD and then
dumped them for the Free Democrats in her second term.  In Hesse, Merkel’s party faces the choice between risking a
new option and a tried-and-true coalition that matches the one
she’s setting up nationally. The chancellor hasn’t indicated her
preference.  While the CDU governs with the Greens in at the municipal
level in Frankfurt, and they jointly ran the city-state of
Hamburg between 2008 and 2010, Hesse with its 6.1 million people
would be the most populous region yet.  “It’s progress that everyone is talking with almost
everyone else,” Tarek Al-Wazir, the Green leader in the Hesse
state legislature who is putting out feelers to Merkel’s CDU,
said in an interview. “Whatever happens, it’ll be something
new.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  