-- Fishing Nations Urged to Protect Fastest Shark, Trace Tuna
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-11-18T13:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/fishing-nations-urged-to-protect-fastest-shark-trace-tuna-catch.html
Members of the  International
Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas  will this week
consider measures ranging from a better tracking method for
bluefin tuna caught in Atlantic waters to the first ever catch
quota for the world’s fastest shark.  The commission, which has 46 member countries as well as
the European Union, began meeting today in Cape Town to discuss
catch quotas and other conservation measures for tuna and tuna-like species of fish in the Atlantic.  It’s being urged by the environmental unit of Pew
Charitable Trusts, a non-profit organization that advises
governments on sustainable fishing, to maintain catch quotas for
bluefin tuna at their 2013 levels. This will allow for the
recovery of overfished tuna populations in the region,
Washington-based Pew also wants the group by March to implement
an electronic catch recording documentation system to replace a
paper system susceptible to fraud. The first-ever shark catch
quotas are also being proposed.  “ICCAT members must reaffirm their commitment to following
the scientific advice,” Jamie Gibbon, a tuna expert at Pew,
said in an e-mailed response to questions on Nov. 15.
“Maintaining the catch limits for Atlantic bluefin tuna at the
current levels will allow the population to recover and grow,
which will benefit both the bluefin and the fishermen that rely
on them.”  Quota Halved  ICCAT’s 2013 bluefin catch quota is 1,750 metric tons in
the western Atlantic and 13,400 metric tons in the Eastern
Atlantic, according to Pew. That’s about half the level it was
in 2005. The electronic tracking system was initially scheduled
to start in 2012.  “Scientists recognize the recovery” of the bluefin tuna
stocks, Masanori Miyahara, the commission’s chairman, told
reporters. “They don’t recommend large increases of the total
allowable catch at this moment because of the uncertainties
associated with the stock assessment. You have to follow that
advice. We can adjust the TAC but we have a limit. It’s up to
the negotiations we are going to have.”  Atlantic bluefin tuna, sold in premium sushi restaurants,
can sell for tens of thousands of dollars per fish, which can
each grow to the size of a small car.  Actual catch of Atlantic bluefin exceeded quotas by 57
percent between 2008 and 2011, according to a scientific study
cited by Pew, necessitating the need for an electronic tracking
system to curb illegal fishing. The biggest consumer of the fish
is  Japan .  ‘Timely Recovery’  The species’ population is only at 65 percent of a
sustainable level in the Mediterranean, Gibbon said. In the
western Atlantic, where the fish spawn in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
the population is at 36 percent of its 1970 level and in 1964
the catch in the region was 18,000 tons, more than 10 times the
current quota. The fish migrate between the eastern and western
populations and catch quotas were introduced in 1998.  An increase in the bluefin tuna quota “could jeopardize
the timely recovery of the species,” the World Wildlife Fund
said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Jumping Sharks  The ICCAT, which is due to conclude its meeting on Nov. 25,
should also establish catch limits for the shortfin mako, the
fastest swimming shark, and blue sharks, to prevent overfishing
of the species, according to Pew. The catch of blue sharks has
increased to 70,000 tons in 2011 from 54,000 tons in 2008, it
said, citing ICCAT data. Most sharks are consumed in the form of
shark-fin soup.  “ICCAT could take historic action by putting in place the
first ever international catch limit for a shark species,”
Elizabeth Wilson, who leads The Pew Charitable Trusts’
International Ocean Policy Program, said by e-mail.
“Precautionary catch limits at the ICCAT level would help
ensure healthy populations of shortfin mako and blue sharks.”  Shortfin Mako are metallic blue, live throughout the
world’s oceans and can grow up to 1,425 pounds, according to the
Florida Natural History Museum. One has been recorded at
swimming as fast as 43 miles per hour and they can leap 20 feet
out of the water, according to  Discovery Channel .  Blue sharks can weigh up to 450 pounds and are also found
worldwide. Pew also wants ICCAT to mandate that Porbeagle
sharks, a heavily built 500 pound species, are returned to the
ocean when caught.  The WWF called on ICCAT to ban shark finning.  Swordfish, Marlins  The EU will push ICCAT to heed “scientific advice” at the
meeting, Maria Damanaki, the European Commissioner for Maritime
Affairs and Fisheries, said in a Nov. 11 statement.  ICCAT also monitors the conservation of bigeye tuna,
yellowfin tuna, albacore, swordfish and billfishes.  “We find ourselves in a challenging situation with regard
to adopting the total allowable catch and sharing arrangements
for a number of stocks,”  South Africa ’s Minister of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Tina Joemat-Pettersson told
delegates. “The world is watching to see if we are responsible
in adhering to scientific recommendations.”  The current catch quota for bigeye tuna is 85,000 tons
while the yellowfin quota is 110,000 tons. The quota for north
Atlantic swordfish is 13,700 tons while a catch of 15,000 tons
of south Atlantic swordfish is permitted.  The catch for North Atlantic albacore is set at 28,000 tons
while that for southern albacore is 24,000 tons. The blue marlin
quota is 2,000 tons and the white marlin quota is 400 tons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  