-- Galaxy Entertainment Looks Beyond Macau to Japan, Taiwan
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-18T09:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/galaxy-entertainment-looks-beyond-macau-casinos-to-japan-taiwan.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the
Macau casino operator that made Lui Che-woo  Asia ’s third-richest
man, plans to invest in China’s Hengqin island and will consider
investing at least $5 billion in  Japan  and  Taiwan  if allowed.  Macau’s second-largest casino operator would consider
spending at least HK$20 billion ($2.58 billion) in Japan or
Taiwan each if those markets open up, Deputy Chairman Francis Lui, the eldest son of the Asian billionaire, said in a Nov. 15
interview. It plans to invest HK$10 billion on setting up sports
and non-gaming facilities in the southern Chinese Hengqin
island, he said.  Galaxy and competitors from Las Vegas Sands Ltd. to Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. are seeking to replicate  Macau ’s
success in other parts of Asia. While Chinese tourists have
transformed Macau into the world’s largest gambling hub,
operators face land and labor constraints in the city that is
half the size of  Manhattan .  “Macau will still be our main focus as we have the biggest
landbank here,” Lui said in the former Portuguese enclave.
“Having said that, we would also be interested in expanding
into some sizable markets, such as Japan and Taiwan.”  Galaxy Entertainment shares rose 3.5 percent to HK$60.4
today while the benchmark  Hang Seng index  rose 2.7 percent. The
stock almost doubled this year, with the benchmark  Hang Seng 
Index up 4.4 percent.  Japan Potential  Tokyo ’s selection to host the 2020 Olympics has boosted
confidence the government will legalize casinos in what could be
the world’s second-largest market after the Chinese city.  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  have said they would
invest several billion dollars in the North Asian country.  A group of Japanese lawmakers promoting casino development
aims to have a bill passed next year in the following session of
parliament, Hiroyuki Hosoda, chairman of the group said in
September. It could take five years for the first casino to be
operational if the law is passed, Hosoda has said.  Japan has long been touted as an attractive gaming market
with a large and relatively rich population base. The country
could generate $10 billion revenue a year should it open up the
market, Union Gaming Group LLC estimated.  Biggest Landbank  Taiwan lifted a 15-year prohibition on gambling on its
outlying islands of Kinmen, Matsu and Penghu in 2009. In a
referendum last year, the residents of Matsu islands, once
Taiwan’s military front line against  China , voted in favor of
casinos to help attract tourists. Lawmakers have yet to draft
casino and gaming legislation.  “If we’re given the chance to build a casino in Japan or
Taiwan, we would at least be spending HK$20 billion or HK$30
billion,” Lui said. “We have the financial capacity to do
that.”  Galaxy has 2 million square meters of land in Macau, the
biggest among the six operators. The landbank would enable it to
quadruple its footprint in the Chinese city, according to DS Kim, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas.  Lui expects casino industry revenue to rise as much as 20
percent next year in the only city in China where casino
gambling is legal, he said. Galaxy was Macau’s second-largest
casino operator by revenue last year after gaming magnate
Stanley Ho’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)   Casino revenue in Macau rose 18 percent to 297.1 billion
patacas ($37.2 billion) in the first 10 months of this year,
close to the $38 billion revenue raked in last year. VIPs, or
high rollers, account for about two-thirds of the total turnover
that is six times bigger than the  Las Vegas Strip .  Neighboring Island  The investment in Macau’s neighboring Hengqin includes the
costs of land acquisition and construction on the island that is
being developed by local and international companies as an
entertainment destination.  “Hengqin will add a lot of attractions to Macau visitors,
with an improved transportation and railway network,” he said.
“Hengqin is going to be an expanded Macau.”  The casino operator in July completed the HK$3.25 billion
purchase of the Grand Waldo complex in Macau, which includes a
spa and hotel, to increase its presence in the city’s
increasingly popular Cotai Strip, the Asian equivalent of the
Las Vegas Strip. Galaxy relocated 38 gaming tables to its
existing casinos from Grand Waldo which is now under renovation,
Lui said.  Lui Che-woo, who has a net worth of $22 billion, is Asia’s
third-richest man, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  