-- Gold Bears Return Before Yellen Signals More Easing: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-11-18T22:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/gold-bears-return-before-yellen-signals-more-easing-commodities.html
Investors got less bullish on gold
as hedge funds doubled their short holdings just before prices
erased a weekly loss and Janet Yellen pledged to press on with
economic stimulus if confirmed as Federal Reserve chairman.  The net-long position in gold slumped 37 percent to 55,456
futures and options in the week ended Nov. 12, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show, the biggest drop since
February. Short bets climbed to 54,143, the highest since mid-August, from 26,490 a week earlier. Net-bullish wagers across 18
U.S.-traded commodities dropped 12 percent to 576,224 contracts
as investors became more bearish on wheat and cut their silver
holdings by the most in five months.  Gold is heading for the first annual loss since 2000 after
some investors lost their faith in the metal as a store of
value. Global equities advanced to the highest in almost six
years and U.S. inflation is running at 1.2 percent, half the
rate of the past decade. Bullion reached a record in 2011 as the
Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial system. Gold
rallied as Yellen said Nov. 14 she’s ready to back stimulus
until she sees robust economic growth.  “People were feeling very bearish before Yellen’s
statement,” said Donald Selkin, who helps manage about $3
billion as the New York-based chief market strategist at
National Securities Corp. “Her comments were dovish and can be
seen as a postponement to tapering, which is definitely helpful
for gold. But, the main reasons why gold has fallen are intact.
Inflation is low, and equity markets continue to march ahead.”  Gold Rebound  Futures tumbled 3.7 percent in the five sessions before
Yellen’s testimony before the Senate Banking Committee. Prices
rebounded 1.5 percent in the next two days, erasing the week’s
losses and capping the biggest two-day rally since Oct. 22.
Eighteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect prices to
gain this week, nine are bearish and two neutral, the largest
proportion of bulls since Oct. 4.  Gold slumped 24 percent this year on the Comex in New York,
heading for the biggest annual loss since 1981. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 5 percent. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities gained 18 percent, while the
Bloomberg Dollar Index, a gauge against 10 major trading
partners, rose 2.9 percent. The Bloomberg Treasury bond Index
lost 2.3 percent.  Central Banks  The U.S. economy and job markets are performing “far short
of their potential,” and the Fed will ensure monetary policy
isn’t removed too soon, Yellen said. The comments echo other
monetary officials working to combat stagnant economic growth.
The European Central Bank cut its key rate on Nov. 7 in a bid to
prevent slowing inflation. The same day, Czech policy makers
said they were intervening in the currency market for the first
time in 11 years to weaken the koruna.  Gold rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the
Fed expanded its  balance sheet  through debt purchases, fueling
expectations of accelerated inflation and a weaker dollar.
President  Barack Obama  nominated Yellen, the bank’s vice
chairman, last month to succeed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, whose
term expires Jan. 31.  Investor appetite for the precious metal waned this year as
inflation failed to accelerate and the S&P 500 Index of shares
reached all-time highs. Global bullion demand tumbled 21 percent
last quarter as investors pulled 118.7 metric tons out of
exchange-traded funds and similar products, World Gold Council
data show.  Inflation Expectations  Inflation expectations as measured by the break-even rate
for five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities fell 14
percent this year.  Global gold ETP  holdings  slumped 29 percent this year,
reaching the lowest since 2010 last week, while more than $64
billion was wiped from the value of assets, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Prices fell 33 percent since reaching a record
$1,923.70 in September 2011.  “The danger for gold is it’s in the middle of a
significant bear market move, rather than having completed
one,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman and chief executive officer
of Marketfield Asset Management LLC, which manages $17 billion.
“I don’t think Yellen has said anything of any consequence. We
all knew she was dovish, and the market had worked out what she
would say.”  Billionaire hedge fund manager John Paulson, who cut his
gold holdings by more than half in the second quarter,
maintained his bet on the metal over the next three months as
prices rebounded, government data showed last week. Bullion rose
8.4 percent in the third quarter, the first gain in a year.  Paulson View  Paulson & Co., the largest investor in the SPDR Gold Trust,
the biggest exchange-traded product for the metal, held 10.23
million shares as of Sept. 30, unchanged from June 30, according
to a government filing on Nov. 14. Billionaire  George Soros  took
a stake in the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF.  The risk of “high inflation in the future” makes gold a
desirable long-term investment, Paulson & Co. has said. The view
contrasts with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Jeffrey Currie , who
has said bullion is a “slam dunk” sell in 2014. The bank
forecast prices at $1,100 in 12 months in an Oct. 18 report.  Bullish bets on crude oil fell 4.3 percent to 223,733
contracts, the lowest since June, the CFTC data show. West Texas
Intermediate fell 0.8 percent to $93.84 a barrel, the sixth
weekly decline and the longest stretch of losses in 15 years.  Crude Supplies  U.S. crude-oil stockpiles climbed for an eighth week as
 output  expanded to the highest since January 1989, data from the
Energy Information Administration showed. Horizontal drilling
and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, have unlocked supplies in
shale formations in North Dakota,  Texas  and other states.  Speculators turned bearish on copper, with bets on price
declines outnumbering wagers on gains by 8,117 contracts in
futures and options. That’s the first time investors turned net-short since Sept. 17. Copper futures slumped 2.2 percent in New
York last week, the biggest drop since late August.  A measure of speculative positions across 11 agricultural
products was little changed at 362,838 contracts, up 0.1 percent
from a week earlier, the CFTC data show. The S&P’s Agriculture
Index of eight commodities tumbled 20 percent this year.  Money managers held a net-short position in wheat of 47,251
contracts, compared with 19,535 a week earlier. Investors have
been betting on price declines for corn since June, and are also
bearish on coffee and soybean oil. Cotton holdings fell to the
lowest since December and cocoa wagers fell last week for the
first time since July.  Record Crops  U.S. farmers will collect a record harvest of 13.989
billion bushels of corn this year, the Department of Agriculture
said on Nov. 8. Global coffee output will exceed consumption for
a fourth season in 2014, the longest glut in 11 years, the USDA
estimates.  “The fundamental issue of oversupply for several
commodities is a reality,” said Rob Haworth, a senior
investment strategist in  Seattle  at U.S. Bank Wealth Management,
which oversees about $110 billion of assets. “We saw some
temporary interest come into commodities because of Yellen, but
we don’t think the story has changed. The Fed will have to slow
the stimulus at some point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  