-- Libyans Begin Strike in Tripoli to Protest Militia Violence
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-11-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/libyans-begin-strike-in-tripoli-to-protest-militia-violence.html
Businesses in the Libyan capital’s
commercial center have gone on strike to protest mounting
militia violence that left dozens dead over the weekend.  As many shops shut their doors in Tripoli yesterday, the
deputy intelligence chief became the latest victim of kidnappers
terrorizing the oil-rich North African nation.  The three-day strike, declared by the Tripoli city council,
marked the latest bid by civilians to push back against militias
whose refusal to disarm has thwarted government efforts to
stabilize the nation more than two years after Muammar Qaddafi’s
ouster and killing.  Army tanks were deployed along the capital’s coastal road,
schools were closed and Tripoli’s streets were largely quiet.
Hospitals, bakeries, pharmacies and gas stations were exempted
from the shutdown.  Lawmakers also planned to summon Prime Minister Ali Zaidan,
the defense minister and the military chief for questioning in
connection with Nov. 15 violence in Tripoli’s Gharghour
neighborhood, Asmaa Sreba, a member of the General National
Congress, or parliament, said by phone from Tripoli.  Forty-three people, according to the Health Ministry’s
count, were killed when militiamen from the city of Misrata
opened fire on demonstrators demanding they leave Tripoli. A
policeman and a photojournalist were among the victims, the
Libya Al-Ahrar and Al-Wataniya channels reported yesterday. It
was some of the worst violence since the uprising against
Gadhafi.  Not Accepted  “The militia thought by virtue of remaining inside Tripoli
that their presence was accepted, but that’s wrong,” Ahmed Al-Atrash, a political science professor at the University of
Tripoli, said by phone.  Demonstrations had been called by the Tripoli city council,
the country’s highest Muslim cleric and various civic
organizations, to protest “unlawful armed manifestations” in
the city. Zaidan, in televised speech to the nation, said it was
“imperative” that all militia exit Tripoli because “there is
no hope in building an army in Libya unless these armed groups
are disbanded.”  The Misratans, in a statement released by their city
council, said any government order to vacate Tripoli must apply
to all, several Libyan channels reported. The Gharghour area is
now under the control of the Libya Shield, which is allied with
the central government though the force has also been accused of
killing more than 30 people during a protest against them in the
eastern city of Benghazi earlier in the year, Libya Al-Ahrar
reported.  In another sign of the security challenges confronting the
nation, the country’s deputy intelligence chief was abducted,
the private al-Nabaa channel reported, without elaborating. His
abduction was the latest in a series of high-level kidnappings,
including Zaidan himself, often at the hands of militias or
other gangs. The premier was taken from a Tripoli hotel on Oct.
10 and released hours later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Sami in Tripoli at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  