-- Migrant Workers in Qatar Face Widespread Abuse, Amnesty Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-11-18T22:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/migrant-workers-in-qatar-face-widespread-abuse-amnesty-says.html
Qatar needs to better enforce labor
regulations amid “widespread and routine abuse” of migrant
workers, Amnesty International said, as the country starts $200
billion of building projects to host soccer’s 2022 World Cup.  Some maltreated workers were employed by subcontractors who
worked for companies including state-owned Qatar Petroleum,
 South Korea ’s  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. (000720)  and  Spain ’s
 OHL Construcción (OHL) , the  human-rights  group said in a release on
its new report, “The Dark Side of Migration, Spotlight on
Qatar’s Construction Sector.”  Amnesty said some workers in Qatar weren’t paid wages, were
subject to “harsh and dangerous” working conditions and
“shocking standards of accommodation.” The group documented
the cases of dozens of workers who were prevented from leaving
the country for “many months” by their employers. The
accusations came after U.K. newspaper The Guardian reported in
September that 44 Nepalese workers died between June 4 and Aug.
8 amid “appalling labor abuses.”  “Companies must ensure that migrant workers employed on
construction projects linked to their operations are not being
abused,” Salil Shetty, secretary general of  Amnesty
International , said in the release. “They should be proactive
and not just take action when abuses are drawn to their
attention.”  ‘Serious Concerns’  Hyundai Engineering said it last year asked one of its
subcontractors to improve the conditions of workers employed on
a construction project in Qatar. “While Hyundai Engineering
isn’t directly involved but as the overseer of the construction
project, we made a request for an immediate fix and problems
regarding workers conditions have been dealt with,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement on the Amnesty report. ’’Hyundai
Engineering will put more efforts to better monitor
subcontractors at overseas projects.’’  Amnesty said it contacted several companies regarding cases
of abuse.  Qatar Petroleum said in an e-mailed statement that it will
take Amnesty’s report “into serious consideration” and conduct
a “thorough investigation” of the issues it raised.  OHL
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  “Many expressed serious concerns about Amnesty
International’s findings and some said that they had carried out
investigations,” the group said in the release. “One company
said it had upgraded its inspection regime as a result.”  Amend Labor Laws  Qatar, the world’s richest country per capita, has faced
increased scrutiny over treatment of foreign workers since it
was awarded the right to host the 2022  World Cup , the most-watched sporting event, three years ago. Foreign workers make up
88 percent of the population of 2 million, the highest ratio of
migrants to citizens in the world, Francois Crepeau, the United
Nation’s Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Migrants,
said in a Nov. 10 report.  Crepeau, who visited Qatar for eight days this month,
issued a report with 14 recommendations for improving worker
protections. These included creating a minimum wage, enforcing a
law that forbids employers from confiscating worker passports,
abolishing a rule requiring employers to sign off on exit visas
and recognizing the right of workers to organize.  The country’s government pledged to amend its  labor laws  to
better protect workers and will step up work site inspections,
 Sepp Blatter , president of soccer’s governing body FIFA, told
reporters Nov. 9 after meetings with Qatar’s Emir Tamim bin Hamad  Al Thani , Prime Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al Thani and labor ministry representatives.  Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural gas
reserves, plans to build nine new stadiums, a $35 billion metro
and rail system, new highways and a city for 200,000 people
before hosting the World Cup. The country relies largely on
South Asians to work on construction sites. About 400,000
Nepalis work in the country, according to embassy data.  “It is simply inexcusable in one of the richest countries
in the world, that so many migrant workers are being ruthlessly
exploited, deprived of their pay and left struggling to
survive,” Amnesty’s Shetty said in the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  