-- Is France the New Italy?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/is-france-the-new-italy-.html
If U.S. President  Barack Obama 
thinks he’s having a difficult autumn, then maybe he should
consider the season French President  Francois Hollande  is
experiencing.  Paris in springtime  may have been lovely as usual,
but fall has been horrible.  The French  unemployment rate  stands at 11 percent. After
growing tepidly in the second quarter, the economy  shrank  again
in the third. Standard and Poor’s  just downgraded  the
government’s debt -- for the second time in less than two years.
Hollande’s Socialist administration faces protests over taxes
and burdensome regulation not just from business leaders, as you
might expect, but also from farmers, shopkeepers, teachers,
truck drivers and soccer players.  The European Commission recently called on the government
to speed up economic reform. Speaking from its conveniently
located Paris headquarters, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development restated the message in a  detailed
report  issued last week: “In recent years, a significant
adjustment has been under way in several European countries that
have accelerated the introduction of essential reforms. This
adjustment hasn’t yet happened in France.”  The White House is concerned that  some recent polls  have
shown Obama’s approval rating dropping below 40 percent. For
Hollande, who was elected only last year,  it stands  at 15
percent.  Even discounting for the French flair for umbrage, the
backlash against Hollande is extraordinary. The economy -- the
second-biggest in the euro area after Germany -- is in deep
trouble, and the government looks helpless. Seemingly
intractable problems and a lack of effective leadership threaten
to turn France into Europe’s new  Italy .  Hollande was unlucky to come to power while the wider
European Union economy was still on its knees, and he inherited
an array of bad policies from his predecessors. French
industrial competitiveness fell sharply in the years before he
took office. But his initiatives have mostly made matters worse.
In an effort to be populist, he introduced a temporary 75 
percent tax on earnings of more than 1 million euros 
($1.3 million) -- a measure that's largely self-defeating from 
a revenue-raising point  of view. He then undid any political 
benefit with an array of smaller tax increases, leaving much of 
the country feeling as preyed upon as the rich.  Leaning heavily on higher taxes, the government has been
slow to get public spending under control.  France ’s ratio of
public spending to gross domestic product is now 57 percent --
the highest in the euro area.  Heavy-handed regulation is another drag on the economy, and
it’s a main focus of the OECD’s complaints: Product regulation
in France is stricter than in most other European countries, and
labor-market rules raise costs to well above the EU average.
Taxes account for an estimated 50 percent of labor costs.  Hollande has made some feeble efforts to improve
competitiveness -- notably, a package of tax relief for
businesses. The OECD reckons it will reduce the tax disadvantage
French employers face but won’t eliminate it. Other
opportunities for reform, including a review of pension rules,
have been allowed to slip by.  Germany  could help France -- and the rest of Europe -- by
backing a more  expansionary monetary policy  for the euro area.
With or without new monetary stimulus, though, France needs
reform. To spur growth, the government has to curb its spending,
moderate its tax demands and start liberalizing the economy.  That’s a difficult prescription to apply while unemployment
is high and the economy is shrinking, and not one that comes
easily to a Socialist administration under simultaneous attack
from both the left and the right. It requires a strong leader,
too. In foreign policy -- on  Syria , for instance, and on  Iran  --
Hollande has been willing to assert himself. In domestic policy,
he hasn’t.  He had better rise to the challenge, because the
alternative is grim. Financial markets haven’t yet focused on
France’s difficulties --  Europe  has many other economies whose
problems are harder to ignore -- but that could change quickly.
If it does, the problems will multiply.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 