-- Israel Growth Slows to 2.2% in Third Quarter on Exports
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-11-17T11:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/israel-growth-slows-to-2-2-in-third-quarter-on-exports.html
Israeli economic growth slowed more
than expected to 2.2 percent in the third quarter as industrial
exports and tourism fell.  Annualized  growth  decelerated from a revised 4.6 percent in
the previous three months, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. Growth was
expected at 3.5 percent, according to the median of four
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The  Bank of Israel  has lowered the  benchmark interest rate 
from 3.25 percent in 2011 to 1 percent to shore up the export-dependent economy. Exporters have demanded another cut, saying
the current rate is strengthening the shekel and hurting their
competitiveness by making their goods more expensive abroad.  Growth is forecast to slow to 3.4 percent in 2014 from 3.6
percent this year, the Bank of  Israel  said in September.  “We forecast growth will slow next year because of two
primary reasons, the first being exports, which are expected to
be hurt by the strong shekel,” said Roy Ben Navat, economist,
Halman-Aldubi Investment House. “The second problematic thing
we have identified is an expected slowdown in private
consumption, because a number of tax increases are expected in
early 2014 and we think that will cool demand.”  Exports Plummet  The statistics bureau said exports fell 16.4 percent in the
third quarter, with industrial exports, excluding diamonds, and
tourism each sinking 18.9 percent. Exports in the second quarter
rose 2 percent.  Imports grew 8.6 percent, compared with 6.8 percent in the
previous three months, the bureau said.  Private consumption rose 5.6 percent in the third quarter,
after climbing 6.2 percent in the previous three months.
Government consumption increased by 4.5 percent, down from 7.9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  