-- It’s Fed Versus Moody’s for ‘Most Wrong’ Crown
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-11-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/it-s-fed-versus-moody-s-for-most-wrong-crown.html
Who was more wrong in the run-up to
the financial crisis of 2008: the Federal Reserve or Moody’s
Investors Service? This isn’t an academic question; both
organizations are still hugely relevant to shaping the way we
see our financial system and the risks it contains. And both are
now apparently underestimating the dangers again.  To be fair, the thinking at both places has shifted, but
not anywhere close to enough. The reason for this is simple: The
incentives that encouraged their misperceptions before 2008
remain in place today.  Before 2008, the Fed was exuberant about modern finance and
its complexity. Chairman Alan Greenspan’s line was that if the
market favored an innovation, then that innovation should be
allowed or even encouraged, regardless of the potential negative
consequences.  In 2007, as chief economist of the International Monetary
Fund, I attended many meetings with senior Fed officials. In
retrospect, they had a good grip on what was happening with
house prices and the buildup of debt in households.  But they had a blind spot when it came to derivatives -- in
particular the way in which implied risks had become
concentrated in a relatively small number of financial
institutions, and what could happen when these came under
pressure. Part of the reason for this blind spot was -- and is -
- structural. It results from the oversize importance of the New
York Fed in the Fed system, and the longstanding cozy
relationship between the New York Fed and the elite of Wall
Street.  Major Shift  This isn’t a new problem -– it has reared its ugly head
several times since the founding of the Fed 100 years ago. But
complacency among this set of officials was a major part of what
went wrong in 2007 and 2008. Bill Dudley, the current president
of the New York Fed, is a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
executive who is clearly somewhat conflicted about what he has
seen in recent years.  In a speech on Nov. 7 at the Global Economic Policy Forum
in New York, he said some large financial institutions had “the
apparent lack of respect for law, regulation and the public
trust. There is evidence of deep-seated cultural and ethical
failures at many large financial institutions.”  These are unusual and commendable comments for the New York
Fed. And Dudley was candid that big banks are able to borrow
more cheaply as a result of potential official support.  He said research by the New York Fed “shows that the
funding advantage of large versus small banks is higher than the
funding advantage for large versus small non-bank financial
firms and non-financial firms when other factors are held
constant.”  Yet there was a major flaw in his speech. Dudley placed
great emphasis on the new resolution rules for failing big
financial companies, a reference to the mechanism through which
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. would take over such
institutions without disturbing markets. Dudley completely
ignored the legal requirement of the Dodd-Frank Act that all
financial companies should be able to go bankrupt without
support from the official sector and without disrupting the
world economy. That’s the point of the living wills.  The resolution authority is only supposed to provide a
backup, in case the living wills prove inadequate. If the New
York Fed has given up on living wills, that would be a major
policy shift by regulators and a show of disregard for the
intent of the Dodd-Frank legislation. It also fits the public-relations campaign by the big banks, spearheaded by the Clearing
House Association, that is communicating the subliminal message
of “Don’t worry, we have fixed the problem of too big to
fail.”  Reduced Support  Unfortunately, Moody’s -– which does a great deal of
credit-rating business with big Wall Street entities -–
swallowed this line. Its recent statement says the degree of
government support for large financial institutions is reduced.
Most remarkably, “Moody’s reduced the uplift that had been
incorporated into the subordinated debt ratings of the eight
banking groups’ operating subsidiaries.”  But the degree of uplift -– meaning the protection extended
in downside scenarios -– for creditors to operating subsidiaries
has actually increased under the FDIC’s so-called  single point
of entry resolution  plan. (I serve on the FDIC’s Systemic
Resolution Advisory Committee, but this assessment here
represents my views only.)  Creditors to the holding company may be more on the line -–
but only if there is enough equity and “bail-in-able” debt to
absorb losses.  Moody’s  takes a big leap of faith on this point
because bail-in-able debt is the latest unicorn of finance: a
mythical creature with magical properties. The approaches to
bank resolution of the FDIC and the Fed will only work if living
wills are a practical reality.  The cost of funding for bank holding companies should
increase ( Moody’s  is right on this point), but the Fed must
limit the amount of debt at operating subsidiaries, which are
now receiving larger implicit subsidies. Unfortunately, Moody’s
and the Fed are encouraging each other once again to
misunderstand financial sector risks.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is co-author of “ White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You .”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 