-- Japanese Stocks Carrying Momentum Toward May Peak on Yen
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-11-18T06:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/japanese-stocks-carrying-momentum-toward-may-peak-on-yen.html
Japanese  stocks  are poised to
surpass this year’s high set in May as a stronger U.S. economy
weakens the yen and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflation policy
leads to wage increases, according to BNP Paribas Investment
Partners SA and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average  capped  a 7.7 percent jump
last week, the steepest rally in almost four years, after Janet
Yellen, the nominee to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as Fed chairman,
said she will ensure bond-buying isn’t ended until she sees a
robust recovery. A 3.1 percent gain would take the equity gauge
past a 5 1/2-year high reached May 22. The yen dropped past 100
versus the dollar last week for the first time in two months.  “U.S. quantitative easing will be reduced eventually, but
that won’t have much of a negative impact because it happens on
the back of the strong economic recovery,” said  Gentoku Kiyokawa , Tokyo-based head of the Japanese investment management
department at BNP Paribas. “Japanese stocks will keep climbing
toward their May high and pass that level by the end of this
year.”  Japanese equities surged the most among developed markets
in 2013 as policy makers at home and in the U.S. bolstered
growth with unprecedented stimulus measures. The rally petered
out last month as investors weighed the impact of a sales-tax
increase on the domestic economy and stronger U.S. data that
signaled the Fed may pare asset purchases sooner. BNP Paribas’
bullishness contrasts with Saison Asset Management Co. and Sompo
Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., which say Japanese stocks
are now rising too far, too fast.  Biggest Gains  Pioneer Corp.  led gains  on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  last week,
surging 20 percent as the maker of car stereos posted an
operating profit of 569 million yen ($5.7 million) for the six
months ended September. Analysts had expected a 2.5 billion-yen
loss, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Fast
Retailing Co., Asia’s biggest apparel chain and the stock with
the heaviest Nikkei 225 weighting, jumped 16 percent.  The broader  Topix index  climbed 5.3 percent in the five
days through Nov. 15, with brokerages leading an advance by all
33 of the gauge’s industry groups. The Standard & Poor’s Index
rose 1.6 percent in the U.S. on the week, gaining to an all-time
high after Yellen said the economy and labor market are
performing “far short of their potential” and must improve
before the central bank can begin reducing monetary stimulus.  As well as watching the Fed, investors in  Japan  are
weighing whether Prime Minister Abe will succeed with the so-called third arrow of his program dubbed Abenomics. The
strategy, which has so far relied on increased government
spending and a doubling of monthly bond buying by the central
bank to more than 7 trillion yen, helped spur the Nikkei 225’s
46 percent advance this year.  Rally Catalysts  The Bank of Japan, which holds a two-day meeting this week,
has pledged to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years. Large
Japanese companies will boost winter bonuses by 5.79 percent
this year, the most since 1990, according to the preliminary
results of a survey released on Nov. 13 by the Keidanren
business lobby group.  “Catalysts for Japanese stocks are how convinced people
will be about further monetary easing by the BOJ and wage
increases,” Ryota Sakagami, chief strategist at SMBC Nikko
Securities in  Tokyo , wrote in a note on Nov. 15. “They are
likely to happen sooner or later. Now Japanese shares are rising
on back of the stable global economy, the market might as well
start pricing in those catalysts earlier.”  Sakagami expects the Topix to rise to 1,350 at the end of
this year, 9 percent higher than its Nov. 15 close and a level
unseen since June 2008.  Less Bullish  Not all investors are as bullish.  The rally in Japanese stocks will reverse if optimism about
the Fed’s policy starts fading, said Tetsuo Seshimo, a Tokyo-based portfolio manager at Saison Asset Management, which
oversees about 78 billion yen. The Nikkei 225 plunged 20 percent
after Bernanke in May mentioned the possibility of tapering.  While pledging her support for stimulus, Yellen also
reassured U.S. lawmakers last week that she does not see the era
of low interest rates and quantitative easing continuing
indefinitely.  “The picture is exactly the same this time, and the market
will collapse if there’s talk about the Fed’s tightening,”
Seshimo said. “The current rally has been solely based on U.S.
monetary easing. That worries me.”  Prices for Japanese equities already reflect the U.S.
economic recovery and Yellen’s support for longer stimulus,
leaving them vulnerable to declines, said Goya Nakao, a senior
investment manager at Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset.  Correction Coming  “Cherry-picking in the share market won’t last long,”
Nakao said by phone on Nov. 15. “Stocks won’t be able to avoid
having a correction in the near term and the Nikkei will go back
to a range between 14,000 and 15,000.”  The Nikkei 225 last week climbed above 15,000 for the first
time since May and closed on Nov. 15 at 15,165.92. The measure
was little changed at 15,164.30 at the close today in Tokyo,
while the Topix added 0.2 percent to 1,241.67.  Foreign investors are more optimistic, adding Japanese
stock positions in the week through Nov. 8 for the fourth
increase in five weeks. They’ve sunk $111.3 billion into the
market this year, Finance Ministry data show.  Japan’s equities are benefiting from a sliding yen, with
the nation’s currency capping its third consecutive weekly drop
against the greenback and trading past 100 per dollar on Nov. 14
for the first time since Sept. 11. The yen traded at 100.08
against the greenback today.  A weaker yen boosts the value of overseas revenue for
Japanese exporters. Of the companies on the Topix that have
reported quarterly earnings this season and for which Bloomberg
compiles estimates, 61 percent exceeded analysts’ profit
expectations.  The currency’s decline may send Japanese stocks above the
May high by year-end, according to Kazuyuki Terao, Tokyo-based
chief investment officer of Allianz Global Investors Japan Co.  “I thought the yen would stay in its stalemate, but it
fell below 100 per dollar, which is big,” Terao said. “Once
confidence builds in the yen’s downtrend, I think exporters will
be bought more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  