-- Japan Inc. Profits Double as Cost-Cutting CEOs Pace Recovery
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-11-18T03:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/japan-inc-profits-double-as-cost-cutting-ceos-set-recovery-pace.html
Japanese companies that made tough
decisions about exiting businesses, closing factories and
revamping management led a doubling of corporate earnings last
quarter to the highest level since 2007.  Net income jumped to about 5.5 trillion yen ($55 billion)
at more than 1,280 of the largest listed non-financial firms,
the  most  since a credit meltdown sparked a global recession six
years ago, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit climbed
from 2.25 trillion yen a year ago, the fastest jump since 2010.  Companies showing profit surges include  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
which has cut 71,000 jobs;  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , which is shifting
car production to Mexico; and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which
overhauled management and halted new factory construction. The
gains, also fueled by a weaker yen, contrast with disappointing
results at firms such as  Sony Corp. (6758) , which resisted calls to
spin off assets or close money-losing  businesses .  “Companies that made efforts to cut costs and restructure
before the yen started to weaken are the ones really showing
growth,” said Tetsuro Sugiura, chief economist at Mizuho
Research Institute. “Japanese companies had fallen back in
global competition because they weren’t able to cut businesses
and cut people or were late in doing this.”  Panasonic has undergone one of the more dramatic makeovers,
shifting its focus from consumer electronics to alternative
power products such as solar panels and batteries. The company,
once a leading television maker along with Sony and  Sharp Corp. (6753) ,
plans to stop making plasma TVs by March.  Panasonic Transformed  Kazuhiro Tsuga, who took over as Panasonic president in
June 2012, has exited some unprofitable smartphone and plasma
panel operations.  Japan ’s third-largest listed  employer  has been
trimming its workforce since 2011 and last month raised its
forecast for net income this fiscal year to 100 billion yen.  “Panasonic is going forward in rebuilding its business,
and their path to recovery is clear,” said Satoshi Yuzaki,
general manager at Takagi Securities Co. in  Tokyo .  Operating income at Sharp beat estimates in the second
quarter after cutting costs under a multi-year restructuring
plan that included shutting some facilities and selling assets.
The company last month reported its first net income since 2011
as a weaker yen and reduced costs helped its display business
return to profit.  Toyota President  Akio Toyoda , 57, in March cleared out the
remnants of top  management  inherited when he took the helm in
2009 in a move to restore the fortunes of the world’s biggest
carmaker after years of turmoil.  Toyota Profit  The carmaker, Japan’s largest manufacturer, raised its
full-year net income  forecast  13 percent to a record $1.67
trillion yen. Profit in the three months ended September jumped
70 percent to 438 billion yen, more than that of the next five
biggest Japanese carmakers combined.  Earlier this year, the carmaker announced its decision to
halt planned factory openings for three years to avoid taking on
excess capacity.  “We want to be strategic in our investments,” Nobuyori Kodaira, a Toyota executive vice president, told reporters at
the time.  The move signals a new course for the carmaker after a
decade of racing to increase output.  Mazda raised its  forecast  for net income this fiscal year
to a record 100 billion yen, 30 percent more than previously
projected and almost  triple  last year’s profit.  The carmaker, Japan’s most export-dependent and which
posted four straight annual  losses  until 2012, had responded to
the losses by cutting jobs, moving some production to Mexico and
forging shared production agreements with rivals including
Toyota and  Fiat SpA. (F)   Abenomics Anxiety  The profit increase comes as pressure mounts on Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe and his so-called Abenomics.  Monetary easing 
and fiscal stimulus haven’t been enough to accelerate the
economic recovery, even as a weaker currency stokes some
exporters’ profit.  Gross domestic product rose at an annualized 1.9 percent in
the three months ended in September, down from 3.8 percent the
previous quarter, the Cabinet Office reported Nov. 14 in Tokyo.  The growth slowdown draws attention to the lingering
question of whether companies benefiting from Abenomics will
return the favor by investing more to stimulate the broader
economy.  Cash per share for all companies on the  Topix (TPX)  index climbed
to 597 yen in the three months ended in September, 49 percent
more than a year earlier, the fastest growth and the highest
since at least 2004.  Capital Spending  A sustainable economic recovery requires automakers to
increase  capital spending , spreading new business from
partsmakers to materials producers and construction companies,
said Keiichi Ito, a quantitative strategist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc.  The increase in profit last quarter hasn’t been enough to
spark such a surge across the economy. Japanese companies eased
off on capital-spending growth in the second quarter and failed
to step up exports. Corporate investment increased 0.7 percent,
down from 4.4 percent.  To add momentum to the recovery, the prime minister is
backing legislation in the parliamentary session ending Dec. 6
for tax incentives to encourage corporate investment and the
establishment of strategic economic zones for reduced business
regulation.  Abe needs to motivate companies that are still in cost-cutting mode, said Ito of SMBC Nikko.  Hirai’s Challenge  For Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai , the
unexpected  loss  in the three months ended September dashed
expectations that the country’s biggest electronics exporter was
back on track after a record loss in fiscal 2012. The slump
prompted questions about the company’s course since Hirai took
over in April 2012 from  Howard Stringer , who oversaw four
straight annual losses.  “Sony’s ability to change tack and act early when
conditions deteriorate will be tested,” Masahiro Ono and
Hiroshi Taguchi, analysts at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.
in Tokyo, wrote in a report dated Nov. 14. “Asset sales to
obtain  cash flow  and maintain net profitability are more likely
to accelerate.”  Hirai, 52, is holding on to unprofitable units even as
consumers shift to tablets and smartphones, markets dominated by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Hirai rejected
billionaire shareholder  Daniel Loeb ’s demand earlier this year
for a partial sale of entertainment assets. Loeb accused the
movie unit of having a “bloated corporate structure.”  Slow Pace  “Sony has to get out of a lot businesses and they are
going too slow,” said Edwin Merner, the president in Tokyo of
Atlantis Investment Research Corp., which manages about $300
million in assets. “The president is failing and if he
continues to behave the way he has, the company will fail.”  Sony has  dropped  1 percent, while Panasonic has  climbed  7.2
percent in Tokyo trading since Oct. 31, the day both companies
reported earnings.  Companies including  Nissan (7201)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are
taking the opportunity to revamp operations.  Nissan, Toyota’s biggest Japanese rival, cut its annual
earnings forecast by 15 percent after reporting second-quarter
profit that missed analyst  estimates . In response, Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  announced a management overhaul
aimed at boosting operating profit  margins  to 8 percent by the
year ending March 2017.  The profit miss followed slowing sales in some  emerging
markets  and a recall of 910,000 vehicles that Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. estimates will cost the company about 15 billion yen.  Acting Now  Japan Tobacco, Asia’s largest listed cigarette seller, said
it would take steps to reduce costs in Japan, where cigarette
demand is slumping. The company plans to cut 1,600 jobs and
close four factories in Japan to boost  profitability , it said
Oct. 30, a day before announcing quarterly earnings.  Net income jumped 65 percent to 139 billion yen in the
second quarter to September as sales rose 12 percent to 611.2
billion yen.  “People are looking at companies already showing recovery
signs and asking whether they’d take this opportunity to clean
up their business structure,” said Ito of SMBC Nikko. “That
process is going to be absolutely necessary for a recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  