-- Kennedy Showed How to Contain Iran
-- B y   K e n n e t h   M .   P o l l a c k
-- 2013-11-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/kennedy-showed-how-to-contain-iran.html
It may seem like a stretch, but the
Cold War crises that President  John F. Kennedy  faced hold
important lessons for the nuclear impasse with  Iran . Newly
released historical files on the confrontations between the U.S.
and the Soviet Union in the early 1960s can help us better
understand what to expect if the current negotiations with
Tehran fail and we are soon confronted with a nuclear-armed
Iran.  Kennedy faced an unpredictable, risk-taking and at times
aggressive opponent in Soviet leader  Nikita Khrushchev . Yet he
frustrated Khrushchev’s ambitions and helped the U.S. avoid war
through a combination of American nuclear superiority, firmness
in defending national interests and a willingness to resist
alarmist thinking.  The first observation from Kennedy’s Cold War experience is
that if you assume the worst, you may get the worst. If any one
lesson emerges from the documents, memoirs and  research 
published in recent years, it is that the U.S. and the  Soviet
Union  wasted billions of dollars and rubles guarding against a
surprise nuclear attack that neither country ever seriously
contemplated launching. The obsession with this worst-case
scenario made many crises far more dangerous than they needed to
be -- and even caused some of them.  During both the Berlin crisis and the Cuban missile crisis,
however, Kennedy  chose  not to assume the worst regarding Soviet
motives and likely behavior. Instead, he saw the Russian
leadership as driven by a range of different goals and emotions,
including fear and uncertainty.  Nuanced Strategy  Kennedy rejected the prevailing assumption that the Soviets
were only interested in amassing power and only understood the
language of force. A more  nuanced approach  led him to opt for a
blockade of Cuba rather than the airstrikes and invasion
recommended by virtually all of his advisers. His strategy gave
the Soviets the chance to realize they had made a mistake and
back down without causing a war.  This precedent doesn’t mean we should think that Iran’s
leaders are benign or well-intentioned toward us. But it would
be a bigger mistake to assume that they are hellbent on
destroying us, the Israelis or other U.S. allies in the region,
and that they are willing to invite their own obliteration to do
so.  Although Iran is often caricatured as a nation of
irrational, would-be martyrs, its behavior has been ruthlessly
rational for the most part. Even  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini  --
a far more committed ideologue than his successor,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  -- agreed to end the Iran- Iraq  War in 1988 when his
subordinates told him that continuing the conflict would only
result in further Iraqi victories and could threaten the Islamic
regime itself. With Iran, as with the Soviet Union, succumbing
to our worst fears would likely produce a wildly inflated
estimate of the real threat and lead to needlessly dangerous
(and ruinously costly) gambits in response.  Another lesson of the Cold War is that military
superiority, particularly nuclear superiority, matters. During
the Kennedy and Dwight Eisenhower administrations, the Kremlin’s
thinking was dominated by the knowledge that the U.S.’s arsenal
could obliterate the Soviet Union. In those days, the U.S. could
launch hundreds of bombers and dozens -- soon hundreds -- of
intercontinental ballistic missiles against Russia, while the
Soviets had fewer than a half-dozen unreliable missiles that
might theoretically hit the U.S.  At most, the Russians could have done horrific damage to a
few American cities. That was more than enough to deter U.S.
leaders from a first strike, but the Soviet leadership thought
that the U.S. would be willing to accept such a disproportionate
exchange and so would be willing to go to war with the USSR.  Nuclear Edge  As a result, when the Soviets overstepped themselves and
provoked crises over Berlin and then Cuba, they panicked when
the Kennedy administration showed a willingness to go to war
rather than give in to their demands. In both cases, Moscow
quickly sought to defuse the  situation  as fast as possible, even
accepting humiliating conditions to avert a war they knew they
would lose.  Like the Soviet Union early on in the  Cold War , even a
nuclear-armed Iran would be vastly outmatched by the U.S.
strategic arsenal. Unlike the Soviets, the Iranians can’t ever
hope to match the U.S. Thus, in any crisis, American negotiators
will have the upper hand and should be able to compel the
Iranians to back down quickly, even accepting significant
reversals to avoid a war.  On past occasions when Iran crossed an American red line
and was at risk of a U.S. military response -- during the Tanker
War in 1988, after the Khobar Towers  attack  in  Saudi Arabia  in
1996 and after the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003 -- the Iranians
have backed down quickly and even made humiliating concessions
of their own (such as ending the  Iran-Iraq War  and agreeing to
suspend  uranium enrichment ) to avert an American attack.  A third observation from the Kennedy era is that
communication is critical. Misperceptions are inevitable in
international relations, and the  fear  conjured by nuclear
weapons only adds to that risk. Kennedy resisted demonizing
Khrushchev, seeing him instead as a mercurial leader prone to
taking big gambles to try to address the challenges he faced.
Although Kennedy’s sense of Khrushchev was broadly correct, he
and the U.S. government in general still tended to misunderstand
the Soviet leader’s goals and thinking.  Khrushchev was no better at understanding Kennedy’s motives
or political circumstances, even though he too resisted
malevolent caricatures of his rival. His belief that Kennedy was
a pawn controlled by hard-liners and the U.S. military fed into
the various crises of the early 1960s. Yet the wider
understanding of the complexities faced by the other helped both
leaders avoid disaster.  Acute Differences  Kennedy helped institutionalize direct, reliable U.S.-
Soviet communications,  famously  handled at tense moments during
the Cuban missile crisis by John Scali of ABC News and Aleksandr
Feklisov of the KGB. The growing realization of the importance
of this channel led to the “hotline” between the White House
and the Kremlin.  The U.S. and Iran have a distressing habit of
misunderstanding the other, and in far more fundamental ways
than the Americans and Russians did, because the differences in
culture are much more acute.  No hotline or other such communications links exist between
the U.S. and Iran. If the Iranians ever cross the nuclear
threshold, we and they would do well to learn from all of JFK’s
 experiences  in nuclear crises -- especially his efforts to keep
the lines open.  (Kenneth M. Pollack is a senior fellow of the  Brookings
Institution  and the author, most recently, of “Unthinkable:
Iran, the Bomb and American Strategy.")  To contact the writer of this article:
Kenneth Pollack at  kpollack@brookings.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 