-- Kotak Adds Bank Branches to Trump Ambani to DBS: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-11-18T12:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/kotak-adds-bank-network-to-trump-ambani-to-dbs-corporate-india.html
Billionaire Uday Kotak’s bank plans
to double its branch network in the next three years to head off
new competitors for India’s $1.2 trillion of  bank deposits .  Mumbai-based  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , which has the
nation’s highest net interest margins, will open 500 new
branches at locations including small towns and villages to
shelter itself from the local subsidiaries of foreign banks and
new domestic rivals, Chief Financial Officer Jaimin Mukund Bhatt
said in a Nov. 12 interview.  Competition for the 65 percent of Indians that don’t have a
bank account is set to intensify after central bank Governor
Raghuram Rajan introduced rules on Nov. 6 removing branch
restrictions on overseas lenders that form local units.
Companies controlled by billionaires  Anil Ambani  and Kumar Mangalam Birla have also applied for new bank permits from the
 Reserve Bank  of India.  “We are doing a grab on locations that have potential to
grow,” Bhatt said. “With existing banks getting a head start
at this, the new entrants who will be looking at setting up
branches” will find the going tough, he said.  Shares of Kotak Mahindra gained 2.4 percent to 743.05
rupees in Mumbai, compared with the  S&P BSE Bankex index ’s 3.2
percent advance. Kotak Mahindra gained 14 percent this year,
making it the Bankex’s best performer. The gauge of 13 lenders
slumped 12 percent in that time.  Kotak Mahindra, which started in 2003, is seeking to add to
its 500 branches that held less than 1 percent of the nation’s
73 trillion rupees ($1.2 trillion) of deposits, RBI  data  show.
 State Bank  of India, the nation’s largest lender by assets, has
more than 15,140 branches and controls 16.8 percent of deposits.  ‘Accounting Pain’  State Bank has been adding as many as 1,000 branches every
year, A Krishna Kumar, a managing director at the lender, said
in an interview on Nov. 15.  “Kotak’s  management  understands that a certain number of
brick and mortar branches has to be in place to build a business
of meaningful size,” Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking
analyst at SMC Global Securities Ltd., said by phone. “While
there will be a lag on profitability, in the short term they are
willing to overlook that accounting pain.”  India’s 20 private lenders including Kotak Mahindra
accounted for 19 percent of the nation’s outstanding loans as of
March 31, RBI data show. The country’s 26 state-run banks held
76 percent, while 43 foreign banks accounted for the rest.  Small Businesses  The RBI said on Nov.6 it will allow the locally
incorporated units of overseas banks including  Standard
Chartered Plc (2888)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to open branches “anywhere in
the country at par with Indian banks.” Previously hamstrung by
regulations that have limited foreign branch openings to 12 a
year, New York-based Citigroup and London-based HSBC Holdings
Plc haven’t won approval for a new outlet since 2009.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast Asia ’s largest bank,
will open at least 50 branches in India within three years after
the rules are eased, Vijit Yadav, chief operating officer of the
lender’s Indian operations, said in an Oct. 7 interview. The
Singapore-based bank has opened 12 outlets since 1995 and is
planning to grow its loans to individuals and small businesses
in India, Yadav said.  Competition for the existing Indian lenders will increase
further as the RBI issues new banking permits to more companies
in the South Asian nation.  A panel formed by the central bank is examining the
applications from companies vying for approval, Rajan said on
Sept. 4, without giving a deadline for the new licenses. The
permits will be given in January, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said in a speech on Nov. 15.  Brick, Mortar  Banks in  India  should open at least a quarter of their
total branches in villages that do not have a “brick and mortar
structure” of any lender, according to a Sept. 19 e-mailed
 statement  from the RBI. The lender will also have to open at
least half of their new branches outside large cities.  “There is a rush among banks to find these unbanked
villages on the peripheries of reasonably prosperous towns,”
said Bhatt. “You need to be smart in identifying it as every
single bank in the country is trying to do it. If you manage to
do a good grab, as the town expands geographically, this branch
will become a part of it.”  More branches in rural areas will help Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government to tap savings in rural areas and
accelerate an economy that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. projects to
grow at 4 percent for the year ending March 31, the weakest pace
in more than a decade. Only 35 percent of India’s adult
population have a bank account, compared with a global average
of 50 percent, according to World Bank estimates.  Borrowed Money  Kotak Mahindra’s net income grew by 26 percent in the three
months to Sept. 30, the slowest pace in at least four quarters
amid treasury losses, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  State
Bank of India  reported a 35 percent profit drop in the same
period as bad loans rose, exchange filings show.  “Profitability at Indian banks will remain under pressure
at least till the end of the financial year,” Hatim Broachwala,
a Mumbai-based banking analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd., said
by phone. “The investments by banks in expanding networks may
remain a drag on profitability for an extended period if the
slump in the economy continues.”  Kotak set up Kotak Capital Management Finance using 3
million rupees he borrowed from friends and family members who
ran a cotton-trading business. He formed a partnership with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 1995. In 2006, Kotak paid 3.3
billion rupees to buy out the 25 percent stakes that the New
York-based firm held in the investment banking and securities
businesses.  Acquisition Plan  Kotak Mahindra is open to acquiring other lenders, which
will help it to expand its branch network, Bhatt said. Kotak and
his family  own  at least 44 percent of the lender, which has a
market value of 558 billion rupees, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The bank’s net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, rose to 4.9 percent in the three months to Sept.
30 from 4.6 percent a year earlier, an exchange filing shows.
The lender’s capital adequacy ratio according to the so-called
Basel III norms improved to 18.1 percent from 14.9 percent.  “Each new branch may take three-to-four years to break
even,” Bhatt said. “But this is an investment we have to
make.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  