-- Nazi Loot Hoarder Won’t Relinquish Art, Wants It Back
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-11-17T13:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/nazi-loot-hoarder-won-t-relinquish-art-wants-it-back.html
Cornelius Gurlitt, whose secret
hoard of 1,406 artworks was seized in Munich by German
authorities, says he doesn’t want to relinquish any of the art
and is demanding its return, Spiegel magazine reported.  Authorities seized the cache, including pieces by Max Beckmann, Pablo Picasso, Oskar Kokoschka and Max Liebermann, as
evidence in an investigation on suspicion of tax evasion and
embezzlement in March 2012. The German government says as many
as 590 of the artworks may have been looted from Jewish
collectors by the Nazis.  “What kind of a state is it that confiscates my private
property?” the Spiegel quoted Gurlitt as saying. The magazine
said Gurlitt, 80, who has until now shied away from journalists,
agreed to spend several days with a reporter.  “They must be returned to me,” Spiegel quoted Gurlitt as
saying. “They are putting all this in a false light. I won’t
speak to them and I won’t give anything back -- no, no, no.”  Families of Jewish collectors whose artworks were
confiscated or sold under duress in the Nazi era have filed
claims for their looted works to the Augsburg prosecutor, who is
investigating Gurlitt.  The German government is publishing details of the 590
works that may have been stolen on the database  lostart.de .  Father’s Legacy  Gurlitt blames himself for failing to protect his father’s
legacy, the Spiegel said. Hildebrand Gurlitt worked for the
Nazis, selling the “degenerate art” they banned to raise hard
currency abroad.  For his son Cornelius, the father was a hero who saved the
art from the Nazis, the bombs, the Russians and the Americans,
the Spiegel reported.  The artworks were Gurlitt’s friends and he spoke to them
and took them out of the cupboard to pore over them in the
evenings, the Spiegel said.  “There is nothing in my life I have loved more than the
pictures,” he told the magazine. He said the most painful
experience of his life was having them seized by authorities.  “Now they are in a cellar somewhere and I am alone,” the
magazine quoted him as saying. Gurlitt is undecided about
whether to get a lawyer, the Spiegel said.  “I am not a murderer, why are they hunting me?” he asked,
according to the magazine.  If Gurlitt refuses to negotiate, heirs will have to fight
for the art in court. Gurlitt could have legal claim to the art
because of  Germany ’s 30-year statute of limitations and a rule
called “Ersitzung,” under which the possessor of property
gains title after 10 years unless he or she is deemed to have
acted in bad faith.  Earlier this week, Gurlitt didn’t answer his door in Munich
or at a home he owns in Salzburg, and didn’t respond to a
message left at his Munich apartment.  Muse highlights include the London and  New York   weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last
Night and  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 