-- Netanyahu Urges Negotiators to Seek Better Deal With Iran
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-11-17T16:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/netanyahu-urges-negotiators-to-strive-for-better-deal-with-iran.html
Negotiators with Iran should demand
a better deal than the one discussed in Geneva, Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today, insisting that an Iran
with nuclear capability directly threatens both Israel and
 Europe .  “I hope that we will succeed in convincing our friends
this week to reach a much better deal,” Netanyahu said in
comments broadcast on  Army Radio  before the weekly Cabinet
meeting. “Iran is under economic pressure and continuation of
this pressure, or increasing it, can lead to a much better
result of a diplomatic solution in a peaceful manner.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is seeking to offer Iran some
relief on sanctions in exchange for progress in nuclear talks in
Geneva scheduled to resume Nov. 20. French Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius undercut an accord last week by insisting that
construction be halted at Arak, a heavy-water reactor that can
produce plutonium, a material that could be used for weapons.  The Israeli leader greeted French President  Francois Hollande  upon his arrival at Ben-Gurion International Airport
today and praised  France ’s “firm stance” in the Iran
negotiations. Netanyahu travels to  Russia  Nov. 20 to discuss the
Iran deal with PresidentVladimir Putin, then returns to
 Jerusalem  to talk with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  on
Nov. 22.  French Position  “France will not tolerate nuclear proliferation,”
Hollande said at brief welcome ceremony. “As long as we are not
certain that Iran has decided to give up on nuclear weapons, we
will continue with all our demands and with sanctions.”  Iran is negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up
of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the
U.S., U.K., France, Russia and  China  -- plus  Germany .  Iran was offered a temporary easing of existing sanctions
on petrochemicals, gold and auto trade and some access to frozen
assets in exchange for limited restrictions on its nuclear work,
according to diplomats who asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to comment.  Netanyahu said last week the Geneva negotiators were
working toward a “bad and dangerous” deal and Iran stood to
gain billions of dollars if sanctions are eased under the
proposal being discussed in Geneva.  Israeli Survival  “Iran maintaining its nuclear weapons capability, that is,
the capacity to produce nuclear weapons, threatens directly the
future of the Jewish state,” Netanyahu said in an interview on
 CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” broadcast today. “I’m the prime
minister of Israel and I have to care for the survival of my
country.”  Netanyahu said it would be a mistake to offer a partial
easing of sanctions because that would water down Iran’s
incentive to curtail its nuclear program further.  “You’re going to get investors, companies and countries
scrambling one after the other to try to get deals with Iran,
because economies and prices work on future expectations,”
Netanyahu said.  Although Netanyahu has talked about taking military action
against Iran, he said he prefers a diplomatic solution that is
revised to keep pressure on the Islamic republic.  “Who wouldn’t?,” he told  CNN . “Israel has the most to
gain from a peaceful diplomatic solution, because we’re on the
firing line, any way you look at it. So we need a good solution,
and that’s the main point.”  Amid the spiraling rhetoric, chances of an Israeli strike
to halt  Iran’s nuclear program  aren’t high, said Jonathan Spyer,
a political scientist at the  Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya .  Diplomatic Positioning  Netanyahu’s comments are “more about diplomatic
positioning than imminent attack,” Spyer said. “There has been
a dictum in Israeli security that Israel doesn’t go to war
unless it has one serious global power behind it, and right now
that wouldn’t be the case.”  The U.S. and Israel say  uranium enrichment  in Iran and the
construction of a reactor capable of producing plutonium would
help the Islamic Republic develop the capability to produce
nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful
medical and energy uses.  Israel isn’t alone in its concern over the developing deal
in Geneva, according to the  Sunday Times . The U.K. newspaper
today reported Saudi Arabia is working with the Israel’s Mossad
intelligence agency on a contingency plan for a possible attack
on  Iran  if the nuclear program isn’t significantly curbed.  Saudi Cooperation  As part of the growing cooperation, Riyadh is understood to
have given the go-ahead for Israeli planes to use its airspace
in the event of an attack on Iran, the Sunday Times said, citing
an unidentified diplomatic source.  There was no immediate response from the prime minister’s
office to the report.  While an attack on Iran by its Middle Eastern neighbors may
not be imminent, the possibility “shouldn’t be dismissed and
notice should be taken of the gap between U.S. thinking and the
thinking of its two most important regional allies -- Israel and
Saudi Arabia,” Spyer said.  Israeli President  Shimon Peres  said the Geneva meeting was
only a first step and pressure on Iran “must not be allowed to
let up,” according to an interview with French newspaper Le
Journal du Dimanche.  “One thing we’re convinced of, is that if Iran makes a
bomb, all the other countries of the  Middle East  will want to do
the same thing,” he was quoted by the newspaper as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  