-- Netanyahu Tells Hollande Iran Must Be Stopped From New Holocaust
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-11-17T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/netanyahu-tells-hollande-iran-must-be-stopped-from-new-holocaust.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
welcomed French President  Francois Hollande  to Israel, lauding
 France ’s tough stance in talks with  Iran  while describing his
own role as protecting the Jewish state from annihilation.  “The burden is on my shoulders,” Netanyahu said at a
joint news conference yesterday at his  Jerusalem  residence.
“It’s my duty to prevent anyone from credibly threatening or
executing another Holocaust against the Jewish people.”  World powers, led by President  Barack Obama , have offered
Iran some relief on sanctions in exchange for progress in
nuclear talks in Geneva scheduled to resume Nov. 20. Netanyahu
contends tougher sanctions would wrest greater concessions from
Iran and has railed repeatedly against the proposal, yesterday
saying “Iran’s dream is the world’s nightmare.”  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius undercut a potential
accord by insisting construction be halted on a heavy-water
reactor that can produce plutonium, a material that can be used
for weapons.  Hollande, on his first presidential visit to  Israel , said
France will insist on a “serious, solid, credible agreement”
in order to “guarantee regional peace and struggle against
nuclear weapons proliferation,” according to a Hebrew
translation on state television.  “We won’t allow anything that is liable to generate doubts
about Iran’s intentions,” the French president said. Netanyahu
has criticized the proposal for not requiring Iran to give up
its uranium enrichment or plutonium operations, and at the news
conference with Hollande said he was “gravely concerned that
this deal will go through.”  Russia Visit  Netanyahu travels to Russia Nov. 20 to discuss the Iran
deal with PresidentVladimir Putin, then returns to Jerusalem to
talk with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  on Nov. 22.  “France will not tolerate nuclear proliferation,”
Hollande said at a brief welcome ceremony. “As long as we are
not certain that Iran has decided to give up on nuclear weapons,
we will continue with all our demands and with sanctions.”
Netanyahu praised France’s “firm stance.”  Iran is negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up
of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the
U.S., U.K., France, Russia and China -- plus Germany.  The Islamic Republic was offered a temporary easing of
existing sanctions on petrochemicals, gold and auto trade and
some access to frozen assets, according to diplomats who asked
not to be identified because they weren’t authorized to comment.  Reduced Incentive  A partial easing of sanctions would water down Iran’s
incentive to curtail its nuclear program further,  Netanyahu
said in an interview on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” broadcast
yesterday.  “You’re going to get investors, companies and countries
scrambling one after the other to try to get deals with Iran,
because economies and prices work on future expectations,” he
said.  While Netanyahu has talked about taking military action
against Iran, he said he prefers a diplomatic solution.  “Israel has the most to gain from a peaceful diplomatic
solution, because we’re on the firing line, any way you look at
it,” he told  CNN . “So we need a good solution.”  Amid the spiraling rhetoric, chances of an Israeli strike
to halt  Iran’s nuclear program  aren’t high, said Jonathan Spyer,
a political scientist at the  Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya .  Netanyahu’s comments are “more about diplomatic
positioning than imminent attack,” Spyer said. “There has been
a dictum in Israeli security that Israel doesn’t go to war
unless it has one serious global power behind it, and right now
that wouldn’t be the case.”  The U.S. and Israel say  uranium enrichment  in Iran and the
construction of a reactor capable of producing plutonium would
help the nation to develop the capability to produce nuclear
weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful medical
and energy uses.  Saudi Cooperation  Israel isn’t alone in its concern over the developing deal
in Geneva, according to the  Sunday Times . The U.K. newspaper
yesterday reported  Saudi Arabia  is working with the Israel’s
Mossad intelligence agency on a contingency plan for a possible
attack on Iran if the nuclear program isn’t significantly
curbed.  The government in  Riyadh  gave the go-ahead for Israeli
planes to use its airspace in the event of an attack on Iran,
the Sunday Times said, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.
The prime minister’s office had no comment.  While an attack on Iran may not be imminent, the
possibility “shouldn’t be dismissed and notice should be taken
of the gap between U.S. thinking and the thinking of its two
most important regional allies -- Israel and Saudi Arabia,”
Spyer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  