-- New Zealand Said to Seek NZ$351 Million for Airline Stake
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-11-18T01:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/new-zealand-s-government-starts-sale-of-20-of-air-new-zealand.html
New Zealand ’s government is seeking
about NZ$351 million ($292 million) from the sale of a 20
percent stake in  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  The government is offering the shares for at least NZ$1.60
each, said the person, asking not to be named because the
details haven’t been made public. The stock, currently halted,
closed at NZ$1.65 on Nov. 15.  Prime Minister John Key’s government has already sold 49
percent stakes in Mighty River Power Ltd. and Meridian Energy
Ltd., raising NZ$3.6 billion. The Air New Zealand sale, which
will cut the government’s stake in the airline to 53 percent,
should be completed by late tomorrow, Finance Minister  Bill
English  said in a statement yesterday.  “An off-market selldown is fast and efficient, which is
important when working with a company that is already listed,”
English said in the statement.  Trading in Air New Zealand shares will probably resume Nov.
20, the finance minister said in the statement. The  stock  has
surged 27 percent in 2013, valuing the carrier at NZ$1.81
billion.  Air New Zealand Chief Executive Officer Christopher Luxon
said in an interview last month that the airline plans to double
passenger and revenue growth in the next few years as it expands
in the Pacific Rim region and earns more from established
markets such as the U.S.  Revenue growth should reach 5 percent in the 2015 fiscal
year, up from 3 percent in the year through June 2013, and the
airline is planning for growth rates of as much as 7 percent
over the next five years, he said.  Craigs Investment Partners Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will manage the share sale and work
with New Zealand stockbrokers to target widespread New Zealand
ownership of the airline’s stock, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  