-- Nigeria’s Central Bank to Hold Rates at Record 12%
-- B y   D a n i e l   M a g n o w s k i
-- 2013-11-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/nigeria-s-central-bank-to-hold-rates-at-record-12-.html
Nigeria’s central bank will probably
reinforce its anti-inflation mandate by holding its key interest
rate at a record high tomorrow even as consumer prices in
 Africa ’s largest oil producer ease.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will keep the rate at 12 percent, according to all nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Sanusi is scheduled to
announce the decision at a press conference that begins at about
2 p.m. in the capital, Abuja.  The Central Bank of Nigeria has maintained the  benchmark
rate  since October 2011 to help stabilize the naira and keep
price pressures under control. While that’s helped to bring
inflation down to the lowest level in more than five years, it
may not be enough to persuade the MPC to ease borrowing costs as
Nigeria faces the threat of rising government spending in a pre-election year.  “I would expect the CBN to keep its policy rate
unchanged,” said Gaimin Nonyane, senior macroeconomics
specialist in  London  at EBI SA, a unit of Ecobank Group, said in
an e-mailed reply to questions. “The probability of a rate cut
is also low given growing potential for fiscal slippage amid
weakening oil revenue and expenditure overruns ahead of the 2015
general election.”  The  inflation  rate fell to 7.8 percent in October from 8
percent in the previous month as food prices eased, according to
the Abuja-based National Bureau of Statistics. Prices rose 0.8
percent in the month.  Nigeria relies on oil for about 80 percent of government
revenue and 95 percent of export income. The price of crude has
slumped 12 percent in New York in the past four months and was
trading as low as $93.63 a barrel on Nov. 15.  Budget Week  President Goodluck Jonathan is due to present his 2014
budget to the legislature tomorrow, amid concern among investors
that unplanned public spending may rise next year as campaigning
begins for a 2015 election.  Unchecked government spending may lead to more rapid
inflation and exert pressure on the local currency, which the
central bank wants to keep within a range of 3 percent either
side of 155 to the dollar. The naira has lost 1 percent against
the dollar in the past six months to trade at 159.30 on the
interbank market as of 5 p.m. in Lagos on Nov. 15.  Sanusi, who is due to leave the position when his term
expires in June, said in an interview in late October that the
bank has no plans to cut the interest rate as it concentrates on
containing inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Magnowski in London at 
 dmagnowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  