-- Norway Prime Minister Says Time Has Come to Cut Oil Reliance
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-11-18T09:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/norway-prime-minister-says-time-has-now-come-to-cut-oil-reliance.html
Norway’s Prime MinisterErna Solberg
said pushing through a budget designed to avoid krone
appreciation marks her first step toward weaning western
Europe’s biggest crude producer off its oil reliance.  “We have to prepare Norway for an economy that is less oil
income, directly, and less oil activity,” Solberg said
yesterday in an interview in Oslo. “That’s a 20-year
perspective, not a four-month perspective. Hopefully in 2014,
we’ll see that our  unemployment rate  still is low and that we
get bigger  market access  for some of our goods in the non-oil
part of the economy.”  Norway has struggled to prevent its oil wealth from
inflating asset prices and hobbling  export competitiveness . Its
$800 billion wealth fund, into which the government channels
income from oil and gas, was started in 1996 with the express
purpose of protecting the $500 billion economy from overheating.
Yet growth in the wealth fund, which is now the world’s biggest,
has weakened those efforts as rules designed to cap spending
lose their clout.  Solberg’s Conservative Party-led minority coalition last
week won approval from its support parties to use 2.9 percent,
or 139 billion kroner ($23 billion), of the wealth fund to plug
budget deficits in 2014. That’s 3.9 billion kroner more than
proposed by the Labor-led government Solberg ousted in September
elections. The expenditure amounts to 5.7 percent of trend
mainland gross domestic product, up 0.5 percentage point from
this year.  Sluggish Growth  Solberg said her government wants to soften a period of
sluggish economic growth, while seeking to assure exporters the
stimulus won’t drive the krone higher. Though Norway’s oil
wealth protected it from  Europe ’s debt crisis, the government
sees the mainland economy, which excludes oil and gas output,
slowing to 2 percent this year, compared 3.4 percent last year.
GDP by that measure will grow 2.5 percent next year, it
estimates.  “It’s important to try and limit the extent of crowding
out of other sectors,” said Kjersti Haugland, an analyst at DNB
ASA, Norway’s biggest bank.  Safest Credit  The Nordic country, where crude and natural gas accounted
for 41 percent of exports in the second quarter, gets about 25
percent of its total economic output from oil and gas.  Yet directing funds into other industries has proved
difficult as Norway’s commodities wealth has so far helped keep
people in jobs and left the AAA-rated government without any net
debt. Credit default swaps suggest Norway is the world’s safest
investment.  Solberg’s government sees unemployment at 3.6 percent next
year, versus 3.5 percent in 2013. The coalition of Conservatives
and the Progress Party plans to cut taxes and fees by 4.8
billion kroner next year, including a reduction in the basic  tax
rate  to 27 percent from 28 percent, in part to cushion the
slowdown.  “There’s a slight downturn in our economy and hopefully
this budget will increase activity a little bit,” Solberg said.
“But not so much that it strengthens the krone.”  Wealth Tax  Solberg said that a decision to cut Norway’s wealth tax
next year could also help spur investment in the country’s non-oil industry, which has struggled to compete as the krone
climbed and as an oil boom drove up costs across the economy,  The Prime Minister warned in an interview earlier this
month that she won’t hesitate to cut spending should budget
impulses force up the krone and undermine export
competitiveness. Those comments drove down the currency.  The krone has slipped 1.7 percent against the euro since
then and is down 12 percent this year. Still, since the end of
2008 -- the year Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed -- the
krone has gained 18 percent against the euro.  Norway ’s currency
remains 26 percent overvalued, according to a purchasing power
gauge compiled by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  The budget “has a positive impulse to the economy,”
Solberg said. “Hopefully we will not see rising unemployment
and that activity will continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  