-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Bonuses, Billionaire, Goldman, S&P 500
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-11-17T06:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/most-read-on-bloomberg-bonuses-billionaire-goldman-s-p-500.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Equity Traders’ Bonuses Seen Rising as Rates Salesmen Face
Drop  Nov. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Compensation for Wall Street’s
equities salesmen and traders is expected to rise in 2013, while
total pay for employees in fixed-income units may drop 10
percent, according to recruitment firm Options Group Inc.  2. Auschwitz Survivor’s Daughter Turns Billionaire on Toll Deal  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -– Vera Guerin, whose late father
Nathan Shapell survived two Nazi concentration camps and became
one of  California ’s largest property developers, emerged as a
billionaire last week after Toll Brothers Inc. agreed to buy her
family’s Shapell Industries Inc.’s homebuilding business for
$1.6 billion.  3. Goldman Names 280 Managing Directors in Biennial Promotions  Nov. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, promoted 280 employees to managing
director, up from 266 last year, as it begins making the
selections every two years instead of annually.  4. S&P 500 Reaches Record as Treasuries Extend Advance After
Yellen  Nov. 13 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbing to a record, as retailers led gains
amid optimism over the holiday shopping season. Treasuries
extended their advance after Janet Yellen said the American
economy must improve before cuts to monetary stimulus.  5. NYC’s World Trade Tower Opens 40% Empty in Revival: Real
Estate  Nov. 12 (Bloomberg) -- The first skyscraper at lower
 Manhattan ’s World Trade Center is set to open with two days of
ceremonies to mark the renewal of the area after its destruction
by terrorists. When the fanfare subsides, the task will be
filling the 40 percent of the tower that’s empty.  6. Moody’s Downgrades Four U.S. Banks on Federal Support Review  Nov. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Moody’s Investors Service cut its
ratings on four of the biggest U.S. banks after deciding the
government would be less likely to help them repay creditors in
a crisis.  7. Apple Said Developing Curved IPhone Screens, New Sensors  Nov. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. is developing new iPhone
designs including bigger screens with curved glass and enhanced
sensors that can detect different levels of pressure, said a
person familiar with the plans.  8. Yellen Signals More Bond Purchases Until Recovery Improves  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) --Janet Yellen, nominated to be the
next chairman of the Federal Reserve, signaled she will carry on
the central bank’s unprecedented stimulus until she sees
improvement in an economy that’s operating well below potential.  9. Yellen Says U.S. Economy Must Improve Before Fed Tapers QE  Nov. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Janet Yellen, nominated to be the
next chairman of the Federal Reserve, said the economy and labor
market are performing “far short of their potential” and must
improve before the Fed can begin reducing monetary stimulus.  10. Woods Makes Caddie’s Beef Jerky Golf-Bag Accessory at $54-Pound  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -- At last week’s U.S. PGA Tour event
along the Georgia coast, players were treated to a Southern
lunch of fried chicken, black-eyed peas and collard greens at
Sea Island Resort.  COLUMNS  1. Tesla’s Funny Math Is Fuel for Cockroach Theories: Jonathan
Weil  Nov. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Tesla Motors Inc. shareholders have
had much to fret about lately, from a nosebleed valuation and
sagging stock price to periodic YouTube videos of exploding
Tesla electric cars. Here’s another one for the list: Sometimes
Tesla acts like it doesn’t know what it’s doing when it comes to
financial reporting.  2. Oysters Could Save New York From More Sandys: James S.
Russell  Nov. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Kate Orff wants to grow oysters in
New York’s Jamaica Bay. Not for you to eat, but to save the
shore from mighty storms.  3. The Secret James Bond Missed in ’Skyfall’: Stephen L. Carter  Nov. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Last year, shortly after the
excellent James Bond film “Skyfall” was released, I asserted
in a column that an anagram at the heart of the film suggested
that a critical subplot had been left on the cutting-room floor.
I received several e-mails asking why I hadn’t disclosed what I
thought I knew. The answer is that I couldn’t explain the
anagram without including several spoilers. Now that a year has
passed since the U.S. opening (November 9, 2012), I suppose it’s
time to explain what I meant. (Warning: Those aforementioned
spoilers are below!)  4. MacBooks, Mavericks Extend Apple’s Universe:  Rich Jaroslovsky   Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -- When the same company controls the
hardware, software and services, it’s called “owning the
stack.” And no one does it like Apple.  5. Handcuffs for Fed Tighten With Fiscal Profligacy: Caroline
Baum  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Every time I see references in
academic papers to “fiscal dominance,” I envision a gigantic
dominatrix, whip in hand, staring down at the world.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Yellen Testifies at Confirmation Hearing  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) – Janet Yellen, the nominee for
chairman of the Federal Reserve, speaks about the central bank’s
monetary stimulus, the U.S. economy and financial regulation at
her confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking Committee.
(This is Yellen’s prepared statement. Source: Bloomberg)  2. Holocaust Survivor’s Child a Billionaire on Toll Deal  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -– Vera Guerin, whose late father
Nathan Shapell survived Nazi concentration camps and became one
of California’s largest property developers, emerged as a
billionaire last week after Toll Brothers Inc. agreed to buy her
family’s Shapell Industries Inc.’s homebuilding business for
$1.6 billion. Bloomberg’s Peter Newcomb reports.  3. Silverstein Seeks Tenants as 4 World Trade Center Opens  Nov. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Dara McQuillan of Silverstein
Properties Inc. talks with Bloomberg’s David Levitt about the
construction of 4 World Trade  Center in New York’s lower
Manhattan, as the renewal of the area continues 12 years after
the 9/11 terrorist attacks.  4. Black Series Is Mercedes-Benz’s Most Extreme SLS AMG (Video)  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -- The Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG Black
Series coupe is seen in a promotional video from Mercedes-Benz
USA.  5. PGA Caddie, Kingmade Founder Says Jerky Is ‘Super-Cool’  Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Jeff King, a professional caddie and
founder of Kingmade Jerky, talks with Bloomberg’s Mike Buteau
about starting a high-end snack food business based on his
personal recipe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  