-- Thought-Controlled Computer Hands May Aid Stroke Recovery
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-11-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/thought-controlled-computer-hands-may-aid-stroke-recovery.html
Virtual reality hands controlled by
thought may help stroke patients recover the use of their limbs,
according to a study testing whether the brain-computer system
could be a new rehabilitation tool.  Six stroke patients had as much as 81 percent accuracy in
reaching virtual hands to a glass of tea or water viewed on a
computer screen, and they improved their skills in as few as
three two-hour sessions, according to a report today at  the
American Heart Association’s Scientific Sessions  in  Dallas .  Usually during stroke rehabilitation, therapists will move
patients’ arms while asking them to imagine doing the movement
themselves. The goal is to help re-establish connections between
the brain and limb disabled by stroke. The technology allows
patients to see virtual representations of their action, helping
to sharpen the ability to create movement, said researchers led
by Alexander Doud, chief technology officer at biomedical
engineering design firm  Synaptic Design , based in Minneapolis.  “This is an engaging system that encourages patients to
practice using the areas of their brain that may have been
damaged or weakened by their stroke,” he said in the statement.  The system was created to practice a variety of movements,
including picking up a toothbrush and opening a jar, he said.  Doud was a master’s student at the University of Minnesota
in  Minneapolis  when the study was conducted.  The stroke survivors wore 3-D glasses, which helped give
them the illusion they were moving their own hands along with
their thoughts. Because of the small sample, more work should be
done in more patients, Doud said. However, the pilot study gives
hints that this could be an affordable way to help stroke
patients regain motion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  