-- Philippine Typhoon Survivor Aid Slowed by Devastation
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o ,   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-11-17T12:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/philippine-typhoon-survivor-aid-slowed-by-devastation.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
faced survivors of Typhoon Haiyan today as progress in reaching
more remote parts of the hardest-hit region led to a surge in
the estimate of the damage caused by the deadly storm.  Aquino, in his second visit to the region in the central
Philippines since Haiyan slammed into the country on Nov. 8,
toured hard-hit Guiuan and Tacloban where he met with local
officials and some of those left homeless by the storm.
Thousands of survivors are seeking to flee the area, with many
complaining food and water remain scarce in remote reaches.  “They must be prepared, because it’s not a normal typhoon,
they have to put the relief in the heart of the storm area so
that it is very convenient for them to distribute the relief,”
said Pelagio Bustillo, 48, whose family lives in Guiuan. “The
relief was in  Manila , and Manila was not affected.”  The government now estimates more than 3.9 million people
have been displaced by the storm, twice the number published
yesterday morning. The number of damaged homes surged to
543,127, almost twice yesterday’s initial estimate. About half
of those houses were destroyed, the bulletin said. The cost of
the damage rose 9.3 percent to 10.3 billion pesos ($236
million.)  “We will stay here until there’s nothing more left to
do,” Aquino told reporters in Tacloban. “We want to shift to
rehabilitation as soon as possible.”  Aid Logjam  Aquino, who presides over an economy that has matched
 China ’s pace as the fastest growing in the region for two
quarters, has seen his popularity suffer over the government’s
response to Haiyan. Even with Philippine and foreign relief
supplies pouring into the area, efforts to deliver the aid
remain hampered by gridlock and damaged roads, with large swaths
of territory still suffering power outages and a lack of running
water.  “Regaining that popularity will depend on how he handles
the issue of reconstruction and rehabilitation,” said Richard
Javad Heydarian, a political science lecturer at the Ateneo de
Manila University, said by phone today. “He needs to reach out
to survivors of the tragedy and reassure them that they can look
forward to a semblance of stability and normalcy in the months
to come.”  Survivors Fleeing  Large crowds seeking to flee still throng the airport at
Tacloban as incoming military flights bring in teams of aid
workers who are fanning out across the region. Ferries are
transporting trucks from Cebu to distribute supplies as work
continues to clear roads blocked by debris.  Charity Villas, 30, who lives in Tacloban, said yesterday
that so many survivors were still trying to get out of the
airport that she traveled three hours in a van with her one-year-old daughter to reach Ormoc, where she was able to board a
plane to Cebu.  “To be honest with you, I had to do things that I wasn’t
supposed to do. I had to be part of the looters for her to get
some milk,” Villas said. “I had to dig through the destroyed
pharmacy just to loot and look for a paracetamol, those basic
medicines, and I feel so bad that I have not received any
assistance from the government. We’ve been waiting and it’s
already more than a week.”  Death Toll  The typhoon killed at least 4,460 people, making it one of
the deadliest in Philippine history, according to the  United
Nations . The storm left 12,544 people injured and 1,186 missing,
according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Council’s 6 a.m. bulletin.  Clarita Lisondra, 41, a resident of Guiuan where Aquino
visited today, said 21 relatives, many now homeless, were
crammed into a 100-square-foot section of her damaged house.  It’s “very difficult, it’s so hard to sleep. I sometimes
just sleep on a chair, I can’t lie straight,” she said. “I
don’t know how long it will be, maybe months or years, because
they don’t have money to build their houses. We don’t have a job
right now, all of us.”  More than 230 tons of emergency relief have arrived in the
 Philippines , according to Medecins Sans Frontieres, and delivery
is increasingly gaining pace.  Helicopters were being used to drop food in remote areas
still isolated by washed out or damaged roads. Yesterday the
military sent dozens more trucks and personnel to the region
with emergency supplies and food. There was a 2-kilometer (1.24
miles) line of vehicles entering Matnog port to ship material to
the area.  2-Day Drive  Still, road conditions are such that it’s taking two days
or longer for trucks with relief packs from Manila to arrive to
the hard-hit areas of the central Philippines, Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima, who is overseeing aid preparations in Manila,
said yesterday. Aquino targets 1.1 million packs prepared in the
Manila hub every week to provide for 275,000 families.  “The government should help us, but the problem is the
transportation, so I cannot blame them also,” said Cecil
Gallegos, 40, from southern Leyte, who managed to get evacuated
to Cebu after four days in Tacloban. “You cannot easily go to
to those places.”  In Tacloban, the biggest city in the storm-damaged region
with a population of more than 220,000, the water system has
been restored, while streetlights will be set up along the main
roads in the coming days, army spokesman Captain Amado Gutierrez
said in a mobile phone message today. Two government banks will
reopen this week, while mobile automated teller machines and
stores will be set up soon, he said.  Hospital Damaged  In Guiuan, a town of about 45,000 inhabitants, “every
single roof has been blown off,” Dr. Natasha Reyes, emergency
coordinator for  Medecins Sans Frontieres , said in an e-mailed
statement from the group. The hospital is 50 percent destroyed
and the other half is damaged almost beyond repair, and doctors
are setting up a tent hospital, the group said.  The group now has 137 foreign staff on the ground and more
will be arriving in the coming days.  The  USS George Washington , an  aircraft carrier  with more
than 5,000 personnel and more than 80 aircraft, has arrived in
the Philippines and is ferrying aid into hard-hit areas. A U.K.
C-17 transport plane with supplies arrived yesterday, with the
HMS Illustrious, another aircraft carrier, due to arrive Nov.
25.  The number of trucks delivering aid to affected areas is
“barely enough” even as roads have been cleared of debris,
Luiza Carvalho, Humanitarian and Resident Coordinator of the UN
in the Philippines said in an e-mail. “There are still
logistical difficulties to overcome,” she said.  Foreign governments have been increasing their pledges as
the scope of the destruction becomes more clear. The U.K.
committed an additional 30 million pounds ($48 million) to the
relief effort yesterday. The U.K. has now made about 50 million
pounds in direct contributions, with another 30 million pounds
donated by the public, the nation’s embassy in Manila said .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Cebu at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Cebu at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  