-- Prisa Said to Target $4 Billion Refinancing Pact This Month
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-11-18T15:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/prisa-is-said-to-target-4-billion-refinancing-pact-this-month.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA (PRS)  is
seeking to reach an agreement with creditors to refinance more
than 3 billion euros ($4 billion) in debt as early as this week,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Spain ’s  biggest media company  and publisher of El Pais
newspaper is scheduled to meet with lenders tomorrow, with
definitive signing of an accord to take place by the end of this
month, the people said, asking not to be named because the
deliberations are private. Prisa still needs the backing of some
international and Spanish banks that hold about 15 percent of
the company’s  debt , the people said.  While a unanimous agreement from creditors is Prisa’s
preferred option, an accord with the backing of a majority of
lenders would also be possible subject to court approval, the
people said. Prisa obtained a 350 million-euro  credit line  this
month from funds including Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC,
Knighthead Capital Management LLC and Silver Point Capital LP to
cover some financing needs as they are supportive of the
refinancing plan, two people familiar with the matter said.  Refinancing the debt, due in 2014 and 2015, would give
Prisa time to sell assets as Spain struggles to reverse a
decline in advertising spending. Prisa has called a shareholders
meeting for Dec. 10 in  Madrid  to approve the issuance of
warrants as part of the refinancing as it seeks to extend debt
maturities to five or six years.  El Pais  A Prisa spokeswoman in Madrid said there is more work to be
done on the refinancing, which should be ready by Dec. 10. She
declined to comment on the creditor meeting this week. A
representative for Greenwich, Connecticut-based Silver Point
declined to comment, while spokesmen for Knighthead and
Centerbridge, both based in  New York , weren’t immediately
available to comment.  Besides El Pais, the best-selling Spanish newspaper, Prisa
also publishes business newspaper Cinco Dias, magazines, and
owns television and radio stations as well as the Santillana
education division. The company also owns a 17 percent stake in
 Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA. (TL5)   Prisa fell 3.7 percent to 33.5 euro cents at 4:41 p.m. in
Madrid. The stock climbed 48 percent this year through Nov. 15,
after three consecutive annual declines, partly on optimism over
a refinancing deal. The company chaired by Juan Luis Cebrian has
a market value of 382 million euros.  Still, advertising spending in Spain, which has contracted
by about half since 2007, will probably  shrink  by more than 11
percent this year, according to estimates by researcher Zenith
Vigia. Prisa reported  net losses  in seven out of the past eight
quarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  