-- Qatar Readies Food Contingency Plan on Trade Disruptions
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-11-17T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/qatar-readies-food-contingency-plan-on-trade-disruptions.html
Qatar hired local and international
consultants, including experts from  Texas A&M University , to
draft food-supply contingency plans in the event of a crisis,
such as a disruption to regional trade routes.  “Like any nation, we looked at dozens of security
scenarios,”  Jonathan Smith , head of communications at the Qatar
National Food Security Program, said in a phone interview from
Doha. Qatar, which imports most of its food, didn’t commission
the report as a response to threats of regional unrest, he said.  Political turmoil in  Egypt  and Syria, along with Iranian
threats to close the Strait of Hormuz, revealed the
vulnerability of Gulf Cooperation Council nations to supply
disruptions, London-based  Chatham House  said in a study this
month. The strait is used ship 35 percent of the GCC’s wheat and
coarse grain imports, and 81 percent of its rice purchases, the
study said. The region supplies one-fifth of the world’s crude
oil.  Qatar, a nation of about 2 million people, is the world’s
biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas. The contingency report 
looked into scenarios including the closing of the waterway or the 
land border with Saudi Arabia, and a regional war that doesn’t 
involve the country, according to a person with knowledge of the 
study. Other possibilities included an air embargo, said the 
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are 
confidential.  Smith declined to comment on specific scenarios. The four-volume report was presented to “higher authorities” in the
summer, he said.  Qatar’s only land border is with Saudi Arabia. It imports
92 percent of its food, with about 45 coming through the  Strait
of Hormuz , Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  