-- Raiffeisen CEO Under No Stress Over Capital Increase
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-11-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/raiffeisen-ceo-under-no-stress-over-capital-increase.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
Austria’s third-biggest lender, plans to exhaust other means to
bolster its capital ratio before considering a sale of new
shares, Chief Executive Officer Karl Sevelda said.  Raiffeisen will scale down its business in  Slovenia ,
Hungary and Ukraine, make better use of regulatory allowances to
lower capital requirements, and increase the lender’s earnings,
before repaying 1.75 billion euros ($2.4 billion) in state aid
in the form of participation capital, Sevelda told journalists.  “We have a core capital ratio of more than 10 percent,”
Sevelda said Nov. 15 in Bucharest in comments embargoed until
today. “It’s true that part of that is the participation
capital, but we have that participation capital until 2017.
That’s another four years. I don’t see any reason for stress
toward a capital increase.”  Raising capital is the biggest challenge facing Sevelda,
who took over in June. While investors and regulators push for a
stock sale, he has to overcome opposition by RZB, the bank’s
parent company that is ultimately owned by  494 local
cooperatives . RZB, which controls 79 percent of Raiffeisen,
opposed a rights offering in March last year, saying the stock
price was too low. The share is at about the  same level  now.  Selling new shares remains an option, the CEO said, without
elaborating on timing or size of a potential transaction.  After UniCredit  Raiffeisen, the second-biggest bank in eastern  Europe  after
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , is cutting as much as 450 million euros in costs
to increase earnings, it said Sept. 24. It is introducing
internal rating systems in more of the 16 countries where it’s
operating to lower the risk weights used in calculating
regulatory capital requirements. That could have an effect equal
to raising 400 million euros in cash, the CEO said.  Sevelda’s approach mirrors Raiffeisen’s strategy when it
and RZB had to fill a 2.1 billion-euro capital shortfall
determined by the European Banking Authority in 2011. Then CEO
Herbert Stepic, who resigned this year over private offshore
investments, and Walter Rothensteiner, RZB CEO and Raiffeisen’s
chairman, filled the gap without raising fresh money.  Instead they cut assets, optimized holdings for the minimal
capital requirement, and swapped hybrid capital into forms
accepted by regulators. Dividends, cut by many banks to lift the
share of retained earnings, were raised as a share of net income
at Raiffeisen and RZB.  Stripping off the state aid and 750 million euros of
related hybrid capital, Raiffeisen needs 2 billion euros of new
capital, equivalent to 40 percent of the existing shares at
current prices, to bring its core Tier 1 ratio to 10 percent,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in September.  ECB Review  Raiffeisen has dropped 14 percent this year in Vienna
trading, cutting the bank’s market value to 5.3 billion euros.
The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services  index rose 16
percent during the same period.  Sevelda’s chief risk officer, Johann Strobl, and fellow
bank executives from  Austria ,  Italy ,  Latvia , the Netherlands,
 Portugal , Slovenia and Slovakia will be briefed on Nov. 25 about
Europe’s next bank exam, the  European Central Bank ’s balance
sheet assessment, Sevelda said. He declined to comment on his
expectations for the test.  A precursor to the ECB’s euro-area wide test in Slovenia
already contributed to Raiffeisen raising bad-debt charges by
200 million euros in September. Raiffeisen is due to report
third-quarter results Nov. 27.  Raiffeisen is considering offers it received for its
Ukrainian unit Raiffeisen Bank Aval and may sell the business,
which will be profitable this year, Sevelda said. Aval isn’t as
core to Raiffeisen’s geographic scope as its operations in
countries including  Hungary  and Slovenia, where the bank is
cutting its business without considering a complete exit, he
said.  “We want to stay in Hungary, you shouldn’t forget we went
there in 1987 as the first eastern European market,” he said.
“There’s a lot of heart and soul in that. Hungary as a
neighboring country certainly has a higher priority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Bucharest at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  