-- Rajoy Rewarded as Spanish Shed Discount to Italians
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   J e e v a n   J y o t h y p r a k a s h
-- 2013-11-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/rajoy-rewarded-as-spanish-shed-discount-to-italians-euro-credit.html
Investors are backing Spanish
politicians for the kind of austerity measures their
counterparts in  Italy  are finding elusive.  Spain  has paid three  basis points  less than Italy over the
past two months to borrow for 10 years compared with the average
41 basis-point premium it was charged in the first eight months
of 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Spanish yield fell
below 4 percent at the end of October for the first time in
almost six months and stood at 4.07 percent on Nov. 15, compared
with 4.09 percent for Italian securities.  “Greater commitment to a reform agenda favors Spain over
Italy,” Michael Michaelides, a London-based strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by telephone. “Spain is
regaining competitiveness faster than Italy.”  In power since 2011 with a majority, Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  led the economy to  growth  this year amid the
deepest budget cuts in the country’s democratic history. Enrico Letta, Italy’s third premier since Rajoy took office, is
 struggling  to guide his country out of a recession that figures
showed last week had entered its third year.  Market Trend  The trend in the  bond market  changed in September over
concern that Letta’s government may collapse. Michaelides said
he expects Spanish 10-year yields to drop to 3.5 percent. That
would make them similar to Ireland, which is exiting its bailout
program next month after three years of emergency loans.  Morgan Stanley strategists including Anton Heese wrote in a
Nov. 8 note that investors should buy Spanish 10-year bonds and
sell Italian debt. They see the spread widening to a percentage
point, a level last seen in January 2012.  “Italy hasn’t carried out enough austerity measures and is
at risk of a credit-rating downgrade in the next six months,”
Tanguy Le Saout, who helps oversee about $227 billion at Pioneer
Investment in Dublin, said in a Nov. 8 telephone interview.  By contrast,  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service will probably follow  Fitch Ratings  in lifting their
outlook for Spain as economic activity picks up, Le Saout said.
S&P and Moody’s both rate Spain, which lost its AAA status in
2009, at the lowest investment grade.  Surer Footing  Fitch affirmed its rating at BBB, one step higher, on Nov.
1 and raised its outlook to stable from negative citing budget
cuts achieved since 2012 and “significant reforms” of the
labor market, pension system, fiscal framework and financial
sector. “The effort made to date should put the economy on a
surer footing,” the firm said.  S&P confirmed Spain’s rating in June, a month before it cut
Italy’s to BBB. The company cited weaker growth and budget
targets that are “potentially at risk.”  The Italian government hired former International Monetary
Fund director  Carlo Cottarelli  to help it reduce the deficit to
2.5 percent of  gross domestic product  in 2014.  Letta, 47, is trying to shift the burden of budget cuts to
focus on government bureaucracy and away from taxpayers after
his predecessor,  Mario Monti , counted mainly on tax increases to
shield Italy from bond-market speculation.  So far, measures have failed as lawmakers remain
preoccupied with preserving the three-party coalition. Italy’s
debt, which broke the 2 trillion-euro mark a year ago, will
surge to 134 percent of GDP next year, the most in  Europe  behind
 Greece , according to forecasts by the European Commission.  Two Economies  The euro region’s third-largest economy contracted for a
ninth quarter in the three months through September, extending
the longest slump since World War II, as export growth failed to
offset the impact of rising unemployment on domestic demand.  Spain emerged from a recession in the third quarter,
helping push down the second-highest jobless rate in the
European Union. Unemployment fell to 26 percent last quarter
from 26.3 percent, the highest level since at least 1976, the
year after dictator  Francisco Franco ’s death.  Rajoy, 58, expects to stabilize Spain’s debt load around
101 percent of GDP from 2015 as a 1.3 percent economic
contraction this year gives way to 0.7 percent growth in 2014,
according to government forecasts. The country is likely to meet
its deficit target of 6.5 percent of GDP this year, Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro said on Sept. 30.  Spain is on course for a “clean break” in January from
the rescue loans it secured last year, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on Nov. 14. The country took 41 billion euros in
aid to help its banking industry cope with the legacy of a
collapse in the real-estate market.  “We should see a continued underperformance of Italy
versus Spain,” said  Richard McGuire , head of rates strategy at
Rabobank International in  London . “In the medium term,
decoupling will be driven by Spain’s going down the Irish route
while political issues, lack of reform progress and possible
negative rating actions weigh on Italian bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeevan Jyothyprakash in London at 
 jjyothyprak2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Deborah L Hyde at 
 dhyde10@bloomberg.net  