-- Russia’s Nikiforov Sees Tele2-Rostelecom Merger Benefit
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-11-18T02:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/russia-s-nikiforov-sees-tele2-rostelecom-merger-benefit.html
Russia ’s telecommunications Minister
Nikolay Nikiforov said a possible merger of OAO Rostelecom’s
mobile assets with VTB Group’s Tele2 Russia would boost
competition for the nation’s three largest carriers.  “We definitely see some synergy in the potential merger,”
Nikiforov said in a Nov. 15 interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York, adding that no decision had been made
yet. “Four to five operators is the ideal scenario for a
country as Russia.”  Rostelecom, Russia’s state-controlled telecommunications
operator, asked shareholders to vote on separating its mobile
assets into a newly formed entity, called RT-Mobile, according
to a Nov. 13 regulatory filing. The move would increase
competition for the three largest carriers, OAO Mobile
TeleSystems, OAO MegaFon and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   MTS, as Mobile TeleSystems is known, posted a fourth week
of declines, the longest in a year. Shares of Russia’s largest
mobile-phone carrier have slipped 7.3 percent since Oct. 17,
when VTB Group said Yury Kovalchuk, President  Vladimir Putin ’s
billionaire ally, was buying half of Tele2 Russia. The
Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index fell 0.5 percent in the week to
100.39, while RTS stock-index futures increased 0.3 percent to
144,780 in U.S. hours.  “I really admire Tele2’s business experience,” Nikiforov
said. “They are the most cost-efficient company compared with
the big three.”  Rostelecom’s board will meet tomorrow to determine the
price for buying out minorities who don’t support the split of
mobile phone assets, according to the statement. Rostelecom’s
new strategy has to be approved before any decision regarding
the merger can be made, Nikiforov said.  Stake Sale  The government plans to sell its stake in Rostelecom in the
next two years “if the price is good” and the company’s status
as “strategically important” is revised, Nikiforov said.  A phone call to Rostelecom’s Moscow offices after normal
business hours on Nov. 15, seeking comments on Nikiforov’s
predictions, wasn’t immediately returned. Calls to Tele2
Russia’s Moscow-based press secretary Irina Rybakova outside of
normal business hours on Nov. 15 went unanswered.  MegaFon, the No. 2 operator, lost 10 percent in a three-week decline in  London . VimpelCom, which operates the third-biggest mobile phone company, tumbled 8 percent last week.  “It will intensify competition, which consumers should be
happy about,” Evgeny Golosnoy, analyst at IFC Metropol in
Moscow, said by phone from Moscow Nov. 15. “What is good for
consumer is not necessarily good for an investor. The big three
mobile phone operators’ margins will shrink longer-term.”  ‘Fair Competition’  Russian authorities seek to approve by Dec. 11 a principle
of “technological neutrality”, or permission for operators to
develop different technologies on the radio frequencies they
have, Nikiforov said. The country is set to introduce mobile
number portability from December, a move that will also increase
competition, he said. Russia plans to work out legislature
allowing mobile companies to share frequencies by “next
spring,” he said.  “We want to liberalize everything possible,” Nikiforov
said. “We want fair competition.”  Russia’s Internet penetration will rise to as much as 90
percent by end-2018 from about 55 percent, benefiting companies
such as  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s biggest Internet company, and
Mail.ru, Nikiforov said.  “There is some huge potential for Russian Internet
companies to grow,” Nikiforov said. “Fiber optics is coming to
small villages throughout the country in three to five years
from now and there are other ways to get people online. A lot of
business will be created online.”  Yandex, Mail.ru  Shares of Yandex, the biggest gainer on Russia-US gauge
this year, rallied 6 percent last week to $38.53, extending the
surge this year to 79 percent.  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  rose 1.4
percent to $38.68 last week and is up 12 percent in 2013.  E-commerce represents 2 percent of Russia’s overall retail
market and will grow 15 percent a year through 2018, Nikiforov
said. Russia is the biggest Internet market in  Europe  by user
numbers, he said.  The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity gauge retreated for the
fourth week to 100.39. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the
largest exchange-traded fund dedicated to Russian equities,
ended the week little changed at $28.66. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in  stock futures ,
decreased 3.1 percent to 21.90.  ADRs of MTS slid 2.7 percent last week to $21.97, settling
at a 9.5 percent premium to the company’s Moscow shares. MegaFon
fell 2.9 percent last week to $33.99 in London, trading at a 0.3
percent discount to the Moscow-listed shares.  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer,
rose 0.5 percent to HK$2.21 in Hong Kong trading as of
10:30 a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained
0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  