-- Store Stalin Hated Extending Luxury Brands Across Russia
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-11-18T13:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/store-stalin-hated-extending-luxury-brands-across-russia.html
On rainy days, the GUM mall on
Moscow’s Red Square swarms with tourists. Unfortunately for GUM,
the hordes seeking shelter tend to do more looking than buying,
in large part because the big-brand fashions there cost about 50
percent more than they do in Paris or  London .  That’s a problem for GUM’s owner, a closely held Russian
retailer called Bosco di Ciliegi. Without the reliable cash from
tourists that fuels profits at department stores like Galeries
Lafayette in Paris or London’s Harrods, Bosco has started to
look beyond its flagship to new outlets across Russia, where it
can win over local shoppers rather than visitors.  “Tourists don’t buy an Ermanno Scervino coat here”
because of high prices due largely to import duties and value
added tax, GUM Chief Executive Officer Teimuraz Guguberidze said
while sipping tea in his office overlooking Lenin’s mausoleum on
the third floor of the mall.  For the next five years, Bosco plans to focus on adding
stores in four cities outside the capital -- St. Petersburg,
Sochi, Yekaterinburg, and Samara -- because “future growth will
come from the regions,” the CEO said.  The Russian fashion retail market expanded 11 percent last
year to about $50 billion, of which Moscow accounted for $6
billion, according to researcher INFOLine.  Sochi Olympics  “Bosco’s expansion into regions looks logical,” said Anna
Lebsak-Kleimans, head of the Moscow-based Fashion Consulting
Group. She estimates the fashion market in Sochi, home to the
Winter Olympics in February, is set to grow as much as 10
percent a year, more than twice the pace of Moscow.  Russia ’s other two biggest luxury retail groups have
followed a similar strategy, though they’re being more cautious.
Mercury, which owns Moscow’s Tsum department store and
represents brands such as Dolce & Gabbana, Giorgio Armani and
Tiffany, opened a department store in St. Petersburg last year
and has had shops in luxury hotels in Sochi and Yekaterinburg
for several years. JamilCo, which represents DKNY, Burberry, and
Escada, has stores in Yekaterinburg and Rostov. Neither company
plans to enter more markets outside of Moscow.  Bosco di Ciliegi, which means Cherry Forest in Italian, a
nod to Russian playwright Anton Chekhov, was founded by
entrepreneur and Italophile Mikhail Kusnirovich in 1991. The
company helped bring foreign brands back to the country after
the fall of communism when it partnered with luggage maker
Mandarina & Duck to sell upscale items such as $400 handbags.
Ventures with fashion houses Nina Ricci and Kenzo followed,
bringing luxury stores to a nation that had experienced little
more than drab shops for seven decades.  Stalin’s Shutdown  In 1995, Bosco opened its first outlet in GUM -- the
Russian acronym for “Main Universal Store,” though under
communism the same name stood for “State Universal Store.”
GUM, a series of arcades connected by vaulted glass roofs, has
been shaping the way Muscovites shop since 1893. It survived the
Bolshevik revolution and a decades-long shutdown by Stalin, who
wanted to demolish the architectural treasure to make more room
for parades.  After Stalin’s death, GUM reopened as a showcase of the
best goods the planned economy could offer, and some areas --
with the best of the best -- were reserved for Communist Party
officials. It’s now flourishing again as luxury stores mingle
with Soviet-era throwbacks like an ice-cream stand that offers
cones for an affordable 60 rubles ($2) per scoop.  In 2004, Bosco bought the shopping center aiming to improve
the facility and buff up the service in its shops.  Now, Bosco
operates stores for itself and partners in about a third of
GUM’s 30,000 square meters of retail space and rents out the
rest to brands ranging from Samsung to  Louis Vuitton. (MC)   Shop Clusters  Bosco also manages shopping centers across Moscow and in
other Russian cities, including about 80 sportswear outlets
called Bosco Sports. The group’s annual sales are about 500
million euros and the CEO said it’s profitable, though he
declined to give details.  Outside Moscow, Russian cities have few malls or department
stores with concentrations of high-end shops, Guguberidze said.
So the company is developing clusters of single-brand shops in
central locations in the four cities it’s focusing on. A new
outlet for a global brand in Samara -- a Volga River port city
of 1.2 million that has just a few fashion boutiques -- will
attract far more attention and customers than one in Moscow,
which has hundreds of similar shops, he said.  Red Square  Bosco isn’t giving up on Moscow, where its GUM flagship,
just steps away from the Kremlin and St. Basil’s cathedral,
attracts about 11 million people a year. To persuade the crowds
to stick around, Bosco is adding more trees, benches, and dining
options. In July, GUM hosted a flower festival, covering a large
part of the Red Square with flowers in pots to celebrate its
120th anniversary, while in winter seasons in normally lays out
a skating rink on the Red Square.  The company is also lobbying the government to offer value
added tax refunds to foreigners, which would bring prices more
in line with the European norm by returning 18 percent of the
purchase price to them -- something tourists in most European
countries have enjoyed for decades.  And Bosco is trying to create a more refined mix of stores,
Guguberidze said, adding brands such as Max Mara, Moschino,
Emporio Armani and Etro.  “In Russia, the consumption of good wine is increasing and
consumption of vodka is decreasing because the consumer culture
is growing,” Guguberidze said. “The same thing is true with
fashion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  