-- U.A.E. Banks to Seek Penalties for Those Breaking Mortgage Rules
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-11-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/u-a-e-banks-to-seek-penalties-for-those-breaking-mortgage-rules.html
The United Arab Emirates banking
federation will recommend that the central bank fine lenders who
violate stricter new mortgage loan rules as it seeks to prevent
a repeat of a property bubble.  The federation, which counts the country’s 51 banks as
members, will also ask the regulator to consider temporarily
suspending banks from offering mortgage products or ban bankers
from working in the country if they break the rules, Chairman
Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair, told reporters in Dubai on Nov. 12.  “If somebody knows he will lose his work permit in the
U.A.E., he will stop,” said Al Ghurair, who is also chief
executive officer of  Mashreqbank PSC. (MASQ)   Foreigners can borrow as much as 75 percent of the value of
a first home priced at 5 million dirhams ($1.36 million) or less
and U.A.E. nationals can get up to 80 percent under the new
mortgage rules. The limits are 65 percent and 70 percent,
respectively, for homes worth more than 5 million dirhams.  Dubai, the second-biggest of seven states that make up the
U.A.E., saw home prices surge at the fastest pace in the world
in the second quarter, stoking concern that another property
bubble may be inflating. That prompted the emirate’s government
to double real estate transaction fees to rein in speculation.
Dubai suffered one of the world’s worst property crashes in 2008
when speculators fled and saddled banks with unpaid loans.  “This regulation is great news and coupled with the
raising of the registration fees to 4 percent, I think it will
encourage the ultimate users to buy property and eliminate
flippers,” Al Ghurair said. Flippers, or short-term speculative
buyers, “get themselves in trouble and they get the industry in
trouble and in the end the buyer pays a higher price,” he said.  The Federation will also encourage the central bank to
periodically review the loan-to-value limit, Al Ghurair said. If
speculation and  home prices  continue to rise the only option the
government may have is to impose a lock-in period of up to two
years during which a buyer cannot sell property, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  