-- U.K. to Investigate Labor Union Picketing Tactics, Maude Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/u-k-to-investigate-labor-union-picketing-tactics-maude-says.html
The U.K. will examine intimidatory
tactics by Labor unions with a view to overhauling Britain’s
employment laws, Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude said.  Activities such as picketing executives homes and harassing
their families risk deterring investment in Britain, Maude said
in an e-mail. A succession of disputes at Ineos Group Holdings
SA’s Grangemouth oil refinery in  Scotland  have also increased
concern in government about the security of Britain’s
infrastructure, he said.  “Allegations about trade union industrial intimidation
tactics, including attempts to sabotage businesses’ supply
chains and harass employers’ families are deeply concerning,”
Maude said. “We need an independent review to get to the bottom
of these activities, as well as to look at the role played by
government, employers and employees in industrial disputes.”  Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative Party have been
seeking to highlight the opposition Labour Party’s links to
labor unions as they seek to portray it as anti-business and
dominated by unelected union leaders.  The Unite trade union, which is one of Labour’s largest
donors, and was involved in the Grangemouth dispute, has
developed a tactic of “Leverage,” in which it targets
customers, investors and other contacts of businesses that it
deems to be behaving “immorally.”  Unite’s Leverage  “Leverage is a process whereby the Union commits resources
and time to making all interested parties aware of the treatment
received by Unite members at the hands of an employer,” Unite
said on its  website . “Those interested parties may include
shareholders of the employer; competitors of the employer;
communities within which the employer operates; customers of the
employer and the market place of the employer.”  Cameron’s office said employment lawyer Bruce Carr will
chair the government’s review and he been asked to appoint a
panel including representatives of employers and unions. Carr
will have a free choice of who he wants to join him on the panel
and is expected to report within six months, the office said.  Ineos Group said on Oct. 15 it was shutting the Grangemouth
oil refinery and petrochemical site located on the Firth of
Forth. A deal to restart operations was reached on Oct. 25 after
Unite agreed to the company’s demands for a three-year no-strike
pledge and changes to pensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  