-- Luci Baines Johnson Recalls Grief Over Kennedy Assassination
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2013-11-17T18:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/luci-baines-johnson-recalls-grief-over-kennedy-assassination.html
Luci Baines Johnson, the daughter of
 John F. Kennedy ’s vice president,  Lyndon Johnson , was in Spanish
class when she heard Kennedy had been shot.  “A young girl came running in saying, ‘‘the president’s
been shot,’’ Johnson recalled today on CBS’s ‘‘Face the Nation’’
program. ‘‘And our teacher said, ‘girls, girls, we know nothing
about the truth of these rumors, and until we do there will be
Spanish.’’’  The week of the 50th anniversary of the Nov. 22, 1963,
assassination will include a visit to Kennedy’s grave in
Arlington National Cemetery by President  Barack Obama . For
several months, television specials, magazine articles and
several books have focused on the Kennedy presidency and
presented details of the moments before and after his death.  Johnson recalled on the CBS program that the Secret Service
sent an agent she knew from her father’s detail to  Washington ’s
National Cathedral School to tell her that her parents were
safe.  ‘‘I turned and ran in the other direction, as if I could
run away from the inevitable,” Johnson said. “And of course, I
wasn’t capable of out-running a Secret Service agent.”  She recalled Kennedy’s funeral, which she attended, as
heart-wrenching.  “We looked at the Kennedy family so close, so young, so
vital, so noble,” Johnson said. “And we were just consumed in
pain.”  Kennedy Legacy  Relatives of Kennedy who were interviewed on the Sunday
talk shows said the anniversary should be a time to focus on his
political legacy rather than on the assassination.  Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, speaking on “Fox News Sunday,”
said she didn’t know whether Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in
the assassination or was part of a conspiracy.  “I’m not going to solve that problem, and so what I’m
going to do is focus on things I can do to make a difference,”
said Townsend, daughter of Senator Robert F. Kennedy, who was
assassinated in 1968 while seeking the Democratic presidential
nomination.  President Kennedy was shot in the head from the sixth floor
of the Texas School Book Depository. The  Warren Commission , the
U.S. panel set up to investigate the assassination, concluded
that Oswald acted alone and fired the shots at Kennedy and at
then-Texas Gov. John Connally, who was wounded.  Two days later, Oswald was shot and killed by Jack Ruby, a
Dallas nightclub operator.  Patrick Kennedy , Townsend’s cousin and a former U.S.
Representative from  Rhode Island , sought inspiration in his
uncle’s legacy for resolving current U.S. political challenges,
including the flawed rollout of the Affordable Care Act.  “We have to fix this but the good news is if we work
together, which is what President Kennedy was about, I think we
can attain and achieve anything and that was his inspiration to
all Americans,” said Kennedy, a Democrat and son of Senator
 Edward Kennedy  of  Massachusetts  who died in office in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  