-- Mugabe Mulls Options From Zimbabwe Wealth Fund to BRICS Loans
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-11-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/mugabe-mulls-options-from-zimbabwe-wealth-fund-to-brics-loans.html
President Robert Mugabe is
considering raising finance through measures ranging from
establishing a sovereign wealth fund to borrowing money from the
so-called BRICS nations to revive  Zimbabwe ’s economy.  A document titled the Zimbabwe Agenda for a Sustainable
Socio-Economic Transformation, or Zim Asset, also details plans
including the sale of bonds, securitization of remittances, re-engagement with international finance institutions and the
creation of special economic zones. Financing options should
focus on  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa, a group
of large emerging market nations collectively known as BRICS,
according to the document signed by Mugabe and obtained from the
Ministry of Finance on Nov. 15.  “My government has formulated a new plan,” Mugabe, 89,
said in the foreword to the 129-page document, which details a
five-year plan stretching to 2018 for the economy. The plan is
designed to “enable Zimbabwe to achieve economic growth and
reposition the country as one of the strongest economies in the
region and  Africa .”  Mugabe, who won a July election to extend his 33 years in
power, is struggling to revive an economy that shrank by 40
percent between 2000 and 2008 after the seizure of white-owned
commercial farms slashed exports, inflation surged to a world
record and relations with the International Monetary Fund were
severed.  Platinum, Chrome  The Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party
won control of parliament in July after a five-year coalition
with the Movement for Democratic Change, which arrested a near-decade long recession. Measures taken by the coalition included
the abolition of the Zimbabwe dollar in favor of the use of
currencies including the U.S. dollar and the South African rand.  The country has the world’s second-largest deposits of
platinum and chrome and reserves of minerals ranging from coal
to gold. Still, investment has been inhibited by a law
compelling foreign and white-owned companies to sell or cede 51
percent of their local assets to black Zimbabweans or the
government.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are among companies that operate
in the country.  The “economy experiences a myriad of challenges, which, if
not addressed, will reverse the marginal gains recorded,” the
government says in the document.  Economic growth has slowed from 11.9 percent in 2011 to an
estimated 3.4 percent this year, while manufacturing capacity
utilization was 39 percent in the third quarter of this year
compared with 57 percent in 2011, according to the document.  Housing, Rail  The country has a housing backlog of 1.25 million units,
while water, sanitation and rail systems have deteriorated, the
government said.  Under the plan, economic growth is targeted at 6.2 percent
next year, rising to 9.9 percent in 2018. Government
institutions ranging from an agricultural bank to the state
mining company will be recapitalized, the government said. Debt
amounting to $80 million owed by farmers to the state power
company will be canceled while biofuel and sugar projects will
be implemented.  The government also plans to seek investment to restore
existing power plants to their full capacity, adding 300
megawatts of production by 2015, while developing a new 1,600
megawatt hydropower plant on the Zambezi River and a smaller
project on the Gairezi River. Coal-bed methane gas at Lupane may
also be utilized for power generation while the Sengwa coal-fired project, a plant once considered by  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , may be
developed.  ‘Look East’  Renewable power projects planned include a 100-megawatt
solar plant, solar water heaters and mini-hydro power projects.  The government will also seek to restart a steel mill to
produce 700,000 metric tons of liquid steel annually and to
attract new investment to that industry.  “The government will continue with the ‘look east’ policy
to unlock the inflow of potential investment,” it said in a
reference to attempts to garner investment from China and India.
Last week the Export-Import Bank of China agreed to lend
Zimbabwe $319.5 million to expand the Kariba South hydropower
plant.  The government plans to target increased production of
corn, wheat, milk, meat and eggs as well as boosting the amount
of irrigated land and putting in place tariffs to reduce dumping
of agricultural products, it said. Agricultural projects planned
include fruit juice, honey and avocado-oil plants  The construction of 12 dams and three water pipelines is
envisaged as well as the completion of existing pipeline
projects and the rehabilitation of urban water supply systems.  It also plans to identify companies to be taken over by the
government or black Zimbabweans and assess which mining
exploration concessions are not being utilized. The production
and polishing of 1.2 million carats of diamonds a year is set as
a target.  A second fuel pipeline from the Mozambican port of Beira is
planned as is the development of a biofuels policy, which would
include the planting of jatropha and the expansion of sugar cane
plantations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  