-- Vettel Wins Record Eighth Straight F-1 Race With Victory in U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/vettel-wins-u-s-grand-prix-for-record-8th-straight-f-1-victory.html
Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull Racing
secured his record eighth straight win of the Formula One season
at the U.S. Grand Prix.  Vettel, who had already won the 2013 world title, beat
 Romain Grosjean  of Lotus by 6.2 seconds in yesterday’s 56-lap
race at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas. Red Bull’s
 Mark Webber  was third.  By winning the second-to-last race of the championship,
Vettel passed his fellow German  Michael Schumacher ’s previous
single-season mark of seven victories in a row in 2004. If he
wins next week’s closing event in Brazil, Vettel will tie
Schumacher’s  2004 record  of 13 victories in a season.  “We have to enjoy these days, there is no guarantee they
will last,” Vettel, 26, said over the Red Bull team radio after
taking the checkered flag. “We must enjoy them while they last.
We have an incredible team spirit. I love you guys.”  Vettel is unbeaten since Formula One returned from its mid-season break at the Belgian Grand Prix on Aug. 25. He secured
his fourth straight world championship with three races to spare
by winning the Indian Grand Prix on Oct. 27.  Juan Manuel Fangio of Argentina, France’s Alain Prost and
Schumacher are the only other drivers to have won at least four
world championships.  Starting from pole position yesterday, Vettel led into the
first corner and only relinquished the lead when he made his
sole pit stop. It was the 38th victory of his career.  “I’m not sure what we have done since the summer break in
order that we have been winning races, but whatever it was it
has worked,” Vettel said.  Lewis Hamilton  of Mercedes was fourth at the Texas circuit
followed by Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso , who guaranteed he’ll
finish second in the world championship standings.  Nico Hulkenberg  of Sauber was sixth ahead of McLaren’s Sergio Perez.  Williams driver Valtteri Bottas, 24, scored the first
points of his F-1 career by finishing in eighth place.  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes and McLaren’s  Jenson Button  rounded out the
point-scoring positions.  The last of 19 events on the 2013 calendar is the Nov. 24
Brazilian Grand Prix in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  