-- Warrnambool Sees ‘Significant’ Risk in Murray Goulburn’s Offer
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-11-17T07:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/warrnambool-sees-significant-risk-in-murray-goulburn-s-offer.html
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory
Co. (WCB)  said Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co.’s takeover bid needs
anti-trust approval and carries a “significant” risk of
failure as it recommended a rival offer from  Saputo Inc. (SAP)   Warrnambool,  Australia ’s oldest dairy producer, Nov. 15
accepted the sweetened A$505 million ($473 million) bid, worth
A$9 a share, from Montreal-based Saputo. That offer matched the
value of a proposal from local rival Murray Goulburn, though it
trails the value of a stock-and-cash bid from  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA)   Saputo’s cash bid, which has been approved by Australia’s
Treasury, holds “no risk,” Warrnambool Managing Director David
Lord said in a recorded interview posted on the website of the
Australian Financial Review today. The competition regulator may
take as long as six months to assess Murray Goulburn’s offer,
Lord said.  There is “significant completion risk” tied to Murray
Goulburn’s offer, Lord said. At the same time, the stock-and-cash bid from Bega holds “inherent risk” for Warrnambool
shareholders because of the equity component of the offer, he
said.  Lynn Semjaniv, a spokeswoman for Murray Goulburn, declined
to comment on Lord’s interview.  David Williams , adviser to Bega
at Kidder Williams Ltd., said he disagreed with Lord’s
assessment of Bega’s share price. Investors have upgraded their
valuations of Australia’s entire dairy industry, he said.  Warrnambool’s market value has more than doubled in the two
months since Bega, its largest shareholder, made an initial
offer and triggered the three-way takeover contest. Bidders are
pursuing greater scale to help them tap rising demand for dairy
produce, including milk powder, in  Asia ’s emerging nations.  Shares Halted  Warrnambool  closed  at A$9.10 in Sydney on Nov. 14. Trading
was halted Nov. 15 pending Saputo’s revised offer. Bega has
offered 1.5 of its own shares shares and A$2 cash for each
Warrnambool share. Bega’s stock closed at A$4.75 on Nov. 15,
valuing its proposal at A$9.13.  Bega shares have climbed during the bidding war as
Warrnambool shares surged, partly because Bega owns about 18
percent of Warrnambool.  Lord said the  “true value” of Bega’s shares “isn’t
evident” in Bega’s current stock price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  