-- Who Pays When India’s Billionaires Don’t Go Bust?
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2013-11-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/who-pays-when-india-s-billionaires-don-t-go-bust-.html
Last month, the business empire of
 Eike Batista , once the world’s seventh-richest man and a mascot
of economically resurgent  Brazil , collapsed. The disaster ought
to focus our minds on the perils of credit-fueled economic
growth and highly leveraged corporations not just in Brazil but
also in other BRICS countries.  Batista secured extraordinary loans and investments from a
government bank against the promise of high productivity from
his  oil fields ; he used taxpayers’ money to fund a lavish
lifestyle for himself, with such plutocratic accessories as fast
cars, yachts and a wife who was a former  Playboy model . His
debt-fueled engine spluttered to a stop when his fields were
exposed as dry and his flagship oil company, OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, was left with no cash to service debts
amounting to more than $5 billion.  Last week, as I drove past the forlorn, deserted airport in
Shimla, which  India ’s high-flying Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. once
connected to the world, I thought of India’s own version of
Batista: the flamboyant owner of Kingfisher,  Vijay Mallya , who
was as much the poster boy for an apparently supercharged
economy as the Brazilian businessman was. A liquor baron, Mallya
worked hard to live up to his beer’s tagline “the King of the
Good Times” by partying with Bollywood stars onboard his luxury
yacht, the Indian Empress; he also ran a race-car franchise and
supervised a swimsuit calendar.  ‘Bikini-Clad Models’  Laden by  debt , Kingfisher imploded last year after failing
to pay its employees for seven months. Shortly after the wife of
one of the unpaid staff members committed suicide in October
2012, Mallya’s young son posted on Twitter that he was playing
“volleyball with bikini-clad models.”  His business empire now imperiled at other weak points,
Mallya has lowered his profile. In August, India’s state-backed
banks, which are owed about $1.4 billion by Kingfisher, departed
from their own culture of leniency and taped a notice to the
door of the carrier’s headquarters: Their plan, unrealizable for
now, is to seize the building in order to recover unpaid debts.  You would be wrong, however, to conclude that the
profligacy of India’s corporate borrowers and spenders belongs
safely to the past. The dramatic slowdown in  India’s economy 
over the last few months has exposed what many of us suspected
all along: that the country’s economic boom in the last decade
was largely fueled by debt, enabled by unprecedented inflows of
foreign capital, rather than by broad, sustained and sustainable
liberal reforms. Indeed, the idea of reform itself came to be
confused with “the liberalization of economic policy restraints
on organized business,” as Santosh Desai, an advertising
professional and commentator, points out.  Thus, in what a senior executive  speaking  to the Financial
Times likened to a “ Ponzi scheme ,” large corporations making
overambitious investments when the going was good were able to
repeatedly restructure loans from state-backed banks, which the
government faithfully recapitalized with its own money. One
result of this collaborative capitalism with Indian
characteristics was always very likely to be an extraordinary
degree of corporate leverage and frothy asset markets. It is
what we are witnessing today.  An August  report  titled “House of Debt -- Revisited” from
Credit Suisse Group AG reveals that 10 of India’s biggest
industrial conglomerates, including Anil Ambani’s Reliance
companies, Ravikant Ruia’s Essar Power Ltd.,  Gautam Adani ’s
Adani Power Ltd. and the Essar Group, had combined gross debts
of more than $100 billion. Much of this debt -- the highest
leverage since the late 1990s -- is denominated in foreign
currency.  A weakened rupee has only increased the size of the debt in
local terms; the overall slowdown in the construction,
infrastructure and mining sectors hasn’t helped. According to
Credit Suisse, the moment of reckoning will come early next
year, in the fiscal period ending March 31. By then, slowing
growth will have seriously affected the ability of these
corporations to make profits and service their debts, repayments
for which will be much higher in fiscal 2014.  Brazilian Scenario  According to  Bloomberg  News, the reckoning may come even
earlier for companies such as  Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance
Industries Ltd., India’s most powerful business house, and Anil
Agarwal’s Vedanta Resources Plc, which has $10.6 billion of
bonds and loans maturing by Dec. 31 and $7.4 billion in the
following three months.  A Brazilian scenario -- overleveraged corporations with
falling productivity -- looks to be developing in India.
According to Bloomberg, the yield from Reliance’s biggest Indian
gas field has plunged 75 percent from its peak in 2010. India’s
Directorate General of Hydrocarbons has  fined Reliance  nearly $2
billion over the last three years for falling short of output
targets.  So could the next Batista-style implosion occur in India?
There are several arguments for why it won’t. Large corporate
bankruptcies are uncommon in India, where the nexus between big
business and the government is stronger than it is in Brazil.
State-owned banks are likely to refinance and restructure their
loans to corporations, even at the risk of saddling their own
balance sheets with nonperforming assets. (It is also nearly
impossible for banks in India to recover large bad debts, as the
desperation of Kingfisher’s hapless lenders reveals.)  Mukesh Ambani may find his elusive profits from investments
in the U.S.’s shale oil and gas revolution; last quarter,
 earnings  from his multibillion-dollar American wager eclipsed
those in India for the first time. Credit Suisse’s warnings may
turn out to be “speculative and misguided,” as alleged by a
Reliance representative.  In any case, the Credit Suisse report, which focused
exclusively on aberrations in the balance sheets of large Indian
corporations, ignores their diversely sourced sociopolitical
power. In recent years, they have been beneficiaries of a
culture in which, as Desai writes, “the lives of the rich are
discussed admiringly, and every act of indulgence greeted with
applause.” This encourages them “to live on an island of
delusion, aided by media and feted by the public that is visible
to them.”  Enviable Influence  Batista had his connections and cronies, but he can only
envy the influence of his Indian counterparts. Photographs from
a lavish  birthday party  for Mukesh Ambani’s wife this month --
held in a royal palace in Rajasthan rather than the Ambanis’ 27-story Mumbai private residence -- show a loyal and gratified
Indian elite in attendance, including the union minister for
heavy industries and cricketing legend  Sachin Tendulkar . Guests,
flown in on 32 chartered planes, included a maker of socially
conscious cinema, Aamir Khan, as well as the new Bollywood teen
icon Ranbir Kapoor.  In 2009, a taped conversation between lobbyists quoted
Mukesh Ambani as boasting that the ruling Congress party was now
his dukaan, or shop. He may not have asserted proprietorial
rights over the government so explicitly, even though his part
 ownership  of, and immense influence over, the Indian media is
barely concealed. Nevertheless, one can only marvel at how,
responding to a demand from Reliance, the government doubled
domestic natural  gas prices  from April next year, and how a
decision with profound ramifications for small and medium
enterprises and farmers, not to mention ordinary middle-class
Indians, went almost entirely unchallenged by the political
opposition and the mainstream media.  The end of loose monetary policy in the U.S., a dramatic
shrinking of capital inflows, and further blows to the rupee
could worsen the situation for Indian corporations sinking in
debt. But even if all the preconditions for it were to be
present, a Batista-style implosion in India still seems
unlikely. Rather, the damage will be inflicted upon the lending
banks, some scapegoated politicians, the credibility of the
media, and the usual suckers -- the voting taxpayers.  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ” and a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 