-- Will an Asteroid Destroy You Before You Finish This?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/will-an-asteroid-destroy-you-before-you-finish-this-.html
On Feb. 15, a 13,000-ton rock
plunged through the skies above Chelyabinsk,  Russia . It shone 30
times brighter than the sun, and hurtled at 42,000 miles per
hour toward a city of more than a million people.  As the rock broke apart during its fiery descent, it
dispersed energy equivalent to 500 kilotons of TNT, shattering
thousands of windows. Some 1,500 people were injured, and shock
waves caused a ribbon of damage extending 55 miles on either
side of the meteor’s path. Witnesses  thought  a nuclear war was
upon them. Luckily, no one died.  This incident alone might not be cause to start worrying
about death by asteroid. But new research suggests that space
rocks as large as the one that fell over Chelyabinsk -- about 19
meters (62 feet) across -- are three to five times more numerous
than scientists had realized. The  study , led by  Peter Brown  at
the  University of Western Ontario , also found that larger and
more dangerous ones are unexpectedly abundant.  In other words, alien projectiles pose a serious threat. Is
it a manageable one?  For decades, astronomers have focused on the dangers posed
by very large asteroids. Starting in 1998, NASA led an effort to
catalog “near-Earth objects” at least a kilometer in diameter
-- big enough to cause a global catastrophe if they collided
with Earth. About 90 percent of these have  been identified . Yet
smaller, Chelyabinsk-sized objects are harder to find.
Scientists estimate there are more than a million of them
nearby, and only  about a thousand  have so far been found.
Locating and tracking every one isn’t practical. So what to do?  Astronomers at the University of Hawaii are working on one
solution. Their system,  called ATLAS , will deploy eight small
telescopes to survey the entire sky twice each night in search
of incoming asteroids, starting in 2015. ATLAS won’t peer as
deeply into space as other detection systems -- such as the  Pan-STARRS  facility, which hunts for “killer asteroids” that are
decades from colliding with Earth -- but it should find imminent
threats more efficiently. If it works as planned, an
international network of such systems could offer low-cost early
warning.  The next question is how to prepare for any strike we see
coming. Another new  study , which analyzed the Chelyabinsk
meteor’s trajectory and behavior in detail, should help. With
better knowledge of how alien objects fall when they enter
Earth’s atmosphere, it should be possible to determine the
likely path of the next meteor, ensure people in harm’s way are
informed or evacuated, and prepare an emergency response. With a
few days’ warning in Chelyabinsk, officials could have urged
residents simply to stay away from windows; shattered glass
caused almost all the reported injuries.  Larger asteroids, though, remain a different story.  NASA 
and other space watchers are making progress on their next goal
of cataloging near-Earth objects larger than 140 meters, but the
cosmos is still full of nasty surprises. In just the past few
weeks, NASA has discovered three huge new space rocks, two of
them  initially estimated  to be 20 kilometers wide. Although
these won’t threaten Earth any time soon, the find was alarming.
If such a behemoth was on a collision course with Earth,
disaster planning wouldn’t be enough: We’d need a strategy for
deflecting it.  With enough warning, that actually wouldn’t be so hard.
NASA has suggested several  plausible options , including hitting
an incoming asteroid with a spacecraft or a nuclear weapon.
Unfortunately, it’s hard to get people to take this idea
seriously. (For one thing, it suffers by association with a
lamentable Bruce Willis  film .) And Congress has yet to designate
responsibility for such a mission to any agency or take any
other substantial steps to ensure the U.S. could react quickly
to a potential threat.  The  United Nations  is  starting to  take the lead on that
front. It’s helping countries coordinate their detection
efforts, and its Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
is making plans to coordinate an international deflection
mission. That’s precisely the kind of nuts-and-bolts
bureaucratic preparation that’s needed to enable the world to
respond rapidly.  And in a cosmos roiling with hazardous and unpredictable
threats, preparation is the best defense we have.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 