-- Xi Jinping Expands Power as China Leaders Pledge Landmark Reform
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-17T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/xi-jinping-expands-power-as-china-leaders-pledge-landmark-reform.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping put his
most personal stamp yet on sweeping policy shifts in the world’s
second-largest economy, ushering the end of a decade of
consensus-based decision-making that saw reforms stagnate.  In a speech released three days after the meeting that
finished Nov. 12, Xi said “more courage” was needed to push
through the reforms, which include the creation of two powerful
committees that he’ll likely lead. A communique released at the
time used phrases he’s adopted since taking over the party last
November, focusing attention on Xi in way that didn’t occur
under his predecessor Hu Jintao.  Those changes reflect the power Xi has amassed and signal a
different approach as  China ’s leaders seek to enact reforms --
such as easing the state’s role in the economy -- that atrophied
under Hu. Changes announced after the party meeting will run up
against the interests of state-owned enterprises and local
governments that benefited from controlled interest rates and
rising land values during Hu’s time in power.  “Xi’s hold on power is evident,” Francois Godement,
senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign
Relations, said in an e-mail. “We are seeing the comeback of
personal leadership, with Xi taking sole responsibility.”  The Nov. 9-12 meeting of the party’s Central Committee laid
out an array of measures in the broadest reform pledge since
1993, when President Jiang Zemin spurred market-driven changes,
said  Yuan  Gangming, a researcher with the government-run Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences.  Decisive Role  After the meeting, the party vowed to give the market a
“decisive” role in resource allocation, according to the
communique released the day it ended. Details of the reform
plan, unveiled Nov. 15, included a pledge to encourage private
investment in state-owned enterprises and expand farmers’ land
rights.  There are also social changes: an end to the re-education
through labor system, which allowed police to imprison people
without trial, and an easing of the country’s family-planning
policy.  In a move intended to boost confidence in the party’s
ability to reform a government it controls, Xi is set to take
hold of a committee on enacting reform, as well as a new
national security committee, Godement said. That may give him
wider power to withstand opposition from entrenched interests.  There are more subtle signs of Xi’s control as well. In a
break with precedent, the speech in which Xi called for more
courage in pursuing change was published Nov. 15 alongside the
document detailing the reforms, the Beijing Youth Daily reported
Nov. 16.  China Dream  Xi’s slogan of a “China Dream,” was also included in the
document even though he only took over as party secretary a year
ago, suggesting his ideas are gaining support more quickly than
those of his predecessors, said Cheng Li, senior fellow at the
Washington-based Brookings Institution.  “It’s very clear that Xi Jinping is very much in charge of
the whole agenda,” Arthur Kroeber, Beijing-based managing
director of GaveKal Dragonomics, an economic research firm, said
by phone. “He seems to have a much stronger vision of what he
wants to accomplish and a better grasp of the bureaucratic
mechanisms for achieving what he wants to get done than his
predecessor.”  There are roadblocks built within the Chinese system to Xi
amassing further control. Decision-making is still centered on
the Politburo Standing Committee and the broader Politburo,
rather than the presidency, according to Cheng.  Mao’s Control  That consensus-driven approach marks a shift from the years
in which People’s Republic of China founder Mao Zedong wielded
complete control. After Mao, paramount leader Deng Xiaoping was
the ultimate arbiter for all major decisions.  “I would not go too far to say he is a Putin-like
figure,” Cheng said of Xi, in a reference to the dominant role
President Vladimir Putin plays in  Russia .  Even so, Xi has already made progress gathering power since
he became party secretary. Xi became chairman of the powerful
Central Military Commission after the 18th party congress last
November, unlike Hu, who had to wait two years to take over the
body.  He started an anti-corruption campaign that has snared
senior officials including the former vice chairman of the
National Development and Reform Commission, and spearheaded a
“mass line” campaign in which officials endured self-criticism
sessions in a procedure reminiscent of Mao’s political
campaigns.  Days before the plenum meeting, Xi appeared firmly in
control and confident about his role in the spotlight, according
to George Yeo, former foreign minister of  Singapore , who joined
a  group of intellectuals  to speak with the president in early
November.  “President Xi was relaxed and talked about China’s
challenges and hopes with considerable self-confidence,” Yeo
said in a phone interview. “He is obviously in command of the
situation.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  