-- China Reform Plan Sets Scene for Local Clampdown: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T04:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/xi-s-china-reform-plan-sets-scene-for-local-clampdown.html
China ’s Communist Party signaled a
bigger focus on fiscal concerns during President Xi Jinping’s
tenure, setting the scene for a clampdown to control the
finances of indebted regional authorities.  Local governments will be able to sell bonds to fund
construction and officials will be rated on measures including
borrowing levels, the party  said  Nov. 15. An easing of the one-child policy and extra land rights for farmers also featured in
the biggest package of reforms since at least the 1990s.  Tightening control over local finances and allowing new
channels for funding would limit the risk of a debt crisis
hobbling the world’s second-biggest economy, while corruption
arrests since Xi became party chief may signal that officials
ignore directives at their peril. The scale of regional debt
woes is set to be shown in an audit that the  Finance Ministry 
said was due last month although it has yet to be released.  “It requires a lot of political brute force and it’s
something you can only achieve if you are extremely vigorous,”
said Arthur Kroeber, Beijing-based managing director of economic
research firm GaveKal Dragonomics, referring to efforts to
ensure local governments toe the line. “The localities have so
much power and their incentives are so non-aligned with the
party’s grand objectives that it’s a real problem.”  Fight Corruption  The anti-corruption campaign started by Xi when he took
over as party chief last year may be a way of telling officials
and state-company bosses, “Look, this is the way it’s going to
be, and if you don’t like it, we have a lot of space in the
jails for you,” said Kroeber, who is also a fellow at the
Brookings-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy in Beijing.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI) , also known as the H-share index, rose 4.3 percent at 11:56 a.m. in  Hong Kong , poised
for the highest close since May. The benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.4 percent, following a 1.7 percent
gain on Nov. 15 ahead of the policy package’s publication.
China’s 10-year bond yield rose to the highest level since 2007.  A separate statistics-bureau report today showed new  home
prices  in China’s four major cities rose last month by the most
since January 2011, raising concern that a bubble is forming as
a lack of new nationwide property curbs emboldens buyers.  In a Nov. 1 speech on local-government reform, Premier  Li Keqiang  said some authorities, in their own self-interest, had
only paid lip service to changes demanded by the central
government, according to a  transcript  published in the China
Daily newspaper. Local authorities must not be allowed to “play
tricks or conduct reform as a mere formality,” he said.  Decisive Role  The fiscal proposals were agreed to at a four-day Communist
Party meeting ending Nov. 12 that laid out economic and social
reforms for the next decade, with pledges to reduce the state’s
role in the economy and make markets “decisive” in allocating
resources.  Pledges listed in a 60-point document published three days
after the meeting, known as the third plenum, included
establishing market-determined prices for resources, boosting
private-sector and foreign investment, and encouraging
urbanization by scaling back the hukou, or household
registration system, to allow rural migration to smaller cities.  The party listed fiscal and  tax reform  as the fifth out of
16 main points in its document, describing finance as a
foundation and important pillar of the country’s governance and
which guarantees long-term stability. Among proposed changes are
making budgets more transparent, improving transfer payments,
setting up risk-warning and debt-management systems for central
and local governments and speeding up legislation on a property
tax, according to the document.  Spending, Taxes  Currently local governments are responsible for 80 percent
of spending while getting about 40 percent of tax revenue,
according to the China 2030 report published last year by the
World Bank and Development Research Center of the State Council.  “Right now the situation is totally unfair for local
governments -- they have to bear most of the burden and they get
a small proportion of the  tax revenue ,” said William Overholt,
senior fellow at the Harvard University Asia Center in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “Changes to the hukou system would
put a bigger burden on city and town governments and with all
these social services to offer it would just sink the finances
of localities that are already seriously strained.”  Fiscal and tax reforms will broaden local governments’
sources of income, helping to reduce local fiscal risk “and
return local government finances to a more sustainable path,”
Liu Li-Gang and Zhou Hao, China economists at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., wrote in a report yesterday.  “At
this stage, the local government debt is still manageable as the
local governments still own a large amount of assets on their
balance sheet.”  Rising Debt  Liu and Zhou estimate that the audit of local government
liabilities ordered by the State Council in July will show total
debt of 14 trillion  yuan  ($2.3 trillion).  Liu Yuhui , a
researcher at the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , estimated
in September the debt could be as high as 20 trillion yuan.  Both figures would be higher than the end-2010 total of
10.7 trillion yuan given by the National Audit Office in a
report published in June 2011, which amounted to 27 percent of
gross domestic product. The financing arms of municipal
authorities, known as local government financing vehicles, owed
banks 9.7 trillion yuan, or 14 percent of all loans in mid-2013,
according to figures from the China Banking Regulatory
Commission.  The yield on  government bonds  due August 2023 increased
five basis points today to 4.65 percent, according to prices
from the National Interbank Funding Center. China’s 10-year
yield reached a record 4.66 percent in November 2007, the
highest in ChinaBond data going back to September 2007.  Pilot Program  China began a trial program in 2011 to let some local
governments sell bonds directly and expanded the pilot in June,
allowing Shandong and Jiangsu provinces to join Zhejiang and
Guangdong plus the cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen. A proposal
that would have allowed authorities to sell bonds within an
approved quota was dropped from a revision of the budget law in
June 2012.  In a further attempt to rein in local debt and push local
governments to obey the reform mandates set by the party,
officials will be evaluated less on  economic growth  and more on
borrowing levels, welfare improvements, controlling overcapacity
and environmental degradation, according to the Nov. 15 party
document.  Fish Tower  While Xi’s officials are trying to limit wasteful outlays
and vanity projects, the latest local-government spending to
generate public concern is the construction of a giant, metal
“puffer fish tower,” intended to be a tourist attraction, in
one of the nation’s most-indebted provinces, Jiangsu.  “If you can get the fiscal arrangements right and give
localities enough financial incentives to do the right thing
then you have a better chance of succeeding” with reforms, said
Kroeber of GaveKal Dragonomics. “If you have these localities
that are in hock up to the neck with debts that they can’t pay
and you are the central government and you want these guys to do
something, well, that gives you a certain amount of leverage.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  