-- Yeo’s Lures Suitors Seeing to Win Over Owners: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-11-18T10:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-17/yeo-s-lures-suitors-seeing-to-win-over-owners-real-m-a.html
Yeo Hiap Seng Ltd. (YHS)  would be among
the most alluring targets in Asia’s booming drinks market if it
weren’t for the Singaporean company’s controlling family.  With a factory in  China  and sites planned for  Cambodia  and
 Indonesia , Yeo’s offers acquirers a ready-made distribution
network, said CMC Markets. The $1.18 billion seller of soy milk
and chilled melon tea has more than doubled its  profit  in two
years, and rivals such as  Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  are
seeking food and drinks assets in  emerging markets .  The biggest hurdle to any deal may be the Ng family, which
has rebuffed bids for its majority stake in Yeo’s, said people
familiar with the approaches. Even after  stock-price gains  since
the financial crisis, Yeo’s  trades  at a cheaper valuation
relative to its  cash flow  than most Asian peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. While the family may resist selling
at such levels, there still may be interested buyers, said
Malayan Banking Bhd.  “They have great distribution, a household name and
revenue growth,” said Kelly Teoh, market analyst at IG Asia Pte
in  Singapore . “There aren’t many household names left that have
very strong branding and a story to go with it.”  Founded by Yeo Keng Lian in 1900, the company first sold
soy sauce from a shop in Zhangzhou in southeastern China, its
 website  says. After moving to Singapore in 1935, the business
expanded and Yeo’s products now include soy milk, chrysanthemum
tea and canned chicken curry.  Market Access  Singapore and  Malaysia  accounted for 86 percent of Yeo’s
revenue in 2012, while China and  Hong Kong  generated 4 percent,
according to its latest  annual report . Sales climbed 28 percent
and  profit  soared 65 percent to S$70.4 million ($56 million).  “It’s quite a growth segment,” Desmond Chua, a market
analyst at CMC Markets in Singapore, said by phone. Yeo’s appeal
as an acquisition target is “definitely access to those
markets, and China.”  Accenture Plc  expects food and beverage consumption in
Yeo’s largest markets to keep soaring as the wealthier middle
class expands. Tapping that demand, Yeo’s will set up
manufacturing plants in Cambodia by 2015 and in Indonesia by
2016, the company said in its annual report. A new Chinese plant
in Sanshui, Guangdong, was completed in January, it said.  Willing Seller?  While Yeo’s, controlled by the Ng family’s  Far East
Organization , is an enticing target, that’s no guarantee of a
deal, said James Koh, an analyst at Maybank in Singapore.  “They would be of interest to acquirers interested in
boosting their presence in this part of the world,” he said in
a phone interview. “Whether  Far East  would sell is another
story. They don’t really need the money.”  Singapore’s largest closely held developer, Far East bought
most of Yeo’s in 1995 with a bid from founder Ng Teng Fong that
valued Yeo’s at about S$760 million. He was the city’s richest
man when he died in 2010 at the age of 82.  Far East controls at least 65 percent of Yeo’s, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  A representative for Far East in Singapore said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation, as did a representative for
Yeo’s.  Yeo’s  share price  has climbed 46 percent since the end of
2009. Even so, the company is trading at just 14 times the free
cash flow it generated in the past 12 months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Among 22 peers in  Asia  with a market value
greater than $1 billion, including Tokyo-based Suntory Beverage
& Food, only one trades more cheaply.  Its shares rose as much as 4 percent in Singapore trading
today, the most in more than five months, before closing 2
percent higher at S$2.55.  Suntory Spree  Suntory Beverage & Food, the maker of Orangina, said in
July it’s prepared to spend as much as $4.9 billion on
acquisitions, mostly in emerging nations, to cut reliance on its
home market. The company in September agreed to pay 1.35 billion
pounds ($2.1 billion) to buy the Lucozade and Ribena brands from
GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi this year took
over Fraser & Neave Ltd., a Singapore conglomerate with
investments from food to publishing, in a S$13.8 billion deal.  F&N, which is focusing on its food and beverage businesses
after deciding to spin off its property unit, is looking for
acquisitions in the sector, its chief financial officer Hui Choon Kit said in August.  “If you look at the Asia Pacific, on a long-term basis
it’s an attractive market,” Andy Sim, an analyst at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said in a phone interview. “It’s
the pursuit of growth, distribution and brands.”  Consumer spending  on food and beverages in  Southeast Asia 
will jump to about $350 billion in 2020 from less than $200
billion in 2000, according to a 2011  report  by Accenture.  That potential may be enough to entice overseas and
domestic buyers for Yeo’s, said Chua at CMC Markets.  “It’s attractively priced,” he said. “We might get
foreign bids.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  