-- Anthony, Pierce Address Boston Bombings Before NBA Playoff Game
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-20T20:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/anthony-pierce-address-boston-bombings-before-nba-playoff-game.html
Carmelo Anthony of the New York
Knicks and Paul Pierce of the  Boston  Celtics teamed up today
prior to their National Basketball Association playoff game to
address the events in Boston this week.  It’s both teams’ second game since three people were killed
and at least 175 were injured by a pair of bombs at the Boston
Marathon on April 15. One of the suspects in the attack was
taken into custody last night, while the other was killed in an
altercation with police early yesterday morning, as most of
Boston and surrounding towns was put into lockdown.  Fans at New York’s Madison Square Garden stood and clapped
as the Boston Fire Department color guard presented the American
flag at center court, and stayed on their feet as Anthony and
Pierce stood together and spoke to the crowd.  “We want to let Boston know we send our prayers to them,”
Anthony said. “We as New Yorkers understand what you guys are
going through.”  The arrest last night of Dzhokar Tsarnaev, one of the
suspects in the marathon bombing, ended a five-day manhunt. The
19-year-old had previously eluded capture during a shootout with
police in which his 26-year-old brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, also
suspected of carrying out the attacks, was killed.  Home games last night for the National Hockey League’s
Boston Bruins and Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox were
canceled during the lockdown. Boston College’s spring football
game scheduled for today was also cancelled, along with numerous
other athletic events in the area.  Important Area  Former New York law enforcement officials said earlier this
week that the block that contains Madison Square Garden and Penn
Station was one of the most important areas in the city’s
security planning. The arena sits atop the train station, which
services roughly 600,000 travelers per day, and across 8th
Avenue from the city’s main post office.  Fans at today’s game said that while security may have been
more thorough than usual, there was nothing noticeably
different. Nancy Anderson, a Manhattan resident at the game with
her husband, said she would have been fine with whatever
security the arena deemed necessary.  “In times like this caution is always warranted,”
Anderson said in an interview.  The Celtics yesterday pledged $200,000 to support the  One
Fund Boston Inc.  in its assistance of families affected by the
bombings and their aftermath. The team wore yellow warm-up
shirts that said “Boston Stands as One,” and a patch on their
jerseys.  “I think when you go through tragedy as a city you kind of
look for something to cling on,” Pierce, 35, said yesterday on
the team’s website. “They’re going to be watching closely.
There’s just a sense of pride about the city, a sense of pride
about this team, to go out there and kind of play well and to do
the best we can for the city in the wake of the tragedy.”  ‘Sweet Caroline’  Fans at Yankee Stadium earlier this week observed a moment
of silence to honor the victims of the bombings and sang along
to “Sweet Caroline,” a staple at division-rival Boston Red Sox
home games. Red Sox fans at Fenway Park after attacks on Sept.
11, 2001, sang “New York, New York,” a Yankees tradition.  The Yankees this week also placed a sign on their stadium
with both teams’ logos and the words “United We Stand.”
Anderson said many New York sports fans felt that way.  “We’re rivals in every sport, Red Sox-Yankees, Rangers-
Bruins, Knicks-Celtics, but it’s important to keep it all in
perspective,” she said in an interview.  Celtics Booed  The sentiment was not shared by all at the Garden. Some
fans booed Pierce before he spoke and a much louder chorus of
boos came during the Celtics’ introduction. The teams last met
in a playoff series in 2011, with Boston sweeping New York in
four games.  Andre Richburg, a New Jersey resident who lived in the area
following the 9/11 attacks, said sports can help in the wake of
tragedy.  “It brings people together,” Richburg, a Knicks fan since
1988, said in an interview at the game. “If you’re able to get
your mind off of things for a few hours and stop watching the
news that can be really meaningful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  