-- Anthony Scores 36 as Knicks Top Celtics 85-78 to Open Playoffs
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-21T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/anthony-scores-36-as-knicks-beat-celtics-85-78-to-open-playoffs.html
Carmelo Anthony  scored a game-high
36 points as the  New York Knicks  rallied to beat the  Boston 
Celtics 85-78 in the opening game of their National Basketball
Association playoff series.  The NBA’s scoring champion, Anthony added six rebounds and
four steals, while Knicks guard J.R. Smith scored 15 points at
New York’s Madison Square Garden. Celtics forward  Jeff Green 
scored a team-high 26 points in the loss.  The crowd of 19,033 stood for the final three minutes of
the victory, New York’s first win to open a playoff series since
2001. The Celtics had as many fourth-quarter turnovers -- eight
-- as they did points.  “In the playoffs the first game is always one of the
biggest games, especially when you’re at home,” Knicks guard
 Raymond Felton  said. “We knew Boston was going to come in here
and wasn’t going to lay down, but that’s playoff basketball and
we grinded it out.”  It was both teams’ second game since three people were
killed and at least 175 were injured by a pair of bombs at the
Boston Marathon on April 15. One of the suspects in the attack
was taken into custody two nights ago as most of Boston and
surrounding towns was put into lockdown, while the other was
killed in an altercation with police earlier on April 19.  The Celtics, who practiced at  Columbia University  while the
events were unfolding, warmed up in yellow t-shirts that said
“Boston Stands as One” and wore patches on their jerseys.
Anthony and Celtics forward  Paul Pierce  addressed the crowd
prior to the game.  “Our prayers go out to the families and the city of
Boston,” Anthony said after the game. “In a situation like
today, we are one. It’s all about the U.S., it’s our country,
and it’s sad that we have to go through unfortunate tragedies
like that.”  ‘M-V-P, M-V-P’  The second seed in the Eastern Conference behind  LeBron James  and the defending-champion  Miami Heat , the Knicks won the
 Atlantic Division  this year for the first time in 19 seasons.
New York has not won a playoff series since 2000.  A six-time All-Star, Anthony averaged 28.7 points per game
this season to become the first Knick since Bernard King in 1985
to win an NBA scoring title. The crowd chanted “M-V-P, M-V-P”
after he scored his final points, a jump shot from the corner
that gave the Knicks a seven-point lead with 1:21 remaining.  “He made the plays that we needed him to make,” Knicks
coach  Mike Woodson  said in a press conference.  “That’s what
the great ones do.”  9-0 Run  Green paced Boston to a 53-49 halftime lead, scoring 20
points in the first two quarters on 7-of-10 shooting. The lead
grew to as much as seven during the third quarter, before the
Knicks went on a 9-0 run, punctuated by a three-point play by
Kenyon Martin that brought the crowd to its feet with 9:26
remaining in the game. Boston never led again.  “It was the first playoff game and I’m pretty sure guys
were anxious to get out there, a lot of energy, a lot of
emotions,” Anthony said. “Once that calmed down we got back to
playing the way we’ve been playing all along.”  Pierce had 21 points and seven assists, while forward  Kevin
Garnett  added eight points and nine rebounds. New York held the
Celtics to 25 second half points, and forced 20 turnovers.  “It was a total team effort in terms of how we covered for
one another when there were breakdowns defensively in the second
half,” Woodson said.  The oldest team in the NBA, the Knicks played without guard
Pablo Prigioni, who sprained his right ankle in the last game of
the season, and Marcus Camby, who has not played this month.
Martin, who sprained his left ankle two weeks ago, played 28
minutes, and replaced center  Tyson Chandler  late in the game.  The Celtics have made the playoffs in each of the past six
seasons, winning the NBA title in 2008 and losing in the finals
in 2010. These two teams last met in a playoff series in 2011,
when Boston swept  New York  in four games.  -- Editor: Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  