-- Argentina Bondholders Reject Plan to Pay Defaulted Debt
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/argentina-bondholders-reject-plan-to-pay-defaulted-debt.html
Holders of  Argentina ’s defaulted
debt, led by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Ltd. unit,
rejected the nation’s proposal to force them to take a sharp
discount on their bonds.  The bondholders, who claim they’re owed $1.47 billion in
principal and interest, responded yesterday to Argentina’s
proposed plan, which it made in a March 29 court filing with the
federal appeals court in New York. They said the plan showed
“contempt for its obligations, the laws of the  United States ,
and the orders of U.S. courts.”  Argentina defaulted on a record $95 billion in debt in
2001. In its filing, the country offered to replace the
defaulted bonds with new ones that the bondholders claim would
be worth less than 15 percent of what they’re owed.  “Argentina’s years of defiance cannot be cured by a
convoluted offer to give appellees yet more Argentine IOUs worth
pennies on the dollar,” the bondholders said.  The filing, which came three days before it was due, paves
the way for a ruling by the appeals court in the case.  A decision forcing Argentina to pay the defaulted
bondholders immediately would expose it to $43 billion in
additional claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default, the
government claims. Top officials have vowed never to pay the
holders of its defaulted bonds, many of which bought them at a
discount as distressed debt.  Won’t Obey  Argentina has said it won’t voluntarily obey a ruling that
forces it to pay holders of the defaulted bonds. The nation’s
legislature in 2005 passed a so-called lock law barring payment.  Argentina’s March 29 proposal was similar to offers the
country made in two rounds of debt restructuring, in 2005 and
2010. The holdout creditors, who rejected the restructuring
offers, have spent more than a decade trying to enforce their
claims in court.  The creditors want the appeals court to uphold rulings by
U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan . Griesa said that
Argentina must pay them the entire amount they’re owed whenever
it makes a required payment to holders of its restructured debt.
That ruling is on appeal before a three-judge panel of the
appeals court, which heard arguments in the case in February.  The Exchange Bondholder Group, which took the deal offered
by Argentina for their bonds, claimed Griesa’s rulings threaten
their investment. More than 91 percent of bondholders agreed to
the restructuring.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit ( New York ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  