-- Boston Bomb Suspect Gets Public Defender as Charges Loom
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-20T19:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/boston-bomb-suspect-to-be-represented-by-federal-public-defender.html
Federal Public Defender Miriam
Conrad said her office will represent Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the 19-
year-old man taken into custody last night in the  Boston 
Marathon bombing probe, once charges are filed in the case.  Federal prosecutors said yesterday that a criminal
complaint in the attack, which killed three and injured more
than 170, will be filed in “the coming days.”  Christina Sterling, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz, announced her office’s plans to begin the prosecution
just hours after Tsarnaev was arrested following a manhunt
through the suburbs of Boston. Police captured him at a house in
Watertown, north of Boston, where he was hiding after an almost
24-hour chase that shut down much of the region.  Conrad’s office provides indigent criminal defense for
individuals charged with federal crimes in the states of
 Massachusetts ,  New Hampshire  and  Rhode Island .  She has represented other defendants in terrorism-related
cases, including Rezwan Ferdaus, a 27-year-old man who is
serving a 17-year sentence for terrorism conspiracy.  Ferdaus was caught in a sting operation and admitted he
planned to attack the U.S. Capitol with explosive-filled remote-
controlled airplanes.  The Boston bombing suspect and his brother, Tamerlan
Tsarnaev, 26, who was killed in a confrontation with police,
were pursued as part of a sprawling four-day investigation 
following the April 15 attack. One police officer was killed 
and another injured in exchanges of gunfire during the pursuit 
by hundreds of law enforcement personnel.  Two Bombs  The brothers are suspected of planting two bombs that
exploded about 10 seconds apart near the finish line of the
marathon.  Ortiz said last night the investigation into the attack is
“active and ongoing” and that authorities will evaluate a
“tremendous amount of evidence.”  The suspect, who police said was seriously injured, is a
patient at Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston, said
Kelly Lawman, a spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at jmlawrence@me.com;
 David McLaughlin  in Boston at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  