-- China Premier Li Flies to Quake Zone as Death Toll Jumps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-21T08:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/china-s-premier-li-flies-to-earthquake-zone-as-death-toll-rises.html
China ’s Premier  Li Keqiang  flew to
the southwestern province of Sichuan to oversee relief work as
the death toll from yesterday’s earthquake climbed to 179 and
officials struggled to help 1.5 million people affected by it.  State television showed footage of Li meeting with local
government officials and rescue teams yesterday evening,
visiting hospitals, talking to the injured and climbing over the
rubble of buildings that collapsed after the temblor struck
Lushan county, about 1,650 kilometers (1,000 miles) southwest of
Beijing.  The earthquake, measured at magnitude 6.6 by the  U.S.
Geological Survey , hit on the same fault line as a 7.9 tremor
that devastated nearby Wenchuan in May 2008. That was the
country’s deadliest seismic event in more than three decades,
leaving more than 87,000 people dead or missing including as
many as 5,335 children, according to government figures.  Li’s rush to the region a month into his first term as
premier echoes that of his predecessor  Wen Jiabao , who flew to
Wenchuan to reassure people that the Communist Party was doing
everything possible to help. Thousands of military and armed
police, firefighters, medical personnel, civilian relief workers
and emergency response teams are in the region.  “The current priority is to save lives,” Li was quoted as
saying by the official Xinhua News Agency. “We should grasp the
golden period for saving lives and waste not a moment,” he said
last night while chairing a meeting in a tent in Lushan.  The  Ministry of Civil Affairs ’s latest tally of those
injured is 11,492 and it estimates that about 1.5 million people
in Sichuan province have been affected. The ministry has already
sent relief materials including 30,000 tents, 50,000 cotton
blankets and 10,000 makeshift beds to the area, it said
yesterday.  Relief Efforts  Li reassured an injured woman who lost contact with her
husband and son that rescuers would do their best to find them,
according to a report today on the website of the official
People’s Daily newspaper. He also told a patient being treated
at a hospital in  Chengdu , “you should fully rest to recover and
don’t worry about the medical bills as the government will take
care of you,” the paper said.  Landslides cut off roads and knocked out power and phone
systems, hampering efforts by relief teams to get to villages in
the more remote areas of Lushan county. Baoxing county, an
isolated area that was one of the worst hit by the quake, was
reached today and rescuers with sniffer dogs are looking for
survivors, Xinhua reported, citing the Ministry of Public
Security’s rescue headquarters in Lushan. Many villages and
townships are still cut off, it said.  International Help  Even so, the  Ministry of Foreign Affairs  said today the
country had the resources to cope with the disaster and didn’t
need international help for now, indicating the disaster may not
be as serious as the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake.  Longmen and Qingren townships are among the worst affected
by the quake, Xinhua said, citing Jin Zelin, an official with
the provincial armed police corps. Most of the buildings in the
old urban area of Lushan county and Longmen have collapsed,
Xinhua said, citing the local government. Three other townships
in the county are cut off, it said.  Lushan, a mountainous rural area, was badly hit by the 2008
Sichuan earthquake when many houses were destroyed, according to
the  International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies .  Road Congestion  About 120,000 people are in need of temporary shelter, food
and water, Francis Markus, Beijing-based East  Asia  spokesman for
the organization, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Teams
from the China  Red Cross  trying to get to townships near the
epicenter are stuck because the road is blocked by a collapsed
house, he said. Roads are also congested with rescue vehicles,
he added.  “The first 24 hours are critical after an earthquake to
get to people who may be trapped,” Markus said. “These kinds
of problems are happening right across the area and presenting
big logistical challenges to rescue workers.”  CCTV’s  news channel  has been broadcasting live from quake
zone, interviewing officials and local people and showing
footage of rescue workers searching for survivors in collapsed
buildings and clearing roads. White tents have been erected in
public areas as medical treatment centers and temporary shelter.  Power lines  and mobile-phone base stations were knocked out
and five hydropower stations in Ya’an were disconnected, Xinhua
said yesterday.  Mining Halted  The State Administration of Work Safety ordered mining in
the region halted and the inspection of oil and gas pipelines to
avoid leaks and explosions, according to Xinhua. Sinopec Group,
Asia’s largest refiner, said no damage has been reported at its
production facilities in the area, Xinhua said.  The earthquake hasn’t affected  PetroChina Co. (857) ’s oil and gas
production or transmission operations in the area, Mao Zefeng, a
spokesman in Beijing for the country’s largest producer of oil
and natural gas, said by telephone yesterday. The company hasn’t
reported any casualties, he said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  halted production at its plant in
Chengdu yesterday and told employees to go home to ensure the
safety of their families. The factory wasn’t damaged and will
resume output tomorrow, Akihiro Yamamoto, the Aichi, Japan-based
company’s China executive coordinator said in  Shanghai  today
where he is attending an auto show.  Secondary Disasters  The temblor was felt in neighboring Chongqing municipality
and in the provinces of Guizhou, Gansu, Shaanxi and Yunnan,
Xinhua reported. As of 8 a.m. local time, the region suffered
1,165 aftershocks with three measuring magnitudes of 5.0 to 5.9,
Xinhua reported, citing the China Earthquake Administration.  Pan Huaiwen, director of the China Earthquake Networks
Center, warned of secondary disasters including landslides, mud-
rock flows and the collapse of caves and riverbanks, Xinhua said.
Western, southwestern and northwestern China are prone to
earthquakes. A magnitude 5.1 temblor struck Yunnan province on
April 17 and one measuring 5.4 hit Sichuan in January.  At least 80 people died after two magnitude 5.6 temblors
shook Yunnan and Guizhou provinces in September, according to
Xinhua reports at the time. A 6.9 quake which hit  Qinghai
province  on the Tibetan Plateau in April 2010 caused death toll
of about 2,700, data from the provincial government show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net 
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  