-- Commodities Join Global Stocks Falling in Week as Gold Drops 7%
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-04-20T00:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/commodities-join-global-stocks-falling-in-week-as-gold-drops-7-.html
China ’s weakening economic
expansion and slowing earnings growth in the U.S. sent copper
into a  bear market  and gold to the biggest weekly drop in a year
and a half, while  global stocks  fell the most in 10 months.  Gold futures slid 7 percent to $1,395.60 an ounce during
the week and copper retreated 5.6 percent in  London  for the
largest decline since December 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 commodities fell 2.5 percent, a third weekly slump.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of 45 markets fell 2.2 percent,
paring the decline yesterday with a 0.7 percent gain. Treasuries
rose, while the euro and yen weakened versus the dollar.  “We have a very negative psychology in the world
investment community,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more
than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. “We’re getting
simultaneous issues that relate to the economies around the
world, starting with the U.S. and China, which at best are mixed
economically, and then you’re getting earnings reports, which
are also at best mixed.”  Concern the U.S. Federal Reserve is considering reducing
stimulus just as markets enter a period when equities have
fallen in the last three years spurred some of the biggest
losses in 2013. The retreat follows three straight quarters of
gains for stocks globally and increases for gold in every year
since 2001.  Earnings Season  Profits at  S&P 500  companies probably dropped 1.1 percent
in the first three months of the year, the first decline since
2009, according to more than 11,000 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bank of America Corp.  reported profit that missed
projections after shortfalls in mortgage banking and trading.
International Business Machines Corp., the largest computer-
services provider, missed analysts’ earnings estimates for the
first time since 2005 as the company struggles to boost hardware
sales.  China’s GDP rose 7.7 in the first quarter from a year
earlier, compared with the 8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists and 7.9 percent growth in the
fourth quarter. March industrial production rose less than
estimated, according to a report.  “Growth outlooks are weak and the earnings season hasn’t
exactly started extremely positive,” said Kai Fachinger, who
oversees about $700 million as portfolio manager at RobecoSAM AG
in Zurich. “Many market participants have their thumbs closer
to the sell button than the buy button.”  Commodities Retreat  The S&P GSCI Index fell to the lowest level since July
during the week, led by silver, gold, lead and copper amid signs
of surplus in the commodities and concern that  China’s economy 
will slow. Silver, down 24 percent, is the worst performer this
year. Gold slid 13 percent over April 12 and April 15, the
biggest two-day retreat since 1980. Both of the precious metals
entered a bear market this month joining sugar, soybeans and
coffee.  Commodities are on the brink of a great rotation in price
performance and market leadership, Barclays Plc said in a report
on April 19. Gold and silver will be among the weakest over the
next few years, according to the London-based bank.  “Excess supply is the biggest issue so this was a
necessary correction like we saw in gold,”  Michael Strauss , who
helps oversee about $25 billion of assets as chief investment
strategist at Commonfund Group in Wilton,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “It will take a strong economic cycle to
push prices higher.”  Strategist Forecasts  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and Nabors Industries
Ltd. tumbled more than 7.8 percent amid plunging commodity
prices. Bank of America and IBM sank at least 4.2 percent for
the week. Apple Inc. declined 9.1 percent as one of its
suppliers reported an inventory glut.  The S&P 500 slid 2.1 percent during the week, the most
since November. The U.S. equity benchmark is forecast to rise
1.8 percent to 1,583 by the end of the year, according to the
average of 17 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. The gain would
give the index a 134 percent advance since the  bull market 
started in March 2009.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  in  Europe  will rise 8 percent to
308 in 2013, the average estimate of eight strategists show. The
gauge posted a weekly loss of 2.5 percent.  “Even though we’ve seen a few hiccups and stumbles here,
we’re going to continue with the global recovery,” Scott Wren,
the  St. Louis , Missouri-based senior equity strategist at Wells
Fargo Advisors LLC, which oversees about $1.2 trillion, said in
an April 18 Bloomberg Television interview. “We want to take
advantage of these pullbacks.”  Equity Volatility  U.S. stock volatility  had the biggest weekly increase of
2013 last week, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index climbed 24 percent to 14.97. The index known as the VIX
surged 46 percent in the first four days of the week, briefly
erasing its year-to-date decline, before sliding 15 percent on
April 19.  Commodity-linked currencies such as the Australian and New
Zealand dollars declined versus most of their 16 major
counterparts. The Australian dollar slid 2.2 percent to $1.0277,
while the so-called kiwi weakened 2 percent to 84.19 U.S. cents.  The yen fell for a third week against the dollar after the
Group of 20 gave  Japan  leeway to reflate its economy by
indicating the nation’s monetary stimulus plan doesn’t
contravene a pact to avoid currency devaluations. The yen
depreciated 1.2 percent to 99.52 per dollar for the week. The
Bank of Japan’s next meeting is set for April 26.  The yen will decrease to 100 versus the dollar by the end
of the year, according to the median estimate of more than 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Monetary Accommodation  “We’re looking for the yen weakening trend to continue
over the course of coming weeks,”  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London, said in
a phone interview. “The fact that we still see central banks
providing reassurance that monetary accommodation will remain in
place, that is going to provide the underlying support.”  The 10-year break-even rate, a measure of inflation
expectations derived from the difference between yields on
conventional Treasuries and index-linked securities, finished
the week at 2.32 percent. The rate had declined to 2.25 percent
on April 18, the lowest level since Sept. 4 as the cost of
living in the U.S. declined in March for the first time in four
months.  Benchmark  10-year note yields  will rise to 2.43 percent by
the start of 2013, according to the median forecast of 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Ten-year Treasury yields
traded near a four-month low last week.  “Yields are clearly very low in core sovereign bond
markets,”  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in London, said in a phone interview. “We
are concerned that momentum is starting to fade in the U.S., and
that was clearly what a lot of the rally in risk markets was
premised on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net  