-- Boston Bomb Suspect Was Under FBI Surveillance, Mother Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-20T10:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/dead-boston-bomb-suspect-was-under-fbi-surveillance-mother-says.html
The older of the two top suspects
in the Boston bombings this week had been under FBI surveillance
for at least three years, his mother said in an interview with
Russian state television broadcaster RT.  Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, who was killed in a shootout with
police a day before his brother’s capture yesterday, was
accessing extremist sites and was closely monitored by the FBI,
Zubeidat Tsarnaeva said in a phone  interview  in English from
Makhachkala, in the southern Russian region of Dagestan, posted
on the channel’s website.  “My son would never do this,” Tsarnaeva said. “He was
controlled by the FBI for three to five years, they knew what my
son was doing, they knew what actions, on what sites on the
Internet he was going,” she said. “So how could this happen?
They were controlling every step of his.”  The brothers are accused of carrying out bombings near the
finishing line of the Boston Marathon on April 15 that killed
three people and injured more than 170.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  called his U.S.
counterpart  Barack Obama  to assure him of Russia’s willingness
to work in “close coordination” on combating international
terrorism, the Kremlin said on its  website  today.  ‘Extremist Leader’  Tsarnaeva, whose younger son Dzhokar, 19, was captured
after an almost 24-hour manhunt that shut down Boston and
surrounding cities, said she had been interviewed by  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agents about Tamerlan, who had described
him as an “extremist leader.”  The brothers’ father, Anzor, also denied his sons’
involvement in the Boston attacks in an interview with Russian
state channel Rossiya 24 in Makhachkala, saying they couldn’t
“hurt a fly.”  Anzor, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal, said
he was present when the FBI interviewed Tamerlan in Cambridge.
He said they visited for what they called “prevention”
activities. “They said: We know what sites you are on, we know
where you are calling, we know everything about you.
Everything,” he said as cited in the interview.  Tamerlan, a legal resident of the U.S., flew out of the
country on a flight bound for  Russia  in January 2012 and may not
have returned until July, said two law enforcement officials
briefed on his travel.  U.S. intelligence agencies reviewing international
communications and other terrorism intelligence found no signs
that the suspected bombers were members of, or inspired by, any
foreign terror group, said a U.S. official who asked not to be
identified because those matters are classified.  Islamist Follower  Two years ago, the FBI interviewed the older brother at the
request of an unnamed foreign government “based on information
that he was a follower of radical Islam” and preparing to join
underground groups in that country, according to an agency
statement. The interview and reviews of U.S. databases turned up
no evidence of terror activity, the FBI said.  The Tsarnaev brothers and their two sisters moved to the
Dagestan region of Russia in October 2001 from the central Asian
nation of Kyrgyzstan as refugees, and left for the U.S in March
2002, said Emirmagomed Davudov, director of Gimnasium Number 1
in Dagestan, where Tamerlan went to the seventh grade and
Dzhokhar to first grade.  Chechen Websites  A profile attributed to Dzhokar on the Russian social
networking site Vkontakte has links to several Chechen-related
groups, while a Syrian jihadist video posted April 9 on his page
purportedly shows images of atrocities in  Syria  and ends with
the Russian phrase, “Syria calls. We answer.”  “If he posted them himself, that shows that his interest
in global jihad was quite serious,” Grigory Shvedov, chief
editor of  Caucasian Knot , a Moscow-based research group that
tracks the situation in the North and South Caucasus, said by
phone today. Caucasian Knot hasn’t identified any members of the
brothers’ family who are leaders or prominent members of
Islamist militant groups in the region, Shvedov said.  Ruslan Tsarni, their uncle in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said
his brother’s children arrived in Cambridge when they immigrated
in 2003. Asked for a possible motive for the attacks, Tsarni
said they were “losers not being able to settle themselves and
thereby just hating everybody who did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  