-- Dubai Holding’s Private Equity Unit Hires Deloitte Executives
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-04-20T08:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/dubai-holding-s-private-equity-unit-hires-deloitte-executives.html
Dubai International Capital LLC
hired five executives from Deloitte & Touche LLP as the private
equity firm seeks to increase the value of its investments in
companies including Mauser AG and Doncasters Group Ltd.  Richard Clarke will lead the newly-created portfolio
monitoring group whose work will include due diligence on
financing, refinancing, bolt-on-acquisitions and eventual sale,
the company owned by Dubai’s ruler said in a statement. The team
will also include Raj Mehta as director and three senior
associates from Deloitte Corporate Finance.  Dubai International Capital, owned by Sheikh Mohammed Bin
Rashid Al Maktoum’s Dubai Holding LLC, last year reached an
accord to alter terms of $2.5 billion of liabilities. The
company was one of several government-related entities that
restructured terms on debt after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 roiled credit markets and triggered a
slump in the emirate’s real-estate prices.  The private equity firm’s investments include stakes in
Mauser, Doncasters, Almatis GmbH and  Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group LLC (OZM) ,  according to information  on its website. It  exited
investments  in Travelodge Ltd., Tussauds Group and  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC)  among others.  “This very experienced team will deepen and broaden our
ability to develop our portfolio companies,” Dubai
International Capital’s Chief Executive Officer David Smoot said
in the statement. The team will help the company “ensure our
businesses are well-positioned for growth and, when the time is
right, are able to command strong valuations at sale,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  