-- Tech Revenue Dwindles as EZchip Tumbles: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-04-21T14:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/tech-revenue-dwindles-as-ezchip-tumbles-israel-overnight.html
Israeli  technology companies , the
worst performers among the nation’s U.S.-listed stocks this
year, are poised to post the slowest sales growth since 2009 as
 Europe ’s recession cuts spending on phones to computers.  Allot (ALLT)  Communications Ltd. and  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  are
driving a 4.9 percent slide in a group of 11 technology stocks
on the Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index. The measure of the
largest Israeli companies traded in the U.S. fell 2.6 percent
last week, trimming its annual advance to 1.8 percent.  Syneron
Medical Ltd. (ELOS)  plunged 9.8 percent in the five-day period.  Revenue for technology companies on the Israel-US gauge
rose 5.9 percent in the first quarter, the least since April-
June 2009, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to SAP AG say corporate
demand for technology is waning as businesses cut spending amid
the global slowdown. Europe,  Israel ’s second-largest trading
partner, accounted for 23 percent of the listed companies’ sales
last year, data collated by Bloomberg show.  “Europe is still a big drag on the market,”  Jay Srivatsa ,
an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in New York who covers
companies including EZchip and Tower Semiconductor Ltd., said by
phone April 19. “Spending is just not there. Many large
companies don’t know if they’re completely out of the woods or
when the overall market’s going to turn.”  Already Reported  The euro-zone economy contracted 0.9 percent in the first
quarter, according to the median of 33 economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Allot’s 38 percent plunge and EZchip’s 35 percent tumble
contributed the most to this year’s 4.9 percent slump in the
group of Israeli technology companies, compared to a 0.7 percent
retreat in the Standard & Poor’s Information Technology Sector
Index.  The benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  was little changed at 1,203.37 at
the close today in  Tel Aviv .  SAP AG, the largest maker of business-management software,
projected on April 19 a difficult market for its government
business amid spending cuts. Verizon Communications Inc. said on
a conference call April 18 that corporate services, such as
voice and data transport, were declining.  Microsoft Corp. reported no gains in Windows sales in its
latest quarter, as International Business Machines Corp. said
it’s struggling to boost hardware sales. PC shipments plummeted
14 percent in the first quarter, the worst decline since
researcher IDC began tracking data in 1994.  Biggest Drop  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , maker of gear used to test televisions and
smartphones, will see the biggest sales drop among technology
companies on the Israel-US Index in the first quarter, with
revenue slipping 9.8 percent from a year ago to $90.4 million,
according to the mean estimate of four analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Allot, which has the worst year-to-date performance on the
Israel-US Index, will post sales increasing 13 percent, the
slowest since the third quarter of 2009. EZchip’s sales will
increase 4.9 percent in the first quarter, according to the mean
of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The Israeli chipmaker
has dropped 35 percent this year.  Radware Ltd., maker of network technology, has dropped 26
percent after the company reported first-quarter profit that was
at least 10 cents a share below its forecast on April 5. The Tel
Aviv-based company’s $45 million revenue in the first three
months of the year was below projections as sales from  China  and
the Europe,  Middle East  and Africa region declined, Radware said
in a statement.  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. dropped to 12.9
times estimated earnings on April 19, the lowest since Nov. 16.
The Tel Aviv-based security networks maker is the first company
in the gauge to report earnings on  April 22 .  Neither of the analysts who cover  Ituran Location and
Control Ltd.  publishes earnings estimates, so the Azur, Israel-
based company was not included in the industry data.  ‘Seasonably Low’  The last time sales were slower than they’re projected to
be in the this year’s first quarter, shares of the 11 technology
companies in the Israel-US Index gained an average of 31 percent
in the following three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Analysts from Oppenheimer & Co. to Needham & Co. say that
revenues should improve in the second half of the year.  “The first quarter is seasonably low,” Andrew Uerkwitz,
analyst at Oppenheimer said by telephone on April 19. Within the
Israel-US Index, he covers Orbotech and EZchip and rates them
both the equivalent of buy. “The Israeli companies are well-
positioned to capture any uptick in the economy. There’s nothing
inherently wrong with these companies. It’s really macro-driven
right now.”  Israel, whose population of 8 million is similar in size to
 Switzerland ’s, is home to more startups per capita than the U.S.
and has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the most
of any country outside the U.S. after China.  Syneron, Caesarstone  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  dropped 2.6 percent
last week, the biggest decline since July, to 87.95.  Syneron Medical Ltd. fell 9.8 percent to $8.87, the largest
drop on the gauge. The maker of skin treatment devices announced
on April 17 that co-founder and Chairman Shimon Eckhouse will
replace Louis Scafuri as CEO.  Caesarstone Sdot Yam Ltd. dropped 2 percent last week to
$22.30, the lowest since Feb. 8. The maker of quartz-based
countertops will continue with plans to expand globally after
Tene Investment Funds Ltd. sold most of its stake, Chief
Executive Officer Yosef Shiran said April 19 in an interview
from  New Orleans .  Prolor Biotech Inc. had the biggest gain last week,
advancing 2.6 percent to $5.56. Shares in Tel Aviv today added 2
percent to 20.57 shekels, or $5.66.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  