-- EU Rebuts Austerity-Obsessed Image, Defends Growth Plans
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-20T19:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/eu-rebuts-austerity-obsessed-image-defends-growth-plans.html
European officials sought to
convince policy makers from the rest of the world that they’re
not cutting budgets at the expense of stronger growth.  As the U.S. and others prodded the 27-nation bloc to play a
bigger role in the global recovery, European Union participants
in  Washington  this week offered a united front in defense of
their push to rein in fiscal deficits and revamp their
workforces.  There is a “misunderstanding” that the EU and the euro
zone are “only fixated on austerity,” Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem told reporters today at the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund’s spring meetings. He said the EU
will slow down the pace of debt-cutting efforts to accommodate
challenges, giving crisis-stricken nations such as Portugal more
time if necessary.  Five euro-area nations have so far sought bailouts during a
financial crisis that has left 19 million workers without jobs
and required trillions of euros in financial-sector assistance.
The euro area’s response has focused on lowering national debts,
even as forecasts project a second straight year of economic
contraction.  The IMF lowered its global growth outlook and called for
the European Central Bank to pursue an “aggressive monetary”
policy. The fund projected a 0.3 percent euro-area contraction
this year, accompanied by a world growth forecast of 3.3 percent
that was lower than a prior estimate of 3.5 percent.  Stalled Growth  “Despite some progress, we cannot unmistakably declare
that the worst is behind us,” Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said in a statement today, citing some countries in
 Europe  showing “signs of weakness and inability to grow
consistently.”  Other officials outside the continent urged their European
colleagues to find an appropriate balance.  “It’s a question of how much and how quickly, and for some
of them there’s no reason to rush into up-front, heavily loaded
fiscal consolidation,” IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde,
a former French finance minister, told Bloomberg Television two
days ago.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, in a statement, said
weak domestic demand has undercut the euro-area’s efforts to
return to growth. He said it will be vital for export-oriented
economies to step up to protect Europe from being crushed under
its so-called austerity strategies.  ‘Rebalancing’  “Stronger demand in Europe is critical to global growth,”
Lew said yesterday. “It is vital to see rebalancing within the
euro area with surplus economies contributing more to demand in
order to ease the periphery’s adjustment process, avoid
austerity fatigue, and renew Europe’s economic vibrancy.”  The Group of 20 economies said in a statement yesterday
that the euro-area’s “foundations of economic and monetary
union should be enhanced, including through an urgent movement
towards banking union, further reducing financial fragmentation,
and continued strengthening of banks’ balance sheets.”  While acknowledging Europe’s diminished growth outlook, EU
officials affirmed their commitment to long-term changes.  “One has to admit that the euro zone as a whole has the
lowest growth rate worldwide. On the other hand we can also show
that the euro zone achieved significant structural
improvements,” said European Central Bank Governing Council
member Ewald Nowotny, in an interview today. “For Europe, the
question of how faster growth can be achieved is the central
question indeed.”  ECB’s Scope  ECB President Mario Draghi said yesterday that economic
conditions in Europe haven’t improved since the ECB’s last
meeting on April 4. ECB Governing Council member Klaas Knot told
reporters yesterday that there’s little room to maneuver, and
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann today warned that central
bank action must be handled carefully.  “Monetary policy is no cure-all for the economic
difficulties we’re currently facing,” Weidmann said in an
interview.  Weidmann said he welcomed that this weekend’s meetings put
a spotlight on the risks associated with the “ongoing expansive
monetary policies” in some regions of the world, adding the
Bundesbank has time and again pointed to the “risks and side-
effects” that low interest rates can have over an extended
period of time.  Structural Change  Angel Gurria , head of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, said focusing too much on ECB
actions or debt-reduction progress distracts from the central
issues facing the EU outlook.  “It’s not fiscal policy, its not monetary policy, it’s
structural change that has to happen,” Gurria said in an
interview.  EU officials played up their efforts to shore up their
financial sector, while also airing some of their internal
disagreements about how to proceed.  Germany  renewed its call for
treaty changes before proceeding with some steps of its banking
union plan, which began this year with an agreement to put the
ECB in charge of euro-area bank supervision.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble and central bank
chief Weidmann said treaty changes are needed to put a future
European banking union on a sound legal footing. French Finance
Minister Pierre Moscovici countered that existing treaties
provide enough of a legal basis to proceed, a view shared by the
Brussels-based European Commission.  “We want a full banking union and we want it fast,”
Moscovici said.  Schaeuble, who used the meeting to highlight
“growth-friendly” deficit-reduction policies he’s pursued at
home and to urge consolidation elsewhere, said that when it
comes to austerity, “we have a little bit different opinions
all over the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  