-- Texas Blast Takes Toll on Two Small-Town Institutions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-20T00:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/texas-blast-takes-toll-on-two-small-town-institutions.html
The fertilizer-plant explosion that
killed at least 14 people and injured almost one of every 10
residents of West,  Texas , also pulverized two of the city’s
beloved institutions: its schools and volunteer fire department.  At least five firefighters -- about 15 percent of its force
-- are feared dead from the April 17 blast at Adair Grain Inc.’s
warehouse. Three of the five public schools remain closed. Those
blows, plus injuries to 200 people and 35 others still missing,
have broken hearts across this rural community of 2,800 people.  “These are the institutions of this town,” said Joann
Williams, 70, who was making a banana-and-fudge ice cream sundae
when her ceiling caved in from the explosion. “The schools and
the firefighters put on big dinners and fundraisers and help
everyone out. It’s a family oriented, close-knit town.”  A largely Catholic community, West traces its roots to
Czech immigrants who settled in central Texas to farm wheat and
corn, according to the West Chamber of Commerce website. The
city hosts an annual polka festival and, thanks to Texas
lawmakers, is home to the official state kolache, a fruit-filled
pastry available in the town’s several Czech bakeries.  Descendants of the Czech farmers moonlight as volunteer
firefighters to give back to the community, about 80 miles (129
kilometers) south of  Dallas , said Ronnie Sykora, a former
volunteer firefighter, like his father.  “A lot of the guys start when they’re 18 or 20 years old
and spend their whole life there,” said Sykora, whose family
owns the local Ford dealership. “It’s a camaraderie that keeps
them there.”  Costly Rebuilding  The same sense of community will pull the school district
through its crisis, said Marty Crawford, superintendent of
schools.  “It’s going to be an adventure for all of us,” Crawford
said at an April 18 news conference.  Rebuilding promises to be a costly task for the town. West,
which had revenues of $855,000 in 2004, lost three fire trucks
and an emergency medical services vehicle in the blast, said
Sergeant Jason Reyes, a spokesman for the Texas Department of
Public Safety. A new  fire truck  can cost hundreds of thousands
of dollars.  The city might qualify for block grants from the Texas
Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples
said in a statement. City officials were unavailable to give
more-current estimates of West’s finances. City hall was being
staffed by volunteers, and the mayor was working on relief
efforts.  Revenue Decline  The West Independent School District listed $13 million in
long-term general-obligation debt as of Aug. 31, 2012 financial
statements. The district’s revenue decreased by almost $4
million last year to $13.3 million as of Aug. 31, documents
show.  Janie Salazar, 57, said her three grandchildren have
excelled in West public schools since the kids moved from Dallas
two years ago.  “They love their school,” said Salazar, who cleans houses
in West. “The teachers and everybody are very good and
friendly. They’re great.”  One of the volunteer firefighters who died was an employee
of the plant, said Donald Adair, owner of Adair Grain Inc., in a
statement. Law enforcement officials have confirmed no names of
the fatalities.  “The selfless sacrifice of first responders who died
trying to protect all of us is something I will never get
over,” Adair said. ”I was devastated to learn that we lost one
of our employees in the explosion. He bravely responded to the
fire at the facility as a volunteer firefighter. I will never
forget his bravery and his sacrifice, or that of his colleagues
who rushed to the trouble.”  Heart Destroyed  The department includes business owners, city employees and
retirees, said Jeff Clark, a machinist at Westex Custom Fire
Apparatus, a West-based company that services and builds fire
trucks. Clark said West firefighters include Marty Marak, owner
of a heating-and-air conditioning business, and Mayor Tommy
Muska.  Muska, a firefighter for 26 years, said it was
“devastating” to lose so many colleagues. “The heart of the
department has been destroyed,” he said.  The department, established in 1894 as West Hose Company
#1, has 33 firefighters, according to its website. Firefighters
collected half of the money to build the firehouse in 2003 with
fundraisers like the Annual West Fire Department BBQ Cook-off.  Generous Givers  “People in West are very generous for their churches and
worthy local causes, but for themselves they are very
conservative,” said Georgia Hutyra, president of the History of
West Museum, which is planning a museum in the downtown area to
open next year. “Everybody keeps their places looking nice, but
you don’t see a lot of flamboyant shows of wealth.”  The town’s generosity was evident yesterday as cars, SUVs
and  pickup trucks  lined up about a half-mile to the rodeo
grounds outside West, where volunteers used forklifts to sort
mounds of donations under a 120-by-120 foot awning. Other
volunteers packed the donated items into family-sized cartons of
diapers, clothes and toiletries.  Once people’s immediate needs are met, the town will have a
longer-term need for construction materials and cash to help
rebuild, said Jim Gerik, a spokesman for the volunteer group
collecting donations.  Even in good times, small towns have a hard time paying for
heavy equipment such as fire trucks, and West lost three of
them, Gerik said.  Family Tradition  “My dad was the fire marshal for 30 years, and I know what
kind of a thing it is to get a new fire truck,” he said. “It’s
a big deal.”  Two local banks were accepting cash donations, and a
website,  www.pointwestbank.com , has a dedicated link that
accepts donations to help rebuild the schools and the town.  Sykora, who’s also a deacon at  St. Mary’s Catholic Church
of the Assumption , said there was a brotherhood among the
firefighters.  “To see young men we’ve known for so many years, men with
families and children, lose their lives is just a heartbreak,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in West, Texas at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in West, Texas at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  