-- Fresh Blood on Boat Leads Resident to Uncover Tsarnaev’s Refuge
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-04-20T04:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/fresh-blood-on-boat-leads-resident-to-uncover-tsarnaev-s-refuge.html
Residents of Watertown had been
cooped up all day as police combed their streets, yards and
homes for the second suspect in the  Boston Marathon bombings .  Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19, ran after his older brother, Tamerlan
Tsarnaev, died in a hail of police gunfire about 1 a.m.
yesterday. Watertown and much of Boston was on lockdown, with
residents told by police to “shelter in place.”  Finally, just before 5:30 p.m., Governor  Deval Patrick 
offered relief: Residents -- cautiously -- could go about their
business. After a day of scouring the area, it was safe enough
for that, Patrick and law enforcement authorities said.  “We do not have an apprehension of our suspect this
afternoon, but we will have one,” Massachusetts State Police
Timothy Alben promised.  There was one problem, said Sue Lund, who lives on Franklin
Street: “They missed the boat.”  David Henneberry, who lives on the street in a white,
three-story Victorian home, heard Patrick’s message and stepped
outside for fresh air.  Something wasn’t right.  Henneberry’s boat, covered for the winter on a trailer in
the backyard, looked different, his neighbor, George Pizzuto,
told Bloomberg Television yesterday evening.  Henneberry retrieved a ladder from his garage and started
to open the cover, Pizzuto said.  There was blood. And he saw a person.  Sudden Standoff  He quickly backed away and called police. It was about 6
p.m., Pizzuto said.  After Henneberry’s 911 call, police returned to the L-
shaped street, setting up a perimeter around the Henneberry
house.  Police escorted Henneberry and his wife, Beth, from their
property, Pizzuto said. A hostage negotiation team was brought
in, said  Boston  Police Commissioner Edward Davis at a press
conference last night, though the suspect “wasn’t
communicative.”  Snipers took positions in the second-story window of at
least one nearby home and crouched behind cars, said Roberta
Miller, who lives six blocks away and whose neighbor was in
touch with a woman on Franklin Street.  Irene Santoro, who lives a few doors down from Pizzuto and
Henneberry, said she heard “loud bangs, over and over,” on
their squad-car-lined street. Davis said police and the suspect
in the boat “exchanged gunfire.”  “I’m seeing what seems like 100 police cars all lined up
on the street, tons of men in gears, with rifles,” she told
 Bloomberg News  in a telephone interview at 7:15 p.m., her voice
quavering. “It’s so scary.”  Orbiting Chopper  About the same time, a helicopter with a searchlight
hovered “so close and loud I thought it was going to hit my
house,” said Carol MacKeigan, who lives about three-quarters of
a mile (1.2 kilometers) from Henneberry.  About 7:50 p.m., police set off two rounds of flash-bang
grenades, used to stun a suspect, according to witnesses and the
police scanner. Anxious residents gathered on a church lawn near
Franklin Street.  Six doors from the Henneberry house, at 8:40, police dogs
began barking and officers shouted for residents to move back
“NOW!”  Lund saw Tsarnaev taken to an ambulance on a gurney,
strapped down and driven away.  As word spread throughout the neighborhood that the suspect
had been captured alive, neighbors and officers cheered and
applauded.  At 8:58 p.m., the Boston Police Department, which had sent
dozens of warnings over the social-media network Twitter all
day, had a jubilant message:  “CAPTURED!!! The hunt is over. The search is done. The
terror is over. And justice has won. Suspect in custody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Boston at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  