-- G-20 Gives Japan Stimulus Green Light as Yen Extends Fall
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s ,   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-20T12:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/g-20-gives-japan-stimulus-green-light-as-yen-extends-fall-1-.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda won international endorsement of his stepped-up stimulus
push, saying it emboldened him to press ahead with his campaign
to defeat 15 years of deflation.  Alert to signs of a slowing global economy, Group of 20
finance chiefs and central bankers yesterday praised this
month’s measures by the BOJ aimed at delivering 2 percent
inflation within two years. They signaled Japan’s focus on
supporting domestic demand was strong enough to allow them to
ignore the side-effects on their own economies of a sliding yen.  “Winning international understanding gives me more
confidence to conduct monetary policy appropriately,” Kuroda
told reporters after the meeting in Washington. “We will
continue our qualitative and quantitative easing for the next
two years to achieve the 2 percent price stability target.”  The backing of  Japan  accompanied a G-20 warning that the
world economy was weakening again as officials acknowledged
“much more is needed” to reinforce it. They intensified
pressure on the euro area to escape recession, pressed ahead
with steps to stop crops-border tax evasion and disagreed over
how to rededicate themselves to cutting debts.  Repeating their promise of February to refrain from
“competitive devaluation” without singling out Japan for
criticism, the group of key industrial and emerging economies
indicated an acceptance of the BOJ’s plan to double its monetary
base through bond buying even if it undermines the yen.  Yen’s Plunge  The currency has declined 20 percent in the past six months
and fell for a fourth day against the dollar yesterday to 99.52
at the end of New York trading. The currency slid to 99.95 on
April 11, the weakest level since April 2009.  “The global hope is that inflation will drive growth in
Japan, finally awaking this sleeping giant,” said Douglas Borthwick, a managing director and head of foreign exchange at
Chapdelaine FX, a unit of Tullett Prebon Plc, in New York.
“Japan has the green light.”  A weaker yen helps Japanese exporters such as  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261) , the Japanese automaker with the highest proportion of
exports, and Sony Corp., which gets 70 percent of its revenue
outside the country. Still, an excessive decline could fuel
trade tensions.  Japanese officials used the Washington talks to outline
their reflation strategy and deny it is aimed at the yen.
Finance Minister Taro Aso said the yen’s fall is a “byproduct”
of policies aimed at ending the “slow-motion death” of
deflation and that the G-20 understands that.  ‘Side Effects’  In a nod to concerns that stimulus in one country can
create challenges elsewhere by forcing up other exchange rates
and propelling capital flows, the G-20 said it will “be mindful
of unintended negative side effects stemming from extended
periods of monetary easing.”  South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said the cheaper
yen remains a “concern” for his economy and urged advanced
nations to prepare for an orderly exit from quantitative easing
programs. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble noted easy
monetary policy is no “substitute for the necessary” reforms
to Japan’s economic structure.  By contrast, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega, who
coined the term “currency war” in 2010 to describe the
negative spillover of rich nation stimulus on  emerging markets ,
praised Japan’s efforts to end deflation as a “daring move”
worth celebrating.  Europe’s Struggles  Calling economic expansion “too weak,” the G-20 policy
makers said the euro area must strengthen its monetary and
banking unions, the U.S. and Japan must outline plans to
consolidate budgets and economies with trade surpluses should
boost domestic growth.  Europe ’s recession was the main topic of discussion at the
talks and needs to speed up reform, a U.S. Treasury Department
official told reporters on condition of anonymity. “Stronger
demand in Europe is critical to global growth,” said U.S.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew in a statement to the IMF’s
policy-steering committee.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi acknowledged
there hasn’t been “any improvement” in his 17-nation economy
since central bank officials last met April 4. Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann said the ECB would only lower its 0.75
percent benchmark interest rate if economic data worsen.  China’s Yuan  The G-20 missive made no mention of the Chinese  yuan ,
although it repeated countries are committed “to move more
rapidly toward more market-determined exchange rate systems.”  The yuan had its biggest weekly gain in six months after
the central bank signaled plans to widen a trading band that’s
been limiting appreciation since October. Lew reiterated  China ’s
adjustment “remains incomplete and more progress is needed.”  Although they promised to deliver “fiscal
sustainability,” the G-20 officials disagreed over setting new
targets for controlling debts after failing to meet 2010 goals.
They delayed a decision to their next meeting.  Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said all members
supported consolidation and agreed “soft parameters” which
could be revised were needed. Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty, said “the language could have been stronger”  “Some may be more ambitious than others, but I think it’s
sensible for the G-20 to set minimum targets,” Flaherty said.  The G-20 pledged to continue work on how to shut down banks
safely, especially in cross-border situations and tasked the
Financial Stability Board with reporting in July on overhauling
interbank lending rates after rate-fixing scandals.  It also urged all “jurisdictions” to move towards
exchanging tax information with treaty partners as governments
seek a global standard on tax avoidance. The call came after the
Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development identified 14 countries including Switzerland as
making slow progress on cooperation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Washington at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  