-- Italy President Napolitano Re-Elected in Bid to Solve Crisis
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-04-21T09:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/italy-s-napolitano-accepts-appeal-agrees-to-seek-second-term.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano was elected to a second term after accepting a last-
minute appeal from party leaders to run again, a step that may
resolve the nation’s political crisis two months after
inconclusive elections.  The 87-year-old incumbent got 738 votes, easily surpassing
the 504 needed in Parliament, winning the backing of parties led
by former premier Silvio Berlusconi, caretaker Prime Minister
Mario Monti and outgoing Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani. His re-election yesterday came in Parliament’s sixth
attempt to elect a president this week.  Napolitano, who earlier this year rejected requests to seek
another seven-year term, said after yesterday’s appeal from
party leaders that he couldn’t “ignore responsibility toward
the country.” His first task will be to try and break the
political impasse after the Feb. 24-25 elections produced a hung
parliament.  His re-election caps a dramatic week in Italian politics.
Bersani announced his resignation as PD leader on April 19 after
his candidate for president, former premier and ex-European
Commission President Romano Prodi, failed to win enough votes.  “Napolitano considered the risk of wasting all the efforts
made in keeping  Italy ’s situation comprehensible at the
international level,” Loredana Federico, a Milan-based
economist for UniCredit SpA, said by phone. “After he’s sworn
in, I would expect a very short period of consultation to form a
government.” Napolitano will be sworn in tomorrow at 5 p.m. in
Rome, news agency Ansa reported.  Longest Recession  Italy’s next government must combat the longest recession
in more than two decades and tackle public debt that will reach
130.4 percent of gross domestic product this year, more than
twice the euro-region limit.  Still, markets have taken the two-month political gridlock
in stride. The 10-year bond yield difference with German bunds
narrowed to about 297 basis points on April 19, from a peak of
575 a week before Berlusconi resigned as prime minister in
November 2011 and Monti was appointed by Napolitano to lead a
government of non-politicians.  “Napolitano is a guarantee of continuity of the reform
paths started by Monti,”  Carlo Tommaselli , a banking analyst at
Societe Generale SA, said by phone. “Napolitano’s confirmation
may drive further spread-narrowing.”  Spending Cuts  While Italy’s credibility improved during Monti’s tenure,
the former EU commissioner’s mix of spending cuts and tax
increases pushed the nation deeper into its fourth recession
since 2001.  The Italian economy contracted 2.4 percent in 2012 as
unemployment remains close to a two-decade high amid falling
household and business confidence, as well as shrinking domestic
demand.  The Italian president, largely a ceremonial position,
appoints prime ministers and, when stalemates prove intractable,
can call snap elections. Following the February vote, Napolitano
gave a mandate to Bersani to try and form a government. The
center-left leader failed after talks with his opponents didn’t
produce a compromise.  Amato, Letta  Former prime minister Giuliano Amato or Enrico Letta, a top
Democratic Party official, may be asked by Napolitano to form a
government, which may have two deputy prime ministers, Il
Messaggero reported today. People of Liberty party’s Angelino Alfano and Civic Choice’s Mario Mauro may be deputy prime
ministers should Letta be picked up by Napolitano, according to
the newspaper. The new government program will be based on the
reports submitted earlier this month to Napolitano by the so-
called “wise men,” Il Messaggero reported.  Beppe Grillo’s Five Star movement, whose anti-austerity
campaign won the support of a quarter of Italians, didn’t back
Napolitano yesterday and instead voted for its candidate,
Stefano Rodota. Grillo, a former comedian, termed Napolitano’s
re-election a “coup,” according to comments on his website.  “They’re desperate; Napolitano, Bersani, Berlusconi and
Monti met in a room and decided to keep Napolitano at the
Quirinale” presidential palace, Grillo said yesterday, urging
his supporters to demonstrate in  Rome .  Senate President Pietro Grasso and Chamber of Deputies
Speaker Laura Boldrini criticized Grillo’s comments in a joint
statement.  ‘Old Guard’  Napolitano’s re-election “plays into the hands of Grillo
and his supporters, who view this as yet another cynical back-
room deal on the part of Italy’s old-guard politicians,”
 Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , said in e-mailed comments.  Napolitano was born on June 29, 1925 in Naples and in his
late teens he interrupted his law studies to join the anti-
Fascist underground movement and signed up as a member of the
Italian Communist Party. Representing the moderate wing that
sought integration with western European democracies, Napolitano
influenced its transformation into the Democrats of the Left
party.  He wrote several books, including “Beyond Old Boundaries”
and “ Europe  and America after 1989,” that dealt with the
changing political climate of the 1980s that saw the dismantling
of communist regimes in eastern Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  