-- National Australia Bank Cutting Senior Jobs to Trim Spending
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-20T02:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/national-australia-bank-cutting-senior-jobs-to-trim-spending.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
country’s largest lender by assets, said it’s reducing senior
management positions to improve efficiency and trim spending.  The move is part of a strategy the Melbourne-based bank
announced last month to simplify its business, spokesman  Brian
Walsh  said today in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News . Executive and
general manager positions will be cut to 50 from 60, the
Australian Financial Review reported today, citing people it
didn’t identify. Eight senior bankers and wealth management
staff left yesterday, the report said.  “Some changes have been made to its senior management
team, designed to better align the business to the changing
external landscape,” Walsh said, declining to disclose names or
confirm the number of job cuts.  National  Australia  joins rivals in seeking to revive
earnings growth after  profit  in the year ended Sept. 30, 2012
fell for the first time in three years. Last month, the bank
unveiled plans to cut annual costs by A$800 million ($822
million) within five years and made changes to its senior
management team.  Mark Joiner,  executive director  for finance, will retire by
the end of 2013 after seven years at the bank, while  Steve Tucker  will be replaced as head of NAB Wealth by Andrew Hagger,
the bank said March 13. Lisa Gray, head of personal banking,
will take on the new role of group executive for enterprise
services and transformation.  Industrywide Cuts  Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. slashed 1,000
jobs in the year to Sept. 30, and in March announced plans to
pare 50 positions in its institutional unit.  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  eliminated more than 500 posts early last year and
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender by
market value, said in July it would freeze base pay for
employees with annual salaries of A$150,000 or more in its
institutional banking and markets division.  Senior staff departing NAB include Scott Hartley, general
manager of corporate and institutional wealth, and Michael
Clancy, executive general manager of investment platforms,
according to the newspaper report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  