-- Neuharth, USA Today Founder, Former Gannett CEO, Dies
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/neuharth-usa-today-founder-former-gannett-ceo-dies.html
Al Neuharth, the free spender and
practical jokester who built Gannett Co. into the largest U.S.
newspaper publisher and created the country’s biggest-selling
daily in  USA Today , has died. He was 89.  Neuharth died yesterday of complications from a recent fall
at home in Cocoa Beach,  Florida , with his family by his side,
according to a statement by the Newseum, a museum of journalism
in  Washington .  Gannett bought dozens of U.S. newspapers, including the
 Detroit News , and moved into radio, television and billboards
during Neuharth’s 13 years as chief executive officer. He also
boosted the role of women and minorities in newsrooms.  USA Today, a national general-interest publication, made
its debut in 1982. While critics called it “McPaper” because
of its relatively short stories and reliance on color and
graphics, circulation exceeded 1 million in seven months.  “I became a much-discussed and cussed media mogul,” he
wrote in “Confessions of an S.O.B.,” his 1989 autobiography.
“People often called me an S.O.B. Some to my face, with a
smile. Others behind my back, with a smirk.”  USA Today  lost hundreds of millions of dollars before
turning profitable in 1993. At a meeting with the newspaper’s
managers to push for cost cuts, Neuharth once staged a version
of the Last Supper, as he recounted in “Confessions.”  A newspaper-industry collapse, triggered by the Internet,
eroded his legacy.  Gannett (GCI) ’s  shares  tumbled in 2009 to their
lowest price since the 1970s as advertising dried up, hurting
revenue and dragging down profits.  Cow-Chip Collector  Neuharth “pioneered the idea that a public newspaper
company could show increased earnings every quarter,” John
Walter, a USA Today founding editor, wrote in an  essay  published
after his death in 2008. “It carried no threat of ever having
to face the day when maybe there wasn’t going to be any more
growth, a day when  Wall Street  wasn’t going to love you.”  Allen Harold Neuharth was born on March 22, 1924, in
 Eureka , South Dakota, to Daniel and Christina Neuharth. He had a
brother, Walter, who was seven years older.  When Neuharth was 22 months old, his father, who ran a
creamery, died of tuberculosis. The family relocated to  Alpena ,
 South Dakota , about 125 miles south of Eureka, to be near
relatives of Neuharth’s mother. She worked as a dishwasher and
took in laundry.  At the age of 8, Neuharth collected cow chips on his
grandfather’s farm for use as fuel. He had his first newspaper-
related job, delivering the Minneapolis Tribune, at 10. He later
worked as a butcher boy and drugstore soda jerk.  Entrepreneurial Effort  Neuharth attended  Alpena High School  and edited the Echo,
the school newspaper, which consisted of a quarter page in the
weekly Alpena Journal. He graduated in the midst of World War
II, joined the Army and served as an infantryman in  France ,
 Germany  and the  Philippines . He was awarded a Bronze Star.  After the war, he enrolled at the  University of South
Dakota , whose media center now bears his name. He edited the
 Volante , the school newspaper, and had summer internships at
papers in Mitchell and Rapid City, South Dakota.  The  Associated Press  hired him as a sportswriter in 1950,
when he graduated with a degree in journalism. He left after two
years to start SoDak Sports, a weekly tabloid, with Bill Porter,
a colleague at the Volante.  SoDak folded within two years. Neuharth rebounded by
joining the  Miami Herald , then owned by Knight Newspapers. He
stayed there for six years, ending in 1960, and worked his way
up to assistant managing editor.  Knight sent him to  Detroit  as an assistant to Lee Hills,
executive editor of the city’s  Free Press  as well as the Herald.
He left after three years to become general manager of Gannett’s
two papers in Rochester,  New York , its headquarters at the time.  Space Coast Experiment  Neuharth persuaded his bosses to start a newspaper on
Florida’s Space Coast, a region near the  Kennedy Space Center .
The company bought a paper in Cocoa Beach -- where he later
lived in a log cabin, known as the Pumpkin Center -- and
transformed it into Today.  Today, later renamed  Florida Today , broke with industry
practice by putting the main features in the same position and
using color daily. Within 2 1/2 years, Today recorded its first
profit. The Florida paper foreshadowed USA Today, which Neuharth
described this way in “Confessions”:  “Wrapped in color. Four sections. Everything organized and
in a fixed place. Short, easy-to-read stories. Lots of them.
Heavy use of graphics and charts. Heavy emphasis on sports, TV,
weather. News every day from every state.”  Neuharth spent four years as an executive vice president of
Gannett and three more as president before being named CEO, his
job from 1973 to 1986. He served on the board for 25 years and
was chairman from 1979 to 1989, when he left after turning 65.  Diversity Program  From the beginning of his tenure as president until his
departure as chairman, Gannett made deals to acquire 69 daily
papers, 16 TV stations and 29  radio stations , by his count. The
company became  North America ’s biggest billboard owner by buying
Combined Communications Corp. in 1979.  Gannett made an unsuccessful bid for CBS Inc. in 1985 after
 Ted Turner  offered to buy the television network. The company
left the radio and outdoor-advertising businesses in the 1990s.  Gloria Biggs, the first woman publisher of a Gannett paper,
was named to the post at Florida’s Melbourne Times in Neuharth’s
first year as CEO. He later linked the bonuses of executives to
their success in implementing equal-opportunity programs.  After leaving the board, he wrote  Plain Talk , a weekly
column published in USA Today and elsewhere. He also took over
the Gannett Foundation, started by Frank Gannett, the company’s
founder. The organization became the  Freedom Forum  in 1991 after
Gannett paid $650 million for its stake in the company.  Foundation Overhaul  Under his leadership, the foundation broadened its focus
beyond communities served by Gannett and promoted journalistic
values and newsroom diversity. Its spending was so lavish that
the New York state attorney general conducted an investigation,
which prompted the nonprofit to rein in its outlays.  The foundation opened the Newseum, an interactive museum,
in 1997 at a site near USA Today’s then-headquarters in Rosslyn,
Virginia. Neuharth retired as chairman that year and left the
board of trustees two years later. The  Newseum  later relocated
to Washington and USA Today moved to McLean, Virginia.  “Free Spirit,” the last of Neuharth’s eight books, was
published in 2000. All the others, including “Confessions,”
came out from 1987 to 1989.  Neuharth was married three times. He met his first wife,
Loretta Helgeland, in high school and married her in 1946. They
had two children during their 26-year marriage: Daniel J. II, a
therapist and former journalist named for his grandfather, and
Janet Ann, or Jan, an attorney and equestrian-center president.  Other Marriages  Lori Wilson, an attorney and Florida state senator, became
his second wife in 1973. During their marriage, she worked as a
consultant to Gannett, where she helped encourage and monitor
diversity programs. They divorced after eight years.  Neuharth wed Rachel Fornes, a chiropractor in Cocoa Beach,
Florida, who founded the  Home at Last Adoption Agency , in 1993.
The couple adopted six children: Alexis Rae, Karina Rae, Ariana,
Andre, Rafaelina and Aliandro.  Another woman, Rosamunda Neuharth Ozgo, said she was his
daughter as well. Her mother, Betty Moore, met him in 1962 at an
 Associated Press  convention and gave birth to her the next year.
He denied being the father, although he acknowledged the meeting
and paid $100 a month in court-ordered child support until 1984.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  