-- Nissan Says China Sales to Rise as Anti-Japan Sentiment Wanes
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-04-20T07:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/nissan-says-china-sales-to-rise-as-anti-japan-sentiment-wanes.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  targets a 16
percent increase in sales at its  China  joint venture this year
as anti-Japan sentiment triggered by a dispute over uninhabited
islands wanes.  Deliveries under Nissan’s venture with Dongfeng Motor Co.
may increase to 900,000 vehicles this year in China, where the
company sells the most cars among Japanese carmakers, from
773,000 units in 2012, Kimiyasu Nakamura, Nissan’s China venture
head, said today.  Nissan said retail sales in China rose in March from a year
earlier, making it the first of the top three Japanese carmakers
to see a rebound in the world’s biggest automobile market. The
automaker introduced the new Teana sedan in China in February
and is counting on the model to help recoup market share.  Nakamura said the Yokohama-based company’s plan to boost
production capacity in China to 2.3 million units in 2015 may
take an extra “six to seven months” due to the anti-Japan
turmoil since last year.  “Fundamentally our target for market share in China hasn’t
been changed at all,”  Andy Palmer , Nissan’s executive vice
president, said in Shanghai today. “We have already seen a very
good recovery trend.”  Islands Dispute  Nissan,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  have been
affected by a territorial dispute between Japan and China.
Violent demonstrations erupted in China in September over
disputed islands in the East China sea. Japanese carmakers have
increased discounts and extended guarantees to win back
customers.  Nissan in October said it will reimburse owners for damage
to vehicles during protests, including future demonstrations.
Japanese cars and dealership were torched during the protests.  Sales to dealers in China are expected to rebound within
three months, Palmer said in an interview April 3. While
wholesale sales declined in March, retail sales increased.  The company is counting on the Teana sedan, introduced in
China on Feb. 26, to revive sales in the country. It’s the most
profitable of the dozen-plus models the automaker sells in the
country, according to Sanford C. Bernstein.  Nissan unveiled a new concept hybrid car, Friend-Me, at the
 Shanghai  auto show. The car, which Nissan said is the first with
“key input by Chinese designers,” will be targeted at Chinese
consumers in their 20s and 30s.  Longer term, the challenge is “to make sure Nissan is
‘relevant’ to the young generation of Chinese,” Palmer said.  “Very clearly there is a generational shift in China,
coming from the one-child policy,” he said, citing the
population born after 1980. “We think the needs of these
customers are going to change the face of automotive not just in
China, but globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  