-- Osborne Suggests an Independent Scotland Wouldn’t Keep Pound
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/osborne-suggests-an-independent-scotland-wouldn-t-keep-pound.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  suggested a vote for Scottish independence next
year would imperil the use of the British pound as the new
state’s money because political union is needed to operate a
single currency.  The U.K. government on Tuesday, April 23, will publish a
study on the implications for the currency of Scottish
independence. Osborne made the comments today in a joint article
with  Danny Alexander , chief secretary to the Treasury.  “A formal currency union can only work with political and
economic union,” Osborne and Alexander said in the article
published on the Treasury’s website. “The pound we share now
works and it works well. Under independence all the alternatives
are second best. So our question to the nationalist -- are you
really saying second best is good enough for  Scotland .”  Voters in Scotland will decide in a referendum set for
Sept. 18, 2014, whether to leave the 306-year-old U.K. The semi-
autonomous government in Edinburgh has proposed that the new
state would continue using the pound and become a shareholder in
the  Bank of England , which would oversee Scottish lenders.  Scotland’s plan to keep the Bank of  England  as the lender
of last resort and to influence its policy making should
nationalists win their bid for independence is “implausible”
and “fanciful,” a panel of lawmakers said on April 10.  In a report published today, the  Economic Affairs Committee 
of Britain’s upper House of Lords said the requirements of
joining the European Union would mean Scotland would need its
own financial regulator. This would create a situation where
Scotland’s banks had two regulators in different countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  