-- PBOC’s Zhou Says Slower Growth Needed for Restructuring
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-22T04:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/pboc-s-zhou-says-slower-growth-needed-for-restructuring.html
China’s slower expansion in the
first quarter is “normal” as the world’s second-largest
economy sacrifices growth to make structural reforms, People’s
Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said.  While a “mild” global slowdown is affecting China, the
7.7 percent gain was “overall normal” compared with the
government’s 2013 target of 7.5 percent, Zhou told  Bloomberg
News  outside a meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in
Washington on April 20.  Investors are assessing where the nation’s growth rate may
settle as the working-age population declines, costs rise and
officials wrestle with the environmental toll from polluting
factories. A sustained shift to a lower-growth gear will affect
everything from the outlook for the world’s automobile makers to
iron-ore demand in Australia as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  predicts
 expansion  will moderate toward 6 percent later this decade.  “We should appreciate and get used to this new normal of
slower growth which has seen a stable job market and moderate
inflation pressures,” said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Barclays Plc who formerly worked for
the  World Bank . She sees an annual rate in the 6 percent to 8
percent range over the next 10 years.  Expansion in the first quarter missed the 8 percent median
of economists’ forecasts and slowed from 7.9 percent in the
previous three months, when Asia’s biggest economy emerged from
a seven-quarter slowdown. Premier  Li Keqiang  this month urged
more efforts to improve the quality and benefits of economic
development as the government seeks to shift away from an
export-reliant  model.  Growth ‘Sacrifice’  “China’s undergoing economic restructuring, which
sometimes is not in lockstep with growth,” Zhou said. “We need
to sacrifice short-term growth for the purposes of reforms and
structural adjustments.”  Asian stocks climbed today, led by Japan, as the absence of
opposition to Japanese stimulus efforts at a Group of 20 meeting
in Washington bolstered the outlook for that nation’s economy
and demand in the region. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.7
percent as of 1:29 p.m. in Tokyo. In China, the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.4 percent after an April 20 earthquake
that killed at least 188 people.  China’s economy  had a stable start in the first quarter and
growth was within a reasonable range, Zhou said at the IMF
meeting, according to a statement on the PBOC’s  website .  Government Power  Premier Li pledged in March to open the economy to more
market forces and strip power from the government as part of
efforts to restructure. State-owned companies and the country’s
new wealthy class may stand as barriers after benefiting from
controls on borrowing and savings rates, underpriced resources
and the absence of property taxes.  PBOC Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said April 17 in Washington
that the  yuan ’s trading band will widen “in the near future,”
and that China needs to make its capital account fully
convertible. Revamping the value-added tax system for businesses
is a priority in fiscal reforms, Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said
last week in Washington.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  last week cut their estimates for China’s 2013 expansion to
7.8 percent. That would be the same as 2012’s pace which was the
weakest in 13 years.  Asia, Europe  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s jobless rate rose in March, a
report showed today.  Euro-area  consumer confidence  worsened in April, the
European Commission is forecast to say today. In the U.S., the
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago’s national activity index may
show a lower reading in March compared with February, while the
National Association of Realtors is expected to say sales of
previously owned U.S. homes rose last month to the highest in
more than three years, according to Bloomberg surveys.  In China,  “structural adjustment has scored notable
achievements,” according to a PBOC statement. The contribution
of  service industries  to economic growth in the first quarter
exceeded that of manufacturing for the first time, it said.  In his statement to the IMF, Zhou reiterated that changes
in China’s financial sector will involve “further interest-rate
liberalization, capital account convertibility and exchange rate
reform.” While inflation has been “relatively stable,” the
government remains on guard due to rising costs for labor and
raw materials, pricing reforms and excessive global liquidity,
Zhou said.  March  consumer prices  increased 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, after rising 3.2 percent in February which was the
quickest pace in 10 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  