-- Porsche Vies With Maserati as Limelight Shifts to China
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/porsche-vies-with-maserati-as-luxury-limelight-shifts-to-china.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Porsche debuted the
revamped Panamera coupe at the Shanghai Auto Show where it
sought to outshine Maserati’s all-new Ghibli to win over China’s
growing ranks of luxury-car buyers.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s X4 coupe-like sport-utility
vehicle,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz GLA compact SUV and a sedan
version of the Audi A3 hatchback also celebrated world premieres
this week at China’s biggest auto show of 2013. The
unprecedented high-end car push underscores the country’s
emergence as the segment’s key market for expansion.  “There’s still a lot of growth potential in China,”
Rupert Stadler, chief executive officer of Volkswagen’s Audi,
the best-selling luxury brand in the country, told reporters in
Shanghai. “The premium segment accounts for about 9 percent of
the total market and that share could grow to between 12 percent
and 15 percent.”  With  Europe ’s car market sliding to a 20-year low on
weakening demand in  Germany , the region’s luxury-car makers are
focusing on  China ’s wealthy. The push is prompting a shift to
SUVs and sedans, which are more popular there than European
hatchbacks and wagons.  McKinsey forecasts sales of upscale vehicles in China to
average 12 percent growth a year through 2020, outpacing the 8
percent rate for the country’s total car market. That growth
would put sales of high-end autos there ahead of the U.S. by
2016 and on par with demand for all of Western Europe by the end
of the decade, the consultancy said in a March report.  Executive Legroom  To tap this growth, Porsche will offer an extended version
of the Panamera four-door coupe, which is 15 centimeters (6
inches) longer than the standard model. The variant, which is
priced from 132,662 euros ($173,150) in Germany, is geared
chiefly at the Chinese market, where many luxury-car buyers have
drivers, making rear legroom a key factor.  The second generation of the Panamera will go on sale in
July, starting at 81,849 euros. The model also marks the
introduction of a new V6 biturbo engine, which will replace a
larger V8 as manufacturers look to improve efficiency. The
engine boosts fuel economy as much as 18 percent while still
adding 20 horsepower.  “We remain carefully optimistic,” Porsche sales chief
Bernhard Maier said in an interview. With the new Panamera and
recently overhauled 911 sports car, Porsche’s “better prepared
than ever before” to cope with market swings.  Down Shift  Fiat SpA (F) ’s elite Maserati brand is shifting down market
with the new Ghibli. Its first-ever midsized sedan, which is
equipped with an engine with at least 330-horsepower, will vie
with top-end versions of the Mercedes E-Class and BMW 5-Series.  The new entry-level Maserati, which can accelerate to 100
kilometers per hour in as little as 4.8 seconds, is a key part
of Fiat’s plan to stem losses in Europe, which amounted to more
than 700 million euros last year.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is targeting
an eightfold increase in Maserati sales to 50,000 cars in 2015
from about 6,000 last year. The Turin-based company’s European
turnaround plan calls for exporting 16 new, Italian-made upscale
cars worldwide, including an Alfa Romeo SUV, a small Jeep and
six Maserati models.  The Ghibli, which is due to start at more than 50,000
euros, will be built at the Grugliasco facility in Turin
alongside the Quattroporte, Maserati’s flagship, which
celebrated its global debut in  Detroit , as the once Europe-
centric brand turns its attention abroad.  ‘Upside-Down World’  “It’s sad to say, but the world turned upside down,”
Maserati chief Harald Wester said in Shanghai. He expects sales
to surge to 20,000 vehicles this year, with half of that volume
coming from the Ghibli.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac is also pushing into China.
The American luxury brand plans to introduce its entire global
portfolio in the market as the brand targets 10 percent of local
luxury-car sales, according to Bob Socia, GM’s China head.  To help attract Chinese consumers to Cadillac, GM signed up
actor  Brad Pitt  to help promote the brand. Cadillac, which is
targeting sales of 100,000 vehicles a year in the country by
2015, plans to expand its number of dealerships in China to 200
this year from 70 outlets in 2011.  Daimler, which has struggled to grow as fast competitors in
China, is betting the GLA, the fourth in a new line of front-
wheel-drive vehicles, will help Mercedes gain market share by
appealing to drivers other than older men.  Younger, Female  With the new SUV, “we want to gain more younger customers,
more female customers and ones that are outdoorsy and are very
active in their lifestyle,” Daimler CEO  Dieter Zetsche  said in
a Bloomberg Television interview.  In addition to the Porsche Panamera, Volkswagen flexed its
motoring muscle with the Bugatti Veyron 16.4 Grand Sport Vitesse
in  Shanghai , which according to the Wolfsburg-based carmaker is
the world’s fastest series-made roadster after reaching a top
speed of 408.84 kilometers (254.1 miles) per hour last week.  The car, which is powered by a 1,200-horsepower engine, was
driven on VW’s testing center in Ehra-Lessien in northern
Germany by 29-year-old Chinese entrepreneur and race-car
aficionado Anthony Liu to reach the record.  Sister brand Audi, the world’s second-largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , showed the sedan version of its revamped A3
intended to woo Chinese and North American buyers seeking a
compact car with separate luggage space. The A3 sedan will hit
European showrooms later this year, with a starting price of
around 25,000 euros, and will be rolled out in the U.S. and
China in 2014.  New models might help Europe’s luxury-car makers cope with
intensifying headwinds this year. Demand for new vehicles on
their home turf is set to slide for the sixth consecutive year,
even China isn’t the salvation it once was.  “Growth rates in China are normalizing,” BMW sales chief
 Ian Robertson  said in Shanghai, where he presented the all-new
X4. “The market is maturing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  