-- Portsmouth Given 10-Point Penalty After Exiting Administration
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-20T16:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/portsmouth-given-10-point-penalty-after-exiting-administration.html
English soccer club Portsmouth,
which was relegated into the fourth tier this week, has been
given a 10-point penalty after coming out of administration, the
Football League said in a  statement .  The south coast club was officially taken over by fans’
group Pompey Supporters’ Trust yesterday, ending a 14-month
spell in administration, a form of  bankruptcy protection .  “I would like to pay tribute to Portsmouth supporters for
giving their financial backing to the Trust’s rescue plan and
for turning out in force throughout the administration as it has
kept the club in business,” Football League Chairman Greg Clarke said. “Hopefully, this marks the start of a better
future.”  Portsmouth, which won the F.A. Cup in 2008, was relegated
from League One four days ago, its third demotion in four
seasons. There was speculation in U.K. media that the points
deduction would be imposed next season, but by doing so now it
ensures Pompey starts life in League Two with a clean slate.  “We are grateful to the League for confirming this
punishment will be activated in the current season,” Iain
McInnes, chairman of Portsmouth Community Football Club said
today.  Portsmouth was searching for its fifth owner in less than
two years. It was demoted to the second-tier Championship in May
2010 after becoming the first Premier League team to go into
administration.  Portsmouth was demoted to League One last season after
finishing among the bottom three in the Championship. Pompey is
guaranteed of being among the four teams that will be relegated
from League One this season.  As well as the points deduction, the League has also put in
place restrictions on the club’s playing budgets and borrowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 