-- Celtics’ Rivers Turns Attention to Knicks After Weeklong Manhunt
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-20T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/pro-sports-resume-in-boston-after-second-bombing-suspect-caught.html
The Celtics turned their attention
to today’s playoff game in New York, while the Red Sox and
Bruins planned to return sports to  Boston  after the capture of
the second suspect in this week’s deadly marathon bombings.  The Celtics, who were preparing for their opening National
Basketball Association playoff game against the New York Knicks
at Madison Square Garden, spent yesterday calling their families
to make sure they were safe, said coach Doc Rivers.  Boston was on lockdown while police searched for Dzhokar
Tsarnaev, 19, wanted for the bombings that killed three people
at the Boston Marathon on April 15. A wounded Tsarnaev was
discovered last night hiding beneath the cover of a boat parked
in Watertown,  Massachusetts .  “This is what everyone’s going through, not just
basketball players,” Rivers told reporters after practice at
Columbia University. “Honestly, for us, getting on the floor is
good medicine. It gets you focused on your job.”  The Celtics ended the regular season in Toronto on April 17
and then decided to travel directly to New York to practice
instead of returning to Boston. The Celtics aren’t scheduled to
play on their home court until Game 3 on April 26.  “Listen, to some people, basketball games aren’t going to
matter,” Rivers said. “Some people, just the joy of the sport
and the victory -- it’ll help people. It’ll help people heal. I
just think the public gathering helps, more than anything,
because that’s what’s been affected in a lot of ways.”  Boston officials have restored mass transportation, which
is used by many fans to get to professional sports venues.  The Red Sox are scheduled to start their Major League
Baseball series today against the Kansas City Royals at Fenway
Park. Last night’s postponed game hasn’t yet been rescheduled.  The Bruins’ National Hockey League game last night against
the Pittsburgh Penguins at TD Garden was rescheduled for today
at 12:30 p.m., the team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  