-- Reading, QPR Defeats Bring Relegation From Premier League Closer
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-20T16:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/reading-qpr-defeats-bring-relegation-from-premier-league-closer.html
Reading and Queens Park Rangers
moved to the verge of relegation from English soccer’s Premier
League today as Arsenal moved back into third place.  Reading lost 2-1 at Norwich and QPR was beaten at home by
Stoke 2-0 to leave both teams anchored at the bottom of the
standings with 24 points, 10 fewer than Aston Villa just above
the three teams that are relegated to the second-tier
Championship.  Arsenal beat Fulham 1-0, as both teams finished with 10
men, to move above Chelsea into third place. West Ham beat Wigan
2-0, Sunderland defeated Everton 1-0, West Brom drew 1-1 with
Newcastle, while Swansea and Southampton finished 0-0.  Norwich’s second win in 17 games helped improve its chances
of remaining in the top division and pushed Reading to the brink
of demotion.  Ryan Bennett and Elliott Bennett scored 90 seconds apart
early in the second half to give Norwich a 2-0 lead, before
Garath McCleary scored a consolation goal for Reading.  Norwich moves to 38 points, seven more than Wigan in the
final relegation place, while Reading is winless in 10 matches.  Stoke’s second win in 15 games moved it six points clear of
Wigan in the race to avoid relegation. Peter Crouch gave the
Potters the lead late in the first half and Jonathan Walters
clinched the victory with a penalty kick in the 77th minute.  Both Reading and QPR have four games left and will be
relegated if Aston Villa defeats league leader Manchester United
in two days.  Red Card  Arsenal struggled to win at Fulham even though it played
almost 78 minutes with a man advantage.  Fulham’s Steve Sidwell was shown a red card in the 12th
minute for a lunging tackle on Mikel Arteta. Arsenal then took
the lead just before halftime on Per Mertesacker’s header.  Fulham looked to have tied the game with 13 minutes
remaining, but Stanislav Manolev was offside when he put in the
rebound after goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny knocked away Kieran Richardson’s free kick. Arsenal’s Olivier Giroud was then sent
off in the final minute for a challenge on Manolev.  Arsenal is two points ahead of Chelsea and five clear of
Tottenham in the race for the final two qualifying places in the
Champions League, though it’s played two more games than its
challengers.  Wigan’s chance of avoiding the drop were damaged by its
loss at West Ham, which got goals from Matt Jarvis and Kevin Nolan. The Latics have 31 points, three fewer than Aston Villa.  Home Game  Stephane Sessegnon’s goal gave new Sunderland manager Paolo Di Canio a victory in his first home game and moved the Black
Cats six points clear of relegation. Everton’s Champions League
chances took a hit as it fell five points behind fourth-place
Chelsea, which has two games in hand.  Newcastle remains in the relegation fight after its 1-1
draw at West Brom. Yoan Gouffran put the Magpies, who have 37
points, in front in the eighth minute before West Brom’s Billy
Jones scored in the second half.  Southampton extended its unbeaten run to six games and
moved eight points clear of relegation after its goalless draw
at Swansea.  Tottenham hosts Manchester City and Chelsea visits
Liverpool in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 