-- Red Sox, Bruins Return to Play After Boston Bombing Manhunt
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-20T21:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/red-sox-bruins-return-to-play-after-boston-bombing-manhunt.html
The Boston  Red Sox  and  Boston
Bruins  returned to play today, after the capture of the second
suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing.  Major League Baseball’s Red Sox and the  National Hockey
League ’s Bruins both had games canceled last night as Boston and
surrounding areas were locked down during the manhunt for
Dzhokar Tsarnaev.  Tsarnaev, 19, was taken into custody at about 9:45 p.m.
local time last night in Watertown, Massachusetts, after an
around-the-clock search just days after the April 15 attack. His
brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, the other suspect, was killed as
they both tried to escape the dragnet early yesterday.  The Red Sox held a ceremony prior to their 4-3 win over the
 Kansas City Royals  at Fenway Park. The Green Monster, the famed
37-foot-high wall in left field, was adorned with a logo
featuring the Old English letter B on the Red Sox cap above the
word “Strong,” a reference to the slogan “Boston Strong”
that has been adopted by the city.  Both teams lined up along the first- and third-base lines,
with the Red Sox wearing jerseys that said “Boston” instead of
the normal “Red Sox.” The team said the uniforms will be
autographed and auctioned to raise money for The One Fund Boston
charity established to help victims of the bombing.  Diamond Sings  Neil Diamond , wearing a Red Sox cap, then appeared down the
first base line after the top of the eighth inning to sing his
hit “Sweet Caroline.” The song has become a tradition at
Fenway, where it’s regularly been played during the eighth-
inning break since 2002.  “What an honor it is to be here today,” Diamond, 72, told
the crowd before leading a sing-a-long. “I bring love from the
whole country.  The Bruins wore baseball caps honoring the Boston and
Watertown police departments and Massachusetts State Police
during the warm-up prior to their 3-2 loss to the  Pittsburgh
Penguins  at the TD Garden. The Bruins also announced two days
ago both teams will auction their jerseys from the game with all
proceeds donated to The One Fund Boston.  The bombing at the finish line of the Boston Marathon
killed three people and injured more than 170. A law enforcement
officer was also killed on April 18 in a shootout with the
Tsarnaev brothers, which led to a transit officer being
seriously wounded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 