-- Ricin-Letter Suspect Curtis Charged With Threats to Obama
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M a r t y   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-04-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/ricin-letter-suspect-curtis-charged-with-threats-to-obama.html
An Elvis Presley impersonator from
Mississippi charged with threatening President  Barack Obama  and
a U.S. senator by mailing them letters containing the deadly
chemical ricin will remain in custody at least until April 22.  Paul Kevin Curtis, 45, of Corinth, faces charges of using
the mail to convey threats to people including Obama, and if
convicted could face a maximum of 15 years in prison and
$500,000 in fines.  Curtis hasn’t entered a plea in his initial court
appearances. U.S. Magistrate Judge S. Allan Alexander heard
arguments yesterday on whether there was probable cause for him
to be bound over for a grand jury. She ordered the hearing to
resume on April 22 and said she would also consider then whether
to release him on bail.  Envelopes addressed to Obama and U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker ,
a Mississippi Republican, with a “suspicious granular
substance” were intercepted April 16. The FBI and U.S. Secret
Service determined that a “suspicious granular substance”
inside was ricin, which has no antidote.  The letters were postmarked April 8 and both read in part:
“No one wanted to listen to me before. There are still ‘Missing
Pieces’ Maybe I have your attention now Even if that means
someone must die” and were signed “I am KC and I approve this
message,” according to an affidavit by the FBI agent Brandon
Grant and Victor Dickerson of the U.S. Secret Service.  Forensic Tests  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said in a statement
April 18 that further forensic tests were being conducted.  “The FBI is not aware of any illness as a result of
exposure to these letters,” the FBI said.  Inquiries with Wicker’s staff turned up previous letters to
his Washington office with the sign-off “this is Kevin Curtis
and I approve this message,” according to the affidavit. Curtis
also wrote a blog post in September 2010 saying he was working
on a novel about black market body parts titled “Missing
Pieces,” according to the agents.  A third, similar letter with a suspicious substance was
sent on April 8 to a judge in Lee County, where Curtis lives,
the agents said. That substance hasn’t been tested, they said.  All three letters were on yellow paper and bore  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , postmarks, the agents said. Letters sent from
northern Mississippi, where Curtis lives, usually bear a Memphis
postmark, according to the affidavit.  Facebook Page  A passage from the letters also matches a statement that
Curtis posted on his Facebook page: “To see a wrong and not
expose it is to become a silent partner to its continuance.”  At yesterday’s court hearing, additional evidence was
introduced that Grant said appeared to link Curtis to the
letters. Grant testified that “indentations not visible to the
naked eye” were found on the letters as if someone had written
on paper on top of them and the pressure of the writing
instrument pressed through to the envelopes beneath. He said
further tests showed the writing to be two return addresses,
both linked to former residences of Curtis.  Grant said that while no evidence linking Curtis to ricin
had been uncovered, search warrants were still being conducted
yesterday on Curtis’s home and vehicle.  Curtis’s attorney, Christi McCoy of Oxford, argued that all
the evidence against her client was circumstantial unless he
could be linked to the ricin.  ‘Doesn’t Matter’  “Unless something ties him to the ricin it really doesn’t
matter if he’s crazy,” McCoy said, referring to earlier
testimony that Curtis has a history of mental problems.  Curtis, dressed in an orange prison scrub suit and shackled
at the ankles and hands as he was led into the courtroom, turned
to his daughter, 20-year-old Madison Curtis, a Mississippi
College student, after the handcuffs were removed.  “I didn’t do it,” he said.  Alexander recessed the hearing after 3 1/2 hours yesterday
citing “sequestration issues,” namely that U.S. marshals were
incurring overtime pay as a result of the lengthy proceedings.  In 2007, Curtis was reported by his wife to the Bonneville
Police Department, Grant and Dickerson said in their affidavit.
They said she told them he was “extremely delusional, anti-
government, and felt the government was spying on him with
drones.”  Boston Bombings  The letters’ discovery following the bombings at the Boston
Marathon this week evoked memories in  Washington  of anthrax
mailings that targeted lawmakers in 2001. Shortly after that
year’s Sept. 11 attacks, letters containing anthrax were sent to
two senators during a series of mailings to media and government
offices that claimed five lives across the U.S. No lawmakers
were harmed.  The letters and the Boston bombings haven’t been linked.  Ricin is made from castor beans, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s harmful and
potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, the CDC said on its
website.  Symptoms depend on the purity, route of exposure and the
dose. Initial symptoms from inhalation occur as early as four to
six hours after the exposure, and symptoms include difficulty
breathing and a cough, according to the CDC.  The symptoms can progress rapidly to fluid within the lungs
and eventually respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours. While no antidote exists,
doctors can counteract the effects of the poisoning by helping
victims breathe or giving them fluids.  The case is U.S. v. Curtis, 13-mj-00019, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Mississippi  (Oxford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  