-- Sabic Heads for Three-Month Low as Profit Declines: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-04-20T11:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/sabic-heads-for-three-month-low-as-profit-declines-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  headed
for the lowest close in more than three months after the world’s
biggest petrochemicals maker reported a decline in profit.  The  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 90.50 riyals, the lowest
since Jan. 1, at 2:10 p.m. in  Riyadh . The shares are on a six-
day losing streak after the company’s units reported results
that missed estimates. Saudi Basic Industries, also known as
Sabic, has the second-biggest weighting on the benchmark  Tadawul
All Share Index, (SASEIDX)  which rose 0.2 percent.  Sabic, which said last week it plans to cut 1,050 jobs and
close plants in  Europe ,  reported  a 10 percent drop in first-
quarter profit as production and sales at its units declined
because of maintenance work. Sales fell 3.3 percent to 46.74
billion riyals ($12.5 billion).  “Second-quarter earnings depend on  oil prices  and
performance of plants,” Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady
told reporters in Riyadh today. “The financial situation
worldwide is fluctuating also, hence we can’t tell how we will
perform during the rest of this year.”  Sabic’s units were affected by the slump in demand and
lower prices for their products. Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co.
reported an 18 percent increase in quarterly earnings, missing
analysts estimates. Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co.’s loss widened
to 155 million riyals from 71 million riyals, Yanbu National
Petrochemical Co. posted a 7.4 percent decline in profit.  European Challenge  Sabic joined peers including Akzo Nobel NV and BASF SE in
scaling down operations that are taking the brunt of a prolonged
slump affecting construction and infrastructure as well as
 consumer spending  on cars and appliances. The company in 2007
bought General Electric Co.’s plastics unit for $11.6 billion as
part of a global expansion drive.  “The European market is facing structural changes that are
likely to set a new course for future competitive challenges,”
Sabic said last week. “Our industry continues to face slow
growth.”  The company, based in Riyadh, also faces stiffer
competition from a revived U.S. chemical and plastics industry
that’s benefiting from shale gas supplies, as well as increased
production among Asian peers seeking to satisfy their demand
locally. The government of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil
exporter, is Sabic’s biggest shareholder.  Fifteen analysts  recommend investors buy Sabic shares,
while two say hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  