-- SNB’s Jordan Says Cap on Swiss Franc Is 'Indispensable'
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-04-20T23:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/snb-s-jordan-says-cap-on-swiss-franc-is-indispensable-.html
Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  President
Thomas Jordan said the country’s franc remains highly valued
against the euro and he has no intention of loosening the cap of
1.20 per euro.  The exchange rate target is “indispensable,” Jordan said
yesterday in Washington, where he was attending the Spring
Meetings of the  International Monetary Fund . The cap is the only
option “to avoid a deflation spiral and a destruction of the
economy.”  The Zurich-based SNB set a cap of 1.20 per euro on the
franc in September 2011 to ward off recession as well as
deflation. The franc had risen strongly against the euro and
nearly touched parity the previous month as a result of investor
concern about the euro area’s fiscal crisis.  “All reasonable countries accept that what we did is
legitimate,” Jordan said. “They see that we have reacted to an
excessive over-valuation” of the  Swiss franc .  The 17-nation euro area is  Switzerland ’s biggest trading
partner, and at its most recent policy review in March the SNB
warned of the risk of tensions in the euro area increasing again,
which would put more upwards pressure on the franc.  Foreign Currency  In 2012, the SNB spent 188 billion francs ($201 billion)
buying foreign currency to defend the ceiling. Without the cap
the economy would have suffered a recession, Swiss policy makers
have said, and they have also repeatedly stressed there is no
risk of inflation for the foreseeable future.  Switzerland is in “a difficult situation,” Jordan said
yesterday. “Our exchange rate policy hasn’t been criticized or
questioned by other countries in the past days here in
 Washington .”  The SNB sees Swiss economic growth of as much as 1.5
percent this year, with consumer prices declining 0.2 percent
for 2013, before rising 0.2 percent in 2014.  The SNB has sought to diversify its reserves, about half of
which are held in euros. It started buying South Korean won last
year, after expanding into Singapore dollars, Danish krone and
Swedish krona previously.  SNB Board Member Fritz Zurbruegg said in an interview
published earlier this month that the SNB is keen not to disrupt
markets with its asset management and that it is always looking
at diversification opportunities. The SNB also has no plans to
buy or sell gold, Zurbruegg said in the interview. “We invest
our reserves very carefully,” Jordan said yesterday.  Swiss Economy  SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine said the Swiss
economy is vulnerable to instability in the banking sector
caused by an unsustainable rise in mortgage debt.  Swiss real estate prices have risen sharply due to the
SNB’s loose monetary policy. In a bid to thwart risky lending,
the government in February ordered banks to hold additional
capital as a buffer. The requirement, implemented at the behest
of the SNB, takes effect from Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Washington at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  