-- Stuck in a Trap? Escape-Artist Korea Has Pointers
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-04-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/stuck-in-a-trap-escape-artist-korea-has-pointers-william-pesek.html
Five years after the worst economic
crisis since the Great Depression, developing nations confront a
nasty pair of threats: an excruciatingly slow global recovery,
and the tsunami of easy money that rich-world central bankers
have unleashed as they try to revive their own economies.  The problems are interrelated and no one should fear them
more -- or be more open to suggested remedies -- than Xi Jinping.  China ’s new president knows he needs better than 8
percent growth to maintain social stability in the world’s most
populous nation.  It’s sobering that Bert Hofman, the World Bank’s chief
economist for East Asia and the Pacific, senses a fundamental
 shift  in China’s trajectory. He says China will be expanding
only 6 percent to 7 percent by the end of the decade. Factory-
worker grumbling about Communist Party billionaires will get
much uglier when China’s export machine seizes up, and jobs
disappear.  As China confronts the limits of a model that has raised
 living standards  impressively over the past 30 years, Xi could
do worse than look to South Korea. Others also could learn from
a nation of 50 million people that seems to have figured things
out.  China is great at economic hardware such as roads, bridges,
airports and dams, but bad at software. It has yet to cultivate
anything approaching cutting-edge industries based on ideas and
knowledge to replace its legions of sweatshops.  Similar Critiques  Economists once leveled similar critiques at  Korea . It rose
from the rubble of war using exactly the same export-led
strategy that Japan had before it, and China did after. Yet
then, Korea reduced the government’s role in industry and moved
beyond maintaining an undervalued currency, an obsession that
skews incentives and exacerbates the risk of credit bubbles.
Banks were freed to allocate credit more productively, while
companies, deprived of state support, had to become more
innovative and competitive.  Among the victims of the 1997 Asian crisis, Korea Inc. has
used the past 15 years particularly well. Now Samsung
Electronics Co. is all that stands between Apple Inc. and world
domination. How many globally competitive Chinese companies can
you name?  Korea succeeded by recognizing that the old playbook wasn’t
working. Its flexibility helped the country avoid the “middle-
income trap” that so many developing nations now face. That’s
when per-capita income stalls at about $10,000, a threshold that
China is approaching. The work is ongoing, with President Park
Geun Hye working to support small and medium-sized enterprises
to increase entrepreneurship and stimulate more job growth from
the ground up, not just from the top down.  Role Model  “So many developing nations can learn from what occurred
here,” says Anne-Isabelle Degryse-Blateau, the United Nations
Development Program’s Seoul-based country director. “While
Korea has lots of work to do, it’s a role-model economy.”  Now Korea is shifting gears again, in the face of a new
challenge. Desperation is leading central banks around the world
-- most recently  Japan  -- to drive down rates to zero and
provide unorthodox monetary stimulus as well. The Federal
Reserve, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank and the
Bank of England are all carrying out massive quantitative-easing
experiments.  In times past, so much money sloshing around global markets
would have led to the kind of hyperinflation that undid Weimar
 Germany . But the world faces a “liquidity trap” of exceptional
severity.  Since few households and companies have confidence to
borrow or invest, and banks are reluctant to lend, monetary
policy lacks the multiplier effect that once made it so potent.  Bubble Troubles  Instead of spurring demand, ultra-low rates are creating a
flood of hot money. All that cash has to go somewhere, and it’s
ending up in Chinese junk bonds, Philippine stocks, Australian
real estate and the Korean won. That’s why China’s frantic
attempts to cool property markets have had little effect. Excess
liquidity from the around the globe is seeping in, no matter
what Xi does.  Smaller, open economies are even more vulnerable to giant
asset bubbles that put livelihoods at risk. It’s a disorienting
dilemma for officials such as Kim Choong Soo, who runs the Bank
of Korea. He has been under intense pressure to follow the lead
of Haruhiko Kuroda, his Bank of Japan counterpart: Politicians
in  Seoul  are clamoring for Kim to cut interest rates in order to
head off slowing growth, cap a strong won and soothe markets
unnerved by North Korea’s tantrums. He’s stood his ground,
clearly recognizing that monetary stimulus is useless in a world
of zero rates. In doing so, he’s making the point that only
fiscal policy offers a way out of this trap.  Act of Defiance  With his defiance, Kim has put the onus on the politicians,
who last week served up a 17.3 trillion-won ($15.4 billion)
stimulus package. The money will go a long way toward defending
Korea’s export-reliant economy from the yen’s 20 percent plunge
in the past six months.  More bold steps may be coming. Korea is considering ways to
insulate itself from capital-flow volatility, possibly by
imposing taxes on financial transactions. Fifteen years ago,
 Malaysia  became a pariah state when it limited the flow of
money. Today, it is common-sense economics to protect your
country from being overwhelmed by central-bank largesse.  Developing Asia once spread financial contagion from New
York to London and  Tokyo . Now, as the world’s richest economies
return the favor, Asian policy makers are grappling for ways to
cope. They may find the best clues in Seoul.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  