-- Syrian Opposition Pushes for Drones, Weapons as Allies Meet
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-20T23:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/syrian-opposition-pushes-for-drones-weapons-as-allies-meet.html
The Syrian opposition urged the
U.S. and allies to use drones against the regime of President
Bashar al-Assad, provide weapons to opposition fighters, and
create a protected “no-fly zone” airspace within  Syria  at a
meeting of allies in Istanbul yesterday.  The demands reflected opposition frustration with the
failure of the U.S. and its allies to provide the intelligence
and equipment they say is necessary to defend themselves from
the regime’s continued attacks.  “The technical ability to take specific action to prevent
the human tragedy and suffering of innocent civilians, mostly
women and children, is available in the form of specific
intelligence and equipment,” the National Coalition of Syrian
Revolution and Opposition Forces said in a statement. “Syrians
understand that such ability is within the reach of a number of
members of the Friends of Syria Group, yet nothing serious has
been done to put an end to such terror and criminality.”  Another 125 men, woman and children died across the country
yesterday, according to the Syrian Network for Human Rights, a
London-based human rights group, adding to the toll of more than
75,000 killed since the conflict began in March 2011. More than
1.3 million Syrians have flooded into  Turkey , Jordan, and
Lebanon, destabilizing the region, and 4.25 million more are
internally displaced, according to the UN.  Non-Lethal Aid  The opposition statement, along with difficult discussions
that pushed the ‘Friends’ meeting hours over schedule, reflected
impatience with the non-lethal military aid announced at
yesterday’s gathering, according to a State Department official
who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Following conversations with Syrian opposition leader Moaz
Al-Khatib yesterday, Secretary of State John Kerry announced
that the U.S. will double its non-lethal assistance to the Assad
opposition.  The new $123 million in aid “underscores the United
States’ firm support for a political solution to the crisis in
Syria and for the opposition’s advancement of an inclusive,
tolerant vision” for a post-Assad Syria, according to the
announcement. Kerry also announced about $25 million in
additional food assistance for Syrians.  Last Resort  U.S. administration officials have made clear in recent
days that they see military assistance to the Syrian opposition
as an “option of last resort,” as Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told lawmakers at a Senate Armed Services hearing April
17. Active military intervention could interfere with
humanitarian efforts, strain alliances and suck the U.S. into a
broader regional conflict, he said.  Kerry met briefly with Al-Khatib upon arrival in Istanbul
yesterday and then saw him again with the full contingent of
foreign ministers from the ‘Friends’ countries, which include
the U.K.,  France ,  Italy ,  Germany , Turkey, Jordan, Qatar,  Egypt ,
the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.  At the larger meeting, Al-Khatib presented the opposition’s
demands, asking the international group to work toward passage
of a United Nations Resolution condemning Syria for the use of
ballistic and chemical weapons against civilians. They urged the
use of “surgical strikes” by “unmanned aerial vehicles” to
stop the Assad regime from using such weapons.  Congressional Demands  The opposition also asked for the creation of an
international fund to support its coalition and efforts to
organize politically. And they called for a protected airspace -
- a demand that the administration is also hearing from members
of Congress, including Michigan Democrat Senator Carl Levin, who
heads the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Other lawmakers urging the administration to take greater
action include New Jersey Senator Robert Menendez, the Democrat
who leads the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and
Representative Ed Royce, the California Republican who heads the
House Foreign Affairs Committee.  Royce has prepared bipartisan legislation calling for the
U.S. to arm Syrian rebels, while Levin and others have urged
President  Barack Obama  to support the creation of safe zones
along the Turkish border with Syria and the deployment of
Patriot missile batteries to “neutralize” Syrian planes.  “We must do more to tip the balance in favor of the Syrian
opposition,” Royce said on April 17.  Extremist Groups  Administration officials told lawmakers in April 17
testimony that their lack of understanding about the composition
of rebel military forces complicates their ability to provide
military aid. The growth of extremist groups in Syria to fight
Assad, such as the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra Front, is also cause
for concern as the U.S. wants to prevent these groups from
obtaining arms.  Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told
the Senate Armed Services Committee that, in distinguishing
moderate rebel military groups from radicals, it’s “actually
more confusing on the opposition side today than it was six
months ago.”  Assad’s opposition has also been hamstrung by infighting,
policy differences and personal rivalries, reducing their
ability to provide a viable alternative to the regime, Kerry
told the House Foreign Relations Committee the same day.  “We’re trying to get everybody on the same page,” Kerry
told the panel.  U.S. allies, including Saudi Arabia and Qatar, are already
providing arms to Syrian fighters. France and the U.K. are
pushing the EU to lift its embargo against sending arms to Syria
so that they could provide military equipment to opposition
fighters. Russia and  Iran  continue to send arms to the Syrian
regime, U.S. officials such as Dempsey say.  Tomorrow, Kerry will hold meetings with Turkey’s Prime
Minister Recep Erdogan, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  and
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas.  Kerry will then fly to Brussels for a meeting of North
Atlantic Treaty Organization foreign ministers. He will also see
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who will be there for a
NATO-Russia meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  