-- U.K. Inflation Outlook Slumps as Growth Wanes, Gilt Yields Show
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-04-20T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/u-k-inflation-outlook-slumps-as-growth-wanes-gilt-yields-show.html
U.K. inflation expectations tumbled
to the lowest in almost four months this week as energy prices
fell and government reports signaled growth is slowing, gilt
yields show.  The so-called 10-year  break-even rate , which predicts
consumer-price increases over the next decade, slid to as low as
3.10 percent from this year’s high of 3.39 percent last month.
Brent crude prices dropped to the least since July. Gilts gained
as data showing a drop in retail sales, rising unemployment and
slowing wage growth, adding weight to calls for further stimulus
by the  Bank of England . The pound slid for a third week against
the euro after  Fitch Ratings  cut the U.K.’s credit ranking.  “There’s definitely been a substantial selloff,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a London-based rates strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. “If you’re not confident in growth, if you’re
sensing in the development in raw-material prices a scenario
where the structural problems of the U.K. are not going to play
a role immediately and won’t be quite as bad as people assume,
then the selloff in index-linked gilts is quite natural.”  The yield on the 10-year  index-linked gilt  rose 10 basis
points this week to minus 1.45 percent after climbing to minus
1.41 percent yesterday, the highest since March 22. The 1.875
percent bond due November 2022 fell 1.32, or 13.20 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,523) face amount, to 134.295.  The 10-year break-even rate, an index of inflation
expectations that measures the yield difference between gilts
and index-linked securities, fell 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 3.12 percent after touching 3.10 percent
yesterday, the least since Jan. 25.  Gilts Rise  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield dropped to within four
basis points of a seven-month low in the week as Bank of England
Governor-designate  Mark Carney  called Britain one of the world’s
crisis economies. His comments followed calls by International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde ’s call for the
U.K. government to relax its fiscal policy.  “There’s three classes of economies in the global
economy,” Carney said in  Washington  yesterday. “The crisis
economies, they are well known including the U.S., and I think
the insights from Christine Lagarde at the IMF is that the U.S.
is breaking out of that pack,” he said. The economies still in
crisis “include obviously the  euro zone  at the center, the U.K.
and  Japan ,” he said.  Retail Sales  U.K. March retail sales including fuel fell 0.7 percent
from a month earlier, according to an April 18 report. Data a
day earlier showed unemployment rose at the fastest pace in more
than a year and wage increases slowed, providing further
evidence the labor market is succumbing to the weak economy.  The rate on 10-year gilts fell seven basis points this week
to 1.66 percent. The pound tumbled 0.4 percent to 85.78 pence
per euro and weakened 0.7 percent to $1.5233.  Fitch cut the U.K.’s credit grade one step to AA+ from AAA.  The pound has weakened 4.2 percent this year, the second-
worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as signs the economy is
struggling to recover fueled speculation the central bank will
boost stimulus. The dollar climbed 1.9 percent and the euro
gained 1.9 percent.  U.K. government debt has returned 1.9 percent this year
through April 18, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies,
outperforming the 0.8 percent gains in U.S. Treasuries and
German bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 