-- Yen Falls for Third Week as BOJ Stimulus Is Unopposed by G-20
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-20/yen-falls-for-third-week-as-boj-stimulus-is-unopposed-by-g-20.html
The yen weakened against its U.S.
counterpart for a third week, the longest stretch since
February, as the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s stimulus policies were
unopposed at a Group of 20 meeting in Washington.  Australia ’s dollar fell against the majority of its most-
traded peers as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of 24 raw
materials touched a nine-month low on signs of slowing global
economic growth.  Europe ’s 17-nation currency pared a loss versus
the greenback as European Central Bank Governing Council member
Jens Weidmann said the bank would only cut interest rates if
economic data worsen. A report next week may show euro-zone
manufacturing fell, a Bloomberg survey shows.  “The volatility has been higher in dollar-yen and the yen
crosses than in most of the other majors,”  Robert Lynch , a New
York-based currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. After  Japan ’s finance
minister said the nation avoided G-20 censure, “the market
obviously took that as a signal that at least at this stage, the
risk for official resistance to BOJ-aided yen weakening is less
likely.”  Japan’s currency fell 1.2 percent to 99.52 per dollar in
trading this week in New York, after touching 99.69, the weakest
level since April 12. The yen hasn’t weakened beyond the 100
versus the dollar threshold since April 2009. The yen dropped
0.7 percent to 129.88 per euro. The dollar rose 0.5 percent to
$1.3052 per euro.  Australia’s currency, known as the Aussie, fell 1 percent
in the week while  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened 0.8 percent,
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  rallied 1.5
percent and Europe’s 17-nation currency gained 0.9 percent.  Global Growth  “You saw some slippage in risk currencies,” Lynch said of
the drop in commodity prices and the impact on currencies.  China ’s gross domestic product expanded 7.7 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said April 14. That compares with the 8 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey and 7.9 percent growth in the
previous three months.  The  International Monetary Fund  trimmed its global growth
forecast and urged European policy makers to use “aggressive”
monetary policy as a second year of contraction leaves the euro
area’s recovery lagging behind the rest of the world.  “We didn’t change  interest rates  at our last meeting as
they are currently appropriate and in accordance with our
assessment of economic developments,  price stability  and our
monetary analysis,” Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s Bundesbank,
said yesterday at a press conference in Washington. “Of course,
we will reassess the adequacy of the rates if the data change.”  ECB Watch  Euro-area manufacturing  output  may have contracted to 46.7
in April from 46.8 last month, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists. London-based Markit Economics is scheduled to
report the purchasing manager index data on April 23.  “The PMIs on Tuesday next week are going to be crucial in
terms of the ECB expectations,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-
exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  The ECB left its benchmark rate unchanged at a record low
of 0.75 percent on April 4. At the same time, with doubts
growing about the central bank’s forecast for an economic
recovery later this year, President  Mario Draghi  signaled policy
makers are looking at a range of measures, including lower
rates.  Market Focus  Japanese investors sold 331.9 billion yen ($3.4 billion) in
overseas bonds and notes in the week ended April 12, according
to the Ministry of Finance in  Tokyo .  “Markets will continue focusing on Japan, and particularly
the main theme in foreign-exchange markets has been expectations
of significant investor outflows from Japan,” BNP’s Serebriakov
said. “Most market participants do see it as a medium-term
story and would expect those flows to materialize over time.”  Global finance chiefs handed Japan leeway to reflate its
stagnant economy by indicating its fresh round of monetary
stimulus doesn’t contravene a pact to avoid a currency war.  Meeting for the first time since the BOJ unleashed new
measures aimed at delivering 2 percent inflation within two
years, G-20 finance ministers and central bankers said yesterday
in  Washington  that those actions are “intended to stop
deflation and support domestic demand.”  Options traders are the most bullish on the dollar against
its Japanese counterpart in almost two months.  The premium for three-month options granting the right to
buy the greenback versus the Japanese currency relative to those
allowing for sales was as much 0.94 percentage point today, the
most since Feb. 18, according to 25-delta risk reversals.  “G-20 and the BOJ have made it very clear to the financial
community that Japan has the green light regarding continued QE
and resulting Japanese yen weakness,” Douglas Borthwick, a
managing director and head of foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX
in  New York , said yesterday in an e-mail. The 100 level in
dollar yen “will fall soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  