-- 
“Asia Edge” Launches on Bloomberg Television

-- B y  
-- 
2011-06-20T13:31:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/-asia-edge-launches-on-bloomberg-television.html

Press Release  New Program Features Extended Interviews, Top News from Asia-
Pacific Region  Hong Kong -- Bloomberg Television today announced the launch of
“ Asia  Edge,” a new hour-long program airing weekdays at 11am/HKT
that features extended interviews with newsmakers and panel
discussions with Bloomberg market reporters, business experts
and influential guests.  “Asia Edge” joins Bloomberg
Television’s line-up of live programming airing out of the
network’s new studio in Cheung Kong Centre in Hong Kong’s
business district.  Hosted by Rishaad Salamat and Susan Li, “Asia Edge” covers the
top news and market-moving data from across the Asia-Pacific
region, including the run-up and opening of markets in  India .
Each show also features an extended interview with a top CEO,
investor or newsmaker from the region.  Salamat and Li will be
joined each day by Bloomberg Television reporters John Dawson,
Zeb Eckert and Philip Yin for daily panel discussions that look
at major business issues and market-moving data for the day.  “’Asia Edge’ takes a look at the news and market data impacting
the region in a focused way,” said Parry Ravindranathan,
Business Head for Bloomberg Television in Asia. “With more time
devoted to in-depth interviews with guests, we’ll be providing
deeper insight into the major issues driving business decisions
each day.”  Bloomberg Television, currently available in more than 270
million homes worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most
affluent and influential viewers in terms of  household income ,
asset value and education levels.  With hubs in New York,  London 
and  Hong Kong , the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage
of the people, companies and ideas that move the markets.
Programming includes “First Up” with host Susan Li (7-9 a.m.
HKT),“On the Move Asia” with host Rishaad Salamat (9-11 a.m.
HKT) and “Asia Edge” (11-12 p.m. HKT).  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
www.bloomberg.com/tv and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Amanda Cowie, +1 212-617-1689,  acowie@bloomberg.net 
