-- 
H&M May Post Third Straight Drop in Profit

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-06-20T22:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/h-m-may-post-third-straight-drop-in-profit.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  may report a
third straight decline in quarterly profit tomorrow as the maker
of $4.95 tank tops wrestles with higher labor costs in Asia,
pushing it further behind larger rival  Inditex SA. (ITX)   It would be the first time in at least a decade that profit
fell for three consecutive periods. Second-quarter net income
probably dropped 16 percent to 4.37 billion kronor ($678
million), according to the average of 16 analyst estimates.
Profit may also fall about 10 percent in the current quarter.  Stockholm-based H&M sources a larger percentage of goods
from Asia, where wage inflation is outpacing Europe, than Zara-
chain owner Inditex. Having more suppliers in  Europe  also means
Inditex, the world’s biggest clothing retailer, is able to roll
out products more quickly to its stores in the region. H&M has
reduced prices, eroding profitability amid record cotton costs.  “H&M and other retailers have benefited from cheaper labor
for years, but this year that is starting to change,” said
 Simon Irwin , a London-based analyst at Liberum Capital. H&M’s
profit rose more than 10 percent in every year from at least
2001 until 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Shares of Inditex, which overtook H&M as Europe’s biggest
clothing retailer in 2005, have risen 7.7 percent this year,
while H&M has declined 5.9 percent. H&M is still more expensive,
trading at 21 times estimated earnings compared with 20 times
for its Spanish rival. Fifteen of 35 analysts who cover H&M have
a “sell” rating on the shares, while two-thirds of the 33 who
follow Inditex have a “buy” rating, Bloomberg data show.  Asian Sourcing  “Inditex has delivered better performance than H&M over
the past months,” said Virginie Blin, an analyst at Alphavalue
in Paris. The Arteixo, Spain-based company this month posted a
10 percent jump in quarterly profit. “The advantage of its
integrated process is that it provides speed and flexibility,
enabling it to fine-tune its offer with the latest fashion
trends and to optimize promotions.”  H&M, which doesn’t own factories, sources about 75 percent
of its clothes from Asia and 35 percent from  China  alone, said
 Anne Critchlow , an analyst at Societe Generale in  London . Annual
pay inflation in China is about 10 percent, she said. Hourly
manufacturing wages in China rose 89 percent between 2005 and
2010 and tripled in  India  in the same period, according to
 Euromonitor International.   Hourly manufacturing wages in  Spain  rose 17 percent between
2005 and 2010, according to Euromonitor. Average wages aren’t
currently rising in the country, Critchlow said. Inditex gets
about 17 percent of its clothing from Chinese suppliers and
sources a higher proportion closer to its Spanish distribution
centers, according to Critchlow.  Gap Inc. (GPS) , which H&M overtook last year in sales, said this
month that cost inflation is the worst in 30 years.  Missing Estimates  Same-store sales at H&M, which last year had a collection
designed by fashion house Lanvin, have missed analysts’
estimates for all but one month this year, according to analysts
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Lower prices haven’t stimulated business
as much as the company expected, while underperformance in the
biggest markets and weaker-than-expected sales in new markets
may indicate a “brand issue,” they said.  “H&M has focused too much on the product and forgotten
about the rest, which was why it was so successful in the first
place,” said  Armando Branchini , vice-president of Milan-based
consulting firm Intercorporate. “Inditex has a no-frills model,
but incredible attention is paid to every aspect from the
merchandising to the stores.”  Some investors remain optimistic on the outlook, pointing
to the benefits of the retailer’s scale in sourcing from
overseas and the prospect of an easing in cotton prices.  “We are confident that H&M can execute its plans and
return to double-digit growth,” said Wendy Trevisani of
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .
“H&M started outsourcing early and has huge scale advantages.
The situation could reverse very quickly for the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  