-- 
3M Sues Porton Capital, CEO Harvey Boulter Over ‘Blackmail’

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-06-20T20:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/3m-sues-porton-capital-ceo-boulter-for-30-million-in-new-york-court.html
3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of Scotch tape,
sued Porton Capital Inc. and its chief executive officer, Harvey Boulter, in New York state court, accusing them of trying to
extort $30 million in connection with a lawsuit in the U.K. over
3M’s purchase of a medical technology company.  Porton and Ploughshare Innovations Ltd., two of the
shareholders who sold their stakes in the technology company,
sued 3M in London over the deal. The trial began last week and
is expected to continue into July,  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M
said yesterday in a New York State Supreme Court filing.
Ploughshare is a unit controlled by the British Ministry of
Defense, according to the suit.  “Instead of awaiting the outcome of the pending
litigation, defendants and their investors have engaged in an
unlawful campaign to blackmail 3M into paying $30 million in
order to avoid the continuation of the campaign,” the company
said in its complaint.  3M also said in its complaint that the “defendants seek to
publicly defame 3M and its chairman/CEO.” George W. Buckley is
the chairman and chief executive officer.  ‘Ransom Demand’  “I got what my client believes was a ransom demand,”
William Brewer, the lawyer for 3M who filed the suit in  New
York , said in a telephone interview.  Brewer said the defendants implied that a settlement
unfavorable to them would hurt 3M’s chances to do business in
the U.K.  “He broke the rules of settlement under confidentiality,
which in most places in the world is both unprofessional and
unethical for a lawyer of his supposed standing,” Boulter said
in an e-mail. “To publicly characterize a settlement
negotiation as blackmail is shameful of Mr. Brewer.”  The trial centers on 3M’s acquisition from Porton and other
investors of Acolyte Biomedica Ltd., which was developing
products to detect microorganisms, according to the complaint.  Acolyte’s only product on the market in the U.K. was
BacLite, which would help hospitals screen patients for
antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus germs known as
“superbugs.” 3M said it conducted trials of BacLite in the
U.S. and the results were “alarmingly below those claimed” by
Acolyte before the acquisition.  Former Shareholders  3M said it contacted the former shareholders of Acolyte, as
required in the purchase agreement, about its plan to shut down
the business and offered $1.07 million as an estimated payment
on what net sales would have been through the end of 2009.  Porton and Boulter demanded $65.6 million, discussions were
“unfruitful” and 3M was sued in December 2008 in the U.K. for
having “failed to actively market BacLite,” according to 3M’s
suit.  Attached to the complaint in New York were e-mails said to
be written by Boulter to Brewer. One e-mail said that a court
victory in  London  for 3M could leave the British Government
“quietly seething.” It also said a proposed settlement for
more than $30 million would allow the British Ministry of
Defense to “internally save face.”  The attached e-mail also referred to a notice from
 England ’s Queen Elizabeth that 3M CEO Buckley, a native of the
U.K., would become a Knight Bachelor. It said the British
Cabinet “might very shortly be discussing the rather
embarrassing situation of George’s knighthood.”  “I have no influence of the knighthood process,” Boulter
said in his e-mail to Bloomberg.  Porton Capital Technology Fund , which is managed by Porton
Capital, is also named as a defendant. Porton has offices in
London and in Dubai.  3M rose 78 cents to $92.56 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 7.3 percent
this year.  The case is 3M Co. v. Boulter, 651708/2011,  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  