-- 
A Cautionary Tale of Three Fiscal Crises: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T04:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/a-cautionary-tale-of-three-fiscal-crises-simon-johnson.html
In today’s world, there are three
kinds of fiscal crises brought on by too much  government
spending , and three kinds of responses. We can call them the
nightmare scenario, the preemptive experiment and the head-in-
the-sand model.  In the nightmare scenario, a country runs large deficits
for a decade or more -- and the financial markets are happy to
buy its debt at low  interest rates . But then the markets
suddenly turn, deciding that the country is going straight off a
cliff. The cost of financing the national debt goes through the
roof. The government has little choice but to make immediate,
large spending cuts.  Higher interest rates combined with cuts in spending
contract the economy and increase debt relative to gross
domestic product, further undermining  market sentiment . The debt
ends up largely in the hands of sympathetic governments and the
 International Monetary Fund , which agree to roll over the loans
at low interest rates indefinitely -- or the country defaults.
Either way, recovery will take a long time. If you haven’t
figured it out by now, this is  Greece . In 2010, its debt
relative to GDP was 142 percent, or about twice the average of
most industrialized nations.  In the preemptive model, a government tries to get ahead of
potentially negative market sentiment by bringing down the
deficit over a number of years. This slower fiscal adjustment
allows smaller spending cuts and revenue-raising measures to
work over time. As long as the markets see that politicians are
willing and able to bring down deficits, they should be greatly
reassured.  Secret Weapon  This particular government has a secret weapon -- a free-
floating  exchange rate  -- not available to Greece or other euro
zone countries. If the currency depreciates, it will help the
economy by increasing exports and tourist spending, and will
boost sectors that compete against imports. The central bank can
also cut interest rates. Inflation may be a constraint on
monetary policy, but moderate increases in prices and wages will
help keep house values up and  consumer debt  down, relative to
disposable income.  This model, of course, is Britain. Its spending cuts are
relatively small, and although its fiscal policy is
contractionary, the overall policy mix remains expansionary. The
key dynamic in the eyes of the market is debt relative to GDP,
so the trick is keeping up economic growth while debt comes
under control. With most growth predictions in the range of 1.5
percent to 1.9 percent for this year, and 2.1 percent to 2.5
percent next year, the consensus view is that fiscal policy will
not push the U.K. back into recession. Britain’s gross debt
should peak at 87.4 percent of GDP in 2013, according to the
IMF.  Revenue Needs  In the head-in-the-sand model, the political debate around
the deficit is more about symbols than reality. The main
political parties refuse to take seriously the need for new
revenue. At the end of last year, instead of cutting spending or
raising taxes, they recklessly agreed to extend costly tax cuts.
And no one wants to deal sensibly with government-funded health
care, the biggest future spending item of all.  This is the  United States . The IMF does not like to appear
critical of the U.S., so you need to dig deep to find its
negative assessment, on Page 127 in Statistical Table 7, of the
fund’s authoritative  Fiscal Monitor , published in April. It says
gross debt will increase through the end of the forecast horizon
in 2016, when it will reach 111 percent of GDP. That’s about the
nastiest thing you can say about a country in today’s market
environment.  Enough Rope  The problem is not that this fiscal trajectory will
precipitate an immediate crisis, but that savers around the
world will continue to give the U.S. enough rope to hang itself.
Interest rates are likely to remain low as long as there are no
other equally attractive reserve currencies. Foreign central
banks and private investors like to keep their rainy day funds
in U.S. Treasuries.  The U.S. should take this opportunity to start gradual
fiscal consolidation, not Greek-style spending cuts that would
contract the economy and push up government debt relative to
GDP. A path slower than Britain’s would be entirely reasonable,
restricting future spending increases and allowing revenue to
rise as the economy recovers. A credible deficit reduction plan
should lower long-term interest rates.  The danger in the U.S. is complacency masquerading as fiery
fiscal rhetoric. The debt limit debate so far has not
contributed anything to fiscal stability. The spending limits on
the table are largely meaningless. Ruling out tax increases
makes international investors roll their eyes.  The U.S. could do a preemptive, and relatively gentle,
fiscal adjustment. Or it could wait for the nightmare scenario,
when markets eventually turn against it. At the moment, the
politicians just wait.  ( Simon Johnson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View  columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 