-- 
AIG Commits ‘Corporate Suicide’ Without Dr. Strangelove: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-06-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/aig-commits-corporate-suicide-as-greenberg-dr-strangelove-split-books.html
Early in his book “Fatal Risk,”
investigative reporter Roddy Boyd describes the curious office
where  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  committed what he calls
“corporate suicide.”  “The walls of the room contained row after row of books,
from arcane academic works covering the mathematical shape of
interest-rate curves to works on admiralty law and even copies
of the corporate  tax code  from the 1940s,” he writes. “They
weren’t for show; they were bookmarked, haphazardly stacked, and
dog-eared.”  Though that sounds like a library where Colonel Mustard
might die in a game of “Clue,” it was actually the heart of
AIG Financial Products, an operation notorious for gutting the
world’s largest insurer and terrorizing the economy. Even more
surprising, judging from this engaging and balanced account, is
just how well the outfit worked -- until it succumbed to the
siren song of fast money.  Many books on the financial meltdown that began in 2007
treat AIG as a plot point in a wider drama. Yet valuable lessons
can be gleaned from the narrower account that Boyd lays out here
-- lessons about the responsibilities of leaders and regulators
as well as the hazards of financial engineering.  ‘Psychopathic Hunt’  AIG Financial Products, with headquarters in  Connecticut ,
didn’t feel like a Wall Street trading floor, Boyd says. Nor was
it meant to. The man who set up the operation in 1987, Howard
Sosin, wasn’t interested in gunslingers. A finance scholar who
had done a stint at Bell Labs and became known as the “Dr.
Strangelove of Derivatives,” he was out to craft long-dated
swaps that his team would hedge to the hilt and vet in
excruciating detail, Boyd says.  “It was a process that a 15-year veteran of FP described
as ‘a sociopathic hunt for risk,’” says the former Fortune
magazine staffer, who now works for the Big Money website.  We all know what happened in the end. Sosin left after
falling out with Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the “boss of
bosses” who ran AIG for almost 40 years. Greenberg himself was
forced to retire as chief executive in 2005 amid probes into the
insurance company’s accounting practices. And those left in
charge forgot what Boyd calls an essential premise of risk:
“all risk was dangerous, but there were some risks that were
more fatal than others.”  So  AIG Financial Products  wrote gobs of credit-default
swaps on collateralized debt obligations that backfired during
the mortgage meltdown, turning AIG into a ward of the state that
received $182.3 billion in bailouts.  Spitzer and Cassandras  The story of AIG’s demise has many moving pieces, large and
small, which Boyd meshes into a smooth narrative. He gives us a
look inside Greenberg’s legal war of attrition with  Eliot Spitzer , the New York attorney general who went on to become
governor (and, later, an embarrassment to the state).  We get the lowdown on two Cassandras inside AIG Financial
Products who spoke up about the deterioration in the subprime
mortgage market. One of them, Andrew Forster, had the respect of
the man then running the unit,  Joseph Cassano , and eventually
convinced him to stop writing swaps on CDOs, Boyd says. By then
it was late 2005, and AIG Financial Products was on the hook for
insuring some of the riskiest CDOs in the land.  We’re reminded, too, of the rough tango between Cassano’s
team and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which wasn’t shy about
demanding more collateral as it lowered its valuations on CDOs
that AIG had insured.  Boyd lacks the eye for cinematic detail that makes  Andrew Ross Sorkin ’s “Too Big to Fail” such compulsive reading. His
syntax can be convoluted, the copyediting gets sloppy, and one
wonders how many readers will want to wade through all the
complex transactions he describes.  Geithner’s Bubbles  Still, Boyd is good with dialogue and knows how to keep the
story going. His reporting is thorough and fair, even when it
comes to Timothy F. Geithner’s risible assertions that it wasn’t
the  Federal Reserve ’s job to pop bubbles.  Boyd paints a sympathetic portrait of Greenberg, the kid
from  Manhattan ’s Lower East Side who lied about his age to get
into the army, landed on Omaha Beach on D-Day, and eventually
helped liberate the Dachau concentration camp.  Greenberg possesses raw animal instincts and a healthy
paranoia, Boyd says. When he got tossed out, AIG lost a man who
was “willing to spend hours with underlings parsing the risk on
transactions that were still on a drawing board.” The result,
on this evidence, was the U.S. government takeover in 2008.  “AIG as he knew and loved it was dead -- its $1 trillion
dollar balance sheet -- and there was nothing he could do,”
Boyd writes. “There would be nothing left of his life’s work
except footnotes and lawsuits.”  “Fatal Risk: A Cautionary Tale of AIG’s Corporate
Suicide” is from  Wiley  (341 pages, $27.95, 18.99 pounds, 22.40
euros).  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 