-- 
AirAsia Nears Record Deal for Up to 200 Airbus A320neo Jets

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-06-20T10:57:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/airasia-nears-record-deal-for-up-to-200-airbus-a320neo-jets-1-.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  said it’s close to
concluding an order for as many as 200 Airbus SAS A320neo planes,
worth $18 billion at list prices, that could be a record
commercial-aircraft deal.  Asia ’s biggest budget airline expects to finalize an
agreement by late tomorrow, Kamarudin Meranun, group deputy
chief executive officer, said in an interview in Sepang, outside
of  Kuala Lumpur . Meranun said he’s flying to France today for
talks at the Paris Air Show, as the Malaysian carrier works on
the final conditions for the accord.  “If the conditions are included, then it’s a done deal,”
he said. He didn’t elaborate on the remaining points to be
agreed on with Toulouse, France-based Airbus. Carriers usually
pay less than list price for new planes.  An agreement would let Airbus surpass a target of having
500 orders or commitments for the A320neo in place by the end of
this week’s show, about seven months after it committed to
building the aircraft. The planemaker has more than 400 orders
or agreements in place, including 150 agreed to in January by
low-fare Indian carrier IndiGo as part of a record contract
worth $15 billion at list prices.  Fuel Savings  Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.,
plans to introduce the A320neo from the end of 2015, promising
efficiency gains of 15 percent compared with existing single-
aisle planes, helped by the use of new engines.  Boeing Co. (BA)  has
yet to decide whether it will upgrade its rival 737 single-aisle
aircraft or design a new jet. The A320neo costs $91.2 million,
based on Airbus’s catalog price.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF)  are likely to win an
order to supply engines for AirAsia’s A320neos, according to
three people familiar with the negotiations, who requested not
to be identified because the talks are private. The order for
companies’ CFM International venture would be valued at more
than $4 billion, based on estimates for list prices for the
Leap-X engine.  AirAsia, headed by Chief Executive Officer Tony Fernandes,
fell 0.3 percent to close at 3.14 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur today.
It has risen 24 percent this year, outpacing a 2.7 percent gain
for the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index.  The airline, with its main hub at Kuala Lumpur
international airport, flies to more than 20 countries,
according to its website. It has affiliates in Thailand and
Indonesia while AirAsia X offers long-haul services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 