-- 
Airbus Neo Order Streak Leaves Boeing 737 Trailing at Paris Show

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-06-21T17:52:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/airbus-neo-gains-momentum-with-boeing-737-shutout-as-show-begins.html
Airbus SAS  reached a goal of topping
500 orders for its upgraded A320neo aircraft by the end of the
Paris Air Show on the second day of the event as carriers put
pressure on  Boeing Co.  to respond with an all-new airliner.  U.S. leasing firm CIT Group Inc. signed an outline order
for 50 single-aisle neos worth $4.6 billion at list price,
propelling the model to Airbus’s pre-show target, and a 10-plane
deal from PT Garuda Indonesia gave the re-engined jet a first
contract from a client until now loyal to Boeing Co.’s rival 737.  JetBlue Airways Corp. of the U.S. also bought 40 A320neos
and TransAsia Airways Corp. of Taiwan ordered six A321neos,
while Boeing won 15 737 orders from Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA
plus 10 from Malaysian Airline System Bhd. that were pre-booked.
The contrasting fortunes in the single-aisle market, the biggest
in the civil airframe business, underscore Airbus’s success in
peddling the re-engined A320 as a more efficient take on its
bestseller as Boeing ponders its next move. The U.S. company
should skip an engine fix and build a new jet, clients including
industry doyen  Steven Udvar-Hazy ’s  Air Lease Corp.  said.  “I’m not talking to too many airlines, in fact none, zero,
that think a re-engine is the way to go for Boeing,”  John Plueger , the co-founder and business partner of Udvar-Hazy at
Air Lease, said in an interview at the Paris show yesterday.  General Electric Co .’s air-leasing unit and SAS AB of
Sweden ordered a total of 90 A320neos from Toulouse, France-
based Airbus on the first day of the Paris Show yesterday, while
Boeing didn’t secure any firm orders for the 737, other than a
two-plane deal from Mongolian Airlines announced in Washington.  ‘Total Panic’  The neo has become Airbus’s fastest-selling aircraft since
it was announced at the end of last year, with 232 commitments
announced at the Paris show, taking the total to 594. Chief
Operating Officer  John Leahy  said yesterday he’s now confident
of securing more than 600 deals by the time the French expo ends.  Airbus’s success will be of concern to Boeing, which should
already have mapped out its thinking on the single-aisle market,
 Tim Clark , president of Emirates, the world’s biggest
international airline, said yesterday in an interview in Paris.  “They’re in a total panic, of course they are,” Clark
said. “We’ve just seen 90 neos ordered and Leahy is going
around with a big grin on his face.” While Emirates isn’t a
narrowbody operator, the 737 delay will be a concern if it
affects Boeing’s thinking on a replacement for the 777 long-haul
model, he said.  No Rush  Boeing has maintained that it won’t be rushed by Airbus
into a decision, and that a choice between new engines and a
redesigned plane will come only at the end of the year. Airbus
markets the A320neo as 15 percent more fuel efficient than a
factory-fresh version of the jet on sale today. The new variant
goes on sale at the end of 2015 and has two new engine choices.  “The story at the show is the neo,” said  Norman Liu ,
chief executive officer of GE’s leasing unit, which placed an
order for 60 of the planes yesterday. The order has a value of
about $5.5 billion at list price, though customers typically get
discounts on larger or multiple deals. SAS bought 30 neos.  Hazy’s Air Lease announced preliminary agreements yesterday
that call for firm orders for 14 737-800s plus four options and
the conversion of options for six more in a deal Boeing said has
yet to be completed. The leasing firm also has an outline accord
for 36 A320neos plus 14 options.  New Entrants  Boeing is weighing its options at a time when the duopoly
with Airbus in the single-aisle market for jets with 100 to 149
seats is poised to crack open. Bombardier Inc. is marketing its
CSeries single-aisle jet, and the Canadian company completed the
first day of the show by announcing an order for 10 CS100 planes
worth $616 million at list prices, with options for six more.  Embraer SA , the Brazilian airframe producer specializing in
regional jets, is awaiting Boeing’s next move before deciding
whether to go ahead with a possible 150-seat model.  “Once Boeing has decided what to do, the shape of the
market will be clear,” CEO  Frederico Curado  said in an
interview after announcing orders and commitments for more than
50 of Embraer jets at the Paris show.  While the A320neo has outshone Boeing’s single-aisle
announcements at the Paris event, the U.S. manufacturer pulled
ahead on more lucrative orders for larger aircraft.  Boeing yesterday signed orders and commitments for 17  747-8
Intercontinental  jumbo jets valued at $5.4 billion at list
prices from two undisclosed customers. GE’s GECAS leasing arm
today ordered two freighter variants, together with eight of the
Chicago-based manufacturer’s 777-300ER long-range aircraft.  Last year at the Farnborough Air Show, which alternates
with Paris, Airbus picked up 130 firm orders worth $13 billion
and Boeing secured 103 valued at $10 billion. Bombardier’s
CSeries, slated to enter service in 2013, won none.  Older Design  Airbus went through months of intensive studies before
unveiling its A320neo strategy, as CEO  Tom Enders  fretted over
the engineering resources the project would absorb. Airbus is
still optimizing production of the A380 superjumbo, which missed
its first delivery by years and will remain an unprofitable
program at least until 2014 or 2015.  Boeing’s original 737 design is more than three decades old,
while Airbus spearheaded innovation including fly-by-wire
technology on its A320, which debuted at the end of the 1980s.
Boeing revamped the design of the 737 at the end of the 1990s.  Output Issue  Both companies are lifting single-aisle output to meet
demand. Boeing is planning to churn out 42 units a month, as it
aims to cut the overall production backlog to three or four
years from seven, Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh 
said at the show. Airbus is considering a similar rate.  Market forecasts suggest the U.S. company will need to
build 60 to 70 narrowbodies a month by 2030, almost twice the
current monthly rate, Albaugh said yesterday. That’s coloring
Boeing’s calculations,  Nicole Piasecki , head of business
development, said in an interview in Paris.  “We’re comfortable with the technology around the new
small airplane,” she said. “The work we’re embedded in now is
around the production system and the engagement with customers
on the definition of the airplane.”  Albaugh said Boeing is taking the time necessary to consult
with airlines and make the right decision.  “While some may think we’re dithering, it’s because we’re
working with customers to truly understand what their needs
are,” he said. “It’s no surprise to me that we have good
customers that are talking about the neo. I would expect all of
our customers to take a hard look.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Paris at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net 
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  