-- 
Airbus Works With Parker Aerospace on Fuel Cell to Power Planes

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-20T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/airbus-works-with-parker-aerospace-on-fuel-cell-to-power-planes.html
Airbus SAS, the world’s largest
planemaker, is working with Parker Aerospace to develop
technologies that would see fuel cells replace units that power
aircraft cabins to cut fuel use and emissions.  The idea is to replace what’s commonly known as the APU, or
auxiliary power unit, which runs on jet fuel. APUs provide
energy for on-ground and in-flight electrical power supplies,
powering air-conditioning systems or cabin lighting.  Airbus aims to have something ready for development of the
next-generation single-aisle plane, which Airbus expects to
bring into  service  around the middle of next decade. Fuel cells
could not be retrofitted onto the current generation of planes,
said Axel Krein, senior vice president for research and
technology at Airbus.  “We have a couple of technology elements in the pipeline
for the next-generation aircraft and fuel cells is one of
them,” Krein said. “If we have success in this with Parker, it
could be ready for flight testing by the middle of the next
decade.”  The goal is to reduce fuel consumption by 10 to 15 percent
on short-range missions, he said. Fuel cells make more sense for
short-haul flights that spend longer on the ground each day than
longer flights. Airbus will spend four to five years working to
reduce weight and maintenance costs, he said.  Integrate Energy Sources  Parker Aerospace, a unit of  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , would
provide the actual fuel cells and Airbus will work to integrate
the energy source with systems on the airplane such as water
supply, electrical supply and fuel tank systems.  Airbus and the rest of the  aerospace industry  is seeking to
help airlines cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 50 percent,
nitrogen-oxide emissions by 80 percent and noise by 50 percent.  A fuel cell is a device that transforms the energy
contained in hydrogen and oxygen into electricity through a
direct chemical conversion at a low temperature level without
moving parts. The exhaust product is water and, in the case of
an air-breathing system, oxygen-depleted air.  Krein said the water produced would be potable and could be
used on board, saving weight in that the airlines could carry
less water before taking off. The inert gas produced could be
used for fire protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  