-- 
Take No Comfort in Talk of a Newly Weakened Al-Qaeda: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-20T21:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/take-no-comfort-in-talk-of-a-newly-weakened-al-qaeda-view.html
As the Obama administration prepares
to announce a specific number for the first round of promised
troop reductions in  Afghanistan , starting in July, U.S.
officials are talking up the idea that  al-Qaeda proper  is
broken. Listen very carefully.  Pronouncements that al-Qaeda has been diminished in
Afghanistan are meant to support the message that the mission
there has been largely accomplished and that it’s safe to start
leaving. But whatever the merits of pulling out forces, the
evidence of al-Qaeda’s weakening mustn’t be used to minimize the
overall threat from Islamic terrorism. Al-Qaeda’s brand of
terrorism remains a serious global threat that requires
vigilance.  Yes, al-Qaeda, the organization, has been weakened in
Afghanistan and  Pakistan , notably by U.S.-led NATO actions. And
yes, the jihadist movement has lost many of its star players.
But al-Qaeda long ago metastasized into multiple jihadist groups
beyond that region. They might not have the ability to organize
spectacular acts of destruction, but they can cause mayhem.  In one sense, the danger posed by jihadists is growing. The
turmoil in the  Middle East  presents them with enormous
opportunities. Faced with domestic unrest, government security
agencies are more focused  on other matters , from suppressing
dissent in Bahrain to running the government in Egypt, than on
counterterrorism cooperation with the U.S.  Broken Down Security  In many locales, security has broken down altogether. Amid
the civil war in  Yemen , Islamic militants took control of the
southern town of  Zinjibar . In some places, guns are everywhere.
Think of  Libya . Be certain that  Ayman al-Zawahiri , Osama bin Laden’s successor, will be casting about in the Muslim world for
 new territory .  This is not to say that the future is completely bleak.
Jihad’s appeal remains largely rooted in the frustration of
ordinary people with a lack of control over their lives, a
paucity of basic freedoms and an inability to scrape out a
decent living. Jihad provides a convenient surrogate enemy in
the distant West against which to act out. Democratic reform in
the Arab world would deprive jihadists of the desperation they
need to win recruits and supporters.  How the U.S. can support such reform is the subject for
another day. In the meantime, it is essential that Americans
remain mindful of a crucial fact: Neither our hard-won victories
over jihadists in Afghanistan, nor our desire to extricate
ourselves from a conflict that has cost us dearly can obscure
the hard truth that the long fight against Islamic terrorism is
far from over.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials . 