-- 
Al-Qaeda’s Zawahiri, Bigger Threat Than Osama?: Raymond Ibrahim

-- B y   R a y m o n d   I b r a h i m
-- 
2011-06-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/al-qaeda-s-zawahiri-bigger-threat-than-osama-raymond-ibrahim.html
Now that Ayman Zawahiri has assumed
leadership of al-Qaeda, it is important to end the widespread
perception that he is a dour intellectual who is disconnected
from young, would-be jihadists. The fact is, Zawahiri is a wily,
 dangerous  and imposing leader who should be considered no less
of a threat -- and perhaps even more so -- than his predecessor.  Like Osama bin Laden, the Egyptian Zawahiri has jihadi bona
fides and served in the Afghan war against the Soviets,
primarily as a physician. But bin Laden was never imprisoned and
tortured, as Zawahiri was, after the assassination of  Anwar Sadat  by Islamic Jihad, which he headed. From his prison cell he
memorably delivered a passionate speech -- in English no less.
Seeing a video of it dispels any notion that he is an
uncharismatic leader.  Even so, focusing on charisma is misleading. Although
charisma has its place in leadership positions in Islam,
knowledge demands greater authority. After all, the guardians of
Islam are called  ulema  -- literally, “those who know.” And
compared with  bin Laden , Zawahiri is certainly more
knowledgeable. He has long been seen as the group’s
theoretician, and thus commands great respect.  Because I have always believed that Zawahiri was key to
understanding al-Qaeda’s worldview, when I compiled “The al-
Qaeda Reader” in 2007, I included more of his writings than bin
Laden’s, specifically Zawahiri’s three long treatises.  Feign Friendship  According to his own words, Zawahiri insists that Muslims
must always harbor enmity for “infidels,” or non-Muslims,
particularly Jews and Christians. He advocates that Muslims
feign friendship with infidels whenever it is advantageous: “We
grin to the faces of some peoples, while our hearts curse them.”
He is a great proponent and articulator of the “superiority” of
martyrdom/suicide operations and despises democracy because it
creates “equality between the citizenry,” allows freedom of
religion and abolishes “man’s domination over woman.”  Zawahiri’s views may be best summed up by the following
passage:  “Warfare against infidels, loyalty to the believers, and
jihad in the path of Allah: Such is a course of action that all
who are vigilant for the triumph of Islam should vie in, giving
and sacrificing in the cause of liberating the lands of the
Muslims, making Islam supreme in its own land, and then
spreading it around the world.”  Relentless Dedication  Indeed, what makes Zawahiri so dangerous is his harsh and
relentless dedication to jihad. Although many Islamist
organizations have learned that violence isn’t the best vehicle
to power, Zawahiri has a long history of being a staunch
upholder of the popular jihadist slogan “Jihad and the rifle
alone: no negotiations, no conferences and no dialogues.”  He wrote a long book in the early 1990s, “Al Hisad Al Murr”
(The Bitter Harvest), condemning  Egypt ’s  Muslim Brotherhood  for
taking the nonviolent course to power and actually participating
in elections. It’s worth noting, in retrospect, that the
Brotherhood’s approach has been more successful at achieving
political influence.  Likewise, Zawahiri is primarily responsible for redirecting
the jihadists’ terror attacks from Middle East targets to the
U.S. in order to foment a mass conflagration between the West
and Islamists -- an all or nothing strategy.  Would-be Jihadists  Will his severity turn off aspiring jihadists, as some
analysts suggest? Perhaps. But it will make those who remain
that much more committed and lethal. Moreover, numbers don’t
matter much when it comes to engaging in terrorism: the  Sept. 11
attacks  were committed by 19 jihadists.  Finally, when it comes to questioning the popularity,
charisma or even efficacy of Zawahiri, al-Qaeda’s new leader
himself once made a relevant point. Asked about the status of
bin Laden and other jihadists, Zawahiri waxed philosophically:  “Jihad in the path of Allah is greater than any individual
or organization. It is a struggle between truth and falsehood,
until Allah Almighty inherits the Earth and those who live in
it. Mullah Muhammad Omar and Sheikh  Osama bin Laden  -- may Allah
protect them from all evil -- are merely two soldiers of Islam
in the journey of jihad, while the struggle between truth
(Islam) and falsehood (non-Islam) transcends time.”  As independent jihadists increasingly take action into
their own hands -- whether the would-be shoe bomber and
Christmas bomber, the Madrid and London bombers, or Nidal Hasan
and the Fort Hood army base attack -- we must acknowledge that
the doctrine of jihad, the idea itself, is more dangerous than
the jihadists who come and go, including bin Laden and Zawahiri
himself.  ( Raymond Ibrahim  is associate director of the Middle East
Forum, editor/translator of “The al-Qaeda Reader,” and author of
the al-Qaeda entry for the “World Almanac of Islamism.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  For more Bloomberg View op-eds.  To contact the writer of this column:
Raymond Ibrahim at  ibrahim@meforum.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  