-- 
U.K. Stocks Gain Before Greek Confidence Vote; Whitbread Rallies

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-21T15:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/halma-kazakhmys-u-k-irish-equity-market-preview-for-june-21.html
U.K. stocks posted their biggest
rally in two months amid speculation that Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  will win a confidence vote that moves the
nation a step closer to avoiding a default.  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  surged 6.9 percent, the best performer in the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , after reporting an increase in sales.
 BP Plc (BP/)  rallied 3.7 percent, the most in five months, after
Weatherford International Ltd. agreed to pay the oil company $75
million for its part in last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill.  Misys
Plc (MSY)  jumped 9 percent after saying it received a takeover
approach.  The FTSE 100 climbed 81.92, or 1.4 percent, to 5,775.31 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, its biggest rally since April 20.
The gauge has still fallen 4.1 percent from this year’s highest
close on Feb. 8, as investors speculated that Greece will
default on its debt. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also rose 1.4
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 1.7 percent.  “Our house view is that the vote tonight gets passed,”
Jonathan Stubbs, an equity strategist at Citigroup Inc., told
clients at a presentation in London. “Second-half performance
for the market will be relatively strong” for stocks.  Tonight’s confidence vote for Papandreou may determine
whether Greece becomes the first euro-area country to default.
The vote caps a week of turmoil for the Greek prime minster, who
has fended off a revolt from the ranks of his ruling Pasok
party. European Union leaders have insisted that Papandreou
secure multiparty support for austerity measures that are a
condition of the aid.  Treated as Default  Standard & Poor’s reaffirmed its view that it would
probably treat a voluntary debt restructuring for  Greece  as a
default, Moritz Kraemer, its head of European sovereign ratings
told newspaper Die Welt.  Whitbread surged 6.9 percent to 1,587 pence, its largest
advance since September 2009, as the owner of Premier Inn hotels
and Costa Coffee shops said total sales rose 9.2 percent in the
13 weeks ending June 2 and the first quarter was consistent with
its outlook.  BP soared 3.7 percent to 445.7 pence. The agreement is the
second reached by London-based BP in a month with one of its
partners or contractors on the Macondo oil well. Geneva-based
Weatherford provided flow-control equipment used when the well
in the Gulf of Mexico exploded. BP will add the payment to a $20
billion trust for claims stemming from the world’s largest
accidental oil spill.  Misys,  Rio Tinto   Misys jumped 9 percent to 418.9 pence after the U.K.
provider of software for the financial services industry said it
has received a “preliminary” approach that “may or may not
lead to an offer being made for the company.”  Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rose with metal prices. Rio
Tinto, the second-biggest mining company, climbed 3 percent to
4,218 pence, while Xstrata, the largest exporter of thermal
coal, advanced 2.2 percent to 1,285 pence. Copper, nickel, tin
and zinc all climbed on the London Metal Exchange.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  surged 7.6 percent to 729.5 pence after
the producer of gold in Russia increased sales of the precious
metal by 64 percent through the first five months of this year
as prices gained.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  gained 2.4 percent to
38.7 pence as UBS AG upgraded the the telecommunications company
to “neutral” from “sell” at UBS.  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  rallied 4.3 percent to 1,965 pence as the
supplier of heating and plumbing products was raised to “buy”
from “hold” at ING Groep NV.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  declined 3.6 percent to 2,103 pence. Foster’s
Group Ltd., Australia’s biggest brewer, rejected a A$9.5 billion
($10 billion) cash offer from SABMiller as too low in what would
be the biggest takeover in the beer industry since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  