-- 
AMR’s American Faces ‘Chaos’ With Change in Boarding, Union Says

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-06-21T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/american-airlines-boarding-is-chaos-union.html
American Airlines ’ decision to alter
boarding procedures to shorten passenger wait times is producing
“complete chaos” on some planes and conflicts with gate
agents, the  Association of Professional Flight Attendants  said.  Last month’s changes by the  AMR Corp (AMR) .-owned airline include
spreading passengers throughout the cabin instead of boarding in
groups by seat location, Jeff Pharr, a union spokesman, said
yesterday. The process takes more time, pressuring gate agents
to let people board earlier than normal, time for which
attendants aren’t paid, the union told members on its website.  “More often than not, the result is congested aisles and
flight attendants having to explain to bewildered and already
stressed passengers why there is complete chaos in the cabin,”
the union said.  The new system, implemented May 4, shrank the number of
boarding groups to six from 10, Ed Martelle, a spokesman for the
Fort Worth, Texas-based airline, said yesterday in an interview.
It’s intended to provide a “quieter, calmer” departure area
and reduce crowding on jetways, he said.  “What we’re trying to do is expedite the passengers
boarding the airplane,” Martelle said. “The whole process may
take a little longer, but you’re not standing in line as long.”  The union created a document for attendants to give gate
agents explaining that it isn’t necessary to board passengers
before the traditional 30 to 40 minutes before departure time.  “The majority of flight attendants are not happy with the
new system,” Pharr said.  American Airlines tested the system in  Los Angeles  and  San
Francisco  before adopting it, he said.  “It seems to be working well,” Martelle said. “We’re
pretty much happy with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  