-- 
AOL Considering Paid Content, International Acquisitions in Company Revamp

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-20T18:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/aol-considering-paid-content-international-acquisitions-in-company-revamp.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  may introduce premium
versions of its online content and make international
acquisitions as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  works to
turn around the struggling Internet pioneer.  The New York-based owner of The  Huffington Post  news and
commentary site is “open in the future to strategies that will
help create great content and monetize it properly,” Armstrong
said in an interview at the Cannes Lions media conference today.
That includes subscription-based access to some of its content
and partnerships with traditional media companies, he said.  AOL is among the media companies considering experiments
with digital subscriptions to boost revenue and reduce
dependence on advertising sales. In March,  Rupert Murdoch ’s News
Corp., the owner of London’s Times and Sunday Times newspapers,
said 80,000 users had signed up for paid digital subscriptions
after it ended free access to those titles’ articles online.  “I think content subscriptions on the Internet can be a
very viable business,” Armstrong said today. AOL might
initially focus on business-to-business content offerings such
as the AOL Defense portal, which offers news for the defense
industry, he said.  AOL, which paid $315 million for The Huffington Post
earlier this year, may make further content or technology
acquisitions both within and outside the U.S., though another
deal of that size is unlikely in 2011, the CEO said.  Revamp  Armstrong is trying to turn AOL around after its 2009
spinoff from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , which undid a $124 billion merger
that was the largest of the dot-com boom in the early 2000s. He
said today that the company is looking to reduce its roster of
about 50 brands to streamline its operations, while keeping the
amount of content it produces stable.  The elimination of some brands won’t likely involve major
layoffs, he said. AOL in March said it would cut about 200 U.S.
jobs after the Huffington Post acquisition.  Under Armstrong, who joined the company from Google Inc. in
2009, it’s nonetheless hiring more full-time journalists and
focusing on news and content -- a drastic change from AOL’s past
as the portal that first offered mass-market Web access to
American consumers. Its first-quarter profit fell 86 percent to
$4.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Cannes, France at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  