-- 
Maple Group Has Growing Shareholder Support, Bertrand Says

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-20T19:44:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/maple-group-has-growing-shareholder-support-for-tmx-bid-bertrand-says.html
Maple Acquisition Corp. has growing
support for its C$3.58 billion ($3.65 billion) bid to buy
Toronto Stock Exchange owner  TMX Group Inc. (X) , said  Luc Bertrand ,
head of the bank-led group.  TMX shareholders will probably reject a rival offer from
the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  in a vote set for June 30,
Bertrand said. The Maple offer will provide better long-term
growth and protect the company’s dividend, Bertrand told
reporters today in Montreal.  “There is a growing body of institutional investors and
also many retail investors who are increasingly understanding
that what we are proposing from a business standpoint” is
“significantly superior,” he said after a speech where he
touted Maple’s local backers over U.K. control.  Maple Group’s 13 members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and  National Bank of Canada (NA) , and
Bertrand is seeking to convince TMX investors to vote against
the London exchange owner’s C$3.32 billion offer. TMX, owner of
the Toronto Stock Exchange and  Montreal ’s derivatives market,
backs LSE’s all-stock takeover and has rejected Maple’s cash and
equity proposal.  “Our offer is unquestionably superior to the LSE offer, so
it’s pretty hard to justify why you would increase an offer that
is already superior,” he said when asked if a higher bid may be
coming.  Former Quebec Premier Bernard Landry also attended the
speech and told reporters the Maple bid is better, echoing an
opinion piece he wrote today in La Presse, the province’s
largest newspaper.  Glass Lewis & Co. last week recommended TMX Group
shareholders back the London Stock Exchange bid.
Institutional Shareholder Services, another shareholder advisory
firm, recommended LSE shareholders back the TMX merger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Montreal at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker in New York at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  