-- 
ArcelorMittal, Lafarge Have Biggest CO2 Surpluses, Sandbag Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-20T11:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/arcelormittal-lafarge-have-biggest-co2-surpluses-sandbag-says.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest
steelmaker, has a carbon-permit surplus worth about 1.7 billion
euros ($2.4 billion), the largest excess in the European Union’s
emissions trading system, environmental lobby Sandbag said.  ArcelorMittal holds around 97.2 million excess allowances
from the period from 2008 to 2010, which can be used in the
years ahead, Sandbag said in an e-mailed statement. Paris-based
 Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest cement producer, ranks second
with a surplus of 29.4 million permits, valued at about 501
million euros, according to Sandbag.  The 10 companies with the biggest excesses of allowances,
“all of them steel and cement companies, share between them
surplus carbon permits of 240 million tons, more than the annual
carbon emissions of  Austria ,  Denmark ,  Portugal  and Latvia
combined,”  Sandbag  said.  The EU emissions-trading system, the cornerstone of the
region’s climate plan, imposes pollution limits on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturers. Emitters that produce less
carbon than their quota can sell surplus allowances. Those that
exceed their limits can buy permits in the carbon market.  “This huge oversupply of permits is threatening to
undermine the Emissions Trading Scheme,” Sandbag said.  While a growing number of businesses are calling on the
European Union to adopt a stricter carbon-reduction goal, a few
energy-intensive industries oppose this, according to Sandbag.
The trade associations that the companies with the biggest
surplus of permits belong to “are some of the most vociferous
opponents to progress,” the environmental group said.  The group of 10 holders of the biggest surplus of permits
also includes Tata Steel, ThyssenKrupp, Riva Group, Cemex,
Holcim, Heidelberg Cement, Italcementi and Salzgitter, according
to Sandbag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  