-- 
Asian Stocks Drop as Oil Slides; Japanese Utility Shares Rally

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-20T10:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/asian-stocks-rise-on-optimism-europe-to-force-greek-austerity-for-payments.html
Asian stocks fell, extending a
seventh straight weekly decline, as oil traded at a four-month
low after European governments failed to agree a loan payout to
spare Greece from default. Japanese nuclear-power generators
advanced.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s biggest oil producer slid
1.4 percent in Sydney.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s
biggest developer by market value, lost 2 percent in Hong Kong
after  Walter Kwok , a former chairman, said the city’s property
prices may fall as much as 15 percent by the end of the year.
Japanese power companies advanced after the government said it
may allow atomic reactors to restart following the worst nuclear
accident in 25 years.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.7 percent to 128.75 as
of 7:24 p.m. in Tokyo, reversing an earlier advance of as much
as 0.7 percent. Material and energy shares declined the most
among 10 industry groups tracked by the gauge, while utilities
were the biggest gainer. Almost $700 billion has been wiped off
the market value of the Asia-Pacific gauge since its high for
the year on May 2.  “ Europe  may well construct a solution to  Greece ’s debt
woes, but the acid test will be whether or not the markets will
be convinced that the solution is enduring rather than a Band-
Aid,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion in
global equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.  Asia’s Benchmark  The Asia-Pacific index lost 1.9 percent last week,
completing its seventh straight decline, the longest such run
since 2004. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.2
times estimated earnings on June 16, the lowest since April 20,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average was little changed,
erasing earlier gains. Mazda Motor Corp., which makes more than
60 percent of sales outside Japan, climbed 2.1 percent after
forecasting a return to profit and Citigroup Inc. raised its
rating on Japan’s auto sector to “neutral” from “bearish.”  South Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.6 percent after rising
as much as 0.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped
0.7 percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index slumped 0.8
percent after Credit Suisse Group AG said the nation’s economy
is heading for a “sluggish landing.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  lost 0.4 percent, extending its
decline since an April 8 high to more than 11 percent, beyond
the threshold of 10 percent that some analysts view as marking a
so-called correction.  Tax Treaty  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped 2 percent
in Mumbai after the Business Standard reported that  India  will
seek to tax capital gains on investments made through Mauritius,
as negotiations on its taxation treaty with the island nation
resume after three years.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.4 percent
today. In  New York , the gauge advanced 0.3 percent on June 17
after the U.S. leading indicators index rebounded in May after
declining for the first time in almost a year, a sign economic
growth may pick up by the end of 2011.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the world’s
biggest economy in the next three to six months rose 0.8 percent
after a revised 0.4 percent decline in April, the New York-based
group said on June 17. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Oil Retreats  BHP Billiton dropped 1.4 percent to A$41.36 in Sydney.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas
producer, sank 2.2 percent to A$39.91.  Caltex Australia Ltd. (CTX) , the nation’s biggest oil refiner,
slumped 6.9 percent to A$10.60 after the company forecast a drop
in first-half operating profit, partly because of plant
disruptions. S-Oil Corp., a South Korean oil refiner, lost 4.7
percent to 143,000 won in Seoul.  Oil declined for a second day in New York on speculation
that Greece’s debt crisis will contribute to lower fuel demand.
Crude for July delivery fell as much as 2 percent today in New
York, after slipping 2 percent, to $93.01 on June 17, the lowest
settlement since Feb. 18. Prices slid 6.3 percent last week.  European governments today failed to agree on releasing a
loan payout to spare Greece from default, ramping up pressure on
Prime Minister George Papandreou to first deliver budget cuts in
the face of domestic opposition.  “We forcefully reminded the Greek government that by the
end of this month they have to see to it that we are all
convinced that all the commitments they made are fulfilled,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters
after chairing a seven-hour euro crisis meeting in Luxembourg.  ‘Voluntary’ Bail-Out  German Chancellor Angela Merkel retreated from demands that
bondholders be forced to shoulder a “substantial” share of a
Greek rescue, saying she’ll work with the  European Central Bank 
to avoid disrupting markets.  “We would like to have a participation of private
creditors on a voluntary basis,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin on June 17 at a joint press conference with French
President Nicolas Sarkozy.  The cost of protecting European corporate bonds from
default rose, according to traders of credit-default swaps.
Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 40 companies
with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased 11.5 basis
points to 420.5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 7:30 a.m.
in  London .  Deteriorating Perceptions  The index is a benchmark for the cost of protecting bonds
against default and an increase signals deteriorating
perceptions of credit quality.  Sun Hung Kai slid 2 percent to HK$108.90 in  Hong Kong ,
leading property companies lower. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,
Hong Kong’s No. 2 developer, sank 3.8 percent to HK$108.90.  Hong Kong’s government may take more measures to curb
property-price gains in the city as “risks” are rising,
Financial Secretary John Tsang said in his blog yesterday.
Separately, the city’s Chief Executive Donald Tsang said on June
17 home prices are “quite frightening.”  “I wouldn’t be surprised they will fall 10 to 15
percent,” Walter Kwok, former chairman of Sun Hung Kai, said of
Hong Kong’s property prices. “We have already seen the peak.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 5.9 percent this year
through June 17, compared with a gain of 1.1 percent by the S&P
500 and a drop of 3.1 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.2 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.8 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  ‘Good Value’  “Shares are starting to look good value, but given the list
of worries you can’t rule out further falls,” said  Shane Oliver ,
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd, said
in an e-mailed note. “Europe and other issues mean there are a
lot of balls in the air, and still a lot of worries bubbling
away in the background.”  Chubu Electric Power Co. surged 7.9 percent to 1,440 yen in
 Tokyo . Tohoku Electric Power Co., a power company based in
Japan’s tsunami-damaged northeast, soared 10 percent to 1,058
yen. Kansai Electric Power Co. gained 7.7 percent to 1,420 yen.  Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said on June 18 that he may let
utilities restart nuclear generators that had been shut for
routine maintenance. There are negatives to suspending all
nuclear power, Kaieda said, citing potential electricity
shortages during Japan’s summer months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 