-- 
Syria Faces More International Pressure Over Unrest After Assad’s Address

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 
2011-06-21T16:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/assad-calls-for-dialogue-with-opponents-blames-syria-unrest-on-foreigners.html
International pressure on  Syria 
increased after President Bashar al-Assad called for a national
dialogue on political change while blaming anti-government
protests on a foreign conspiracy.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Turkish Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  “underlined the necessity to speed up the
reform process in Syria in order to meet the demands of the
Syrian people,” according to a statement on the website of
Erdogan’s office today after the leaders spoke by telephone.  There is “complete and absolute conviction in the process
of reform because it represents the interest of the homeland,”
Assad said yesterday in a speech carried live on state
television from Damascus, the capital. “The problem is which
reform we want and what are the details.” He said the unrest is
a “conspiracy” hatched abroad.  Protests against Assad’s 11-year rule began in mid-March as
part of a wave of demonstrations across the  Middle East  and
North Africa this year that has unseated the leaders of Egypt
and  Tunisia . At least seven people were killed by security
forces during demonstrations today, according to Syria’s
National Organization for Human Rights.  Proposal for Parties  The government posted a proposed law on the creation of
political parties on its website, said state television, which
showed thousands of Assad supporters rallying today in several
cities. Currently only Assad’s Baath party has been allowed to
lead the country.  “God hail the army,” the president’s backers, clad in T-
shirts with his picture and holding flags, chanted in Umayyad
Square in central Damascus. “We come to hail you, Bashar.”  The president issued an amnesty for people who committed
crimes before June 20, state-run news agencies said today.  Assad said yesterday that the demands of Syrians he has met
with “are with merit,” citing examples of calls for justice,
jobs, security and greater democracy. “We have started to
resolve these issues,” he said.  Syrians need to decide “first if we want to amend some
articles in the constitution or to change the constitution,”
Assad said. He also said a national dialogue may delay elections
scheduled for August.  ‘Stop the Violence’  “President Assad needs to either lead that transition or
get out of the way,” White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters yesterday. “He needs to actually do something to
fulfill the sentiment expressed in the desire for dialogue
because that needs to happen. But first he needs to stop the
violence.”  Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird  said Syrians
“are asking for real change now -- not vague promises to be
fulfilled perhaps at some undefined later date,” according to a
statement on his ministry’s website.  A total of 1,420 civilians have been killed since the
regime began cracking down on dissent,  Ammar Qurabi , head of the
 National Organization for Human Rights , said by phone from Cairo
today. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights put the civilian
death toll at 1,310 and said 341 members of the security forces
had died.  Syrians have been crossing into  Turkey  since June 8 to
escape the violence. The number of Syrians fleeing the unrest
increased to 10,639, Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news agency
reported yesterday. The refugees should return home, Assad said.  Northern Deployment  Syrian forces were deployed in the north around Ma’arrat an
Nu’man June 17 after the army swept through the town of Jisr al-
Shughour earlier this month. The government said the operation
was “to prevent terrorists” from cutting the highway between
Damascus and the second-largest city, Aleppo.  “Villages were increasingly empty from around 40
kilometers (25 miles) away from Jisr al-Shughour,” the United
Nations Refugee Agency, or UNHCR, said today in an e-mailed
 statement . “There was no evidence of people working in the
fields.”  The family members of many Syrian refugees in Turkey have
been killed, are missing or have gone into hiding, UNHCR said,
adding that it has heard accounts of murders, targeted
assassinations, assault, civilians getting killed in crossfire,
and torture and humiliation by the military.  Demonstrations erupted across Syria yesterday as protesters
expressed disappointment with Assad’s address, saying it didn’t
meet their demands for political change, Al Jazeera television
said. Rallies were held in the suburbs of Damascus and in the
cities of Homs, Hama, Latakia, Albu Kamal and Daraa, as well as
in towns near Daraa, where the protests began, the network said.  ‘Brutal Force’  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  told the Associated
Press yesterday that Assad may be forced out within six months,
saying, he “ended up using too much brutal force, too many
graves have been dug and he lost practically his legitimacy in
the eyes of the Syrian people.”  Assad’s speech was his third since the Syrian unrest
started. In April, he said the lack of a connection between the
government and its people had created popular anger. A month
earlier, he said there will be a new parliament and local
administrations after elections scheduled for August.  The protests are the biggest challenge to the Assad family
since 1982. That year, Assad’s father and predecessor, Hafez al- Assad, used the army to crush an uprising led by the Muslim
Brotherhood movement and focused on the city of Hama. Thousands
of people were killed. The Assads are from the Alawite minority
in the Sunni Muslim-majority country of more than 21 million
people.  Assad created a committee that is to prepare the ground for
the national dialogue, state-run television said June 1. He also
issued a decree in April approving a new government, led by
former Agriculture Minister Adel Safar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 