-- 
Assad Calls for Dialogue With Opponents, Blames Syria Unrest on Foreigners

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 
2011-06-20T15:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/assad-blames-syrian-unrest-on-foreigners-as-10-000-seek-refuge-in-turkey.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
called for a national dialogue that may lead to constitutional
amendments as he blamed the ongoing unrest in the country on a
foreign conspiracy.  “National dialogue has become the title of the current
phase,” Assad said today in a speech carried live on state
television from Damascus, the capital. “The conspiracy was
designed abroad and perpetrated within our country.”  Protests against Assad’s 11-year rule began in mid-March as
part of a wave of unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa
this year that has unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh is in  Saudi Arabia  for
medical treatment for injuries sustained during an attack that
followed months of anti-government rallies.  “This speech won’t take people off the streets,”  Theodore Karasik , an analyst at the Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis in Dubai, said in response to e-mailed
questions. “Nothing new is being offered except for more
rhetoric promising change that never materializes.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  wrote on his Twitter
Inc. feed that Assad’s speech was “disappointing and
unconvincing” and that there was “little new on how reforms
will be implemented and when, or how he will end violence.”  Speech Prompts Protests  Demonstrations erupted across Syria as protesters expressed
disappointment with Assad’s speech, saying it didn’t meet their
demands for political change, Al Jazeera television reported.
Rallies were held in the suburbs of Damascus and in the cities
of Homs, Hama, Latakia, Albu Kamal and Daraa, as well as in
towns near Daraa, where the protests began, the network said.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Assad may be
forced out within six months, the  Associated Press  reported.  Assad “ended up using too much brutal force, too many
graves have been dug and he lost practically his legitimacy in
the eyes of the Syrian people,” Barak told the AP today. “He
probably will stay around for another quarter or two but that
will not change his fate.”  Assad’s speech was his third since the Syrian unrest
started. In April, he said the lack of a connection between the
government and its people had created popular anger. A month
earlier, he said there will be a new parliament and local
administrations after elections scheduled for August.  ‘Absolute Conviction’  There is “complete and absolute conviction in the process
of reform because it represents the interest of the homeland,”
Assad said today. “The problem is which reform we want and what
are the details.”  He said the demands of Syrians he has met with “are with
merit,” citing examples of calls for justice, jobs, security
and greater democracy. “We have started to resolve these
issues,” Assad said.  The protests are the biggest challenge to the Assad family
since 1982. That year, Assad’s father and predecessor, President
Hafez al-Assad, used the army to crush an uprising led by the
Muslim Brotherhood movement and focused on the city of Hama.
Thousands of people were killed. The Assads are from the Alawite
minority in the Sunni Muslim-majority country of more than 21
million people.  Syrians need “to answer ourselves first if we want to
amend some articles in the constitution or to change the
constitution,” Assad said. He also said a national dialogue may
delay the August elections.  “This dialogue is very important,” Assad said. “We have
to give it a chance because the whole future of  Syria , if we
want it to succeed, must be built on this dialogue.”  New Government  Assad created a committee that is to prepare the ground for
the national dialogue, the state-run television reported June 1.
He also issued a decree in April approving a new government. It
is led by former Agriculture Minister Adel Safar.  A total of 1,289 civilians and 332 members of the security
forces have been killed since Assad’s regime cracked down on
dissent, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said June 12.  The protests have been marked by “vandalism, murder and
the destruction of private property,” and the demonstrators are
being paid, Assad said.  Syrians have been crossing the border into  Turkey  since
June 8 to escape the violence. The number of Syrians fleeing to
Turkey amid the unrest increased to 10,639, Turkey’s state-run
Anatolia news agency reported today.  ‘Return Home’  Syrian refugees in Turkey should return home, Assad said.
“We hope that the army can return to its barracks as soon as
possible,” he said.  Syrian forces were deployed in the north around Ma’arrat an
Nu’man on June 17 after the army swept through the northern town
of Jisr al-Shughour earlier this month. The deployment was “to
prevent terrorists” from cutting off the highway that links
Damascus to Syria’s second-largest city, Aleppo, state
television reported.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov urged the Syrian
opposition today to commit to negotiations with Assad and avoid
“provocations” that may destabilize the country, according to
comments televised on Russian state channel Rossiya 24.  The economy is being affected by the unrest and
“confidence” must be restored, Assad aid. “The worst we could
face is a weakened or collapsed Syrian economy,” he said.  The economy may expand as much as 2.5 percent this year,
Finance Minister Mohammad Jleilati said June 9.  The Obama administration is considering additional economic
sanctions on Syria involving oil and gas, U.S. officials said on
June 17. The U.S. is also examining whether there are grounds
for seeking war-crimes charges stemming from the Syrian
government’s crackdown on civilians.  A day earlier, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
told reporters in Brasilia that Assad should “stop killing
people” in protests in his country and called the attacks
“totally unacceptable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 