-- 
Mauritius Treaty Talks not Aimed at Ending Tax Break, Desai Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-20T09:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/mauritius-treaty-talks-not-aimed-at-ending-tax-break-desai-says.html
Bijal Ajinkya, partner and head of
International Tax Practice Group at Nishith Desai Associates, a
Mumbai-based  law firm , comments after a report that  India  is
seeking to tax gains on investments routed through Mauritius
sent shares to their lowest level in four months.  Ajinkya was counsel in a case in 2003 where the nation’s
highest court ruled that a taxpayer, holding a tax residence
certificate of Mauritius, can claim benefits under the Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and Mauritius.  On  capital gains  tax treatment:  “While discussions between India and Mauritius have been
on-going for a while, we believe the focus has been geared more
toward information exchange to deal with issues regarding round
tripping, and not particularly to withdraw the capital gains tax
exemption to Mauritius resident entities.”  On treaty re-negotiation:  “Treaty re-negotiation is not an overnight process. It
takes time. The India-Mauritius  tax treaty , which has been in
existence since 1983, itself provides for a notice period of at
least one year before the treaty terms can be withdrawn.”  The Business Standard reported yesterday that India will be
pushing during the negotiations to tax capital gains by
Mauritian companies, citing comments from the tax board’s
chairman, Prakash Chandra. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index, or Sensex, dropped as much as 3.1 percent to its lowest
intraday level since February. It recovered to be 1.4 percent
lower at 1:26 p.m. local time.  India is still finalizing issues to be discussed at a
forthcoming meeting with Mauritius after the country’s
government expressed a willingness to hold talks three months
ago, said Shishir Jha, a spokesman for the Central Board of
Direct Taxes in  New Delhi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ravil Shirodkar at 
 rshirodkar@bloomberg.net  