-- 
Banks, Finance Firms Targeted by Europe Union in Crackdown on Data Privacy

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-20T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/banks-finance-firms-targeted-by-eu-in-crackdown-on-data-privacy.html
Banks will be among companies forced
to notify authorities of “serious” leaks of customer data in a
crackdown after hackers targeted  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Sega Sammy
Holdings Inc. (6460) , the European Union’s top privacy official said.  Recent “data theft scandals” show that all industries,
including financial companies, should do more to keep customers’
personal data secure, EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding 
said today in  London , according to prepared remarks.  “I understand that some in the banking sector are
concerned that a mandatory notification requirement would be an
additional administrative burden,” said Reding. Such an
obligation “is entirely proportionate and would enhance
consumers’ confidence in data security and oversight.”  Data breaches at Tokyo-based Sony and other companies have
sharpened regulators’ scrutiny of how businesses safeguard
consumer information and notify the public about cyber attacks.
Sony has been criticized by lawmakers for taking six days to
disclose an attack that exposed 100 million customer accounts
and prompted the temporary shutdown of the company’s PlayStation
Network.  Sega, a Japanese game maker, suspended some online services
after discovering a leak of personal data including names and e-
mail addresses on almost 1.3 million customers at its European
unit. No customer credit-card data was compromised.  “Whether it is the PlayStation, Google or Facebook, I can
well understand if users lose trust in the internet and in
companies offering online services,” Reding said.  A mandatory requirement to notify data breaches is already
in place in the EU for telecommunications and Internet access,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  