-- 
Barcelona Beats Manchester Clubs to Sign Sanchez, Telegraph Says: Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-20T07:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/barcelona-beats-manchester-clubs-to-sign-sanchez-telegraph-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Sanchez Decides  European champion Barcelona agreed to pay as much as 32
million pounds ($51.6 million) to sign Alexis Sanchez, beating
competition from  Manchester City  and Manchester United, the
 Daily Telegraph  reported.  Both Premier League clubs had sent delegations to Italy to
discuss signing the 22-year-old Chilean striker, who plays for
Serie A team Udinese, the Telegraph said.  McLeish Signings  Alex McLeish wants to take Birmingham City goalkeeper Ben Foster and center back  Scott Dann  to  Aston Villa  with him, the
 Daily Mirror  reported. The players would cost nine million
pounds and 12 million pounds, respectively, the Mirror added.  McLeish has 40 million pounds to spend on players and plans
to hijack Liverpool’s move for Charlie Adam by bidding 9 million
pounds for the Blackpool midfielder, the Sun  reported .  Blues Coach  Birmingham City is considering hiring former England
midfielder Paul Ince to replace McLeish,  the Guardian  said.  The Blues, relegated from the Premier League, have spoken
to former Newcastle manager  Chris Hughton  and are also thinking
about hiring Gianfranco Zola, the newspaper said.  Samba Clause  Arsenal faces having to pay at least 12 million pounds for
Blackburn’s Christopher Samba because the defender’s former
club, Hertha Berlin, gets 15 percent of any transfer fee for
him, the Dail Mail  reported .  The Gunners may complete a 12 million-pound deal for Lille
striker Gervinho this week and are also chasing Southampton’s
teenage winger Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, the newspaper added.  Tempting Tevez  Manchester City will offer Carlos Tevez a free transfer to
a team in Argentina if he commits to another two years with the
Premier League club, the  Daily Star  reported.  Tevez has said he’s torn between being near his family in
 Argentina  and playing for City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 