-- 
Barratt to Sell Homes Under State-Funded Mortgage Plan to Increase Supply

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-06-20T10:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/barratt-to-sell-homes-under-state-funded-mortgage-plan-to-increase-supply.html
Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  and more
than 100 other U.K. homebuilders will help first-time homebuyers
get cheaper mortgages through a government-backed lending
program.  The 500 million-pound ($809 million) plan will help reduce
the size of deposits to about 5 percent of a home’s value,
Housing Minister Grant Shapps said in a statement today. The
government and homebuilders will each provide interest-free
loans equal to 10 percent of a property’s value for five years.  “Over the next two years, this will help as many as 10,000
people in  England  to get that much-needed deposit together and
realize their dreams of owning their own home,” Shapps said in
the statement.  Mortgage approvals for first-time buyers have fallen more
than 50 percent since 2006, to 194,600 last year, according to
 Council of Mortgage Lenders ’ data. Developers say sales are
suffering because of lending curbs that make it easier for
first-time buyers to buy existing properties than new ones.
Britain faces a housing shortage of about 1 million homes by
2015, with London the hardest hit, according to Savills Plc.  The loans under the government-backed program are limited
to households with annual incomes of less than 60,000 pounds.  As well as Barratt, the U.K.’s biggest homebuilder by
volume,  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the third largest company in the
industry, and Bovis Homes Plc will also offer homes through the
government’s plan. The first homes funded under the plan are
expected on the market by September and the loans will be repaid
after the owners sell the property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  