-- 
Berlin’s Artists Join Sprawling Show to Help Mayor: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/berlin-s-artists-join-sprawling-show-to-boost-mayor-s-case-for-new-museum.html
Does Berlin need a new central
museum to showcase the work of thousands of artists who have
made the city home? The mayor, Klaus Wowereit, thinks so.  To help make his case for a contemporary-art space -- or
“Kunsthalle” -- Wowereit proposed the exhibition  “Based in
Berlin,”  currently showing in five venues around town. It aims
to highlight Berlin’s role as the world capital of art
production. Happily for the mayor, it coincides with his
campaign for re-election in a Sept. 18 vote.  Perhaps the official genesis was the kiss of death. Passion
and focus are lacking from this show. What we get is a
sprawling, ultimately insubstantial and spiritless affair
costing 1.6 million euros ($2.3 million).  More than 1,200 artists applied to take part. The curators
selected 80, mainly young and experimental artists from 26
countries. All have made the German capital their home. Many --
like Cyprien Gaillard, Nina Koennemann and Kitty Kraus -- are
already becoming established on the international art scene.  The trouble is that the artists who congregate in Berlin
have little in common: They are united only in their quest for
cheap studio space, affordable living costs, and a buzzy,
international environment.  The challenge for the five young curators -- themselves of
diverse national backgrounds -- is to introduce coherence into
that heterogeneity, especially as many of the works are
conceptual and demand engagement and time from the viewer.  Noisy Videos  Instead, cacophony and confusion prevail. I tried to
concentrate on the Israeli artist Keren Cytter’s video work
“Avalanche,” a quirky, fragmented take on relationship dramas
with poor sound quality, but it was frustratingly drowned out by
another video work in the adjacent corridor.  “The Brave,” by Asaf Koriat (also Israeli), is a
discordant celebration of pop culture, with a split screen
simultaneously showing nine stars, including Celine Dion,
Beyonce and Cher, as they belt out “The Star-Spangled Banner”
at the opening of the  Super Bowl .  Swedish artist Erik Bunger’s “The Allens” shows a video
clip of  Woody Allen  speaking to a camera. A computer program
switches among different languages in Allen’s dubbed alter egos
to create a nonsensical babble.  These works all are exhibited in the main venue for the
event, a 1950s-built studio complex in Monbijoupark, a central
park in the eastern part of the city. The rickety structure with
outdoor staircases is due to be demolished in August.  Dismantling the Show  Mandla Reuter, a South African artist, started the
dismantlement prematurely in his witty contribution, “Nothing
to See, Nothing to Hide.” He removed one wall of a white
exhibition room to create a direct link to the park and merge
the exterior and interior spaces.  At the  Hamburger Bahnhof  contemporary-art museum, the mood
is quieter and more contemplative. In Danish artist Simon
Dybbroe Moller’s work, “Melody Malady,” a bored-looking man
sits at a grand piano immersed in a book, absent-mindedly
hitting occasional notes. The text in the catalog explains that
the notes correspond to letters in the book.  The U.K. artist Juliette Blightman’s installation, “For
often in one we find a day has strayed from another,” has a
nostalgic charm. It shows an old-fashioned projector with a
single slide in its tray, beaming an image of an empty beach on
to the wall. It evokes lazy summers, where time seems both to
stand still and rush past as days meld into each other.  The one thing that unites these artists is contemporary
culture, and the works in the exhibition tend toward an insider-
focused exploration of art and the media. That’s interesting for
artists, but there’s a limit to how much of it everyone else
will take.  Many of the works left me thinking -- so what? Visitors
have to work hard to find the parts that appeal. The curators
are not making it easy.  “Based in Berlin” runs through July 24 at five locations
around the city. For more information, go to
 http://www.basedinberlin.com/   To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 