-- 
BofA May Sell Part of CCB Stake to Bolster Capital

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-21T05:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/bofa-may-sell-part-of-china-construction-bank-stake.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may sell some
of its $21 billion stake in  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  to
bolster capital before new international standards take effect,
said three people briefed on the plans.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, wants
to keep about half its CCB shares so it can remain a strategic
investor in the world’s second-biggest bank by market value,
said two of the people, who declined to be identified because
the plans are private. CCB led declines among Hong Kong-listed
Chinese banks today.  “This is obviously a forced sale -- it’s a big chunk of a
valued enterprise in an attractive place in the world,” said
Greg Donaldson, chairman of Evansville, Indiana-based Donaldson
Capital Management, with $465 million in assets, including Bank
of America shares. “It’s a relatively poor time to be selling
because the Chinese stock market hasn’t done well recently.”  Selling the shares could help Bank of America raise capital
to comply with tougher minimums that may be imposed by
regulators as they try to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial
crisis. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is
considering plans that may include a surcharge on the largest
lenders, people briefed on those talks have said.  Ties That Bind  Shares of CCB dropped 3 percent in  Hong Kong  as of midday
trading break, extending its decline this year to 8.3 percent.
Still, that values the Beijing-based company at about $205
billion, a more than threefold increase from its market
capitalization at the time of its October 2005 initial public
offering in Hong Kong.  Bank of America, which began investing in CCB before the
IPO, owned 25.6 billion shares valued at $21 billion as of March
31, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender said in a May
regulatory filing. The stake, which is the  U.S. bank ’s largest
holding by market value, equals about 10.6 percent of CCB’s Hong
Kong-listed shares, according to Bloomberg data. A lockup period
in which Bank of America is prohibited from selling most of its
shares expires in August.  “It’s a strategic relationship and it will continue to be
one for a long time,” said Larry DiRita, a spokesman for Bank
of America. Yu Baoyue, a spokesman for CCB, declined to comment.  The U.S. bank may decide to divest more holdings, with the
sale taking place later this year, the people said.  Asset Sales  Bank of America has been selling assets including its
Balboa insurance unit,  First Republic Bank  and holdings in
BlackRock Inc. to boost capital and focus on core clients. The
firm can build capital through earnings and doesn’t need to
issue stock, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, said
last week. Capital surcharges on the largest banks may crimp
lending and drive off investors from financial firms, he said.  China  Construction Bank had annual profit growth of 33
percent since 2007 and is forecast to increase net income by 23
percent this year, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bank of America was the second-biggest shareholder in CCB
at year-end, trailing only the Chinese government’s 59 percent
stake in its Hong Kong shares, according to Bloomberg data.
Temasek Holdings Pte is the third-largest investor with a 7
percent stake. CCB has 240.4 billion shares outstanding in Hong
Kong and 9.6 billion yuan-denominated shares listed in  Shanghai .  Bank of America fell 8 cents to $10.60 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped
21 percent this year, the worst performance in the 24-company
KBW Bank Index, as housing-related costs weighed on results.  ‘Chunk of Gold’  “People are focused on Bank of America getting beyond its
legacy issues, and this happens to be a nice chunk of gold they
have that can help them get there,” said Jonathan Hatcher, a
credit strategist at Jefferies & Co. in  New York .  Potential buyers of the CCB stake may include sovereign
wealth funds, particularly if the bank needs to sell all its
holdings, said Charles W. Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC with a “buy” rating on Bank of America. The
company would raise about $10 billion in regulatory capital if
it sold all its CCB stock, he said.  Under former CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis , Bank of America paid $3
billion for a 9.9 percent CCB stake in 2005 before the Chinese
bank’s IPO. The U.S. lender later exercised an option to buy an
additional 11 percent, paying $9.2 billion.  The firm sold its initial stake in CCB in May 2009, reaping
a pretax gain of $7.3 billion, as loan losses mounted amid the
recession. Last year, the bank sold rights to buy 1.79 billion
CCB shares to Temasek,  Singapore ’s state investment company.  Foreign Investors  Investors including Bank of America,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have trimmed about $20
billion in holdings in Chinese lenders since 2009. Chinese
regulators consider a single foreign holding of at least 5
percent with a lockup period of at least three years a strategic
investment.  A lockup on 12.4 billion Hong Kong-listed  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. (1288)  shares held by investors including  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and Qatar Investment Authority expires next month.
The Chinese bank’s listing raised $22.1 billion in the world’s
largest initial public offering in July 2010.  Kuwait Investment Authority, which owns 1.9 billion
Agricultural Bank shares, said in May it won’t sell its stake
when the lockup ends, according to managing director Bader Al- Saad.  ‘Overhang’  Agricultural Bank shares, which have gained 18 percent
since listing, fell 3.5 percent to HK$3.85 in Hong Kong today.  “The overhang on lockup expiration, slower economic growth
and tighter regulatory requirements are all uncertainties
driving investors away from China banking shares,” said Patrick Pong, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities HK
Ltd., who rates CCB “hold”.  The central bank this week raised lenders’ reserve
requirements to a record to drain cash from the economy after
inflation rose to the highest in almost three years in May. The
banking regulator is seeking to impose higher capital adequacy
ratios on lenders and have them assign more risk-weighting to
property and local government financing vehicles loans.  At  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest lender by market value, Goldman Sachs is the largest
foreign investor with 10.1 billion shares held at the end of
last year, according to ICBC’s annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  