-- 
Bombardier CSeries Gets Deal While Qatar Goes on Hold

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-20T19:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/bombardier-wins-one-cseries-deal-loses-second-as-qatar-retreats.html
(Corrects comment by Bombardier spokesman to reflect
company doesn’t oppose large orders, in sixth paragraph.)  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  secured a launch
customer for its CSeries plane while failing to land a major
deal from Qatar Airways Ltd. after the Gulf carrier shelved an
order and said it may buy Airbus SAS’s rival A320neo this week.  A “major network carrier” signed a firm contract for 10
CSeries jets and will be the single-aisle model’s first
operator, Bombardier said today at the  Paris Air Show , adding
that the airline has asked not to be identified at present.  Qatar Air has meanwhile “deferred the decision” to buy
the Bombardier plane and will “hopefully” announce a
commitment for the neo before the end of the Paris event, Chief
Executive Officer Akbar al Baker said following a press briefing
today.  Bombardier’s appearance at last year’s Farnborough Air Show
in the U.K., with which the Paris event alternates, was blighted
by the failure to land a single CSeries deal after Qatar Air
said it couldn’t reach terms with engine supplier  Pratt &
Whitney . The Montreal-based company said today it doesn’t hoard
orders for shows and that it’s continuing to chase contracts.  “We are still in advanced discussions with a couple of
handfuls of customers,” spokesman  Gary Scott  said in Paris,
adding that Bombardier is seeking to add orders from as many
customers as possible, including smaller ones, in order to
create a wider asset base for the new aircraft.  “We’re not against large orders” he said. “We are just
as happy to have orders for five, 10, 15 aircraft, as well as
30, 40 and 50. You’ll see both.”  Year-Long Drought  The order disclosed today is for 10 CS100 planes worth $616
at list prices, with options for six more, Bombardier said in a
statement. Qatar’s al Baker said his airline put off a decision
on the model “for a while until we’ve sorted all the airplanes
we have in the pipeline”  The CSeries jet is designed to compete with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
737 and the Airbus A320 family in the market for narrow-body
planes with 100 to 149 seats.  Bombardier earlier this month announced the first orders
for the model in more than a year, with 10 contracts from
 Sweden ’s Braathens Leading Ltd. and three from another
unidentified airline. Today’s deal takes the firm-order total to
113 planes and the number of customers to six, the company said.  Airbus expects to have more than 500 orders for the 320neo
by the end of the Paris show, reaching the milestone about seven
months after deciding to re-engine the jet. Boeing, based in
 Chicago , is still mulling whether to upgrade the 737, the most
widely flow plane, or offer a new single-aisle model for the
largest slice of the commercial-aircraft industry.  Scandinavian carrier SAS Group placed on order for 30
A320neo aircraft today at the show, with an option for 11 more.
Stockholm-based SAS said in November it was also weighing the
CSeries and 737 as part of its considerations.  AirAsia Bhd.,  Asia ’s biggest budget airline, expects to
finalize an agreement to buy as many as 200 A320neos worth $18
billion at list price by late tomorrow, Kamarudin Meranun, group
deputy chief executive officer, said in an interview in
 Malaysia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Paris at   sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  