-- 
Bonds Say BOJ Recovery Estimate Early as Yield Curve Narrows: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-06-21T02:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/bonds-say-boj-recovery-estimate-early-as-yield-curve-narrows-japan-credit.html
The  bond market  is signaling doubts
about Japan’s recovery from a record earthquake even as the Bank
of Japan lifts its assessment on the economy.  The central bank last week raised its monthly economic
assessment for the first time since February, as policy makers
saw signs of a rebound. Data yesterday showed exports dropped by
more than economists estimated in May, as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  struggles to assemble a second supplementary budget before
fulfilling a pledge to step down.  The yield spread between 10-year  government bonds  and two-
year notes is at 96.5 basis points, about two points from this
year’s low as chances dimmed that growth-fueled inflation would
sap the value of the longer-maturity securities. Ten-year rates,
already the world’s lowest, have fallen more than 20 basis
points since their post-quake high on April 11, as doubts about
economic growth boosted demand for the safest assets.  “People look to be paring expectations for the economic
outlook, as is shown by the move of bond yields,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest lender for farmers and
fishermen. “Funds are moving to higher-yielding, longer-
maturity bonds.”  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield added half a basis point to
1.120 percent at the 11:05 a.m. morning close in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker,
1.5 basis points off of its lowest level this year. The
two-year note yielded 0.16 percent yesterday and the gap
between it and the longer security reached a 2011 low of 94
basis points on May 12.  The magnitude-9 temblor and subsequent tsunami on March 11
crippled a nuclear power plant and disrupted supply of
components, prompting companies including Honda Motor Co. to
forecast weaker earnings.  Falling Exports  Exports decreased 10.3 percent in May from a year earlier,
the Finance Ministry said yesterday, while economists had
projected an 8.4 percent decline. It was the second-biggest
trade deficit since comparable data were made available in 1979.
A separate report last week showed that machinery orders
decreased in April for the first time in four months.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 forecast for
Japan on June 17, expecting the economy to shrink 0.7 percent,
compared with its April projection of a 1.4 percent expansion.
The median estimate of economists compiled by Bloomberg calls
for a 0.4 percent contraction this year and 2.8 percent growth
in 2012.  ‘Too Little’  While economists and the BOJ expect reconstruction efforts
will help boost Japan’s economy, Kan is struggling to muster
support for a new spending bill. The second rebuilding package
will be about 2 trillion yen,  Katsuya Okada , secretary-general
of Kan’s  Democratic Party  of Japan, said on June 15, which is
half the size of the first plan. Kan survived a no-confidence
motion this month and said he intends to stay on until a second
plan is passed.  Kan may stay “one more month or month and half,” DPJ
lawmaker Hajime Ishii said on June 15. Fellow ruling party
lawmaker Azuma Koshiishi said Kan “must pass the baton on to a
new leader.”  The 2 trillion-yen package is “too little, too late,”
said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee the equivalent of $18
billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “The longer political turmoil lasts, the worse it will
become” for Japan’s economy, he said.  BOJ Easing  Moody’s Investors Service put Japan’s debt rating on review
for a downgrade in May and this month said the nation’s
“revolving door” leadership was a credit negative factor. Kan
is the fifth  prime minister  since September 2006.  Credit-default swaps protecting Japan’s debt from losses
for five years gained to 93 basis points as of June 20 prices
from a post-quake low of 77.3 basis points on April 25, CMA
prices in  New York  showed. CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The  Bank of Japan  kept its benchmark interest rate on June
14 at a range of between zero and 0.1 percent. The central bank
also left unchanged its 10 trillion-yen fund that buys assets,
including government bonds.  “It’s possible that the BOJ may add about 5 trillion yen
to the asset-buying fund,” said Norinchukin’s Minami. Because
the BOJ’s easing is expected to keep yields low, he recommends
buying debt with a maturity of up to five years.  The yield spread between two-year U.S. notes and similar-
maturity Japanese debt narrowed to 20 basis points on June 15,
the least since Nov. 4, as concern the  U.S. economy  will lose
momentum boosted demand for  government securities .  U.S. reports this month showed that the jobless rate rose
back above 9 percent,  consumer confidence  fell, the housing
market weakened and manufacturing slowed. The country is Japan’s
second-biggest export market after  China  by the value of
products shipped last year, according to Japan’s  Finance
Ministry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  