-- 
Borders Seeks $30 Million Loan Approval, Plans July 19 Company Auction

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-06-20T23:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/borders-seeks-court-approval-of-30-million-loan-plans-july-19-auction.html
Borders Group Inc., the bankrupt
U.S. bookstore chain, asked a judge to approve an amendment to
its $505 million loan facility and plans to hold an auction on
July 19.  Borders wants to complete a sale by July 29, according to a
filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . The company is
“encouraged that one of the parties presently negotiating with
the debtors will emerge as the successful buyer,” Andrew Glenn,
a Borders lawyer, wrote in the June 17 filing.  Borders will pursue a “dual-track process” so it can
proceed with a sale to liquidators if it isn’t acquired as a
going concern, Holly Felder Etlin, senior restructuring vice
president, said in a separate court filing. Borders, the second-
largest U.S. book chain after Barnes & Noble Inc., filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in February.  Borders officials “have been in talks with a number of
parties that have shown significant interest in acquiring a
substantial amount of the debtors’ assets on a going-concern
basis,” including stores that might be closed, Etlin said.  The  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based company has 405 stores after
shutting 237. Borders seeks to expand its minimum availability
requirements from $25 million to $30 million. Borders says it
will pay a $1 million fee for amendments to the lending
facility. An amended loan agreement is to be considered at a
June 22 hearing, as well as calls for approval of auction
procedures by July 15.  Najafi, Gores  Najafi Cos., a Phoenix-based private-equity firm, is
considering buying Borders and is performing due diligence, a
person familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Gores Group LLC, a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm,
is bidding for at least half of Borders’ stores, another person
familiar with the matter said June 1.  Najafi bought the French Direct Group Business of CD and
DVD clubs from Bertelsmann AG,  Europe ’s biggest media company,
in May and acquired its North American Direct Group division in
2008.  Borders recorded a loss of $479.9 million for the year
ended Jan. 29 on sales of $1.67 billion. It listed assets of
$1.28 billion and liabilities totaling $1.29 billion.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 