-- 
BP Partner Fotowatio Plans More Australia Solar Power Projects

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-06-20T05:04:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/bp-partner-fotowatio-plans-more-australia-solar-power-projects.html
Fotowatio Renewable Ventures ,  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s partner in an Australian solar-power project that was
awarded A$306.5 million ($324 million) in government funding,
said it is considering additional ventures in the country.  “We don’t see this as the only opportunity in Australia,”
Javier Huergo, Fotowatio’s head of business development, said by
phone today from Sydney. “We think this will demonstrate solar
can become an important part of the generation mix and will be
ready for the moment when there’s a stable political framework
that permits developers to make long-term decisions.”  Madrid-based Fotowatio, BP and Pacific Hydro Pty won
funding to construct a 150-megawatt solar plant in the state of
New South Wales, the Australian government  said  on June 18. The
companies plan to build one of the world’s largest plants using
photovoltaic panels to turn sunlight into power, Huergo said.  Australia , which has set a target of generating 20 percent
of its power from renewable energy sources by 2020, also said it
would provide A$464 million to a solar project in Queensland led
by a unit of Paris-based Areva SA. That venture proposes a 250-
megawatt solar thermal and gas hybrid power plant, according to
the statement released by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s office.  Fotowatio and BP aim to begin construction of the 150-
megawatt venture in the first quarter of 2012 and to have the
plant fully operating by the end of 2015, Huergo said. Fotowatio,
which plans to keep more than 50 percent of the project, expects
partial commissioning before the end of 2015, he said.  Utilities Talks  The venture is in “advanced talks with some of the major
utilities” over the supply of power from the plant, he said.
The partners will also rely on debt, plus A$120 million of
funding from the New South Wales government, Huergo said.  The Fotowatio-BP development is estimated to cost A$923
million, the Australian government said. Construction expenses
are expected to be A$600 million to A$700 million, Huergo said.  BNP Paribas SA, Banco Santander SA and  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  are among eight banks that agreed to help finance the
New South Wales solar venture, Huergo said in February.
Fotowatio has a total of about 275 megawatts of solar power
capacity in operation and under construction, he said today.  Fotowatio plans to add solar capacity in Australia if the
government maintains stable policy to stimulate development of
renewable energy technologies, he said. “The goal is a
sustainable long-term solar industry in Australia and to show
Australian citizens that solar is reliable,” he said.  Gillard wants to impose a price on  carbon emissions 
starting next year to curb greenhouse gas pollution in a country
that burns coal to generate more than 80 percent of electricity.  Together, the two solar projects getting Australian funds
are expected to produce enough power to provide electricity to
more than 115,000 homes a year, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 