-- 
Brazil’s Inflation Goal Requires 2 More Selic Rises, Kawall Says

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-06-20T17:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/brazil-s-inflation-goal-requires-2-more-selic-rises-kawall-says.html
Brazil ’s central bank will likely
raise the benchmark interest rate two more times to keep
inflation within the target ceiling in 2012, boosting the rate
to 12.75 percent in August, said Chief Economist at Banco J.
Safra SA Carlos Kawall.  Brazil’s central bank increased borrowing costs for a
fourth consecutive meeting this month, raising its benchmark
lending rate, known as the Selic, a quarter-point to 12.25
percent. The central bank said it will maintain a policy of
making required adjustments for a “sufficiently long” time,
according to minutes of the meeting. The government targets
annual inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points.  “The idea of a long cycle is married to two further
increases by August,” Kawall said in an interview at the
Bloomberg office in  Sao Paulo  today. “We still see that, for
the challenge of convergence in 2012, the current inflation
level, especially of services, seems too high.”  Kawall forecasts the Selic rate will rise by more than the
median estimates in surveys by the central bank, which predicts
one further increase of 0.25 percentage points.  Consumer prices will rise 5.18 percent next year, according
to the median forecast in a June 17 central bank survey of about
100 economists published today. That’s up from a 5.13 percent
median estimate in the previous week’s survey. The economists
cut their prediction for 2011 inflation, as measured by the IPCA
index, to 6.18 percent from 6.19 percent, the survey found.  Domestic demand, buoyed by rising salaries and employment,
may keep inflation elevated even in the face of recent falls in
commodities prices on uncertainty provoked by  Greece ’s debt
crisis and weak economic indicators in the U.S., Kawall said.
Commodities will help reduce inflation “but aren’t going to
have a decisive contribution,” he said.  Kawall previously worked as treasury secretary and chief
financial officer of BM&FBovespa SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  