-- 
Brazil’s Credit Rating Raised One Level to Baa2 on Spending Cut by Moody’s

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-06-20T15:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/brazil-s-credit-rating-raised-to-baa2-by-moody-s-correct-.html
Brazil ’s debt rating was raised one
level by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited President  Dilma Rousseff ’s efforts to cut spending in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy.  Moody’s lifted Brazil’s rating to Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, from Baa3, the ratings company said in a
statement. The outlook is positive.  Rousseff, who took office on Jan. 1, has pledged to reduce
 government spending  by 50.7 billion reais ($32 billion) in a bid
to cool the economy and restrain inflation. The economy will
grow 4 percent this year after a 7.5 percent expansion in 2010
that was the fastest in more than two decades, according to the
median estimate of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The rating
increase follows an upgrade by  Fitch Ratings  in April.  Standard
& Poor’s  boosted its outlook on Brazil’s rating to positive last
month.  Moody’s in the statement cited a “willingness on the part
of the government to reverse expansionary policies and adopt a
conservative policy stance that appears more consistent with a
sustainable growth path.”  The average yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 171 at 11:08
a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose three basis points to 118, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real was little changed at 1.5974 per dollar. It has
gained 24 percent over the past two years, the best performance
among Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  