-- 
$20 Million Bill May Thwart Singapore Medical Ambition

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-23T14:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/brunei-royalty-s-20-million-bill-may-thwart-singapore-s-medical-ambitions.html
(Corrects the quoted description of  Brunei ’s claim in ninth
paragraph and moves to second paragraph that the bill included
third-party disbursements, in story published June 20.)  It’s a S$24.8 million ($20 million)
medical bill that shocked oil-rich  Brunei  and may hinder
 Singapore ’s bid to become a top medical-tourist destination.  Susan Lim ,  Asia ’s first liver-transplant surgeon, sought as
much as S$200,000 a day over seven months in 2007 to treat a
member of Brunei’s royal family who later succumbed to cancer.
The bill, which included third-party disbursements, sparked a
complaint from Brunei, a Singapore investigation and an inquiry
into her fees.  “Reputations are tarnished at all levels” with such
scandals, said Josef Woodman, who spent more than five years
researching medical tourism and is the author of  Patients Beyond
Borders , a guide to finding offshore medical treatment. “This
underscores the need for improved oversight and regulations that
would help to prevent abuses.”  The Brunei case and another complaint from the United Arab
Emirates accusing a group of Singapore doctors, including Lim,
of overbilling may hamper the state’s ambition to attract more
foreign patients in Asia’s $5.5 billion medical-tourism market.
Heart-bypass surgery in Singapore costs about a sixth of that
charged in the U.S.  Lim denied any wrongdoing and in e-mailed responses said
the Bruneian patient had agreed to the charges.  “The patient was never held to ransom,” Lim said. “She
was willing to pay the price we had agreed to.”  India , Malaysia, Thailand and  South Korea  are among
countries competing with Singapore for a slice of the industry,
said Pawel Suwinski, a health care analyst at Frost & Sullivan
Ltd.  ‘Losing Ground’  “Singapore is losing ground to cheaper countries and is
evolving into a hub for complex surgeries,” said Wei Siang Yu,
who owns  Fly Free For Health , a Singapore-based medical
concierge service.  Brunei is ruled by Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah, the
 second-richest royal in the world,  according to Forbes. The
country’s health ministry sought a discount through its
counterpart in Singapore on Lim’s S$24.8 million bill for
treatment of Pangiran Anak Hajah Damit, the Sultan’s sister-in-
law, claiming in a letter made public in court documents that
the “extremely high” charges weren’t justified.  The Singapore Health Ministry said in a letter of complaint
made public in court documents that “overcharging on such a
magnitude could also bring disrepute to the medical profession
in Singapore.”  ‘Extraordinary’ Services  Lim had voluntarily cut Damit’s original bill to S$12.1
million including S$3.3 million for a team of doctors and
nurses, according to court papers. The amount covered
“extraordinary” services including setting up medical
facilities in hotel suites and “round the clock devotion,” to
the patient, her lawyers from Rajah & Tann LLP said in the court
papers.  Lim, 56, married to Citigroup Inc. private bank Chairman
 Deepak Sharma , said in the e-mail she reduced the bill “as a
gesture of friendship.” She said the perception she cut the
cost to avoid professional misconduct charges is untrue.  Singapore’s health ministry began a probe in 2007 to
determine whether Lim’s bills showed a pattern of overcharging,
improper billing and whether some fees were inappropriate for
services done by other doctors. A panel appointed by the medical
council to hold the inquiry stepped down after Lim complained
the members had prejudged her case. A second panel is now
pursuing the investigation.  Lim failed to block the second hearing when the city’s  high
court ruled  on May 26 that it could proceed. Lim has until June
27 to appeal.  Officials from the medical council declined to comment for
this story, referring to a  May 26 statement  that said the
council will continue to take all steps to ensure “a full, fair
and timely hearing of the matter.”  ‘Minimal Impact’  Singapore Health Ministry officials referred inquiries to
the city-state’s tourism board, which said Lim’s case had
“minimal impact” on the island’s medical tourism industry.  Lim’s case has renewed calls for  medical fee guidelines  in
Singapore to be reinstated. The  Competition Commission  of
Singapore had  rejected the proposal  last year.  “People who are coming in for medical tourism would like
to ensure that the clinics and doctors are credible and have
some certainty of their expenses before even making the trip,”
said Janson Yap, the Southeast Asia head of life sciences and
health care at Deloitte LLP. “Having guidelines would be
helpful.”  The antitrust regulator said more effective measures
include the health ministry’s requirement for  itemized medical
bills  and hospitals providing financial counseling for patients.  ‘Technically Bankrupt’  The controversy over the Brunei bills resulted in a loss of
new patients and other businesses being put on hold, Lim said.
Her medical practice is now “technically bankrupt” and if not
for a loan she and her family provided would have shut down, she
said.  The value of her medical practice plunged to S$11.6
million, based on 2008 financial statements, from S$103 million
two years earlier, she said.  Singapore earned S$940 million from medical tourism last
year, according to the tourism board, which has a goal of 1
million medical tourists by 2012. A group of doctors and
investors is building an  S$800 million integrated private
hospital, medical center and hotel  to attract more foreign
patients.  Other Asian nations have their own initiatives.  Thailand , whose King Bhumibol Adulyadej is the world’s
richest royal, has a five-year plan to double revenue from
foreign patients by 2014. Malaysia has eased health-care
advertising guidelines and offers tax breaks to hospitals
serving  foreign patients .  ‘Perfect Destination’  India , home to the  Taj Mahal , says it’s a “perfect
destination” for medical tourism, combining health treatments
using the latest technology and visits to “some of the most
alluring and awe-inspiring places of the world.”  A heart bypass costs $10,000 in India, $20,000 in Thailand
and $23,000 in Singapore,  according to data from Deloitte . The
same surgery costs $44,000 in Dubai and $130,000 in the U.S.  “While list prices appear higher in Singapore than in
other Asian countries, final bills are often comparable due to
shorter hospital stays,” said Tan Yen Nee, deputy director of
enrichment at the Singapore tourism board.  “We’ve only had two or three patients seek care in
Singapore over the last three or four years,” said David
Boucher, president of Companion Global Healthcare Inc., a
Columbia, South Carolina-based medical tourism facilitator that
sends about 25 employees of U.S. companies to Asia each year.  Most go to Bumrungrad Hospital Public Co. in Thailand,
Boucher said.  Bumrungrad’s Growth  Bangkok’s Bumrungrad treated 30 percent more patients from
Singapore between January and April compared with a year
earlier, triple the hospital’s overall growth rate, said Kenneth
Mays, the marketing director at the hospital.  The  United Arab Emirates ’ Health Ministry settled a billing
dispute with Singapore in 2008 after the fees to about 100 UAE
patients were halved to S$17.2 million, according to court
papers.  Lim had said Damit agreed to her charges of S$100,000 to as
much as S$200,000 a day, according to court papers. The Brunei
Health Ministry said it wasn’t aware of such an arrangement.  Singapore’s medical fees still are significantly lower than
charges patients face in London or Dubai, said Moza Juma Mattr,
a Dubai citizen who visits Lim twice a year for treatment. The
allegations against Lim haven’t dissuaded Mattr, who spoke in
Lim’s clinic where one wall is lined with pictures of the
surgeon posing with past U.S. presidents including  Jimmy Carter 
and  Bill Clinton .  “I’m shocked by the complaints against Susan,” said
Mattr, wife of Mohammed al-Gergawi, United Arab Emirates’
Minister for Cabinet Affairs. “I don’t believe that a smart
woman like Susan will destroy her reputation and Singapore’s.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  