-- 
BTA Bank Seeks Two Jail Sentences in $4 Billion Fraud Suit

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T15:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/bta-bank-seeks-jail-for-two-over-links-to-4-billion-fraud-suit.html
BTA Bank, the biggest Kazakh lender
before its nationalization in 2009, is seeking U.K. prison terms
for two men in connection with a $4 billion fraud allegedly
spearheaded by former Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov .  Syrym Shalabayev, Ablyazov’s brother-in-law who’s the
subject of an arrest warrant for failing to reveal his assets,
deserves an extra week to comply before being sentenced, Justice
Michael Briggs ruled yesterday at the  High Court  in London. BTA
had sought an immediate sentence for him at the hearing.  Shalabayev, accused of secretly administering Ablyazov’s
assets, must take “a more serious approach” to the claims,
Briggs said at the hearing. He “is likely to face a very
serious custodial sentence” if he fails to do so.  BTA, which defaulted on $12 billion of debt before
restructuring last year, filed a series of U.K. cases against
Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko over
claims they siphoned money using fake loans. The lender says
litigation against the men will benefit  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and other creditors that
financed its rapid growth before the global credit crisis.  Shalabayev, whose whereabouts are unknown, is considering
cooperating in the case, which has already resulted in an order
to freeze 200 million pounds of his assets, his lawyer said at
yesterday’s hearing. Almaty-based BTA seeks a court order
forcing the lawyer to reveal Shalabayev’s contact details.  $290 Million  At a separate Court of Appeal hearing yesterday in a
related case, the bank renewed its effort to win a two-year
prison term for Paul Kythreotis, a U.K. citizen who directed a
Cyprus-based company that allegedly helped siphon at least $290
million from BTA.  A  London  court last year froze $68.3 million of
Kythreotis’s assets, while BTA said new evidence was uncovered
through raids of an office and home in Cyprus and a storage
facility in London. Kythreotis’s lawyer declined to comment.  BTA last month asked a judge to jail Ablyazov for failing
to disclose his assets under a freezing order. The bank said its
forensic accountants uncovered evidence of more than 600 shell
companies used by Ablyazov to hide his wealth. Judge Nigel Teare
today said those claims will be heard in September or October.  Ablyazov was previously accused of violating the freezing
order by failing to reveal his ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project. The earlier dispute prompted the judge overseeing the
case in August to place an estimated $5 billion in Ablyazov’s
assets into receivership under the control of KPMG LLP during
the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 