-- 
HTC Sued by Germany’s IPCom in Britain Over 3G-Device Patent

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T16:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/htc-sued-by-germany-s-ipcom-in-britain-over-3g-device-patent.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the world’s largest maker
of mobile phones that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system, was sued by  IPCom GmbH & Co.  in Britain over claims its
products violate a European patent.  The lawsuit, filed June 17 in the  High Court  in London,
came a day after the same patent was found by a U.K. judge to be
valid and infringed by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones by volume.  “We offered a fair and reasonable license” to HTC,
Bernhard Frohwitter, IPCom’s managing director, said in an e-
mail. The new case targets HTC’s 3G devices, he said.  IPCom, based in Pullach, Germany, seeks royalties from a
family of mobile-technology patents it acquired in 2007 from
 Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s largest automotive supplier.
IPCom bought the patents after Bosch failed to license them to
Nokia in 2003.  “HTC has the utmost respect for intellectual property,”
Linda Mills, a spokeswoman for HTC, said in a statement. “We
are reviewing the complaint and don’t expect to have any further
comment until it is resolved.”  IPCom seeks a declaration of infringement against HTC and
an inquiry into how much profit was generated by the Taoyuan
Hisen, Taiwan-based company’s disputed products, according to
court records in the case.  Since last week’s ruling, Nokia’s shares fell to a 13-year
low. IPCom claims the patent is vital to the Finnish company’s
handset sales -- a claim that Nokia rejected.  HTC and Nokia in December teamed up to overturn most of one
of IPCom’s patents in  Germany ’s Federal Patent Court in Munich.
The mobile-phone makers had sought to void the patent entirely.  HTC in April purchased a worldwide portfolio of patents on
wireless telecommunications technologies from ADC
Telecommunications Inc. for $75 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  