-- 
California Couple Pleads Guilty to Hiding Swiss UBS Account

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T01:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/california-couple-pleads-guilty-to-hiding-swiss-ubs-account-1-.html
A  California  couple who own and
operate a school for test pilots pleaded guilty to hiding their
Swiss bank account with  UBS AG (UBSN)  as well as other offshore bank
accounts from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Sean and Nadia Roberts of Tehachapi, California, pleaded
guilty to filing a false  tax return , the Justice Department said
today in a statement. Under the plea deal, they agreed to pay
the IRS $710,000 in restitution. They face as long as three
years in prison at their sentencing on Sept. 6, according to the
statement.  Between 2004 and 2008, the couple transferred more than
$1.2 million from their company to a UBS account and falsely
deducted the transfers as interest payments on their corporate
income tax returns, according to the statement. The false
deductions also allowed them to underreport their income on
their individual tax returns, the government said.  UBS, based in Zurich, provided the U.S. with the identities
and account information of the couple as part of a 2009 deferred
prosecution agreement under which the bank admitted to helping
U.S. taxpayers hide assets from the IRS, according to the
 Justice Department ’s statement.  The couple is cooperating with an ongoing Justice
Department investigation, said Edward Robbins Jr., their lawyer,
in a phone interview.  Because they were on the list UBS provided to the U.S.
government, they weren’t able to participate in an IRS amnesty
program for Americans with secret offshore accounts, Robbins
said.  The case is U.S. v. Roberts, 11-00199, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Fresno.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  