-- 
Canada First Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-20T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/canada-first-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's national balance sheet account report for the
first quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth increased 0.7% to $6.4 trillion in
the first quarter. Growth in non-financial assets, mainly
in non-residential structures, was partially offset by an
increase in net foreign debt. Non-residents further
increased their holdings of Canadian securities in the
first quarter, with the investment split between Canadian
bonds and equities. On a per capita basis, national net
worth increased to $185,400 in the first quarter, up from
$184,500 in the previous quarter.  Growth in household net worth slows  Household net worth advanced 1.0% to $6.3 trillion,
after a 2.4% increase in the fourth quarter. This
deceleration was reflected in both financial and non-
financial assets. Per capita household net worth was
$184,700 in the first quarter, up from $183,300 in the
fourth quarter.  The value of households' holdings of equities
(including mutual funds) and pension assets continued to
rise, albeit at a slower pace than the previous quarter as
the increase in asset prices eased. The Standard and
Poor's / Toronto Stock Exchange composite index gained
5.1% in the first quarter, which was down from the
previous quarter. The growth in the value of residential
real estate also slowed from the previous quarter.  The increase in household consumer credit debt slowed
in the first quarter, as  consumer spending  on durable
goods fell. Mortgage debt advanced, partly reflecting
relatively stable borrowing costs as well as higher
housing resale and renovation activities.  The ratio of household credit market debt to personal
disposable income advanced to 147.3% in the first quarter,
as growth in household credit market debt (+1.3%) outpaced
that of the personal disposable income (+0.7%). The debt-
service ratio also edged up in the first quarter,
continuing a trend that started in the third quarter of
2010. Somewhat weaker growth in personal disposable income
(as a result of temporary factors) and moderately higher
borrowing, accounted for the rise in the debt-service
ratio in the first quarter.  Home owners' equity as a percentage of real estate
assets fell marginally, continuing the trend that started
in 2010. The ratio of household credit market debt to net
worth increased to 24.0%, reversing the decrease in the
previous quarter.  Government net debt up slightly  Government net debt (expressed at book value) increased
by $22 billion in the first quarter from $21.4 billion in
the previous quarter. The ratio of net debt to gross
domestic product stood at 45.8%, edging up from the
previous quarter.  The increase in government debt moderated, as overall
borrowing eased, mostly reflecting net redemptions of
short-term paper by both federal and other levels of
governments. Governments continued to finance activities,
primarily in bond markets.  Corporate debt to equity edges down  Equity financing was the major source of external
financing in the corporate sector while bond issuance also
increased. Private non-financial corporations' total debt
to equity edged down to 164.6% in the first quarter.  Equity investment of financial corporations increased  Consistent with the market gains over the first
quarter, the value of investments in marketable
securities, notably shares, of institutional investors
such as trusteed pension plans and mutual funds increased,
albeit at a slower pace than the previous quarter.
Holdings of foreign investments and federal  government
bonds  by financial institutions decreased, and their
holdings of short-term paper declined markedly.  Note to readers  Canadian publicly traded companies began their
transition to International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) in the first quarter of 2011. As all companies
adopt the new reporting standards over the next quarters,
this will have an impact on the National balance sheet
accounts. For more information on some of these affects
consult the article "Impact of new accounting standards on
the Financial and Wealth Accounts."  The National Balance Sheet Accounts (NBSA) comprise the
balance sheets of all sectors of the economy: the persons
and unincorporated business (households), corporate,
government, and non-resident sectors. They cover all
national non-financial assets and financial claims and
their associated liabilities outstanding in all sectors.  National net worth is national wealth less net foreign
liabilities (that is, what is owed to non-residents less
what non-residents owe to Canadians). Alternatively, it is
the sum of the net worth of the persons and unincorporated
business, corporate, and government sectors.  Household credit market debt comprises  consumer credit ,
mortgage, and loan debt of households, non-profit
institutions serving households, and unincorporated
businesses. Corporate equity is treated as a liability on
the balance sheet of the corporate sector since it
represents a claim by shareholders on the corporate
sector. As a result, as equity prices increase, corporate
net worth will tend to decline, reflecting the increase in
the corporate sector's equity liabilities.  As of the release of the NBSA for the third quarter of
2009, a number of sectors and categories that were
previously published have been combined, in order to
provide more relevant sector and category information.  Quarterly series, at both book and market value, are
available from the first quarter of 1990. Annual market
value data are published from 1970, while book value
estimates remain available from 1961. Marketable
securities are at market value, unless otherwise stated.
For more information on the market value estimates,
consult the National balance sheet estimates at market
value page of our website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  