-- 
Canadian Dollar Appreciates on Boost in Risk Demand Before Greece’s Vote

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-06-21T20:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/canadian-currency-weakens-as-investors-seek-refuge-amid-concern-on-greece.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as stocks and
commodities rallied before a government confidence vote in
 Greece  that may determine whether it avoids default.  The currency, sometimes called the loonie, advanced to the
strongest level against the greenback in almost a week as oil,
Canada’s biggest export, rose. The greenback fell on reduced
safety demand on speculation Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will win a confidence vote, supporting the euro.  “We’ve got a general risk-on day, which is helping,” said
 David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital unit in Toronto. “The Canadian dollar has
underperformed a lot of these currencies for a long period of
time, and now you see some reasons for the Canadian dollar to
rise. Now you’re looking at commodities firming up, equities
firming up.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 97.25
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 4:45 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.98
yesterday. It touched 97.12 cents, the strongest level since
June 15. The currency rallied as much as 0.9 percent, the
biggest intraday jump since June 14. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0283.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities rose for a third day,
climbing 1.6 percent. Crude oil for July delivery gained as much
as 1.6 percent to $94.74 a barrel in New York.  The loonie, nicknamed for the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin,
has dropped 2.5 percent this year against nine other developed-
market currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. That compares with a 1.1 percent gain in
 Norway ’s krone and a 1.4 percent drop in the Australian dollar.  Retail Sales  The Canadian dollar remained higher even after a government
report showed retail sales increased in April less than
economists forecast.  Retail sales rose 0.3 percent that month to a seasonally
adjusted C$37.4 billion ($38.3 billion) after a revised decline
of 0.1 percent in March,  Statistics Canada  said today. The
median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.4 percent gain.  “Despite having this decline off of expectations, I don’t
see it as having a major impact,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing
director for foreign-exchange trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “It’s the bigger-picture story
on Greece today that’s holding dollar-Canada in check.”  Statistics Canada also said today its index of leading
economic indicators rose 1 percent in May, twice the pace
forecast by economists.  Bonds Fall  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 2.98 percent. The price of the 3.25 percent security
due in June 2021 dropped 10 cents to C$102.33.  Greece’s Papandreou is seeking to secure multiparty support
for his government’s austerity measures, a condition for
receiving aid needed to avoid a default. He called for the vote
last week after opposition parties rejected pleas for national
consensus and the prime minister’s handling of the crisis led to
defections from his party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  