-- 
Caparo Sells $78 Million in Preferred Stock for India Wind Parks

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T10:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/caparo-sells-78-million-in-preferred-stock-for-india-wind-parks.html
Caparo Energy Ltd. (CEL) , a wind-farm
developer that has announced  India ’s largest turbine orders,
sold 3.5 billion rupees ($78 million) in preferred shares to
fund its expansion.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which acted as Caparo’s sole adviser in the
transaction, arranged mezzanine finance in the form of
preference stock with a six-year term from Infrastructure
Development Finance Co., an Indian lender to power and road
projects, Caparo said today in a statement to the  London  Stock
Exchange. The deal won’t dilute equity, the company said.  Caparo, which sold shares to  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  in its initial
public offer in October, expects to complete a second tranche of
1.5 billion rupees “in the next few weeks,” it said. The
funding will enable Caparo to build about 700 megawatts of wind
farms, it said. Mezzanine finance typically gives the lender the
right to convert into ownership of the company if unpaid.  The Hyderabad, India-based company has unveiled the most
ambitious plans among Indian wind-park developers, ordering
about $3 billion in turbines from  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and Spain’s
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA for 3,000 megawatts of windmills.
That power capacity exceeds the combined installations by all
other wind-energy developers in 2010 in India, the world’s
third-largest market for new wind installations behind China and
the U.S.  The company has started up its first 10.5 megawatts of
capacity at a farm in Rajasthan and expects to complete a
further 31.5 megawatts by mid-July, it said.  Caparo expects to repay IDFC Project Equity Co. from
internal cashflow, the issue of senior debt instruments, bonds
or other debt refinancing within three to five years, Caparo
said in the statement.  Revenue Estimate  The company is now headed to meet its target to operate 500
megawatts by the first quarter of 2012, capacity which should
enable it to generate $135 million in annual revenue, said Gus
Hochschild, a London-based analyst with Mirabaud Securities LLP,
in a note to clients today. Mirabaud was the broker for Caparo’s
50 million-pound ($80 million)  initial public offer  in October
in London.  Caparo’s shares were unchanged at 115 pence in London as of
11 a.m. local time, according to Bloomberg data. They gained 13
percent last week.  The stock is down about 2.1 percent since its IPO in which
money managers including  New York ’s Blackrock and  Henderson
Group Plc (HGG)  of the U.K. bought stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  