-- 
Careplus, RHB Capital, Sunway, Talam: Malaysia Stock Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-20T00:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/careplus-rhb-capital-sunway-talam-malaysia-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,563.43 on June 17.  Careplus Group Bhd. (CPG)  : The Malaysian glove producer
agreed to form a venture with Descarpack Descartaveis do Brasil
Ltda to manufacture and sell rubber gloves in Brazil. The
venture may sell the gloves to other countries later, it said in
a statement. The stock sank 6.1 percent to 46 sen.  Efficient E-Solutions Bhd. (EES)  : Singapore Post Ltd.
emerged as a substantial shareholder of the Malaysian data
processing company after buying a 10.1 percent stake, a stock
exchange filing showed. Efficient E-Solutions was unchanged at
22 sen.        RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  : Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC,
the  United Arab Emirates ’ third-biggest bank, agreed to sell its
24.9 percent stake in Malaysian lender RHB to Aabar Investments
PJSC at 10.80 ringgit a share, according to a statement. RHB
fell 0.9 percent to 9.75 ringgit.        Sunway Holdings Bhd. (SGW)  : The construction and
property group scrapped a venture with Dasa Tourist Complex
(Private) Ltd. to develop a property project in Sri Lanka,
according to a company statement. The stock gained 1.2 percent
to 2.61 ringgit.  Talam Corp. (TA MK): The property developer’s net loss in
the first quarter ended April 30 widened to 26 million ringgit
($8.6 million) from 1.6 million ringgit a year earlier as sales
declined and finance costs rose, according to a company
statement. The stock was unchanged at 7.5 sen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  