-- 
Centrum Advises India Clients to ‘Start Investing’ on Index Drop

-- B y   H e m a l   S a v a i
-- 
2011-06-20T07:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/centrum-advises-india-clients-to-start-investing-on-index-drop.html
 Chokkalingam G., chief investment
officer at Centrum Broking Pvt., a Mumbai-based brokerage that
also manages assets for individuals, comments on the decline in
Indian stocks. He spoke in a phone interview.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 256.28, or
1.4 percent, to 17,614.25 at 1:08 p.m. in Mumbai, set for the
lowest close in four months. The gauge dropped as much as 3.1
percent earlier, the most in 22 months.  “In last two to three days nothing has gone wrong with
fundamentals. There’s a 33 percent rise in advance-tax numbers,
25 of 36 states have received good monsoon and oil prices have
dropped 20 percent from their peak. The stress is there,
industrial growth has moderated but we also have to see the
price paid by the index.”  On Mauritius tax issue:  “Which government can afford to do away with the taxation
treaty? The market is already beaten down so why will they do it
now and spoil the market. If at all they do it now, then it will
be a great blunder. They have to do it when markets are heated
up, that is good for the economy.”  India  will seek to tax  capital gains  on investments made
through Mauritius as negotiations on its taxation treaty with
the island nation resume after three years, Business Standard
reported yesterday. India wants to impose a tax as the capital
gains are being made locally, the report cited Prakash Chandra,
chairman of the tax board, as saying. Mauritius doesn’t impose
capital gains tax, the report said.  Advice to investors:  “India is always known for micro-individual stock stories.
Look for good management, high dividend yield stocks. Don’t
worry if Sensex comes to 15,000. We cannot predict bottom, so
start investing now.”  He recommends tire maker  MRF Ltd. (MRF) , lender  Dhanlaxmi Bank
Ltd. (DHLBK)  and  Siemens India Ltd. (SIEM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Hemal Savai in Mumbai at  at
 hsavai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at  at
 Dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  