-- 
Chile Peso Little Changed as Copper Counters Greek Bailout Talk

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T19:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/chile-peso-little-changed-as-copper-counters-greek-bailout-talk.html
Chile ’s peso closed little changed
versus the  U.S. dollar  after assurances that a solution will be
found to spare  Greece  from a default countered a fall in copper
prices, the country’s main export.  The peso fell less than 0.1 percent to 472.25 per dollar at
1:29 p.m.  New York  time, from 472.10 on June 17. It earlier
weakened as much as 0.3 percent. The peso was the worst
performer among major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg today, as the Mexican and Colombian pesos both rose
0.3 percent.  “The local market is still looking at the situation in
Greece,” Rodrigo Sarria, a trader at Santiago-based brokerage
Celfin Capital SA, said today in a phone interview. “Commodity
prices were also down.”  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said today that Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  had assured him the government
would do everything to ensure financial aid from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund  before the Greek
parliament resumes debating a motion of confidence in the
government.  Euro-area finance ministers had put off yesterday a
decision on whether Greece will get the full 12 billion euros
($17.2 billion) promised for July and pushed for the nation to
press ahead with budget cuts. Papandreou faces a confidence vote
this week.  The euro fell earlier as much as 0.8 percent before paring
losses and rising less than 0.1 percent. Copper, which accounts
for half of Chile’s exports, fell 0.7 percent today in New York.
The Euro Stoxx 50 Index fell 0.8 percent.  The Chilean central bank paid an average 473.77 per dollar
for $50 million as part of a $12 billion plan to slow the peso’s
gains, according to data posted on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  