-- 
Chile’s La Polar Posts Record Fall as Loss-Induced Trading Halt Lifted

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T20:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/chile-s-la-polar-sinks-71-in-santiago-after-week-long-trading-halt-lifted.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR) , the Chilean
department-store operator under investigation for consumer-
lending fraud, fell by a record after doubling an estimate for
loan-loss provisions and naming its second chairman in a week.  La Polar shares plunged 63 percent and bond yields surged
as regulators lifted a weeklong trading halt. The stock traded
at 533.54 pesos at 4 p.m. New York time from 1,430 pesos on June
13.  The company has lost 77 percent, or $950 million, of its
market value and yields for some of its bonds have jumped almost
tenfold since the loan losses were unveiled June 9. Responding
to a regulatory request, La Polar said June 17 that it faces
additional provisions of 420 billion pesos ($889 million),
compared with an initial 200 billion-peso forecast.  “A week ago I would have said somebody would buy the
company,” said Stacy Steimel, who manages $800 million in Latin
American stock at PineBridge Investments. “At this point, with
the amount of debt, and trading under its asset liquidation
value, what would a buyer get?”  The company said executives restructured 475 billion pesos
of overdue credit without the consent of the more than 400,000
customers involved or informing the board of the practice.
Clients are being offered reduced interest payments and fines.  Ten Times Ebitda  La Polar said it may have to set aside a total of 538
billion pesos, including previously recorded bad-loan charges.
The revised total is more than 10 times last year’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization,
according to Bloomberg data.  “The new figure took us all by surprise,” Claudio Gonzalez, head of equity research at Santiago-based brokerage
Tanner Corredores de Bolsa SA, said June 17, predicting the
stock to fall to 340 pesos.  Heriberto Urzua, who replaced Pablo Alcalde as chairman
last week after the irregularities were unveiled, stepped down
from the position, he said in a statement sent by e-mail today.  “This is the result of fraud that is damaging confidence
among our clients, shareholders and the country,” Urzua said in
the statement.  Board Vote  Cesar Barros replaces Urzua as chairman, according to a
statement posted today on the website of  Chile ’s securities
regulator. Shareholders will also vote on a new board of
directors on July 8, the company said in a separate statement.  Chile’s President Sebastian Pinera vowed to pursue those
responsible for the irregularities “in an unrelenting way,”
according to a government statement distributed June 18. While
there are no indications that the irregularities are an
industry-wide practice, the government is investigating the
entire retail industry, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said
yesterday in images televised by channel Chilevision.  “All the technical evaluations we have performed bring us
to affirm that the stability of the financial system is not at
risk and that its implications on the system of payments are
limited,” central bank President Jose De Gregorio said in a
speech before lawmakers. “It is fundamental to prevent these
kinds of events from occurring again.”  Pension fund manager  AFP Capital SA (AFPCAP) , a unit of  ING Groep
NV (INGA) , is preparing civil and criminal suits against those
responsible, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Bond Covenants  The board hired Larrain Vial SA to devise a plan for
extending maturities on bank loans, waiving bond covenants and
selling new shares. The company will meet with shareholders June
22 and bondholders July 29.  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  is auditing
the consumer loans portfolio and may have a final provisions
figure in three months, the company said June 13.  La Polar plans to proceed with the sale of $400 million in
new shares. The company planned to use the funds for its
expansions and shore up its finances, according to a May 27
statement, before the irregularities were announced. The board
will seek to waive bond payment acceleration and default
covenants, according to the June 17 statement.  “We believe that the capital increase is absolutely
necessary to keep the company alive,” Barbara Angerstein and
Gustavo Fingeret, analysts at Santiago-based brokerage Celfin
Capital SA, wrote in an e-mailed report today. “It will be the
route of entry for a controlling stockholder.”  Rating Lowered  The Chilean unit of Fitch Ratings Ltd and Feller Rate, an
affiliate of  Standard & Poor’s , cut their ratings June 17 for La
Polar’s debt to “C” from “BB” and “BB+,” respectively,
according to statements on their websites. La Polar had 532
billion pesos in total liabilities as of March 2011.  The yield on La Polar’s 2017 inflation-indexed bond surged
to an average 26.6 percent today, from 4.1 percent on June 2,
while the yield for its 2016 inflation bond jumped to an average
37.6 percent from 3.87 percent in the same period, according to
data from the Santiago stock exchange.  La Polar’s bigger rivals Cencosud SA and  SACI Falabella (FALAB) 
rose today, leading gains by Chilean retailers, on speculation
that its consumer-credit losses won’t spread to the rest of the
industry. Cencosud climbed as much as 5 percent, the most since
February, and Falabella gained 6.9 percent, the biggest gain
since October 2008.  “The retail sector had been punished last week because of
the uncertainty caused by La Polar,” said Peter McMenamin, an
analyst at the brokerage unit of Banco de Chile. “The market is
realizing now that the probability that they were involved in
the same problems as La Polar is very low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  