-- 
China WindPower Plans to Spin Off Tower Manufacturing Business

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-06-20T12:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/china-windpower-plans-to-spin-off-tower-manufacturing-business.html
China WindPower Group Ltd. (182) , a Hong
Kong-listed Chinese wind power company, plans a spin-off listing
of its manufacturing units of wind-turbine components in the
city.  Tianhe New Energy Equipment Ltd., the holding company of
China WindPower’s tower-tube manufacturing business, has applied
for a listing on the  Hong Kong  stock exchange, according to a
filing to the city’s bourse today.  “This spin-off is part of our expansion plan,” Chairman
Liu Shunxing said in a press conference in Hong Kong today. “We
feel that the tower tube segment has a lot of potential.”  China emerged as the world’s biggest wind-energy market by
installed capacity, having overtaken the U.S. last year, Global
Wind Energy Council data show. At the end of 2010, China had a
total of 42.3 gigawatts of wind power capacity compared with
40.2 gigawatts for the U.S.  Chief Financial Officer Hu Mingyang declined to comment on
the estimated amount of funds to be raised from the spinoff or
the banks responsible for the listing.  Tianhe, a wholly owned subsidiary of China WindPower, will
remain a unit of the company after the proposed listing, the
statement said.  Full-year sales of the tower-tube business in 2010 were
HK$591.4 million, or 48 percent of China WindPower’s total
revenue, according to the company’s annual report.  The company aims to develop 1 gigawatt offshore wind farms
by 2015, Yu Weizhou, an executive director, said at a conference
in  Shanghai  on June 15.  “Tianhe also plans to gradually expand into solar-energy
related equipment manufacturing business,” Liu said today.  -- With assistance from Marco Lui in Hong Kong. Editor: Allen
Wan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 Myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Todd White at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net  