-- 
China’s Harbin Electric Jumps on Buyout Offer

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-06-20T20:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/china-s-harbin-electric-jumps-on-buyout-offer.html
Harbin Electric Inc. (HRBN) , a Chinese
maker of electric motors used in freight trains, conveyors and
automatic car windows, jumped as much as 73 percent in  New York 
after the board agreed to sell the company to a group including
its chairman.  Shares rose 59 percent to $13.35 at 4:30 p.m. New York
time, and earlier reached as high as $14.49. Firms owned by
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tianfu Yang offered to
purchase all shares owned by public investors at $24 each to
take the business private, Harbin Electric said in a statement
today.  Harbin’s shares had declined 64 percent through the last
trading session since it first said on Oct. 11 that Yang and
Baring Private Equity Asia Group Ltd. offered to buy the company
for the same price, a sign that traders have become skeptical
the deal would be closed.  “The current discount is the widest of any of the U.S.-
listed Chinese companies that have reached the ‘definitive’
agreement stage,” said Mark Tobin, co-director of research at
 Roth Capital Partners , in a research note today. Events that can
impede the shares from reaching the $24 price target include
“numerous steps in the privatization process, some of which
could lead to delays in completing the transaction” and a
slowdown in  China ’s economic growth, which could impact sales
and margins, he said.  The deal, subject to a shareholders’ vote, is expected to
be completed in the fourth quarter this year, the statement
said. The acquisition will be funded by loans from China
Development Bank Corp. and Abax Global Capital Ltd, it said.  Biggest Shareholders  Yang and Abax were Harbin Electric’s two biggest
shareholders, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The purchasing
group owns about 41 percent of the company’s outstanding shares,
according to the statement.  Before today’s release, shares of Harbin Electric had
slumped 46 percent since June 1, when short seller Citron
Research published a report questioning Harbin Electric’s
financials. Short sale interest was 14.7 percent of the
company’s total outstanding shares, compared with 7.7 percent at
the start of the year, according to  Data Explorers , a  New York- 
based research firm.  “A significant amount of information that is false and
misleading as well as defamatory has been introduced into the
market, and has clearly affected market trading of the company’s
stock,” Yang was quoted as saying in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  