-- 
China May Raise Rates Within 10 Days on Prices, Nomura Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-20T04:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/china-may-raise-rates-within-10-days-on-prices-nomura-says-1-.html
China  is likely to raise  interest
rates  within the next 10 days as price pressures encourage the
government to end the longest pause since increases began in
October, Nomura Holdings Inc. says.  The world’s second-biggest economy is maintaining momentum
and “inflation is still high,” Nomura economist Sun Chi said
in a phone interview from  Hong Kong  today. Sun reaffirmed a
forecast for an increase by the end of June.  China’s benchmark stock index slid to the lowest in almost
nine months today on concern that monetary tightening to tame
inflation will erode company profits and trigger an economic
slowdown. Policy makers may be assessing the threats to export
demand from weakness in the  U.S. economy  and a possible Greek
default on debt.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local time break in trading.  China’s government has paused for more than 10 weeks after
pushing the key one-year lending rate to 6.31 percent.  Sun said inflation may peak in July or August after
accelerating to 5.5 percent in May, the fastest pace since 2008.
A debate over the risks of tightening policy too much may have
delayed a rate increase, she said.  Macquarie Securities Ltd. said today that China is likely
to raise rates within the next four or five weeks.  Separately, state economist  Ba Shusong  called for the
government to consider cutting  reserve requirements  for lenders.
Such a move could be in tandem with raising rates to curb
inflation expectations, Ba, a researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, wrote in the Hong Kong-based Ming
Pao Daily today.  Lowering reserve requirements could help small and medium-
sized businesses to get funding, he said.  --Victoria Ruan, with assistance from Billy Chan and Sophie Leung. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Sunil Jagtiani.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  