-- 
Auchan-Backed Sun Art Said to Test Demand for $1 Billion IPO in Hong Kong

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-06-20T09:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/china-s-sun-art-retail-said-to-gauge-demand-for-1-billion-ipo.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. , the
Chinese hypermarket operator backed by France’s Group Auchan SA,
began gauging investor demand today for an initial public
offering that may raise about $1 billion, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Shanghai-based company plans to set a final price for
its shares on July 7 and start trading in Hong Kong on July 15,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 UBS AG (UBSN)  are managing the offering as global coordinators, the
people said.  Sun Art, which said it has a bigger market share in China
than  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , kicks off its offering after other
companies seeking to raise funds in Hong Kong have struggled.
MGM China Holdings Ltd. was the only one of five Hong Kong IPOs
greater than $1 billion this year to have shares priced at the
top end of the marketed range. The casino company has lost 14
percent since it started trading on June 3.  Investors could be drawn to Sun Art’s offering because of
its status as China’s biggest hypermarket retailer, said Chang Dongliang, a Shanghai-based retailing analyst with Everbright
Securities Co. Sun Art could fetch a price-to-earnings valuation
similar to Hong Kong-listed  Wumart Stores Inc. (8277) , he said.  Wumart operates supermarkets and convenience stores in
Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei and trades at 27 times analysts’
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carrefour, Tesco  BNP Paribas SA, China International Capital Corp.,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley are also arranging the IPO
as joint bookrunners, people familiar with the matter said.  Sun Art forecast 2011 profit won’t be less than 1.4 billion
yuan ($216 million), according to its  filing  to the Hong Kong
stock exchange today.  The retailer plans to use about half of the IPO proceeds to
open new outlets in China and 30 percent to repay bank loans,
the people said. Sun Art said in the filing that it has the
biggest market share among hypermarket operators in China, where
it also competes against  Carrefour SA (CA) ,  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , and state-
backed  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291)   “With the funds collected, the company may be able to
speed up its expansion and widen its gap with rivals,”
Everbright’s Chang said.  Profit Growth  Group Auchan is among the company’s “ultimate controlling
shareholders”, Sun Art said in the filing. The filing doesn’t
reveal how big Group Auchan’s stake in Sun Art is. Ruentex
Development Co. and  Ruentex Industries Ltd. (2915) , both listed in
Taiwan, are also among Sun Art’s shareholders, the filing shows.  Officials at Sun Art couldn’t immediately be reached to
comment. Meng Fan-wen, Ruentex Industries Ltd’s spokesman, said
all the information the company can disclose is in the stock
exchange filing.  Sun Art’s profit was 1 billion yuan ($154.5 million) last
year on sales of 56.2 billion yuan, the filing shows. Unaudited
first-quarter profit surged 32 percent to 522 million yuan while
sales grew 27 percent to 19.8 billion yuan.  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed company by sales, has
annual revenue of $7.5 billion in China,  Scott Price , its chief
executive officer for Asia, said in March. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer may buy more land in China, which it
said may be the world’s largest grocery market by 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  