-- 
McIlroy Takes First Step in Pursuit of Woods at Soft Congressional

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-20T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/mcilroy-takes-first-step-in-pursuit-of-woods-at-soft-congressional.html
For Rory McIlroy, the choker label
is gone. Instead, he has people saying maybe he, not Tiger Woods, will break  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18 major golf
championships.  Two months after blowing a four-shot lead in the final
round of the  Masters Tournament , McIlroy, a 22-year-old from
Northern Ireland, put an end to talk that he couldn’t win big
titles with a record-setting win at the  U.S. Open ,  “You talk about having a chance to break Jack’s records,
there’s your man,”  Padraig Harrington , a three-time major
winner, said of McIlroy prior to yesterday’s final round.  While McIlroy is 17 major titles shy of Nicklaus’s record
and 13 behind Woods, he said he was happy to finally break
through, even if the 35-year-old Woods wasn’t in the field due
to knee and ankle injuries.  “It would just be nice for him to be healthy again and be
back out on the golf course. He’s  Tiger Woods ,” McIlroy said at
a news conference. “I’m just happy to be sitting here with the
trophy that has his name on it.”  McIlroy was aided by conditions at Congressional Country
Club, where 100-degree heat earlier this month and rainy
conditions during play produced favorable scoring conditions.  “Congrats to Rory,” Woods said in an e-mail through his
agent,  Mark Steinberg . “What a performance from start to
finish. Enjoy the win. Well done.”  Eleven years ago, Woods set the U.S. Open record with a 15-
shot win at  California ’s  Pebble Beach  Golf Links.  “There might be people capable of winning a major, but
there’s not too many people capable of dominating and running
away from the field in a major,” said  Graeme McDowell , last
year’s winner at Pebble Beach from Northern Ireland. “This is
indeed his destiny.”  Congressional Comeback  McIlroy’s victory won’t keep the U.S. Golf Association,
which has organized the tournament since 1895, from returning to
the Bethesda, Maryland, course, officials said.  “Records are made to be broken,” Mike Davis, USGA
executive director, said in an interview. “He lapped the field.
It’s a great thing.”  McIlroy, who had two professional victories before
yesterday, said his goal over the final 18 holes was to prevent
anyone from getting a chance of catching him. He said that was a
lesson he learned by watching Woods.  “I was trying to go there with the same intensity he
has,” McIlroy said in a press conference. “No lead is big
enough.”  Jason Day of  Australia  finished eight shots back.
Otherwise, McIlroy was barely challenged and became the first
player to lead the tournament from start to finish since Woods
in 2002 at  New York ’s Bethpage Black course.  No. 1  Luke Donald , an Englishman who entered the week No. 1 in
the Official World Golf Ranking, finished 46th at 5 over.
McDowell was 14th at 2 under and  Phil Mickelson , a five-time
 U.S. Open  runner-up, was 54th at 7 over. The top-finishing
American was Kevin Chappell, a 24-year-old rookie playing in his
first U.S. Open, who tied for third.  All will be chasing McIlroy for a while, said  South Korea ’s
Y.E. Yang, the 2009 PGA Championship winner who was paired with
McIlroy for the final two rounds. Yang finished 10 shots back.  “He hasn’t primed yet,” Yang said. “He’s still growing
and it’s just scary to think about it.”  The USGA attributed the low scores mostly to rainy weather
on a course with heavy soil. Records were destined to be
eclipsed, officials said.  “If he wasn’t in the field, we’d be talking about a pretty
tight U.S. Open,” said Jeff Hall, the USGA’s managing director
of rules and competitions. “Hat’s off to him.”  Other than McIlroy, the top 10 finishers were separated by
four shots.  Congressional hosted the U.S. Open in 1964 and 1997. The
winning scores those years were 2 under by Ken Venturi -- the
only player under par that year -- and 4 under by Ernie Els.  “The course did me a few favors this week,” McIlroy said
in a press conference. “If this golf course was firm and hard,
I don’t think anyone could have got to 16 under par.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  