-- 
Climate Change Lawsuit Against Utilities Rejected by U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-06-20T22:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/climate-change-suit-against-utilities-rejected-by-top-court-1-.html
States can’t invoke federal law to
force utilities to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled, shutting off one avenue for groups that
advocate bolder steps against  climate change .  The unanimous ruling is a victory for five companies --
American Electric Power Co.,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  Xcel Energy
Inc. (XEL) ,  Southern Co. (SO)  and the government-owned Tennessee Valley
Authority -- that had been sued by six U.S. states, including
 California , and the city of New York.  The states, which sought a cap on emissions, argued that
carbon dioxide spewed by the utilities is a public nuisance
because it causes climate change. The justices  said  the
Environmental Protection Agency was better equipped than federal
judges to assess the costs and benefits of reducing greenhouse
gases.  “It is altogether fitting that Congress designated an
expert agency, here, EPA, as best suited to serve as primary
regulator of greenhouse-gas emissions,” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said for the court. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  didn’t take
part in the case.  Through the federal Clean Air Act, Congress has entrusted
the EPA and state regulators to determine greenhouse-gas
regulations for industries, according to the court.  The ruling bolsters EPA’s position as the focal point for
curbing heat-trapping emissions from vehicles and industrial
polluters such as  power plants , according to David Doniger,
policy director for the climate center at the  Natural Resources
Defense Council , an environmental group based in New York.  ‘Spotlight on EPA’  “The court’s decision puts the spotlight squarely on
EPA,” Doniger said today in a statement.  The states sued in 2004, invoking both state and federal
law. The  Supreme Court  case focused on the federal law claim,
and the justices said they weren’t ruling on the state question.  The states argued that the EPA still hasn’t taken action to
reduce  carbon emissions  from the plants named in the lawsuit.  The agency began a first phase of greenhouse-gas
regulations for power plants and oil refineries in January after
Congress failed to pass climate-change legislation. So far, the
rules affect only new and modified plants, not the existing ones
targeted by the states.  The EPA, as part of a legal settlement reached last year
with environmental groups and states, agreed to propose further
greenhouse-gas-emissions rules for power plants and refineries
later this year. This second round will affect existing plants
and may be more costly to industry, according to a Bloomberg
Government Study released last week.  Authority to Regulate  Republicans and some Democrats in Congress are pushing
legislation that would strip the EPA of its authority to
regulate carbon emissions under the  Clean Air Act . Today’s
ruling reaffirms the agency’s authority under federal law,
according to Doniger, who helped represent three land trusts in
a related suit that was also part of today’s ruling.  “The decision comes at a useful time as we’ve seen efforts
to take EPA’s power away, and we know there will be further
efforts,” Doniger said in an interview today.  The Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based trade
group representing utilities, also praised today’s ruling.  “We welcome this significant decision, because it
unanimously confirms our industry’s strongly held view that the
courts shouldn’t be in the business of legislating U.S.
greenhouse-gas emissions limits,” EEI President Tom Kuhn said
in a statement.  “The Clean Air Act authorizes EPA to regulate  greenhouse
gases , a process it has initiated,” Kuhn said. “Today’s
decision wisely removes the threat of endless and multiple
lawsuits with no environmental benefit.”  Obama Administration  The Obama administration joined the power industry in
urging rejection of the suit.  The ruling reverberates beyond the power industry. Trade
groups representing automakers,  oil companies , farmers, mining
companies, chemical companies and manufacturers all urged the
court to dismiss the suits, in some cases saying their members
might face similar claims.  The case marked the Supreme Court’s second foray into the
debate over climate change. In a 2007 case decided 5-4, the
court ordered the EPA to consider regulating greenhouse-gas
emissions.  ‘Public Nuisance’  In arguing that carbon emissions are a public nuisance, the
states and land trusts used a legal theory more typically
invoked in cases of localized pollution. A federal appeals court
in  New York  had let the suit go forward.  The suits are part of a multifaceted battle over climate
change. Opponents -- including businesses, Republicans and some
Democrats -- say the EPA’s new carbon-emission limits will
destroy jobs and increase electricity bills without benefiting
the environment.  The Obama administration and the companies also argued that
the states and land trusts lack the legal right, or standing, to
sue. The justices divided 4-4 on that question, leaving intact
the appeals court’s conclusion that the companies can do so.  The case is American Electric Power v.  Connecticut , 10-174.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  