-- 
Colombian Peso Gains for Second Day on Bets for Rising Inflows

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-06-20T19:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/colombian-peso-gains-for-second-day-on-bets-for-rising-inflows.html
Colombia ’s peso rose for a second
day on speculation investment flows into  Latin America  will
increase after Brazil’s foreign debt rating was raised one level
by Moody’s Investors Service.  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to 1,787.40 per  U.S. dollar 
at 3:16 p.m. New York time, from 1,791.80 on June 17. That’s its
biggest increase since June 14 on a closing basis. The peso has
jumped 6.7 percent this year, the best performance among the six
most-traded currencies in Latin American  Moody’s today lifted Brazil’s rating to Baa2, the second-
lowest investment grade, from Baa3, citing President Dilma Rousseff’s efforts to cut spending in Latin America’s biggest
economy. The outlook is positive.  “There’s a certain amount of herd effect,” said  Camilo Perez , head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the nation’s second-
biggest bank. “While we’re seeing upgrades in the region,
 Europe  is seeing downgrades. That divergence in perceptions
should continue to attract capital into Latin America.”  Colombia was raised to the lowest level of investment grade
by  Standard & Poor’s  on March 16 and by Moody’s on May 31.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024 was
little changed at 7.79 percent, according to Colombia’s stock
exchange. The security’s price rose 0.014 centavo to 117.712
centavos per peso.  ‘Less Hawkish’  The central bank’s “less hawkish” statement following its
June 17 monetary policy meeting may be an indication policy
makers will leave  interest rates  unchanged next month, Perez
said. He forecast the key rate will be raised to 5 percent by
year-end.  Banco de la Republica’s seven-member board, led by bank
chief Jose Dario Uribe, increased the overnight lending rate by
a quarter point to 4.25 percent, meeting expectations of 22 of
23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One analyst expected the
rate to remain unchanged.  The “strong drop” in first quarter investment in public
works was unexpected and is likely temporary, the central bank
said in the statement. Policy makers also highlighted that
business and  consumer confidence  have dropped.  Bets on a rate pause likely will lead to gains in
government peso bonds, known as TES, Perez predicts.  “People aren’t worried about inflation,” said Perez. “A
pause would be well received.”  Annual inflation quickened to 3.02 percent in May, within
the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  