-- 
Comba, Chloe, Oracle, Paul McCartney: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-20T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/comba-telecom-chloe-oracle-dmca-paul-mccartney-intellectual-property.html
Comba Telecom Systems Holdings Ltd. (2342) 
of  Hong Kong  was sued for patent infringement on its RET Antenna
in China by Andrews LLC, which is seeking 12 million yuan ($1.85
million), according to a June 16 statement by Andrews parent
CommScope Inc.  The technology covered by the disputed patent relates to
remote electrical tilt technology for base station antennas used
in wireless networks. CommScope, which was acquired by the
Washington-based  Carlyle Group  in January, said it has licensed
this technology to more than 10 companies in the communications
networking industry.  Andrews also filed suit in Brazil where it requested a
criminal search and seizure of Comba’s premises, according to
the statement.  That request was granted and a number of Combat’s antennas
were seized in May, together with documents related to their
corresponding sales, CommScope said in its statement.  In response, Comba said in a June 17 statement that it
considered the Andrews patent void and that the allegations
against the company in China and  Brazil  aren’t valid. It said it
won’t rule out filing counter litigation against Andrews.  Comba said it doesn’t think that the litigation will have
“any significant adverse impact” on its future development.  W.L. Gore Sues St. Jude’s AGA Medical Over Heart-Surgery Patents  W.L. Gore & Associates, the maker of Gore-Tex fabrics, sued
the AGA unit of St. Paul, Minnesota’s St. Jude Medical Inc. in
federal court in Delaware seeking a ruling that it doesn’t
infringe two patents for catheter-delivered devices to repair
holes in the heart.  In dispute are patents 5,725,552, which were issued in
March 1998, and 5,944,738, issued in August 1999. Newark,
Delaware-based Gore says in a suit filed in federal court in
 Minnesota  in August 2010 it already was accused of infringing
the second patent.  It asked the court to declare that it infringed neither
patent and that both are invalid. Additionally, it seeks an
order barring AGA from making infringement claims with reference
to either patent, and for awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  Gore is represented by Myoka Kim Goodin, Patrick Gallagher,
Steven M. Purdy, Andrea L. Wayda, John F. Sweeney and Matthew K.
Blackburn of Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell LLP of  Dallas , and
Steven J. Balick, Lauren E. Maguire and Andrew C. Mayo of  Ashby
& Geddes PA  of Wilmington.  The case is W.L. Gore & Associates Inc. v. Aga Medical
Corp., 1:11-cv-00539-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of
 Delaware  (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chloe Sues Saudi-Based Website for Enabling Counterfeit Sales  Chloe International SAS, a Paris-based fashion house, and
three other producers of luxury goods sued a Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia-based information service and e-commerce site for
trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed May 17 in federal court in
 Los Angeles , Sawabeh Information Services Co., which does
business as Siscom, is accused of enabling the sale of
counterfeit luxury goods on a wholesale level through several
websites.  Also included as defendants is a list of alleged
manufacturers of counterfeit goods.  One of the accused sites allows its member clients to sell
so-called “replica” items, which Chloe says is “a term well
understood to refer to counterfeit goods.” This website --
www.tradekey.com -- “makes its money by knowingly soliciting
manufacturers, importers and distributors of counterfeit luxury
goods to become paying members,” according to court papers.  Members of tradekey.com who pay  a higher annual fee “are
also provided a ‘dedicated relationship manager’ to ensure
products and offerings for counterfeit luxury goods are provided
maximum exposure to anyone searching on the Internet of
TradeKey.com for counterfeit luxury goods,” Chloe says in its
pleadings.  Neither TradeKey.com nor Sawabeh Information Services
responded immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  In addition to Chloe, the other companies that have brought
the suit are  London ’s Alfred Dunhill Ltd.; Officine Panerai AG
of Neuchatel,  Switzerland ; and Hamburg-based Montblanc-Simplo
GmbH.  Although the plaintiffs asked that the case be filed
under seal, the complaint was available to the public when the
court file was accessed June 17.  The plaintiffs are represented by Mark A. Finkelstein,
Susan M. Kayser and Jessica D. Bradley of Washington -based
Jones Day.  The case is Chloe SAS v. Sawabeh Information Services Co.,
2:11-cv-04147-GAF-MAN, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Oracle Seeks ‘Billions’ From Google in Java Patent Lawsuit  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  is seeking billions of dollars in damages in a
copyright and patent-infringement lawsuit against Google Inc.
that claims the search-engine company’s Android software uses
technology related to the Java programming language, according
to court papers.  The extent of the claims was disclosed June 16 in  San
Francisco  federal court by Oracle, as it sought to prevent
Google from filing under seal documents in the case stating
Oracle’s monetary claims.  “Oracle’s damages claims in this case are in the billions
of dollars,” the company said in a filing, arguing that its
demands “are based on both accepted methodology and a wealth of
concrete evidence.”  “They should not be hidden from public view,” Oracle
said.  Google, in documents in which Oracle’s damage estimates are
redacted, said an Oracle damages expert’s testimony should be
excluded because the expert inflated royalty rates that may be
owed by Google. Android is a smartphone operating system that
Google licenses to mobile-phone makers.  “Oracle’s ‘methodology’ for calculating damages is based
on fundamental legal errors and improperly inflates their
estimates,” the company said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to
comment.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who is presiding over
the case, ordered Google to file the documents in the public
record by Friday.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, got Java when it
bought Sun Microsystems Inc. in January 2010. The company sued
Google the following August seeking a court ruling that would
ban further use of its intellectual property and force the
destruction of all products that violate Java-related copyrights
on the code, documentation and specifications.  Oracle’s complaint targets Google virtual machine software
called Dalvik that is used in running Android applications.
Oracle said the software infringes its Java patents and that
Google didn’t obtain a license to use Java in its products.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, said in court
filings that the patents are invalid and not infringed and that
users of the Android platform have a license to any patents in
the case. It said Oracle made general copyright-infringement
claims with nothing to back them up.  Researcher IDC expects the Android operating system to have
more than 40 percent of the global smartphone market in the
second half of 2011.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  DMCA Applies Even to Photo ‘Gutter Credit’ Appeals Court Says  The owner of a  New Jersey  radio station that posted a photo
on its website after removing the photographer’s photo credit
can be sued under the anti-circumvention provisions of the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act, a federal appeals court has
ruled.  Photographer Peter Murphy sued the  Millennium Radio Group
LLC  of Northfield, New Jersey,  after a photo he shot of two
disk jockeys from Millennium’s WKXW radio was placed on the
station’s website without the embedded photo credit, known as a
“gutter credit.” The original caption on the photo was also
removed, according to court papers.  A district court granted the defendant’s motion to dismiss
the case. Murphy appealed and the appeals court said that the
DMCA could correctly be applied to this case.  The radio station argued that the DMCA refers to
technological anti-copying measures such as encryption. The
appeals court said that the DMCA “imposes no explicit
requirement that such information be part of an ‘automated
copyright protection or management system.’”  Instead, the court said, the law “appears to be extremely
broad, with no restrictions on the context in which such
information must be used” as an anti-copying measure. The fact
that Murphy’s name appeared in a printed gutter credit near the
image rather than data in an automated system “does not prevent
it from qualifying,” the court said.  The case in the appeals court is Murphy v. Millennium Radio
Group LLC, 10-2163, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Philadelphia). The lower-court case is Murphy v. Millennium
Radio Group LLC, 3:08-cv-01743-JAP-TJB, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Hackers Who Distributed Pre-Release Tracks Given 18-Month
Sentences  Two computer hackers who targeted record companies and
music performers were given prison sentences in  Germany ,
according to a  statement  from the London-based recording-
industry group International Federation of the Phonographic
Industry.  IFPI said the two hackers invaded computers containing
content belonging to Lady Gaga, and Dr. Dre, with the aim of
distributing pre-release tracks online.  The sentences, handed down in Duisberg, Germany, on June
16, followed a two-year investigation involving law enforcement
in the U.S. and Germany, according to IFPI.  Investigators for the recording industry group had
discovered a growing number of leaks of pre-release tracks and
eventually identified those who had access to the tracks and
those who posted them online, IFPI said.  The hackers profited from their efforts by selling pre-
release tracks of songs for as much as $1,000 to fans, according
to IFPI. Both received 18-month prison sentences, suspended in
the case of one of the two hackers.  Paul McCartney’s Lawyers Halt Auction of Former Beatle’s
Drawings  Lawyers representing former Beatle Paul McCartney have
halted the sale of a series of drawings he made in the 1970s,
the  BBC   reported .  The drawings were made as prototypes for an unreleased
animated film “The Bruce McMouse Show,” according to the BBC.  The daughter of the animator, who had put them up for sale,
told the BBC she always believed they’d belonged to her father.  A representative of the  Dominic Winter  auction house in
Gloucestershire where the drawings were offered for sale said
they had to be withdrawn until their proper ownership could be
determined, the BBC reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Wind Power Companies Seek to Keep Wind Farm Bids From Public  Two wind-power companies are demanding Montana’s Public
Service Commission keep their losing bids for a 40-megawatt wind
farm undisclosed because such financial information is a trade
secret, Montana’s  Billings Gazette  reported.  Both Sagebrush Wind of Jackson,  Wyoming , and Chicago-based
Invenergy LLC are seeking protective orders to protect what they
claim is trade-secret information, according to the newspaper.  The  Associated Press  and the Gazette have both filed formal
objections to the PSC, saying the public has the right to price
information, according to the Gazette.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 