-- 
Commodities Tumble to Six-Week Low as Oil Declines on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-06-20T12:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/commodities-tumble-to-six-week-low-as-oil-declines-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Commodities declined to the lowest
level in six weeks led by losses in crude oil and copper after
European governments failed to agree on a loan payment to spare
 Greece  from default, increasing concern over economic growth.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
dropped as much as 1.2 percent to 661.35 and was at 663.64 at
1:10 p.m. in  London . The gauge slumped 4.7 percent last
week, the first loss since the period ended May 6.  Euro-area finance ministers put off a decision on whether
Greece will get the full 12 billion euros ($17.1 billion)
promised for July as part of last year’s bailout package,
sending the euro lower against the dollar for the first time in
three days. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011
forecast for U.S. growth for the second time in two months.  “The major influence continues to be the European
situation,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, said by phone today.
“If you look at what happened to the oil price during the
financial crisis you can see that these events have a big
impact. There is this tone of a global slowing in the economy.”  Investors have reduced holdings of commodities and equities
in favor of cash and bonds because of the worsening debt crisis
in  Europe  and on concern that the global economy may expand more
slowly than expected, according to the June survey by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Funds Cut Bets  Money managers cut their net-long positions in 18 U.S.
commodities by 0.9 percent to 1.3 million futures and options
contracts in the week ended June 14, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the first drop since May 17. Declines
were led by a 63 percent plunge in bets on rising wheat prices.
Natural gas holdings tumbled 41 percent.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.5 percent this year, down from
2.8 percent projected in April, the IMF said June 17, citing
higher commodity prices, bad weather and a weak housing market.
The world economy will expand 4.3 percent this year, down from
4.4 percent estimated two months ago, the Washington-based IMF
said. It left its 4.5 percent forecast for next year unchanged.  Crude oil for July delivery fell as much as 2 percent to
$91.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and last
traded at $91.40. Oil may drop this week on signs that economic
growth will slow in the U.S. and China, curbing fuel use in the
biggest crude-consuming countries, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Eighteen of 38 analysts, or 47 percent, forecast prices
will decline through June 24.  Stocks, Dollar  In  China , the largest user of grains, metals and energy,
the Shanghai Composite Index fell as much as 1.2 percent to the
lowest level since September 2010. China will raise  interest
rates  in the next 10 days, said Nomura Holdings Inc. The
People’s Bank of China increased lending rates four times since
September to tame inflation.  The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against
six major currencies, advanced as much as 0.6 percent. Copper
for delivery in three months declined 1.5 percent to $8,963 a
metric ton, taking this year’s decline to 6.6 percent. Gold for
immediate delivery fell 0.3 percent to $1,534.70 an ounce after
gaining 0.5 percent last week.  -- With assistance from Glenys Sim in  Singapore  and Ben Sharples
in  Melbourne . Editors:  James Poole , John Deane  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 