-- 
Congolese Province Promotes ‘Conflict-Free’ Minerals in U.S.

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-06-20T15:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/congo-s-katanga-province-begins-promoting-conflict-free-minerals-in-u-s-.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo’s
Katanga province has begun promoting itself as a source of
conflict-free minerals as electronics-industry groups meet to
discuss new regulations on the trade.  As companies such as California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Illinois-based Motorola Solutions Inc. try to keep so-called
“conflict-minerals” out of their products, southeastern Katanga
province may be an alternative supplier of the materials, Moise Katumbi, the province’s governor, said in an interview.  Trafficking in natural resources including gold, tin ore,
and coltan, all key elements in electronics, has fueled more
than a decade of war in eastern Congo, according to the  United
Nations .  “In Katanga there is no war and there are no military in
our mines,” Katumbi said in Lubumbashi, the provincial capital,
on June 15. “People who are implicated in the war, people who
are implicated in the reports by NGOs or the UN, can’t come and
be outlaws in my province.”  The trade in tin ore, coltan, gold and wolfram from Central
Africa ground to a halt in April when new auditing guidelines
for mineral processors by the U.S. Electronic Industry
Citizenship Coalition and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative
took effect. The groups begin two days of meetings in
 Washington , D.C., today to discuss regulations that are meant to
help break the link between armed groups and the mineral trade
in eastern Congo, and affect exports from Congo and nine
neighboring countries.  Mineral Tracing  Katanga has implemented taxes and regulations blocking
trade in tin ore and coltan to or from neighboring provinces
where conflict persists. The province also began a mineral-
tracing system with the help of tin industry group ITRI Ltd. and
the development organization Pact in April.  Katanga’s coltan and tin ore exports dropped 93 percent
from March to April, and fell to zero in May as traders stopped
buying from the region, according to provincial Mines Ministry
statistics.  Electronic-industry groups are considering accepting
minerals from Katanga and elsewhere in Central Africa if they
meet guidance for the conflict-mineral trade developed by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Rick
Goss, vice president for environment and sustainability at the
 Information Technology Industry Council , said by e-mail today.  “We share a strong common interest with governments and the
NGO community to help develop and source through valid supply
channels in the region,” he said. Rwanda is also participating
in the industry meetings and is being considered as a conflict-
free source of minerals, Goss said.  Tin Exports  Congo is the fifth-largest supplier of tin in the world,
producing at least 15,000 metric tons a year. Katanga was
responsible for only about 3 percent of Congolese tin-ore
exports in 2009, the last time full-year statistics are
available from all cassiterite-producing provinces. Exports
increased nine-fold in 2010 to 3,610 tons, when neighboring
South Kivu province had its exports blocked by government
decree. Katanga, which is also rich in copper and cobalt,
exported 159 tons of coltan in 2010, up from zero in 2009.  A subsidiary of  India ’s Somika Minerals Pvt Ltd. currently
controls most of the trade in tin ore and coltan from Katanga.  Tin for three-month delivery prices has risen 38 percent
over the past year and traded at a record $33,600 a ton on April
11. The metal fell 1.2 percent to $24,700 in  London  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 