-- 
Crude Gains on Juncker Comments, Gasoline Declines: Oil Products

-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e
-- 
2011-06-20T20:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/crude-gains-on-juncker-comments-gasoline-declines-oil-products.html
Crude oil rose in  New York  as
Luxembourg’s prime minister,  Jean-Claude Juncker , said a
solution will be found to Greece’s debt crisis. Heating oil and
gasoline declined more than 1 percent. Ethanol gained.  Crude Oil  Crude oil for July delivery increased 25 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $93.26 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Futures have dropped 9.2 percent this month and gained 21
percent in the past year.  Futures dipped to an intraday low of $91.14, then climbed
after Juncker said Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  had
pledged the government would do everything to ensure financial
aid. Juncker also said Italy wasn’t in danger from the euro
area’s debt crisis.  “Market participants will be paying attention to every
comment from a European finance minister or any major protest in
 Athens ,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “These comments
and events will send prices moving in either direction.”  Gasoline  Gasoline for July delivery declined 3.45 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at a three-month low of $2.9115 a gallon on
the Nymex. Gasoline and heating oil dropped as Brent crude oil
slipped a fourth consecutive day, lowering the production costs
of refiners in Europe and on the U.S. East Coast that process
oil priced versus the European benchmark.  Heating Oil  Heating oil for July delivery fell 5.13 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $2.932 a gallon on the Nymex. Prices have
slipped 4.1 percent in June and risen 38 percent in the past
year.  Ethanol  Denatured ethanol for July delivery rose for the second
straight day, gaining 2.5 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $2.666 a
gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices have risen 64
percent in the past year.  Refineries and Transport  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is planning maintenance on an oleflex
unit at its Corpus Christi West refinery in Texas, according to
a filing with state regulators.  Valero’s Ardmore, Oklahoma, refinery is operating at
planned rates after repairing a hydrocracker exchanger, said
Bill Day, a company spokesman.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is running its Wilmington, California,
refinery at targeted rates after curtailing steam to the
catalytic cracker earlier, resulting in an accident that caused
minor injuries to an employee, Mike Marcy, a spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at   dstets@bloomberg.net  