-- 
TCW Group Asks Judge to Throw Out Gundlach’s Contract Claims

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T01:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/tcw-group-asks-judge-to-throw-out-gundlach-s-contract-claims.html
TCW Group Inc. asked a judge to
throw out breach-of-contract claims by its former investment
chief  Jeffrey Gundlach , who said he was fired in 2009 so the
company wouldn’t have pay him as much as $1.25 billion in fees.  Los Angeles  Superior Court Judge Carl West said at a
hearing today that summary judgment wasn’t the appropriate way
to resolve Gundlach’s claims. West had issued a tentative
decision ahead of the hearing denying TCW’s request for a ruling
that Gundlach has no claim because he had no contract, and took
the matter under submission without issuing a final order.  “There was an agreement here and what this agreement was
isn’t entirely clear,” West said at the hearing. “A jury is
going to have to determine what the terms were.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE) , sued
Gundlach and three other ex-employees in January 2010 after more
than half of its fixed-income professionals joined Gundlach’s
new firm, DoubleLine Capital Inc. TCW seeks more than $200
million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets as
he plotted to start his own business.  Gundlach filed counterclaims a month later, saying he was
dismissed so that TCW wouldn’t have to pay $600 million to $1.25
billion in future management and performance fees from the funds
his group managed.  ‘Gross Oversimplification’  John Quinn, a lawyer for TCW, said at the hearing that
Gundlach was never promised any specific amount or percentage of
the fees and that he received what was left from his group’s
share of the fees after he had paid all the expenses of his
group. It was “gross oversimplification” to say that Gundlach
was entitled to a percentage of TCW’s fees, Quinn said.  Gundlach didn’t have a written contract and there was no
evidence of an oral agreement that he couldn’t be terminated
without good cause, Quinn said at the hearing.  Mark Helm, a lawyer for DoubleLine, said TCW had been
paying Gundlach and Gundlach had been working under an agreement
and that the only dispute was what the terms of the contract
were. It was a question for the jury to decide whether there was
a contract in the absence of a written agreement, Helm said.  West, also tentatively, ruled that some of TCW’s claims
against Gundlach, breach of duty of confidence and violations of
 California ’s penal code, were preempted by California’s Uniform
Trade Secrets Act. The judge didn’t issue a final order and his
tentative ruling would allow TCW to restate the claims.  Triple Damages  Brad Brian, a lawyer for DoubleLine, said at the hearing
that the California penal law claim, which allows civil damages
for receiving stolen property, would entitle TCW to seek triple
damages at trial.  The evidence of Gundlach’s alleged wrongdoing will go
before the jury with or without the two claims, Susan Estrich, a
lawyer for TCW, said in a statement after the hearing.  “The tentative ruling on summary judgment motions changes
absolutely nothing in this trial,” Estrich said. “The evidence
of his gross misconduct, violation of his fiduciary duties as an
officer and director of TCW, and his blatant theft of  trade
secrets  and confidential information is overwhelming.”  Helm said after the hearing that if the judge’s tentative
rulings hold, it would be big victory for DoubleLine and it
would not be a surprise.  “The ruling will clear the way for the jury to hear
Gundlach’s compensation claims in their entirety,” Helm said.
“We look forward to proving that his firing had nothing to do
with copying information and everything with stealing his
compensation.”  The  jury trial  is scheduled to start July 25.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Jeffrey Gundlach,
BC429385, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  