-- 
Danish Central Bank Opens Door to CoCos

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-06-21T09:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/danish-central-bank-opens-door-to-cocos-to-help-biggest-lenders.html
Denmark ’s central bank is open to
letting the Nordic country’s biggest lenders resort to
contingent convertible bonds to help them meet extra  capital
requirements  designed to prevent insolvency.  “It’s reasonable to consider these securities as a way to
fulfill higher capital requirements for systemically significant
banks,” central bank Governor Nils Bernstein, 68, said in an
interview in Copenhagen yesterday.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  may let lenders
use so-called CoCos, which convert into equity at a given
trigger, to fulfill tougher capital rules, Lars Frisell at
 Sweden ’s bank regulator and a member of the Basel committee said
last month. The securities have been criticized by  Oswald Gruebel , chief executive officer at  Switzerland ’s biggest bank
 UBS AG (UBSN) , for diluting regular shareholders’ investments. Peter Straarup, the CEO at Denmark’s biggest lender Danske Bank A/S,
has said he’s open to using CoCos.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  CEO Christian Clausen said in April the securities can be “good” if used
“in the right way.”  “The risk that using CoCos might result in unintended
consequences, that’s something regulators will have to address
when the time comes,” Bernstein said. “But we’re open to the
possibility of having Danish banks use CoCos.”  A ‘Good’ Tool  The Basel committee may require the biggest banks to hold
as much as 3.5 percentage points in extra capital if they grow,
two people familiar with the talks said this month. Members of
the Basel group are unlikely to agree at this week’s meeting
whether the surcharge should be made up only of common equity or
whether part of it could contain CoCos, one of the people said.  “CoCos are a good tool for banks to have,” Andreas Hakansson,” an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  Stockholm , said
by phone today. “The most important thing is to have a proper,
strong capital base and using these bonds could be a nice way
for lenders to top off their capital. Even if a share price
falls when they are converted, at least the bank will have
proper solvency.”  Denmark would follow Sweden in welcoming the securities, as
the Nordic region takes a lead in shaping financial regulation
to protect taxpayers. Sweden, home to four of Scandinavia’s six
biggest banks, aims to impose some of the world’s toughest
capital rules, Finance Minister Anders Borg has said. In
Denmark, the February failure of regional lender Amagerbanken
A/S triggered the European Union’s first senior creditor losses
imposed via a bank resolution, as the country ensures state
funds aren’t used to protect bond investors.  Investors Participate  According to SEB AB CEO Annika Falkengren, CoCos are
“actually a good thing,” she said in an interview last month.
Debt investors purchase a convertible bond and collect interest,
“but if things go sour, you have to participate rather than
getting paid back first,” she said.  Still, some market participants remain skeptical.  Bill Blain , co-head of strategy at broker Newedge Group in  London 
said this month “supporters of contingent capital should be
watching in open-mouthed horror” after Bank of Ireland Plc’s
May 31 debt-for-equity swap resulted in a 28 percent share-price
slump.  The example shows how quickly equity value can be destroyed
when bank bonds are converted, Blain wrote in a June 7 note.  The Basel committee hasn’t released a list of the too-big-
to-fail banks that will be required to hold additional capital.
Danske Bank is unlikely to be deemed a globally systemically
important bank, though it will fall under a national definition
of a lender that’s too big to fail, Bernstein said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing at   aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 