-- 
David Lerner Associates Is Sued by Investors Over $6.8 Billion REIT Sale

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-20T20:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/david-lerner-associates-sued-by-investors-over-6-8-billion-reit-sale.html
David Lerner Associates Inc. was
sued by investors who claimed it acted negligently in the sale
and underwriting of more than $6.8 billion in shares of the
Apple Real Estate Investment Trusts.  The brokerage firm, known for its founder’s “Take a tip
from Poppy” advertising slogan, misstated the business model of
the REITS and misrepresented the value of shares and returns for
investors, according to a complaint filed today in federal court
in  Newark , New Jersey.  Over the past seven years, the firm has collected more than
$600 million in fees and commissions while five Apple REITs have
made more than $6 billion in proceeds, according to the
complaint. The firm has marketed the REITs as appropriate for
conservative investors and claims they have never lost money by
investing in hotels, the complaint said.  “In fact, investors who have acquired interests in the
Apple REITs have incurred substantial unrealized losses because
their interests are worth far less than the price paid by
investors to acquire them,” according to the complaint, filed
by Stanley and Debra Kronberg of Mahwah, New Jersey.  Joseph C. Pickard, the firm’s general counsel, said in an
e-mailed statement that the claims are “frivolous” and were
filed by “attorneys seeking a quick payday.”  “The allegations are baseless and rife with falsehoods,
distortions and misleading statements, and we look forward to
the opportunity to be vindicated in a court of law,” he said.  19-Year History  The 35-year-old firm, based in Syosset,  New York , has
underwritten Apple REITs for 19 years, Pickard said.  The investors, who are seeking class-action status for the
case, claim the REITs were sold to retail investors and retirees
at $11 per share and paid returns of 7 percent to 8 percent. The
REITs never disclosed that they failed to generate enough income
from successful operations and that they “were paying investors
with their own money,” according to the complaint.  The firm last month was accused by the  Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority  of overcharging customers on sales of
municipal bonds and mortgage securities.  David Lerner Associates was fined in 2004 by the National
Association of Securities Dealers for sales contests that
promoted proprietary mutual funds and variable annuity and
variable life insurance products. A year later the brokerage was
fined for airing advertisements that exaggerated the firm’s
investing record.  The firm was fined $400,000 in 2006 for violating
disclosure rules in the sale of variable life insurance and
annuities. David Lerner Associates didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing.  The case is Kronberg v. David Lerner Associates Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 