-- 
EU Derivatives, Bank Deposits, Irish ‘Duopoly’: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-20T12:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/derivative-rebuff-bank-deposits-irish-duopoly-co2-rules-compliance.html
European Union lawmakers won’t allow
the U.S. to influence rules for clearing standardized off-
exchange derivatives, the sponsor of the bill in the EU’s
Parliament said June 17.  Werner Langen said he wrote to Treasury Secretary Timothy
F. Geithner, saying the EU assembly won’t cave in to his calls
to expand the scope of a draft law intended to force some
trading of over-the-counter derivatives through clearinghouses.
Langen said the Parliament opposes U.S. calls for the law to
also include derivatives traded on exchanges.  Langen, a German member of the assembly, made the remarks
to exchange executives, regulators and clearinghouses at the
Federation of European Securities Exchanges annual  convention  in
Athens June 17.  Regulators from the Group of 20 countries have sought to
toughen rules on OTC derivatives such as credit-default swaps
after the failure in September 2008 of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of
the largest CDS traders.  Geithner has argued that the scope of the rules should also
encompass derivatives that are traded on exchanges in order to
prevent regulatory loopholes.  The EU Parliament has argued in favor of restricting the
measures to over-the-counter transactions, saying that the G-20
agreement wasn’t intended to cover exchanges.  EU governments and members of the assembly must agree on
the final version of the law before it can take effect.  Compliance Policy  EU Officials Back Plan for Guaranteeing Bank Deposits  Banks will have to guarantee that deposits of 100,000 euros
($143,000) or less will be fully refunded if the lender fails,
under draft plans approved by officials from European Union
governments in Brussels.  Officials “agreed a general approach,” on the law
intended to replace emergency measures adopted in 2009,
according to an e-mailed statement June 17 from Hungary, which
holds the EU’s rotating presidency.  The measures still need to be formally endorsed by EU
ministers and lawmakers in the  European Parliament  before they
can take effect.  Turkish Bank Regulator Increases Reserves on Consumer Lending  Turkey’s banking regulator increased the reserves banks
must set aside against consumer lending, the latest in a series
of steps designed to slow loan growth and rein in a booming
economy.  The  Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency  in Ankara
increased the general provisions banks must set aside against
consumer loans to 4 percent from 1 percent for lenders whose
consumer loan portfolio exceeds 20 percent of total lending. The
decision, published in the June 18  Official Gazette , applies to
consumer loans, not housing or automotive credits.  The regulator also redefined how it calculates consumer
credit risk for the purpose of capital adequacy ratios,
assigning a higher risk value to short-term consumer loans and
increasing reserves for non-performing loans that exceed 8
percent of the total. The changes follow central bank increases
to the required reserves banks must set aside against
liabilities.  U.A.E. to Increase Visitor Cash Declaration to 100,000 Dirhams  The United Arab Emirates will raise the limit on undeclared
cash visitors can take into the country to 100,000 dirhams
($27,226) from 40,000 dirhams in September, the central bank
said.  Abdulrahim Mohamed Al Alwadi, executive director and head
of the central bank’s anti-money-laundering unit, announced the
change at a conference in Dubai yesterday.  Travelers leaving the U.A.E. now face no curbs on how much
money they can take out. That will also be capped at 100,000
dirhams in September.  EU Must Work With Investors on Greek Bailout, Frieden Says  The European Union must work closely with investors on a
new bailout for Greece to avoid triggering a “disastrous”
default that deepens the euro area’s debt crisis, Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  Frieden made the remarks in Bloomberg Television interview
in Luxembourg today during a meeting of European finance chiefs.  Frieden said he is hopeful that investors will accept a
voluntary rollover of their holdings in Greek debt.  On the eve of a confidence vote that threatens to topple
Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou, the euro area’s top
economic policy makers pushed Greece to pass laws to cut the
deficit and sell state assets. They left open whether the
country will get the full 12 billion euros ($17 billion)
promised for July as part of last year’s 110 billion-euro
lifeline.  “We think that the Greek authorities are determined to get
the necessary approval in their parliament,” Frieden said. “If
they do not fulfill their commitments, we cannot give them the
next tranche. As of today, I think that they will get the
necessary majority.”  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said any involvement of private
investors in a response to Greece’s debt crisis must be
voluntary.  “If this were to happen in a forced manner, Greece’s
situation would be assessed extremely negatively by the rating
agencies,” Juncker told reporters in Luxembourg yesterday.  Juncker said he has “no worries” about the principle of
involving bondholders in any rescue package for Greece.  The European Commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund  are working with Greece to stave off
a default that would be a “disaster for Greece and the euro
zone,” Frieden said. “I think that the government is
determined to do whatever is necessary to avoid a default.”  European leaders have “no other choice” than to strive to
bring stability to the single-currency area, Frieden said.  Compliance Action  Almunia to Monitor Bank of Ireland, Allied Irish ‘Duopoly’  Bank of Ireland Plc and  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  will require
“close surveillance” from European Union authorities because
they will control Irish banking, the EU’s antitrust chief said.  The two lenders will work in a “de facto duopoly in the
Irish market” as a result of Ireland’s strategy for the debt-
plagued nation’s banking industry,  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
competition commissioner, said in the text of a Dublin speech
June 17.  The prospect will require “close surveillance, because
duopoly may hamper competition in Ireland’s banking market,” he
said, adding that he will work with national authorities to help
ensure rivals aren’t shut out.  Two other lenders, Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society, will be merged and wound down over
a 10-year period and Almunia said he would approve Irish aid for
both of them “by the end of this month.”  Dan Loughrey, a spokesman for Bank of Ireland in Dublin,
said the Irish banking market “is very competitive and will
remain so.”  Allied Irish Banks declined to immediately comment and
Irish Nationwide declined to comment. Anglo Irish didn’t
immediately respond to a call and an e-mail.  For more, click here.  EU States Backs CO2 Trade-Security Rule, $7 Billion Reserve  European Union governments approved a regulation to boost
the security of the world’s biggest carbon market and bring
forward sales of permits from a 5 billion-euro ($7.1 billion)
reserve.  The regulation on the single EU carbon registry will
improve shields against abuse and fraud after a spate of permit
thefts earlier this year. It will also facilitate the creation
and transfer to the  European Investment Bank  of allowances from
the post-2012 reserve, which the EIB will then sell to raise
funds for emissions-avoiding technologies.  The EU is seeking better protection for its emissions-
trading system after computer hackers in January illegally
transferred around 2 million allowances, valued at 32 million
euros. Spot trading ground to a halt for 15 days following the
theft as the commission ordered an EU-wide suspension of
national registries that track transactions in carbon permits.  For more, click here.  U.K. Banks Curb Loans to Eurozone Banks, Sunday Telegraph Says  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and other U.K.
financial institutions may be creating a new “credit crunch”
by reducing unsecured lending to eurozone banks, the  Sunday
Telegraph  reported, citing unidentified sources.  Barclays has cut its lending to European banks over concern
that some lenders have large exposures to troubled economies
including Greece, Ireland and Portugal, the newspaper reported
yesterday. Standard Chartered has withdrawn tens of billions of
pounds in recent months from the inter-bank lending market in
countries that use the euro and reduced its loans by two-thirds
in the past few weeks, the report said.  Courts  Banks Accuse MBIA of Hiding Potential Losses From Regulator  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  hid potential losses of as much as $950 million
on commercial real estate debt as it sought  New York  regulators’
approval to restructure its insurance business in 2008, banks
including Bank of America Corp. and  UBS AG (UBSN)  claimed in court
papers.  New York insurance regulators were given an internal
presentation that included “manual overrides” of loan data
that dropped potential losses from the debt to zero, the banks
said in a brief that was filed in redacted form in March and
unsealed June 16 in state court in Manhattan. A manual override
is the review of an individual loan to adjust loss estimates.  When making its case to the regulators, MBIA, once the
world’s biggest bond insurer, deleted parts of a presentation
originally given in November 2008 to the company board’s credit
risk committee, the banks said. Those deletions showed that in a
“more stressful economic environment” the insurer could have
losses from the debt of as much as $950 million, according to
the banks’ court papers.  The banks’ claim is “absolutely false” and regulators
were told of both the overrides and the impact they had on loss
projections,  Marc Kasowitz , a lawyer for MBIA, said in an
interview June 16.  David Neustadt, a spokesman for the state insurance
department, declined to comment.  Kasowitz said a trial is expected in early 2012.  The Article 78 case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-
2009, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Brooklyn Money Manager Gets 20 Years for Ponzi Scheme  Philip Barry, a money manager from Brooklyn, New York, was
sentenced to 20 years in prison for running a $45 million Ponzi
scheme that defrauded hundreds of investors over three decades.  Barry, 53, was sentenced June 17 by U.S. District Judge
Raymond J. Dearie in Brooklyn. After a one-week trial in
November, a jury convicted him on all the counts he faced -- one
of securities fraud and 33 of mail fraud. The money manager
began accepting money in 1978 from investors, guaranteeing
fictional annual profits, according to prosecutors. Instead,
Barry used new investors’ money to pay earlier ones, prosecutors
said. Barry’s fraud is believed to be the longest-lasting Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history, they said.  In a separate action, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said Barry diverted some of the investor money to a
mail-order pornography business. In April, the SEC asked the
court to dismiss a libel suit Barry brought over the accusation.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Barry, 09-cr-0833, the SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Barry, 09-cv-3860,
and Barry’s suit against the SEC is Barry v. SEC, 10-cv-4071,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Ex-WaMu Executives in Settlement Talks With FDIC Over Losses  Ex- Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief Executive Officer Kerry
Killinger and Chief Operating Officer Stephen Rotella are in
lawsuit settlement talks with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., according to a court filing.  Lawyers for Killinger, Rotella and David Schneider,
 Washington  Mutual’s former home-loans president, exchanged
settlement term sheets with FDIC attorneys and are “diligently
working to resolve their remaining disputes,” according to
court papers filed June 16 in federal court in Seattle.  “In some instances, the settlement terms must have consent
of certain third parties,” lawyers for both sides said.  The FDIC sued the bank officials in March claiming they
took extreme risks with WaMu’s home-loans portfolio, causing
billions of dollars in losses. The agency’s complaint also sued
Killinger’s and Rotella’s wives.  Lawyers for both sides asked the court to extend until July
1 the deadline for the former executives to file their initial
response to the complaint.  Federal regulators in September 2008 seized WaMu, once the
nation’s biggest savings and loan, and sold it to New York-based
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.  The case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Interviews/Speeches  BofA’s Moynihan Says Capital Rules May Discourage Lending  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T.
Moynihan  said excessive capital surcharges on the largest banks
may limit lending and discourage investors from funding the
industry.  “If you impact our returns and our business to a point,
investors are going to look around and say there’s other places
to put the money,” Moynihan, 51, said June 17 in an interview
with Bloomberg Television in St. Petersburg,  Russia , where the
 International Economic Forum  is being held. “And that’s what
you’ve actually seen in bank stocks.”  Draft plans circulated before a meeting to be held this
week would subject banks to a sliding scale depending on their
size and links to other lenders, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the proposals aren’t public. Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America is the largest U.S. lender.  “We just need to get through it, so the uncertainty is
gone and we can figure out the change in business model,”
Moynihan said.  For more, click here.  Greenspan Says Greece Default ‘Almost Certain’  Former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan talked
with Charlie Rose in New York about the possibility that Greece
will default on its debt.  Greenspan also discussed the  U.S. economy , federal  budget
deficit  and Fed monetary policy. Other topics he covered
included TARP and the Dodd-Frank law.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  KPMG to Advise on Kuwait Bourse Privatization, Qabas Says  KPMG  was hired to evaluate the assets of Kuwait Stock
Exchange before a possible privatization of the bourse, Al-Qabas
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  A panel supervising the privatization process, which hired
KPMG, may conclude its study by the end of this year, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 