-- 
German Stocks Rise Before Greek Confidence Vote; Metro, ThyssenKrupp Gain

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-21T15:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/deutsche-balaton-pfleiderer-sky-w-e-t-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks posted the biggest
rally in two months as investors speculated that Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  will win a confidence vote in his
government today.  Metro AG (MEO)  rose 1.7 percent as Nomura Holdings Inc.
recommended buying the shares of  Germany ’s biggest retailer.
Software AG jumped 4.5 percent as UBS AG upgraded its rating on
the stock.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  advanced with metal prices.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 1.9 percent to 7,285.51 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, the largest rally since April
20. The gauge has still fallen 3.2 percent from this year’s high
on May 2 on speculation that the U.S. economic recovery is
slowing and that Greece will fail to repay all of its debt. The
broader HDAX Index also gained 1.9 percent today.  “The market is waiting for a solution to the Greek issue
and whatever the solution is, it will have a positive impact,”
said Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader at MWB Fairtrade
Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in Frankfurt.  Tonight’s confidence vote may determine whether  Greece 
becomes the first euro-area country to default and caps a week
of turmoil for Papandreou in which the Greek prime minister has
fended off a revolt from within his ruling Pasok party. European
Union leaders have insisted that Papandreou secures multiparty
support for austerity measures that are a condition of further
financial aid.  Germany’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that the
European Union should connect further aid to Greece with reforms
such as privatizations and structural changes to the labor
market, Die Zeit reported, citing an interview.  Confidence Data  German stocks briefly pared their gains after a report
showed that investor confidence in the country slid to a 2 1/2-
year low. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst expectations,
which aims to predict developments six months in advance, fell
to minus 9 in June from 3.1 in May. Economists had forecast a
drop to minus 3, according to the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Metro climbed 1.7 percent to 43.42 euros, its third day of
gains. Nomura raised its recommendation on the stock to “buy”
from “neutral.”  Software AG (SOW)  surged 4.5 percent to 40.52 euros, its first
advance in five days. UBS upgraded Germany’s second-biggest
maker of  business software  to “buy” from “neutral.”  ThyssenKrupp, TUI  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, gained 2.9
percent to 35.26 euros as copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all
rose on the London Metal Exchange.  TUI AG (TUI1)  climbed 5.2 percent to 7.68 euros, its largest
increase in more than 11 months. The tour operator that’s trying
to sell its stake in the Hapag-Lloyd AG shipping company was
raised to “buy” from “neutral” at WestLB AG.  Pfleiderer AG (PFD4)  jumped 27 percent to 52.2 euro cents, its
biggest gain since 2002. The maker of laminate flooring said
hybrid bondholders agreed to a restructuring plan under which
they swap their claims for the right to acquire 4 percent of
stock in the company. Shareholders need to approval the proposal
at a meeting scheduled for July 21, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  