-- 
HSBC, Citigroup May Face Top Basel Surcharge, Morgan Stanley Analysts Say

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-06-20T07:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/deutsche-bank-bnp-hsbc-to-face-highest-surcharge-analyst-says.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA may face the highest
additional  capital requirements  under plans by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , Morgan Stanley analysts said.  Other lenders that may be subject to the surcharge of about
2.5 percent include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , London-based
analysts led by Huw Van Steenis said in a report to clients
today.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA would be subject to a lesser charge of 2
percent, according to the report.  The Basel committee has said all banks should hold core
Tier 1 Capital of 7 percent, and is considering additional
requirements for those banks it considers systemically important
financial institutions, those firms whose collapse would harm
the global economy. Banks may be divided into five groups with
surcharges ranging from 1 percent to 3 percent, the analysts
said. The top 3 percent category may remain empty at first, in
part to deter lenders from acquisitions, the analysts said.  “Many of the top 25 banks could approach likely standards
in the next three to four years, but at the cost of dividends,
returns or, critically, through more aggressive deleveraging,”
the analysts said. “The latter is the key risk we see to
economic recovery and our return-on-equity expectations.”  Lloyds Banking Group  National regulators may impose additional requirements that
surpass the Basel surcharges, the  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts said.
British and Nordic regulators may follow the Swiss in requiring
10 percent core Tier 1 ratios because banks have more assets
relative to the size of their economies as well as a greater
share of the market, the analysts said. That may mean  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , which isn’t likely to be one of the 25 banks
subject to the Basel surcharge, will still need to hold as much
as 10 percent capital, the analysts said.  UniCredit SpA, Societe Generale, Deutsche Bank, Mizuho
Financial Group, Inc.,  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group, Inc. may not meet the new rules by 2013, the Morgan
Stanley analysts said.  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
finance ministry officials, regulators and central bankers from
the Group of 20 countries, asked the Basel committee last year
with drafting the extra requirements for too-big-to-fail banks.
 Mario Draghi , the FSB’s chairman, said in April that work on the
rules would be completed in time for approval by G-20 leaders in
November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  