-- 
Diagnostic Medical Test Patents Draw High Court Scrutiny

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-20T17:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/diagnostic-medical-test-patents-draw-u-s-high-court-scrutiny.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , accepting a
case that will shape the burgeoning business of personalized
medicine, agreed to consider what types of diagnostic medical
tests can be patented.  The justices agreed today to hear an appeal from the Mayo
Clinic, which is challenging a lower court decision backing two
patents for determining the dosage of medicines to treat stomach
diseases. The ruling cleared the patents’ owner, Prometheus
Laboratories Inc., to press an infringement suit against two
Mayo units.  Patent protection is important for companies that are
focusing on personalized medicine, including  Myriad Genetics
Inc. (MYGN)  and  Novartis AG. (NVS)  The field involves determining whether a
patient is genetically susceptible to a particular disease or
would be especially responsive to certain medicines.  “The industry is looking at personalized medicine as a
great hope for the future,” said Nicholas Groombridge, a lawyer
with  Weil Gotshal  in  New York  who specializes in biotechnology
and health patents. “It’s not clear if that hope will
materialize, but if it is, then patent coverage is going to be
important. This case is right at the center of that issue.”  The case will test the scope of the U.S. patent laws. Mayo
contends the two Prometheus patents cover natural phenomena,
which the Supreme Court previously said can’t be patented.
Prometheus says its discoveries involve the application of a law
of nature, not the law itself.  Natural Phenomenon  “The patents do not claim or preempt any purely natural
phenomenon,” Prometheus argued in court papers. The company
said in May that it was being acquired by  Nestle SA. (NESN)   The two patents cover a method for determining the proper
dosage of medicines to maximize effectiveness while limiting
toxic side effects. Doctors can use the method to treat
inflammatory bowel diseases including Crohn’s disease and
ulcerative colitis.  Some patents are so broadly written that they limit the
ability of doctors to look at test results and determine the
next step in a patient’s care, said Mayo lawyer Jon Singer of
Fish & Richardson in  Minneapolis .  “If there are new scientific relationships discovered, you
have to come up some new way of using them instead of just
thinking about them,” Singer said. “If all you’re doing is
just thinking about it, that’s not patentable.”  Licensing Patents  The Mayo Clinic, a not-for-profit medical practice based in
Rochester,  Minnesota , had licensed the patents prior to 2004,
when it created its own test.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
specializes in patent issues, overturned a trial judge’s
conclusion that the patents were invalid.  Diagnostics are “essentially looking at things that are
natural processes and comparing information about them,”
Groombridge said. The Supreme Court case “does play into this
tension between avoiding runaway costs and encouraging
innovation. That’s something this court is still focused on.”  The Federal Circuit also is considering if Myriad’s
diagnostic claims are eligible for patent protection as part of
a review of a decision involving patents for tests to determine
if a person is more likely to get  breast cancer .  The primary part of that case revolves around the issue of
whether genetic sequences, isolated from the body, can be
patented or if they are something that occurs in nature.  Myriad, Novartis, Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings’s
Monogram Biosciences and  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX)  all have urged that
diagnostic methods be patentable. Monogram and Genomic Health
told the Supreme Court in 2009 that they would have difficulty
getting funding without patent protection.  The annual market for diagnostic tests and drugs tailored
to individuals may reach $42 billion by 2015, according to a
2009  report  from  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .  The case is Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus
Laboratories, 10-1150.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  