-- 
Dollar to Gain as Asian Interest Rates Are Increased, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-20T17:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/dollar-will-gain-in-2011-as-asian-interest-rates-rise-morgan-stanley-says.html
The dollar will rebound through 2011
as Asian central banks raise  interest rates  to curb inflation,
damping economic growth and demand for the region’s assets,
according to Morgan Stanley.  “We’re looking for the dollar to regain some stability
over the second half of the year,” said  Ian Stannard , head of
European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
in a telephone interview. “We’ll see the global investment
environment turn less favorable as liquidity conditions start to
change at a macro level.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s U.S. Trade-Weighted Major Currency
Dollar Index reached a record low of 68.2405 on May 2. The
greenback has weakened 12 percent in the past year according to
index, which measures the dollar’s performance against seven
currencies.  Investor appetite for the dollar will rebound as central
banks from  China  to  India  raise interest rates, Stannard said.
The end of the Fed’s $600 billion asset-purchase program this
month will also renew demand for the U.S. currency.  The dollar may also benefit from less selling pressure
linked to the carry trade, based on less demand for assets in
the Asian nations.  The carry trade of selling dollars to buy the currencies of
Norway, Australia, Canada and New Zealand has lost 10 percent so
far this month as investors shun assets of commodity-exporting
countries. The trade returned 22 percent in the 12 months ended
June 1. China is Australia’s biggest trade partner.  China raised its reserve requirement ratio last week to a
record 21.5 percent for the biggest lenders. The move came hours
after data showed the inflation rate climbed to 5.5 percent in
May, the fastest pace in almost three years.  The  Reserve Bank  of India increased interest rates for the
10th time since the start of 2010 as the nation’s key wholesale-
price inflation quickened to 9.06 percent in May from 8.66
percent in April.  The Swiss franc will also benefit against emerging-market
currencies as nations act to curb high inflation, Stannard said.
The yen will be supported in the short term, though Japan’s
record earthquake in March will pressure the currency to the
downside in the longer term, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  