-- 
Dubai Shares Drop Most in Month After Goldman Cut

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-20T13:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/dubai-shares-drop-most-in-month-after-goldman-cut-correct-.html
(Corrects Emirates NBD closing price in seventh paragraph.)  Dubai’s shares retreated the most in
almost a month after European governments failed to agree on a
payment to prevent Greece from default and as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut two of the emirate’s biggest banks.  Emirates NBD, the biggest lender in the United Arab
Emirates by assets, dropped the most on record.  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC (DIB) , which has the second-biggest weighting on the
benchmark index, fell the most in a month. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
slipped 1.7 percent, the most since May 23, to 1,572.46 at the 2
p.m. close in the emirate. Excluding today, Dubai’s measure rose
2.5 percent this month on speculation MSCI Inc. will upgrade the
U.A.E. to emerging-market status tomorrow. The  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  fell 0.9 percent at 2:06 p.m. in Riyadh.  “The worries over Greece and  China  are weighing on the
markets,” said Akram Annous,  Middle East  and North Africa
strategist at Al Mal Capital PSC in Dubai. “MENA volatility
relative to global volatility is down significantly, though you
do have to wonder how much longer these markets will hold up if
the global slowdown fears become a reality.”  The STOXX Europe 600 Index slumped 0.9 percent and the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index declined 0.7 percent after European
governments failed to agree on releasing a loan payment to
 Greece , raising pressure on Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to
deliver further budget cuts in the face of domestic opposition.  Oil declined for a second day in  New York  on speculation
that Greece’s debt crisis will contribute to lower global fuel
demand. Crude for July delivery fell as much as 2 percent to
$91.14 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Goldman Cuts  Emirates NBD, the Dubai-based company with the third-
biggest weighting on the Dubai index, was cut to “neutral”
from “buy” at Goldman Sachs, while Dubai Islamic Bank was
lowered to “sell” from “neutral.” The investment bank also
reduced the earnings estimates of U.A.E. banks by 10 percent on
average from 2011 to 2014 because of new central bank guidelines
that capped consumer loans.  Emirates NBD dropped 6.4 percent, the most since October
2007 when the bank was formed following a merger, to 4.27
dirhams. Dubai Islamic Bank fell 1.4 percent, the most since May
25, to 2.07 dirhams.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the biggest weighted
stock on the index and the developer of the world’s tallest
tower in Dubai, lost 2.2 percent to 3.15 dirhams.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  retreated the most since
March 2, falling 2.7 percent to 3.2 dirhams. The U.A.E.’s third-
largest bank by assets was lowered to “sell” from “buy” at
Goldman Sachs with a price estimate of 3.04 dirhams.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  slipped 1.4 percent and Kuwait’s gauge
fell 1 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  dropped 0.7
percent, Oman’s benchmark stock index retreated 0.2 percent,
while Saudi Arabia’s measure fell 0.8 percent. Bahrain’s BB All
Share Index was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  