-- 
Hedge Fund Insider Probe Claims Third Trial Win With Expert Networker Jiau

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/hedge-fund-insider-probe-claims-third-trial-victory-with-expert-networker.html
The conviction of ex-Primary Global
Research LLC consultant Winifred Jiau was the third trial win
for the U.S. government in its crackdown on insider trading tied
to hedge funds.  Jiau, 43, of Fremont, California, was convicted of one
count each of conspiracy and securities fraud in Manhattan
federal court for passing earnings and other information about
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund
managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based
Barai Capital Management LP.  She faces as long as 25 years in prison when she is
sentenced by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff on Sept. 21 and has
been in U.S. custody since her arrest in December. Her lawyer,
Joanna Hendon, said she would file an appeal after the
sentencing.  Hendon argued at trial that the data Jiau passed wasn’t
“material,” meaning it wasn’t something a reasonable investor
would consider important for trading a stock and it wouldn’t
have a bearing on the stock price. After yesterday’s verdict,
several jurors said they rejected that claim.  “I was despairing when I heard from those witnesses about
what goes on in the system,” said Susan Kohlmeyer, the jury
forewoman and an art educator from Westchester,  New York , when
asked about her impressions of  hedge funds  and the testimony of
cooperating witnesses, including Freeman.  ‘Terrible Food Chain’  “There was a lot wrong. There was a terrible food chain,”
Kohlmeyer said. “I hope that hedge funds will be re-examined,
because there’s a lot of corruption. I lost my appetite for
three weeks.”  Parbodh Sharma, 55, a juror from Westchester, who works in
the restaurant business, said, “The evidence was so strong
nobody had to spend a lot of time to make a decision. It was
simple and clear.”  “She played a vital role,” Sharma said when asked his
opinion about Jiau’s participation in the insider-trading
scheme. “She provided information to the decimal point. That’s
unheard of in business.”  Sharma and Kohlmeyer both cited the testimony of Sonny Nguyen, a former Nvidia financial analyst and friend of Jiau who
testified for the U.S. that he passed confidential data about
the chipmaker’s quarterly earnings to her in August 2008. Nguyen
has pleaded guilty and is cooperating.  “Sonny Nguyen said it the best,” Kohlmeyer said as she
shook her head. “Greed got the best of him.”  First Networker  Jiau is the first of the so-called expert networkers to go
to trial since the U.S. charged at least a dozen people,
including consultants and fund managers, with  insider trading 
beginning in November. At least seven people have pleaded guilty
in the case.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View , California, links
investors with industry experts at public companies.  “Wini Jiau gave new meaning to the concept of social
networking,” U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said in a
statement. “She used and exploited friends at public companies
for the purpose of obtaining, and then selling, inside
information.”  With Jiau’s conviction, “another link in a corrupt network
has been broken,” Bharara said.  Others Pleaded Guilty  Three other former Primary Global employees, Daniel DeVore,
Don Ching Trang Chu and Bob Nguyen -- who is not related to
Sonny Nguyen -- have pleaded guilty in the case. Another man,
James Fleishman, faces trial later this year before Rakoff.  Dan Charnas, a spokesman for Primary Global Research,
declined to comment on the verdict yesterday.  Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was convicted May 11 of
directing the largest hedge fund insider-trading ring and faces
almost 20 years in prison at his July 29 sentencing. Ex-Galleon
trader Zvi Goffer was convicted with two others June 13 on
related charges and faces a similar sentence Sept. 21.  At trial, Hendon argued that Barai had at least a dozen
other people at publicly traded companies who provided him with
inside information who she said weren’t charged.  Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorneys Avi Weitzman and David Leibowitz called three cooperators who pleaded guilty to
insider-trading charges to describe the scheme, including
Freeman. He testified he and Barai paid Jiau $10,000 for her
insider’s tips about the two  Santa Clara , California-based
chipmakers.  Incessant Calls  Sonny Nguyen said he passed information to Jiau out of
friendship, because he wanted to make money and because he had
grown frustrated with her incessant calls to him before earnings
were announced.  While Jiau said in e-mails to fund managers that she needed
“$2K” or $2,000 per source for tips, Sonny Nguyen said Jiau
never paid him and instead took him to lunch and once gave him
two live lobsters as a gift.  Barai’s assistant, Jason Pflaum, who also pleaded guilty
and is cooperating with the U.S., testified he listened in on
calls between his boss and Jiau, sent him contemporaneous
instant messages to aid Barai, who is hearing impaired, as well
as e-mails the three exchanged.  “I would love to work with you again, same relationship
meaning same amount as you were in the last job?” Jiau wrote to
Barai in a March 2008 e-mail. “There are costs built in with my
sources. Noah absorbs the costs, I need to pay my 2 secured
sources as they supply the actual numbers to the decimal
point.”  Jurors also heard several recordings of Jiau’s
conversations with Barai and Freeman, which they called “data
dumps.”  Spoke in Code  Freeman told the jury that he, Barai and Jiau spoke in
code. Company insiders were “cooks,” money was “sugar” and
inside information was “recipes,” he said.  “Cooks are on strike now,” Jiau wrote in a June 3, 2008,
e-mail to Barai.  “So drop some of your extra sugar to me,” she wrote.
“Cooks don’t talk to me without sugar.”  Juror’s also saw evidence of Barai’s fund buying hundreds
of thousands of shares of Marvell stock in May 2008 after
obtaining information Jiau obtained from another friend, Stanley
Ng, an accountant who worked for Marvell and tipped her about
the company’s earnings in May 2008.  Ex-SAC Portfolio Manager Freeman, who pleaded guilty to
 securities fraud , testified at Jiau’s trial that he made
millions of dollars on illegal inside information using expert
networking firms, which he likened to online dating service
Match.com LP.  ‘Perfect Information’  He said Jiau passed him “perfect information” about
Nvidia and Marvell for at least eight quarters, and that he made
$5 million to $10 million on Nvidia and “broke even” on
Marvell.  Freeman also that he previously used information from Jiau
and other expert networking consultants when he worked for Sonar
Capital Management LLC in  Boston .  Mark Hyland, a lawyer for Sonar Capital and its founder
Neil Druker, said at the time Freeman testified that “any
statement that Sonar Capital used insider trading as a business
model is categorically false.”  Prosecutors showed the jury evidence that Jiau had also
worked at Nvidia briefly in 2007. They argued that she
befriended both Sonny Nguyen and Ng to get her the information
she then sold to Barai and Freeman.  Actual Numbers  Ng was placed on administrative leave by Marvell in January
after he refused to cooperate with an internal investigation,
court records show.  Prosecutors said Freeman and Barai found Jiau was useful in
helping their funds succeed by getting “actual numbers to the
decimal point” about a company’s earnings ahead of the public
announcement. They contracted with Primary Global to obtain for
Jiau’s information exclusively, the U.S. said.  “Just like her hedge fund clients, she did it for the
money,” Weitzman said.  Barai’s plea on May 27 came just hours after Sonny Nguyen,
39, of  San Jose ,  California , pleaded guilty before Rakoff to
conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud. Barai admitted
conspiring with Freeman and Donald Longueuil, a former SAC
Capital Advisors LP fund manager, to violate federal securities
laws.  Longueuil pleaded guilty to federal charges in April.  During their guilty pleas, both Barai and Sonny Nguyen
implicatedJiau in their schemes.  Barai, who isn’t cooperating with the U.S., said when he
pleaded guilty that in May 2008, he participated in calls with
Jiau, who provided tips about Marvell.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  