-- 
Egypt to Decide in August on Resuming Imports of Russian Wheat

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-06-20T11:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/egypt-to-decide-in-august-on-resuming-imports-of-russian-wheat.html
Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat
importer, will wait until  Russia ’s harvest starts in August to
decide whether to resume buying the grain from the eastern
European country.  Yields, prices and a proposed duty on Russian grain exports
will govern the decision by the  General Authority  for Supply
Commodities, Egypt’s state wheat buyer, Vice Chairman Nomani Nomani said by telephone today.  Russia, which supplied Egypt with more than half of its
imported wheat in the marketing year through June 2010, barred
all cereal exports last August as a drought seared fields. The
ban will expire as scheduled on July 1, Russia’s government said
last month.  “We have been getting the best types of wheat from Russia
last year and the year before,” Nomani said. “Were it not for
the emergency last year, we would have continued to deal with
the Russians. But last year the Russians failed to ship some
quantities that were agreed upon even before the ban came into
effect, and that is why I am wary of the Russian side.”  Wheat shipments totaling 690,000 metric tons, including
210,000 tons with delivery dates before the ban took effect,
never reached  Egypt  last year, according to Nomani. The measure
prompted Egypt to drop Russia from the list of countries
approved as sources of imported wheat.  “When we are sure that the Russian side is stable, we will
re-include it in the official list of origin countries,” Nomani
said. “We do not encourage purchases from one origin country or
another. Our aim is diversification of origins.”  The authority buys between 5 million and 6 million tons of
wheat a year on behalf of the government via international
tenders because local production is too low to meet demand in
the Arab world’s most populous nation, which has about 80
million people. The grain is used to make subsidized bread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at   ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 