-- 
Telkom Kenya to Start 3G Services in Third Quarter, CEO Says

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-06-20T10:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/telkom-kenya-plans-to-roll-out-3g-services-in-third-quarter-ceo-says.html
Telkom  Kenya  Ltd., a unit of  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , plans to start offering third-generation or 3G
telecommunications services in the third quarter of this year,
Chief Executive Officer Mickael Ghossein said.  “We want to have very good network and very good  customer
service  because if you fail you kill your business,” Ghossein
said in a June 17 interview in Nairobi. The company, which is 49
percent state-owned, is upgrading networks to make them capable
of handling fourth-generation technology too, so “in the
future, if we have to launch 4G, we don’t have to buy another
equipment,” he said.  Mobile operators in Kenya, where Telkom competes with units
of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , are
becoming more reliant on data for revenue after the industry
regulator in August halved the rates that operators charge each
other to connect voice calls, prompting competing price cuts.
Since then, Telkom Kenya has lost as much as 2 billion shillings
($22 million) in revenue from voice services, Ghossein said.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki ordered a halt to further cuts
in call tariffs after opposition from the companies,  Business
Daily  reported June 8. Charges had been expected to drop to 1.44
shillings per call at the beginning of July from 2.21 shillings,
it said.  Telkom Kenya won a 3G license in November, enabling it to
offer faster data transmission that allows users to download
music and video to their handsets. Data speeds will rise as high
as 21 megabytes per second, from as low as 64 kilobytes per
second now, Ghossein said.  Data Target  The company aims to make 40 percent of revenue from data by
the end of this year, up from 15 percent, Ghossein said in
February. Its competitors are Vodafone’s  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,
Bharti’s Airtel Kenya Ltd. and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd., a unit
of Essar Group.  Nairobi-based Telkom Kenya, which has 2,100 direct
employees, last week began talks with the workers union as part
of “reorganization of the company to be more lean and to serve
customers better,” Ghossein said.  “Today the problem is that some activities in the company
more or less don’t exist or have decreased,” he said. “We need
more IP engineers, more solution engineers, more sales people.”  The company’s biggest costs are fees for frequencies and
licenses, which take up to 30 percent of revenue, Ghossein said.
The next-biggest is vandalism of fiber-optic links, which costs
as much as 100 million shillings per incident, he said. Repairs
typically take 1 1/2 days, during which users in the affected
areas can’t make calls, Ghossein said.  In the three months through December, Telkom Kenya added
973,000 new customers and its share in a market of 25 million
users jumped to 15 percent from 4 percent in the previous
quarter, the  Communications Commission of Kenya  said June 8.
Safaricom, the only company with a functioning 3G network in
Kenya, was the leader with 63 percent.  The number of  internet users  grew to about 10.2 million
from 8.7 million in the previous quarter, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  