-- 
Emerging Stocks Decline to Three-Month Low as EU Fails to Agree on Greece

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T21:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/emerging-stocks-decline-for-fourth-day-as-eu-fails-to-agree-on-greece-loan.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fourth day, sending the benchmark index to its lowest level in
three months, after European governments failed to agree on a
loan payment to avert a default by  Greece .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.5 percent to
1,098.33 at 5:04 p.m. in  New York , the lowest close since March
17.  India ’s benchmark equity index sank 2 percent after a report
the government may tax capital gains on investments routed
through Mauritius. The Shanghai Composite Index slid to the
lowest in almost nine months, while Russia’s Micex fell for a
sixth day in the longest losing streak since October 2008.
Turkey’s lira dropped 0.3 percent versus the dollar.  Euro-area finance ministers who met yesterday in Luxembourg
put off a decision on whether Greece will get the full 12
billion euros ($17 billion) promised for July and pushed for the
nation to press ahead with budget cuts. The MSCI emerging-market
index has retreated 9 percent from this year’s high on May 2
amid growing concern that Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in
the  U.S. economy  will curb earnings growth.  “The Greek issue and uncertainties over the U.S. demand”
are weighing on investor sentiment, said Han Sang Soo, a  fund
manager  at Samsung Asset Management Co. in Seoul, which oversees
about $30 billion in assets. “More time will be needed to see a
recovery.”  Brazil Stocks  The Bovespa stock index advanced, rebounding from two weeks
of declines, after Moody’s Investors Service boosted Brazil’s
debt rating. The benchmark index climbed 0.2 percent to
61,168.24. The real gained 0.1 percent to 1.5965 per dollar.  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo, the state-controlled power
company known as Cesp, led gains for utilities. Cia. de Bebidas
das Americas, Latin America’s largest brewer, increased for the
first time in four days. Advances were partially offset as
traders boosted bets for higher borrowing costs, sending down
homebuilder PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 319, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped to a
four-month low after the Business Standard reported that India
will seek to tax  capital gains  on investments made through
Mauritius. India wants to impose a tax because the gains are
being made in India, said Prakash Chandra, chairman of the tax
board, according to the Business Standard.  China ’s Shanghai Composite lost 0.8 percent to the lowest
level since Sept. 29 after Credit Suisse Group AG said the
economy is heading for a “sluggish landing.”  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd. paced
declines after the brokerage cut its rating on lenders to
“underweight” from “overweight.”  Micex Declines  Russia’s  Micex index (INDEXCF)  sank 1.2 percent, bringing its six-day
drop to 3.9 percent. OAO Gazprom and OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel fell
as oil and metals prices decreased earlier in the day.  The lira weakened after  Turkey ’s banking regulator
increased costs for banks that exceed a new limit for  consumer
lending , the latest in a series of steps designed to slow credit
growth and rein in a booming economy.  The Romanian leu slid 0.1 percent against the euro to its
weakest level in four months, boosting speculation policy makers
will act to prop up the currency. Greek lenders control about 17
percent of the Romanian banking industry. Romania’s central bank
may buy the leu to stop further losses, according to UniCredit
SpA and ING Groep NV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  