-- 
EMI to Weigh Sale or IPO Following Label’s February Seizure by Citigroup

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T23:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/emi-group-says-holding-company-exploring-strategic-alternatives.html
EMI Group Ltd., owned by  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , said it will consider selling itself as the label of the
Beatles and  Pink Floyd  evaluates strategic alternatives.  The board will also look into a possible public offering of
shares or a recapitalization, the London-based company said in a
statement today.  EMI and other labels have found it more difficult to turn a
profit as more customers use file sharing websites to download
music for free rather than buying songs from  record companies . A
sale would follow billionaire Len Blavatnik’s deal on May 6 to
purchase rival  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) , which valued the
company at more than $3 billion, including debt.  “There was a lot of interest in Warner, so I would expect
a lot of bidders for EMI, including the guys who won Warner,”
said  Laura Martin , a Los Angeles-based analyst at Needham & Co.
A sale is the most likely option since media companies typically
get their highest valuations through acquisitions, she said. The
other options are “a negotiating ploy” to let bidders know
they have choices.  Citigroup seized control of the label in February after EMI
and its owner, Terra Firma Capital Partners, struggled to meet
debt terms. The music company was taken private by  Guy Hands ’s
Terra Firma in 2007 in a deal that valued EMI at about 4 billion
pounds ($6.5 billion). EMI is likely to get less than that
today, Martin said.  Potential Bidders  Blavatnik or a bidder like  KKR & Co. , which co-sponsors
Bertelsmann AG’s music-rights venture BMG Rights Management
GmbH, may be interested in bidding for EMI, Martin said. Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, declined to comment. Roberta Thomson, a spokeswoman for EMI, also declined to comment.  Warner Music  Group passed on a higher offer from a group
that included Sony Corp. when it accepted the $8.25-a-share
buyout bid from Blavatnik, people with knowledge of the music
company’s auction said on May 20.  Sony, with Guggenheim Partners and Ron Perelman, was
willing to pay $8.50 a share for Warner Music, or 3 percent more
than the $1.3 billion offered by Blavatnik’s Access Industries,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the deliberations were private.  Citigroup fell 0.4 percent to $38.16 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 Athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  