-- 
England Selects Matt Stevens in 45-Man Rugby World Cup Training Squad

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-20T09:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/england-selects-matt-stevens-in-45-man-rugby-world-cup-training-squad.html
Saracens prop Matt Stevens, who
returned to rugby following a two-year drug ban, has been named
in  England ’s 45-man World Cup training squad.  Stevens, 28, came back to the sport in January after the
suspension for testing positive for cocaine. He last played for
England in November 2008.  Stevens joins up with a squad that includes all the members
of England’s victorious 6 Nations roster and features
Leicester’s Thomas Waldrom and Manu Tuilagi, named Rugby
Players’ Association Player and Aviva Premiership Young Player
of the Year respectively.  “Every one of these players has the chance to be in that
final 30 going to  New Zealand ,” England team manager  Martin
Johnson  said in comments published on the Rugby Football Union
website. “The camp is going to be intense and competitive, as
you would expect leading up to a  World Cup , but all the players
are ready for it.”  The tournament begins in New Zealand on Sept. 10.  ENGLAND TRAINING SQUAD:
 Forwards: Mouritz Botha (Saracens), George Chuter
(Leicester Tigers), Dan Cole (Leicester Tigers), Alex Corbisiero
(London Irish), Tom Croft (Leicester Tigers), Louis Deacon
(Leicester Tigers), Paul Doran-Jones (Northampton Saints), Nick
Easter (Harlequins), Hendre Fourie (Sale Sharks), Dylan Hartley
(Northampton Saints), James Haskell (Unattached), Courtney Lawes
(Northampton Saints), Lee Mears (Bath Rugby), Lewis Moody (Bath
Rugby), Tom Palmer (Stade Francais), Tim Payne (London Wasps),
Chris Robshaw (Harlequins), Simon Shaw (London Wasps), Andrew
Sheridan (Sale Sharks), Matt Stevens (Saracens), Steve Thompson
(London Wasps), Thomas Waldrom (Leicester Tigers), David Wilson
(Bath Rugby), Tom Wood (Northampton Saints), Joe Worsley (London
Wasps).  Backs: Delon Armitage (London Irish), Chris Ashton
(Northampton Saints), Matt Banahan (Bath Rugby), Danny Care
(Harlequins), Mark Cueto (Sale Sharks), Toby Flood (Leicester
Tigers), Riki Flutey (London Wasps), Ben Foden (Northampton
Saints), Shontayne Hape (London Irish), Charlie Hodgson,
(Saracens), Ugo Monye (Harlequins), Charlie Sharples (Gloucester
Rugby), Joe Simpson (London Wasps), James Simpson-Daniel
(Gloucester Rugby), David Strettle (Saracens), Mike Tindall
(Gloucester Rugby), Manu Tuilagi (Leicester Tigers),
Richard Wigglesworth (Saracens), Jonny Wilkinson (Toulon), Ben
Youngs (Leicester Tigers).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  