-- 
Tepco Rating Slashed to Junk by Moody’s

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-06-20T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/tepco-rating-slashed-to-junk-by-moody-s.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co., battling
the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, had its  credit rating 
cut four steps to junk status by Moody’s Investors Service as
costs related to the Fukushima disaster escalated.  Moody’s lowered its long-term debt rating to B1 from Baa3
yesterday and said the ranking may be reduced further. The cut
follows a May 16 downgrade by the ratings company and matches
the ranking by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, which slashed
its assessment of the utility’s debt by five levels on May 30.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s cabinet agreed on June 14 to
provide a safety net for the utility known as Tepco while it
pays claims for damages related to the nuclear meltdown at its
Dai-Ichi plant that could exceed $130 billion. The cost of
protecting the company’s debt has declined from a record after
the bill to help Tepco compensate disaster victims was approved.  State aid for meeting expenses related to the damaged plant
“may not completely protect creditors from losses,” Moody’s
said in yesterday’s statement.  The Fukushima plant had three reactor meltdowns after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup
generators, crippling its cooling systems. Recovery efforts at
the station face delays after the removal of water used to cool
the reactors was halted because of high levels of radiation.  Japan  raised the severity rating of the crisis to 7 in
April, the highest on an international scale and the same as the
Chernobyl disaster. The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
in a report yesterday that Japan “underestimated” the threat
of tsunamis to coastal atomic plants and wasn’t prepared for
multiple plant failures.  ‘Much Worse’  “Since our last rating action in May, the company has
disclosed that three of the nuclear reactors show containment
damage and have experienced core meltdowns, or problems much
worse than previously known,” Moody’s said. “The magnitude of
likely damages, including compensation liability, has risen to a
level that is beyond Tepco’s ability to finance without
government support.”  The downgrade follows  Standard & Poor’s  cut of Tepco to
junk status on May 30 on the risk that banks may restructure
some of its debts. Japanese banks’ credit ratings are also at
risk if they forgive loans made to Tepco, Standard & Poor’s said
on June 1.  A group of banks led by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.
has advanced 2 trillion yen ($24.9 billion) of emergency loans
to the utility. The cost of paying for the nuclear damage will
continue to rise until the reactors are brought into “safe cold
shutdown,” which isn’t expected until 2012, Moody’s said.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps protecting the debt of Tepco from
default rose 20 basis points to 895 basis points as of 5:30 p.m.
yesterday in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The contacts
closed at a record high of 1,000 basis points, or 10 percentage
points, on June 7 and have gained 742.7 basis points since March
11, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A basis point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  The yield on Tepco’s 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of 4.5
percent notes due March 2014 -- the bonds that are most assessed
by investors according to Bloomberg data -- has risen to 12.579
percent from 2.8 percent before the earthquake, Banca Akros SpA
prices show. The extra yield investors demand to own the debt
over  government securities  climbed to a record 10.97 percentage
points on June 20, from 0.89 percentage point on March 10.  Tepco has the equivalent of $84.7 billion of debt maturing
before the end of 2049, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 