-- 
Merck Can’t Recoup $473 Million in U.S. Taxes, Court Rules

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-20T20:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/merck-can-t-recoup-473-million-in-taxes-appeals-court-rules.html
Merck & Co.’s Schering-Plough unit
isn’t entitled to a new trial after a judge rejected its claim
to $473 million of federal income tax refunds, a U.S. appeals
court ruled.  Schering-Plough, which was acquired by Merck for
$51 billion in November 2009, sued the  Internal Revenue Service 
in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey, in May 2005 to recoup
the taxes, which the IRS assessed in 2004 after an audit.  Schering-Plough argued that funds it received as the result
of two interest-rate swap transactions weren’t taxable as
proceeds of loans from foreign subsidiaries and that the company
was being treated unfairly by the IRS, which hadn’t demanded the
same taxes from other companies that were in similar situations.  U.S. District Judge Katharine Hayden ruled after a five-
week non-jury trial in 2008 that Schering-Plough failed to prove
it deserved a refund, and in April 2010 she denied the company’s
request for a new trial. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Philadelphia upheld Hayden’s ruling today, saying the
transactions were loans and that the IRS may treat taxpayers
differently.  “If taxpayers could routinely challenge tax assessments by
pointing to others who had not been compelled to pay under
similar circumstances, the IRS would be swamped by collateral
litigation of this kind rather than being able to focus on
whether the taxpayer actually complied with the law,” Judge
Juilo M. Fuentes wrote for a unanimous panel.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey, said in a
statement that it’s “disappointed” by the ruling. The company
said it is reviewing the decisions and considering its options.  The case is Merck & Co. vs. U.S., 05-cv-02575, U.S.
District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 