-- 
Merrill Must Face Class Action Over Mortgage Securities

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-21T02:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/merrill-must-face-class-action-by-fund-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill
Lynch unit must face a class-action suit on behalf of at least
1,800 investors over mortgage-backed securities, a federal judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff  in  Manhattan  certified a
class, or group, of all investors in the securities, which were
sold from February 2006 through September 2007. Rakoff also
granted the investors’ request to appoint New York-based
Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP as lead lawyers for
the class.  “After careful consideration, and for reasons that will be
stated in a forthcoming written opinion, the court hereby grants
both motions,” Rakoff wrote in an order released June 16.  In the litigation, filed in 2008, the investors claim
Merrill misled them in the offering documents for $16.5 billion
of certificates. The investors claim the bank falsely claimed
that the underlying mortgages complied with the stated
underwriting guidelines.  The class certification allows the investors to combine
their claims into a single suit rather than being forced to make
them individually.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment.  Named Plaintiffs  The named plaintiffs in the case include the Mississippi
Public Employees’ Retirement System, the Los Angeles County
Employees Retirement Association, the Wyoming state treasurer,
the Connecticut Carpenters Pension Fund and the Connecticut
Carpenters Annuity Fund.  In a separate case, U.S. District Judge William Pauley in
Manhattan consolidated three cases claiming Bank of America
concealed the risks of its mortgage-backed securities and that
it failed to use appropriate controls in processing
foreclosures. Pauley also named the Pennsylvania Public School
Employees’ Retirement System as lead plaintiff.  The cases are Public Employees’ Retirement System of
Mississippi v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 08-CV-10841; Pipefitters
Local No. 636 Defined Benefit Plan, 11-CV-733, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  