-- 
EU Must Work With Investors on Greek Bailout

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   K e l l y   C r e g g
-- 
2011-06-20T10:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/eu-must-work-with-investors-on-greek-bailout-to-avoid-red-lines.html
The European Union must work closely
with investors on a new bailout for  Greece  to avoid triggering a
“disastrous” default that deepens the euro area’s debt crisis,
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  “We have to work hand in hand with the major financial
institutions of  Europe ,” Frieden said in Bloomberg Television
interview in Luxembourg today during a meeting of European
finance chiefs. “We have to see how far we can go and avoid a
 credit event , avoid if possible a downgrade by the rating
agencies and avoid contagion. These are the red lines.”  Frieden said he’s hopeful that investors will accept a
voluntary rollover of their holdings in Greek debt, “because
they also feel having responsibility, because we have supported
them in the past and we have to make sure that financial
stability exists not only in the euro zone in the public sector
but also in the private sector.”  On the eve of a confidence vote that threatens to topple
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou , the euro area’s top
economic policy makers pushed Greece to pass laws to cut the
deficit and sell state assets. They left open whether the
country will get the full 12 billion euros ($17 billion)
promised for July as part of last year’s 110 billion-euro
lifeline.  “We think that the Greek authorities are determined to get
the necessary approval in their parliament,” Frieden said. “If
they do not fulfill their commitments, we cannot give them the
next tranche. As of today, I think that they will get the
necessary majority.”  The European Commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund  are working with Greece to stave off
a default that would be a “disaster for Greece and the euro
zone,” Frieden said. “I think that the government is
determined to do whatever is necessary to avoid a default.”  European leaders have “no other choice” than to strive to
bring stability to the single-currency area. “There’s not one
easy solution. We may sometimes make mistakes, but the objective
which we’re aiming at is very clear to us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at  sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Cregg in Luxembourg at  kcregg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Anastasia Ellis at   aclubb@bloomberg.net  