-- 
EU’s Juncker Says Progress Made on New Greek Aid Package

-- B y  
-- 
2011-06-20T01:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/eu-s-juncker-says-progress-made-on-new-greek-aid-package.html
The following are comments by
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, on prospects for further aid payments to
Greece. He spoke after a meeting of euro-region finance chiefs
in Luxembourg.  On the role of private investors in a new aid program for
Greece:  “We have agreed that there should be a private-creditor
participation, which should really be voluntary because we want
to avoid any credit default or credit event. But it also has to
be clear that Greece has to bring about a situation where all
the expected commitments are taken charge of. We depend very
much that all legal processes are approved before the end of
this month. Beginning of July we will have to continue to
discuss the private creditor participation, which will be
voluntary and we will have to check whether  Greece  has fulfilled
all its obligations.”  “Voluntary participation has to be voluntary which means
that no pressure whatsoever can be exercised on the private
sector and this has to be checked at the beginning of July. My
objective is to call another euro group to Brussels in the first
days of July where we will discuss these questions in detail.”  “We agreed today that the participation of private
creditors has to be voluntary, but Greece also has to deliver.”  “With a voluntary contribution by private creditors, one
can’t predict in advance the size of this participation. This
has to be discussed also with the private creditors.”  On the Greek government meeting commitments:  “We reminded the Greek government forcefully that by the
end of this month they have to work so that we are all convinced
that all the commitments they made are fulfilled. So, there are
two decisions: a strong, a very strong, a maximal insistence
with Greece that they do what they promised they would do during
its discussions with the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , and then also the accord on a
voluntary contribution of the private sector.”  On progress by the euro group:  “We have agreed on the voluntary implication of the
private sector, while only a week or two ago different options
on the implication of the private sector were on the table.”  “The political situation in Greece has also evolved a lot.
There will be a vote of confidence asked by Prime Minister
(Papandreou) on Tuesday evening, which we have to wait for, and
then we’ll have to wait for the final vote of the program on
which Greece had agreed with its European and international
interlocutors. So this second demand is clear, but as the
Parliamentary vote has been fixed for end of June, we have to
wait for this vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at +352-22-9999-5270 or
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at +32-2-285-4312 or
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net 
