-- 
Euro Area Scraps ESM Seniority for Greece, Ireland, Portugal

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-06-20T16:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/euro-area-scraps-esm-seniority-for-greece-ireland-portugal.html
Euro-area governments stripped their
permanent debt-crisis mechanism of preferred-creditor status for
any loans to  Greece , Ireland and Portugal to help the countries
return to bond markets. They also expanded their current 440
billion-euro ($630 billion) fund.  The decision by finance ministers today marks a policy
reversal from a March agreement to give the European Stability
Mechanism preferred status covering aid for all euro-area
countries. Such seniority would have given the ESM, due to be
established in mid-2013, priority over private investors in any
payout after a default.  “The amendment is very good news for Ireland,” Irish
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  told reporters after the
decision in Luxembourg. “The change makes it possible now for
Ireland to go back into the markets and be sure that there are
people there that will lend us money.”  European Union governments are seeking to ease the return
to debt markets of the three euro countries that have received
aid totaling 256 billion euros since last May from the euro area
and  International Monetary Fund . Greece has abandoned plans
under its 110 billion-euro rescue to tap markets in 2012,
forcing the EU and IMF to prepare a second rescue.  The Irish government, which is funded under its 67.5
billion-euro bailout until the second half of 2013, will test
the  debt market  in the third quarter of 2012, Noonan said.  ‘First Call’  “This amendment means that, when we test in the third
quarter of 2012, there’s going to be funds available,” Noonan
said. “Under the old draft the risk was that lenders would see
that they would be second in line to the ESM and that, if there
was any difficulty, that they wouldn’t have first call on money
lent.”  The change brings the ESM’s creditor status for Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  into line with that of the European
Financial Stability Facility, the existing temporary rescue
mechanism for the euro area. The EFSF helped to finance the aid
for Ireland and Portugal after Greece’s initial package involved
loans from euro-area governments and the IMF.  Euro-area governments last year ruled out that any EFSF
loans would have the same preferred status as IMF aid so as not
to “overburden” the borrowing country, EFSF Chief Executive
Officer Klaus Regling said in October.  At their Luxembourg meeting today, the finance ministers
also made good on a pledge to boost the EFSF’s lending capacity
to 440 billion euros from around 250 billion euros. The AAA
rated EFSF, backed by guarantees from euro-area governments,
sells bonds to finance rescue loans.  Cash Buffer  The ministers increased the overall guarantees for the EFSF
to 726 billion euros and applied an overguarantee of 165
percent, resulting in a lending capacity of 440 billion euros.
The 726 billion-euro sum of guarantees excludes those of Greece,
Ireland and Portugal, which don’t contribute as aid recipients.  Until now, euro-area governments had set the guarantees for
the EFSF at 440 billion euros. To secure the EFSF’s AAA rating,
the governments applied a 120 percent overguarantee and imposed
cash-buffer requirements on the facility, reducing its actual
lending capacity to about 250 billion euros.  Under the decision to bolster the EFSF, the cash buffers
have been scrapped. The decision will take effect after being
ratified by euro-area countries in the coming weeks and months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  