-- 
Euronext’s European Stock Markets Open an Hour Late After Technical Glitch

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-06-20T16:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/euronext-markets-in-europe-fail-to-open-on-time-citing-technical-problems.html
The open of equities trading was
delayed for an hour on bourses operated by NYSE Euronext in
Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Luxembourg and Lisbon because of an
unspecified computer malfunction, the exchange operator said.  Euronext fixed the breakdown and trading started at 10 a.m.
Paris time. The  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  fell 0.6 percent as European Union
finance ministers failed to agree on a payment to help  Greece 
avoid a default. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.5 percent to
265.76 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Paris.  Trading has been interrupted repeatedly by systems issues
this year in Europe, where stock transactions are divided among
regulated exchanges and alternative platforms operated by
companies such as Chi-X Europe Ltd. London Stock Exchange Group
Plc experienced a four-hour halt on Feb. 25 after bringing a new
network online 11 days earlier.  “It’s not the first time, but we have to deal with it,”
said Yves Marcais, a sales trader at Global Equities in Paris.
“It would have been worse if it happened in the middle of the
trading session. At least the market wasn’t open and we knew
about the delay ahead of time.”  No Guarantee  Competing exchanges such as Bats Global Markets Inc. have
said glitches show that traditional operators such as  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  and LSE, which manage the bulk of equities trading in
Europe, aren’t a guarantee of functioning markets by themselves.
Today’s trading halt affected bonds, indexes and exchange-traded
funds across the five national markets operated by NYSE
Euronext, the exchange said.  Alternative exchanges still rely on the main bourses to
quote prices. Chi-X Europe said that the NYSE Euronext outage
disrupted its trading this morning. Chi-X Europe in November
2009 called for exchanges to halt trading when they encounter
technical problems rather than setting an auction phase, which
hampers investors from finding a reference price at another
venue.  NYSE Euronext cited improving computer systems as a goal of
its combination with Deutsche Boerse AG, which was disclosed in
February. The companies announced the $9.5 billion deal one day
after LSE agreed to buy the operator of Toronto’s main exchange,
TMX Group Inc.  Shareholder Approval  Deutsche Boerse  needs 75 percent of shareholders to approve
its purchase of NYSE Euronext by July 13. The takeover would
create the world’s largest exchange company.  The combined exchange should save more than 51 million
euros ($73 million) by having common trading and clearing
infrastructure, merging networks and “eliminating overlapping
IT functions,” they said June 1 to shareholders in Eschborn,
 Germany  for Deutsche Boerse’s annual investor day.  NYSE Euronext in April reported first-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates, boosted by higher revenue from
European derivatives trading.  NYSE Euronext was formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007.
It owns exchanges in Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris and Brussels, as
well as London-based Liffe,  Europe ’s second-largest derivatives
market. The company also runs three U.S. stock exchanges: NYSE
Arca, NYSE Amex and the New York Stock Exchange, two options
platforms and the NYSE Liffe U.S. futures exchange.  “The technical issue is resolved,” said Caroline
Tourrier, a spokeswoman for Euronext in Paris. “Now we’re
working to identify the nature of the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  