-- 
European Stocks Decline as EU Fails to Agree on Greece Payment

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-06-20T16:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/european-stock-futures-drop-as-eu-fails-to-agree-on-greece-loan.html
European stocks fell, with the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index extending losses into an eighth week, as the
region’s governments failed to agree on a payment to spare
Greece from default.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  dropped 1.8 percent and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  fell 2.6 percent as banks accounted for some of the largest
losses on the Stoxx 600.  Gamesa Corp Tecnologica SA (GAM)  dropped 7.1
percent after ING Groep NV recommended selling the shares.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 0.5 percent to 265.76 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . The benchmark index has dropped for seven
weeks, its longest streak since 2008, as concern mounted that
Greece will fail to repay all of its debt. The gauge has lost
8.7 percent since its peak this year on Feb. 17.  “We’re all a little worried that there aren’t any serious
measures yet and we’re not sure that injecting money will solve
the whole problem,” said Bruno Ducros, a Paris-based  fund
manager  at CamGestion, which oversees about $3.6 billion in
stocks. “Even if there are drastic cost cuts, it will take a
long time to resolve the problem.”  The open of equities trading was delayed for an hour on
bourses operated by NYSE Euronext in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels,
Luxembourg and Lisbon because of an unspecified computer
malfunction, the exchange operator said. NYSE Euronext fixed the
breakdown and started trading at 10 a.m. Paris time.  Greece  Default Risk  European governments failed to agree to release a loan
payment to spare Greece from default, increasing pressure on
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to deliver further budget cuts
in the face of domestic opposition.  On the eve of a confidence vote that may bring down
Papandreou’s government, euro-area finance ministers pushed
Greece to pass laws to cut the deficit and sell state assets.
The ministers left open whether the Mediterranean nation will
get the full 12 billion euros ($17.2 billion) promised for July
as part of last year’s 110 billion-euro lifeline.  National benchmark indexes fell in every western European
market. France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  slid 0.6 percent, while  Germany ’s
DAX Index fell 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slipped
0.4 percent.  Banks were among the worst performing industries in the
Stoxx 600, losing 0.9 percent. Barclays dropped 1.8 percent to
252.6 pence, while Lloyds slid 2.6 percent to 47.2 pence.  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA dropped 0.9 percent to 51.75 euros.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  slumped 4.4 percent to
38.5 pence. Britain’s biggest government-owned bank fell after
the firm sold shares to fund employee bonuses. RBS placed about
354.6 million shares, according to terms of the deal obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Global Banking System  A Greek debt writedown may have consequences for the global
banking system similar to those following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., Swedish newspaper  Svenska Dagbladet 
cited European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi as saying.  Gamesa, Europe’s second-largest wind turbine-maker, plunged
7.1 percent to 5.55 euros. The stock was given a “sell”
recommendation in new coverage at ING.  Charter International Plc (CHTR)  sank 25 percent to 538.5 pence,
for the biggest drop on the Stoxx 600. The industrial-equipment
manufacturer fell after forecasting that 2011 profit will miss
its previous estimates.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl tumbled 7.4 percent to 1.63
euros. Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl said it’s not
planning a combination with Popolare di Milano.  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  rallied 4.6 percent to 590.5 pence as
billionaire Philip Falcone’s LightSquared Inc. reached a 15-year
deal with Sprint Nextel Corp. to share network expansion costs
and equipment, and to provide high-speed wireless services to
the phone company. The deal will be “materially positive” for
Inmarsat, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts wrote today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  