-- 
Euro Gains Against Most-Traded Peers on Reassurance About Greek Debt Plan

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-20T21:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/euro-pares-losses-versus-dollar-as-juncker-reassures-on-greece-aid-effort.html
The euro rose against the majority
its most-traded counterparts after European leaders reassured
investors a Greek default on its debts can be avoided, easing
concern about a spreading regional credit crisis.  The 17-nation shared currency erased declines as
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  had assured him the government would do
everything ensure financial aid before a no-confidence vote at 5
p.m. New York time tomorrow. The Swiss franc remained higher
against most its counterparts as German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said any participation in the bailout by
private investors would have to be voluntary. The Brazilian real
gained as the country’s credit was upgraded.  “We’re taking the commentary as still muddling through,
which is better for the euro than say, a default occurring
tomorrow,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for the
Americas at Standard Chartered in New York. “People have got
ultra-short term in their horizons. The most important thing now
is the no confidence vote in Greece tomorrow.”  The euro traded at $1.4304 at 5 p.m. in  New York , from
$1.4306. It earlier declined as much as 0.8 percent to $1.4191.
The shared currency gained 0.2 percent against the yen to 114.80
after falling 0.2 percent. The dollar gained 0.3 percent to
80.25 yen from 80.05.  Swiss Strength  The Swiss franc remained stronger, trading within two cents
of the record low 1.19466 per euro reached June 16. The franc
traded 0.3 percent stronger at 1.21063 per euro.  The Swiss currency is the biggest winner in the past month,
according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
tracks the currency against nine major trading partners. The
franc has gained 3.6 percent followed by a 1.5 percent advance
in the yen.  “I love the Swiss franc and it represents one of the
favored safe havens,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “We
will get below 1.20 versus the euro not only this week but
throughout the summer.”  Brazil’s real gained as Moody’s Investors Service boosted
its rating on Brazilian government debt to Baa2, the second-
lowest investment grade. Moody’s rating increase for Brazil
cited President Dilma Rousseff’s efforts to cut spending. It
follows an upgrade by  Fitch Ratings  in April.  Standard & Poor’s 
boosted its outlook on Brazil’s rating to positive last month.  The real strengthened as much as 0.3 percent to 1.5924 per
dollar from 1.5978 on June 17.  Aussie, Kiwi  The U.S. currency rose against higher yielding counterparts
such as the Australian and New Zealand dollars as strategists
speculated that the  Federal Reserve  won’t signal a third round
of quantitative easing after a meeting on June 22. The Federal
Open Market Committee has kept its benchmark rate unchanged
between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Investors expect a 17 percent chance the central bank will
increase the rate at its January meeting, according to CME Group
Inc. data, down from 21 percent a month ago.  Australia ’s dollar slid 0.4 percent to $1.0582. Its New
Zealand counterpart lost 0.3 percent to 81.01 U.S. cents.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will tomorrow release minutes
of its June 7 meeting, at which policy makers left its benchmark
interest rate at 4.75 percent for sixth meeting. Central bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  reiterated June 15 the RBA needs to raise
 interest rates  “at some stage.”  Yen Falls  The yen snapped two days of gains versus the dollar after
the  Finance Ministry  said  Japan ’s exports fell 10.3 percent in
May from a year earlier. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for an 8.4 percent drop.  The stronger yen is hurting exports, which subtracted a net
0.2 percent from GDP in the first quarter of 2011. Many Japanese
companies based their fiscal year forecasts on the yen trading
at about 80 per dollar.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the yen compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 24,768 on June 14,
the most since March 22. A long position is a bet an asset will
rise.  Papandreou kicked off a three-day debate yesterday on the
confidence motion in his government. He called for the vote last
week after opposition parties rejected pleas for national
consensus and the prime minister’s handling of the crisis led to
defections from his party. Antonis Samaras, leader of  New
Democracy , the largest opposition party in  Greece , repeated his
call for elections.  Greece needs parliamentary approval of a 78 billion-euro
package ($111.6 billion) of budget cuts to ensure the payment of
a fifth loan under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout.  The new Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, who
was named in Papandreou’s cabinet overhaul three days ago, came
to Luxembourg with a “strong commitment” to the planned cuts
that provoked street protests last week.  “We think right now, given the political shuffling
Papandreou initiated with the appointment of a key rival as
finance minister, it’s all but certain he will survive the vote
tomorrow,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10
currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York. “If the
no confidence vote passes that is a very strong sign the Greek
vote will go in favor of passing the austerity measures and the
privatization plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  