-- 
Bailout Bid for Greece Falters as Europe Insists Papandreou Cut Budget Gap

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-20T14:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/europe-fails-to-agree-on-greek-aid-payout-pressing-papandreou-to-cut-debt.html
Europe  faltered in its race to save
Greece from default as finance chiefs said further aid hinged on
embattled Prime Minister  George Papandreou  delivering budget
cuts in the face of domestic opposition.  On the eve of a confidence vote that threatens to topple
Papandreou, the euro area’s top economic policy makers pushed
Greece to pass laws to cut the deficit and sell state assets.
They left open whether the country will get the full 12 billion
euros ($17.1 billion) promised for July, running into
International Monetary Fund criticism for indecisiveness.  “The Greeks have to bring to Parliament their austerity
measures and their privatization package and they have to
implement those measures,” Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden told Bloomberg Television at a euro crisis meeting in
Luxembourg today. “Only if those conditions are fulfilled, we
can pay out the next tranche and at the same time look for a
possible second program to support  Greece .”  Decisions on the next payout and a three-year follow-up
package were put off until next month, prolonging Greece’s
fiscal agony and heightening the brinksmanship that has marked
Europe’s handling of the unprecedented debt crisis. The stumble
negated gains made in markets last week after Germany indicated
a second Greek bailout was in the works.  Greek bonds and European stocks fell. The euro slipped as
much as 0.8 percent before rebounding. It was little changed at
$1.4322 at 4 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Finance ministers will meet
again July 3 to decide on Greece’s loans.  IMF Criticism  The IMF, contributor of a third of bailout money for Greece,
Ireland and Portugal, scolded European leaders for failing to
take a “cohesive and cooperative approach” to a crisis that
risks triggering “large global spillovers.”  In the two-day gathering, the finance ministers delivered
on year-old pledges to boost the effective lending capacity of a
temporary rescue fund to 440 billion euros by increasing each
country’s guarantee. Collateral rules had limited the fund to
about 250 billion euros.  In a departure from earlier plans, they decided that loans
to Greece, Ireland and Portugal from the future permanent fund
won’t enjoy preferred status over private creditors. That fund,
the European Stability Mechanism, will take effect in July 2013.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chaired
the meetings, called that climbdown “good news” because it
will help ease the three countries back into market financing.  ‘Critical Crossroads’  The European deliberations coincided with a Greek
parliamentary debate in  Athens  over a confidence vote in a new
cabinet at what Papandreou called a “critical crossroads.”
Papandreou has 155 seats in the 300-seat parliament.  Papandreou travels to Brussels today to meet European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission President
 Jose Barroso . The confidence vote is scheduled for late tomorrow.
The struggle over Greece is set to dominate an EU summit in
Brussels on June 23-24.  “The communication cacophony surrounding the policy
response in our view is one of the reasons why the risk of
contagion has remained and remains high,” said  Silvio Peruzzo ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  Group of Seven financial officials also convened during the
euro ministers meeting, holding a teleconference to discuss
Greece. Two weeks ago, President  Barack Obama  singled out
 Germany  as the key country responsible for preventing an
“uncontrolled spiral of default” in Europe.  Merkel Reversal  Prospects for a second aid package to stave off the euro
area’s first default were lifted by reassurances last week from
European officials that the next aid payment was on track and by
the decision by German Chancellor Angela Merkel to drop calls
for a mandatory bond exchange that might lead credit rating
companies to declare Greece unable to pay its bills.  Merkel’s June 17 concession gave a lift to stocks, bonds
and the euro, spurring optimism that leaders would get ahead of
the debt crisis that has exposed the weaknesses of Europe’s
economic management.  Greek bonds reversed course today, with the 10-year yield
rising 41 basis points to 17.35 percent. Greek bonds yield 14.39
percentage points more than 10-year German bonds, Europe’s
benchmark.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 13 cut Greece by three
levels to CCC, the world’s lowest debt grade.  Ireland and  Portugal  followed Greece in obtaining emergency
loans in the past year.  Spain ’s finances came under the
microscope last week, with investors pushing the extra yield on
10-year Spanish bonds to 261 basis points, the highest weekly
close since January.  Italian Debt  Moody’s Investors Service said June 17 it may cut its Aa2
rating on  Italy , whose 2010 debt amounted to 119 percent of
gross domestic product, Europe’s second highest after Greece.  Greece needs to cover about 4 billion euros of bills
maturing between July 15 and July 22, and faces about 3 billion
euros of coupon payments in the month, according to Bloomberg
calculations. A bigger test comes on Aug. 20, when Greece must
redeem 6.6 billion euros of maturing bonds.  Some 20 billion euros of deficit cuts deepened Greece’s
recession last year, leading to a 4.5 percent economic
contraction. The deficit fell to 10.5 percent of gross domestic
product, missing a 7.5 percent target. The EU predicts a 9.5
percent deficit in 2011.  The new Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, who
was named in Papandreou’s cabinet overhaul three days ago, came
to Luxembourg with a “strong commitment” to the planned 78
billion euros in cuts that provoked street protests last week.  ‘Urgent Need’  “There is an immediate and urgent need to regain the
credibility of the country,” Venizelos said.  More than 47 percent of 1,208 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research SA for  To Vima  newspaper oppose the wage and spending
cuts and higher taxes, and want early elections. Almost 35
percent said the package should be approved.  Fallout from the opposition to the government’s austerity
plans washed into Greek living rooms today as workers at state-
owned  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  hold rolling strikes to protest
Papandreou’s pledge to speed the sale of the utility to meet the
goal of raising 50 billion euros from asset sales by 2015.  Germany, which as Europe’s largest economy is the biggest
guarantor of the aid packages to Greece, Ireland and Portugal,
looked for evidence that Greece’s leaders are united behind an
ambitious economic overhaul.  “If the Greeks can’t or don’t want to make the necessary
decisions, then we can’t move forward on this track,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told German radio. “Greece
must first fulfill the conditions, then we can approve a new
program so that payment of the tranche will be possible.”  Rollovers  The key plank of a second aid package would be a pledge by
banks, insurance companies and asset managers to buy new Greek
bonds to replace maturing ones, instead of European governments
stepping in with taxpayers money.  In their statement, the ministers said the unlocking of
fresh aid depends on working out “voluntary private sector
involvement in the form of informal and voluntary rollovers of
existing Greek debt at maturity.”  While Germany bowed to  European Central Bank  and French
demands not to compel investors to buy new Greek bonds as old
ones expire, the lines are blurry between a “voluntary” and
“compulsory” rollover that would lead rating companies to
declare Greece in default.  On the table are incentives for bondholders to maintain
their exposure to Greece. Crafting the bond-rollover
arrangements puts policymakers on “the edge of the knife,”
Finnish Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  