-- 
Euro, Asia Stocks Drop on Greek Debt Concerns; Oil, Copper Fall

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-06-20T06:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/euro-oil-drop-on-greek-debt-asia-stocks-gain-after-seven-weekly-losses.html
The euro slid, starting a third week
of losses, and Asian stocks fell for a fourth day after European
governments failed to agree on a loan payment to avert Greek
default. Oil and copper led commodities lower.  Europe ’s shared currency weakened 0.6 percent to $1.4225
and retreated for a fourth day against the yen as of 3:02 p.m.
in  Tokyo . The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.6 percent, bound
for the lowest close in three months. Futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.7 percent, while those on the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index slumped 1.2 percent. Crude declined 1.5 percent
in  New York , while copper sank 1.1 percent in London.  Euro-area finance ministers put off a decision on whether
Greece will get the full 12 billion euros ($17.1 billion)
promised for July as they pushed for budget cuts by Prime
Minister  George Papandreou , whose government faces a confidence
motion this week. Stocks earlier gained as companies from  Mazda
Motor Corp. (7261)  to  Olympus Corp. (7733)  forecast improving profits amid a
sell-off that has dragged valuations for the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index down to the lowest level in almost three months.  “While Greece may have invented democracy, they certainly
didn’t invent stability so you could see further pressure on the
euro,” Nick Maroutsos, a  money manager  and co-founder at
Kapstream Capital, said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Sydney. “They need to start implementing stronger austerity
measures but it’s increasingly difficult given the social unrest
and the political volatility that they’re facing.”  Confidence Motion  The euro slid against 11 of its 16 most-actively traded
counterparts and declined 0.3 percent to 114.14 yen. Papandreou
began a three-day debate yesterday on a confidence vote in his
new government as he sought parliamentary approval for a 78
billion-euro ($111 billion) package of budget cuts. Antonis Samaras, leader of  New Democracy , the largest opposition party
in  Greece , repeated his call for elections.  Euro-area finance ministers will decide on a new financing
strategy for Greece by early July, the group said in a statement
distributed to reporters in Luxembourg after talks. The
Australian dollar lost 0.8 percent to $1.0533 while New
Zealand’s currency slid 0.8 percent to 80.63 U.S. cents.  “They’ll come up with a short-term financing deal, which
will answer the immediate funding issues,” Stephen Davies,
chief executive officer of Javelin Wealth Management Ltd., said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in Singapore. “But as far
as resolving the really long-term issues, as in how on earth
Greece and the Greek people afford the interest payments and
principal repayments without cratering the economy, that’s going
to be left for a later day.”  Dollar, Treasuries  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, added 0.5 percent. Yields
on 10-year Treasuries climbed two basis points to 2.93 percent,
heading toward the lowest level this year. Home sales probably
dropped in May to the lowest level this year, while orders
placed with factories gained, economists said before reports
this week. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent on June 17, leaving
the index little changed for the week.  MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index is extending seven consecutive
weekly declines, the losing streak since 2004. Last week’s drop
drove the index’s valuations to 14.2 times reported earnings,
the lowest level since March 30.  Mazda Motor jumped 2.1 percent after the automaker forecast
it will return to profit in the year ending March 31. Olympus
increased 4.3 percent after the optical-equipment maker forecast
profit may more than double.  Caltex Australia Ltd. (CTX) , the nation’s
biggest oil refiner, dropped 6.7 percent after it forecast a
drop in first-half operating profit because of plant disruptions
and higher crude prices.  ‘Further Falls’  “Shares are starting to look good value,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd,
said in an e-mailed note. “But given the list of worries, you
can’t rule out further falls. Europe and other issues mean there
are still a lot of balls in the air, and still a lot of worries
bubbling away in the background.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index sank 1.4 percent
after the Business Standard reported India’s government sought
to tax  capital gains  on investments routed through Mauritius.  China ’s  Shanghai  Composite Index fell 1.1 percent, bound
for the lowest close in almost nine months, after Credit Suisse
Group AG said the country is heading for a “sluggish landing”
as economic growth slows and bank risks rise. Bank of China Ltd.
and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  slipped after the brokerage
cut its recommendation on the shares.  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards fell to 6.3824
in Shanghai, compared with 6.3745 yuan at the end of last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The possibility of a
large appreciation of the yuan is small, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday, citing an unidentified person.  Oil for July delivery slipped 1.5 percent to $91.65 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , retreating for a
second day. Futures fell 2 percent on June 17, capping a 6.3
percent weekly slump that was the steepest since the period
ended May 6. Copper for three-month delivery lost 1.1 percent to
$8,998 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange. Nickel,
aluminum and lead also declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  