-- 
Europe’s Highest Apartments Pierce Clouds in London’s Shard

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-06-21T08:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/europe-s-highest-apartments-pierce-the-clouds-in-london-s-shard.html
No one moves to  London  for the
weather, which is just as well if you buy an apartment at the
top of London’s  Shard skyscraper , the highest in Western Europe.
Residents may sit in or above the clouds on about one in four
days a year, obscuring the spectacular views.  The highest home will be at 735 feet, on the 65th floor of
the 1,016-foot (310-meter) tower near  London Bridge . The bottom
of the city’s cloud layer, known as the cloud ceiling, is at or
below 700 feet for at least an hour for an average of 83 days a
year, according to  AccuWeather Inc . The Pennsylvania-based
forecaster compiled the data in the eight years through 2010.  “You’ll definitely have the experience at some point of
looking out and only seeing the cloud bank below you, almost
like you would in an aircraft,” said Stephan Reinke, a London-
based architect who was one of the designers of the 1-kilometer
(0.6-mile) high Nakheel Tower in Dubai.  The Shard, funded by Sellar Property Group Ltd. and the
Qatar Central Bank, became the U.K.’s tallest building when its
69th floor was constructed in December, overtaking the 771-foot
tower at One Canada Square in the Canary Wharf district. The
pyramid-shaped Shard, designed by Pritzker Prize-winning
architect  Renzo Piano , will have apartments, hotels, offices and
restaurants opposite the City of London by the  River Thames .  ‘Exceptional Views’  Views from the apartments will be “exceptionally good”
for 97 percent of the year, according to  WSP Group Plc (WSH) , which
provides engineering services for the Shard. On a clear day,
residents will be able to see for about 44 miles through their
floor-to-ceiling windows, Sellar Property said.  “Trying to estimate how many days the weather will play a
part in what you see misses the point,” Irvine Sellar, the
company’s chairman, said by e-mail. “The weather is part of the
joys to be had from the views.”  The Shard will have more than twice as much glass as the
London skyscraper known as the Gherkin and will be completed in
time for the 2012  Olympic Games , which will be held in the city.
The 72-story tower will have about 12 apartments, said Baron Phillips, a spokesman for Sellar. He declined to give any prices
because the properties aren’t being offered for sale yet.  London’s highest apartments are currently in the Strata, a
lipstick-shaped building in the Elephant and Castle district,
and Pan Peninsula East Tower in  Canary Wharf . Both are almost
490 feet tall.  Selling prices for homes in the second tower start at
596,000 pounds and 95 percent of them have been bought,
according to the skyscraper’s  website .  Low-Hanging Clouds  “If you have a ceiling at 700 feet, anything above that
would be in the clouds,” Kristina Pydynowski, a senior
meteorologist at AccuWeather, said by phone. “If you have low-
hanging clouds, they would typically be around for several
hours, though that doesn’t necessarily mean the whole day would
be covered.”  The weather service doesn’t gather data on average cloud
thickness.  “The experience of being in a static object above the
clouds is quite wonderful, though a lot of people would be quite
nervous about something like that,” Reinke said by telephone.  The Chicagoan, who has lived in London for 21 years, was
one of the principal designers of the Nakheel Tower before the
development was put on hold following Dubai’s property crash.  Moscow Towers  Europe ’s tallest building is the 300.3-meter City of
Capitals in Moscow, according to  NBBJ , the firm of architects
that designed the development. That will be beaten by the
Russian capital’s Mercury City Tower, which will be 380 meters
tall when it’s completed this year, according to
skyscraperpage.com.  The Shard’s 62,000 square feet of apartments, on floors 53
to 65, will sit above three stories of restaurants, 27 floors of
offices and 19 floors of hotel rooms leased by Shangri-La Asia
Ltd., Asia’s biggest luxury hotelier by market value.  AccuWeather, a closely held weather forecaster for more
than 2 million locations worldwide, used data from  Heathrow
Airport  to compile its data. The company said that the cloud
level is likely to be the same across London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 