-- 
Ex-FIFA Official Warner Says Cash Payments Part of Soccer’s Culture

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-20T16:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/ex-fifa-official-warner-says-cash-payments-part-of-soccer-s-culture.html
Jack Warner , former  FIFA  vice
president, comments on why he quit soccer’s governing body after
almost 30 years. He resigned amid a FIFA investigation into his
conduct by former FBI Director Louis Freeh. Warner and Mohamed Bin Hammam, the head of soccer in  Asia , were alleged to have
attempted to bribe officials to vote for Bin Hammam over FIFA’s
incumbent president, Sepp Blatter. They deny the allegations.  Warner, who’s also minister of Works and Transport in
 Trinidad and Tobago , was speaking in a telephone interview
today.  On FIFA ‘gift’ culture:  “Payments throughout the  Concacaf  and the regions and so
on over the last 30 years have been done for all kinds of
things. But I’m not saying I have seen  Bin Hammam  make payments
at this meeting. If he did, it’s not unusual for such things to
happen and gifts have been around throughout the history of
FIFA. What’s happening now for me is hypocrisy at the highest
level.”  On conflict with regional soccer body Concacaf’s U.S. general
secretary Chuck Blazer:  “Chuck Blazer accused me of not working hard enough for
the U.S. to win the World Cup bidding. I dismissed what he said
to me as nonsense because I did what needed to be done.”  On FIFA President Sepp Blatter:  “At the end of the day I don’t want to be seen to be
vengeful. I am saying over time history will judge Mr. Blatter.
I have no more to say than that.”  On the  World Cup  2018 and 2022 voting:  “ England  has never stopped complaining, nor has the U.S.
ever stopped conspiring. England and the U.S. have never stopped
because they believe they have some kind of divine right to host
a World Cup. In this case they refused to look to see what the
problem is. How can you be England and not have a single European
person voting for you? That’s a question they need to be asking
themselves. And the U.S. believed because it’s the U.S. they
also have an automatic right. They don’t. Nobody has a God-given
right to host the World cup.”  On the effect of British Broadcasting Corp. allegations on
England’s 2018 vote:  “The  BBC  called everybody extorters and bandits and so on.
I felt insulted. I did not believe I should vote for England
anymore because I felt insulted. That was the decision of many
other members of the executive. England could have easily got
nine or 10 votes. They may not have won but they wouldn’t have
been embarrassed. The  BBC  program’s insult to the members was in
my view the last straw.”  On his legacy:  “My years in football are clear. My achievements are
clear. Nobody could change that or write those things off.
There’s no one who could undo my achievements. Look back on
Concacaf over the last 20 years and see whether I have achieved
or not. History will record me either as an achiever or an
underachiever. I don’t need to go on a parapet and trumpet my
achievements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  