-- 
U.S. Economic Pace, Treasury Yields May Remain Low, RBS’s O’Donnell Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-20T16:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/fed-may-be-understating-u-s-economic-soft-patch-rbs-s-o-donnell-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  may have
understated the staying power of negative effects on U.S.
economic growth, according to  William O’Donnell , head U.S.
government bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “Economic growth, or this economic soft patch that we’re
in right now, some of the factors that have growth so weak
relative to expectations, may not be as transitory as the Fed
has hoped,” said O’Donnell in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in
the first quarter, less than the median 2.2 percent increase
forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Forecasts for
the gross domestic product growth rate in the second quarter is
2.3 percent followed by 3.2 percent in the third quarter,
according to the median estimate in separate surveys.  Second- and third-quarter GDP growth may also fall below
forecasts,  Stamford , Connecticut-based O’Donnell said.  Economists have reduced their second-quarter growth
estimates to 2 percent or lower, even though in April the Fed
said first-quarter weakness was caused by transitory factors
such as weather, defense spending and disruptions in auto
production, O’Donnell wrote to clients today.  “The expectations of 3 to 4 percent growth in the second
half of this year, if they start to get dented or come down, I
think the Treasury market could continue to rally,” he said.  O’Donnell said he suspended his forecast on the benchmark
10-year note because of uncertainty surrounding the European
debt crisis. Yields may remain around the 3 percent level in the
near term, he said.  Yields on the 10-year note rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.97 percent in  New York . The yield on the
10-year benchmark hit a 2011 low of 2.88 percent on June 16.
Yields have been steadily declining since April 8 when they
touched 3.61 percent.  -- With assistance from Ken Prewitt in New York. Editors:  Paul Cox , Greg Storey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  