-- 
FIFA Vice President Jack Warner Resigns From All His Soccer Posts

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-20T14:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/fifa-vice-president-jack-warner-resigns-from-all-his-soccer-posts.html
FIFA Vice Chairman  Jack Warner  ended
his near 30-year association with soccer’s governing body today,
resigning from all his posts in the sport before the conclusion
of an inquiry into bribery allegations against him.  Warner, 68, is stepping down immediately, he told the
Zurich-based organization in a letter. As well as his FIFA role,
Warner headed regional soccer body Concacaf and the Caribbean
Football Union.  FIFA , which confirmed his resignation in a statement
today, said his decision means a probe into Warner’s conduct
amid bribery allegations linked to FIFA’s presidential election
is over.  Warner, a member of parliament in  Trinidad and Tobago , said
he’s quitting soccer to put the interests of his country first.
He pledged to help FIFA’s wider corruption investigation, which
includes the conduct of former FIFA presidential candidate
Mohamed  Bin Hammam .  “I reaffirm my offer of cooperation with the FIFA ethics
committee in the resolution of the ongoing investigations into
alleged irregularities pertaining to the recent visit of Mohamed
Bin Hammam to Port of  Spain  to meet with CFU delegates,,”
Warner said in the letter. “I have arrived at this decision in
order to spare FIFA, Concacaf and, in particular, the CFU and
its membership, further acrimony and divisiveness arising from
this and related issues.”  Bundles of Cash  Several members of FIFA’s executive body have been accused
of corruption. Warner and Bin Hammam, the head of soccer in
 Asia , have been suspended while former FBI Director Louis Freeh
investigates claims that $40,000 payments were offered to
Caribbean soccer officials to choose Bin Hammam over incumbent
FIFA President Sepp Blatter in an election this month. Bin
Hammam quit the race hours before being suspended. He and Warner
deny the bribery claims. Blatter was re-elected unopposed.  “FIFA regrets the turn of events that have led to Mr.
Warner’s decision,” FIFA’s statement said. “His resignation
has been accepted by football’s world body and his achievements
for Caribbean football in particular and the Concacaf
confederation are acknowledged and appreciated.”  Warner said in an interview he’d “lost the enthusiasm to
continue” in soccer because some FIFA officials “have sought
to undermine me in ways that are unimaginable.”  The CFU, some of whose members are alleged to have accepted
the bundles of cash, has agreed to meet with Freeh in the
Bahamas after earlier refusing to see officials in Miami.
Representatives from  Suriname  and  Puerto Rico  have told
investigators they received cash.  Warner, who’s also minister of works and transport in his
native Trinidad, had been on FIFA’s executive committee since
1983. He was elected head of the Confederation of North, Central
American and Caribbean Association Football, or Concacaf, seven
years later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  