-- 
FIFA’s Warner Says He Quit Soccer Because He Was Undermined

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-20T17:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/fifa-s-jack-warner-says-he-quit-soccer-posts-because-he-was-undermined.html
FIFA Vice President  Jack Warner  said
he resigned from soccer’s governing body because he lost the
enthusiasm to continue and that people within the organization
“sought to undermine me in ways that are unimaginable.”  The 68-year-old head of the Caribbean Football Union and
Concacaf regional body quit today after FIFA this month hired
FBI Director Louis Freeh to investigate bribery claims against
Warner and Mohamed Bin Hammam, the head of soccer in  Asia . FIFA
said its probe into Warner has ended after he resigned.  Warner and Bin Hammam were suspended from FIFA pending
further investigation on May 29 after Chuck Blazer, a. U.S.
official who worked as Concacaf’s general secretary under Warner
for two decades, alleged the pair tried to bribe Caribbean
voters to choose  Bin Hammam  in FIFA’s presidential election over
incumbent Sepp Blatter.  “I have lost my enthusiasm to continue,” Warner said in a
telephone interview today. “The general secretary that I had
employed, who worked with me for 21 years, with the assistance
of elements of FIFA has sought to undermine me in ways that are
unimaginable.”  Blazer didn’t respond to a voicemail seeking comment. In a
previous interview he said it was his duty to report wrongdoing.  Warner hasn’t been offered immunity although the inquiries
into him “have closed and the presumption of innocence is
maintained,” FIFA said in a release today. His replacement on
its executive board will be determined by Concacaf, it added.  ‘Hung Out to Dry’  Warner, a member of parliament in  Trinidad and Tobago ,
joined Zurich-based FIFA’s top board in 1983, and his control
over votes in the Caribbean and Central American region allowed
him to become one of the most powerful figures in world soccer.  Blatter, 75, won his fourth term as president after Bin
Hammam, his sole challenger, stood down a day before being
suspended by FIFA’s ethics committee. Blatter has announced a
series of initiatives to improve the organization’s corporate
governance and image, and to “deal with its past.”  “This is giving the impression that FIFA is sanitizing
itself,” said Warner, who’s also come under pressure at home
from opposition lawmakers. “I’ve been hung out to dry
continually and I’m not prepared to take that.”  Warner said he regretted not making public a promised
declaration for Blatter in May, when the  FIFA  president lobbied
for votes at the Confederation of North, Central American and
Caribbean Association Football at meeting in Miami. He arranged
for Bin Hammam to visit Caribbean members of the organization a
few days later after Bin Hammam, a Qatari, said his U.S. visa
didn’t arrive on time. Blazer alleged that bundles of $40,000
were given to officials.  FIFA Culture  “I told Mr. Blatter in an e-mail that Mr. Bin Hammam
doesn’t have a chance,” Warner said. “I told Mr. Blatter also
that I would ask Mr. Bin Hammam to withdraw. I told him he has
Concacaf support. Had we announced in Miami, Concacaf support
for Mr. Blatter, all this would never have happened.”  Bin Hammam, 62, has denied claims he tried to buy votes.
Warner said he wasn’t around when the money is said by witnesses
to have changed hands at the Hyatt Regency hotel in Port of
 Spain . Still, he said gift-giving has been part of FIFA culture
during the near 30 years he’s been associated with the
organization.  “It’s not unusual for such things to happen and gifts have
been around throughout the history of FIFA,” Warner said.
“What’s happening now for me is hypocrisy.”  ‘History Will Judge’  During the last several months of Blatter’s third term, 10
of FIFA’s 24-member board were either sanctioned for, or faced
allegations of, impropriety.  “At the end of the day I don’t want to be seen to be
vengeful,” Warner said. “I am saying over time history will
judge Mr. Blatter.”  The current crisis has spooked FIFA’s partners. Companies
like Visa Inc. and  Adidas AG (ADS) , which contribute toward the $4
billion the organization generates from its  World Cup , have
called for FIFA to resolve problems that Coca-Cola Co. described
as “distressing and bad.”  “If FIFA doesn’t go back to its moorings, football in the
world as we know it today will never be the same again,” Warner
said.  Warner said he’ll continue to assist with FIFA’s inquiry
although wouldn’t meet with Freeh because he believed he was
acting on behalf of Blazer and Concacaf lawyer  John Collins .
Collins drafted the original complaint against Warner and Bin
Hammam. He said he felt hurt by Blazer’s actions.  “I don’t know who’s a friend and who’s a foe,” Warner
said. “In retrospect possibly my friends, who I thought of as
my friends, have been foes and possibly my foes have been
friends. In fullness of time I’ll be able to see better who was
foe and who was friend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  