-- 
Barclays, BofA Can’t Block Flyonthewall.Com Reports on Stocks, Court Rules

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-20T21:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/flyonthewall-com-injunction-on-disseminating-news-overturned-by-u-s-court.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  can’t use New York law
to block  Theflyonthewall.com , an online financial news service,
from issuing immediate reports about changes in their stock
ratings, a federal appeals court ruled.  The appeals panel today in Manhattan reversed a lower court
ruling to block Theflyonthewall.com, based in Summit,  New
Jersey , from reporting the upgrades or downgrades of stocks for
two hours or until half an hour after the opening of the New
York Stock Exchange.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan issued the
injunction last year after a four-day trial. Her decision relied
on New York state law, which permits plaintiffs to sue for the
misappropriation of so-called hot news.  “We conclude that in this case, a firm’s ability to make
news -- by issuing a recommendation that is likely to affect the
market price of a security -- does not give rise to a right for
it to control who breaks that news and how,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Robert Sack wrote on behalf of two judges on the three-judge
panel.  In a statement, Theflyonthewall.com called the ruling “a
complete victory in its long-running battle with the investment
firms.”  Law Clarified  Glenn Ostrager, lead counsel for Theflyonthewall.com, said
in the statement that he is pleased the appeals court clarified
the law governing the publication of hot news.
Theflyonthewall.com will continue to publish its daily news
feeds, the company said in the statement.  Cote’s injunction was held up by the appeals court since
May 2010, pending its decision in the case.  “We are disappointed in the court’s decision, and we are
reviewing the decision to determine our next steps,” Benjamin
Marks, a lawyer for the banks, said in a statement. “Each of
the plaintiffs remains committed to protecting their equity
research against unauthorized appropriation. We note that the
appellate court left undisturbed the trial court’s determination
that Theflyonthewall.com had infringed copyrights in equity
research and left in place the injunction against further such
infringement.”  The financial firms said that permitting services like
Theflyonthewall.com to publish the stock recommendations reduced
their value to the firms and their clients, limiting their
incentive to create reports and recommendations.  Business Models  “This, the firms assert, will destroy their business
models,” Sack wrote.  Subscribers to Theflyonthewall.com pay from $25 to $50 a
month for unlimited access to its website, according to today’s
opinion. The company, which employs 28, has about 3,300 direct
subscribers who use the site. About 2,000 use third-party
providers to get the service. Firms including Bloomberg LP and
 Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  distribute Theflyonthewall.com’s content,
Sack said.  Theflyonthewall.com reports recommendations produced by
analysts working for 65 investment firms, including Barclays,
Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, Sack said.  Sack disagreed with the banks’ argument that
Theflyonthewall.com was “free riding” on their research
reports by publishing the upgrades and downgrades.  “The firms are making the news; Fly, despite the firms’
understandable desire to protect their business model, is
breaking it,” Sack wrote.  AP Reaction  The  Associated Press , which joined with 13 other news
organizations in filing a friend-of-the-court brief in the case,
said in a statement that the ruling leaves intact the
traditional legal rule preventing one news organization from
stealing from another, then selling the information in
competition with the organization that gathered the news.  “AP views the Second Circuit’s decision as a victory for
the news media and the public,” it said. “News organizations,
which obtain the news at substantial expense and break it to the
public, continue to be protected against unfair competitors who
would copy and resell this news while it is still fresh, while
incurring little or no cost themselves.”  The panel’s third member, Circuit Judge Reena Raggi, agreed
with the result reached by the other two, basing her conclusion
on different grounds.  The ruling doesn’t affect Cote’s ruling that
Theflyonthewall.com infringed on the firms’ copyrights, which
Theflyonthewall.com didn’t appeal. Cote assessed damages and
attorneys’ fees against the service, according to the ruling
today.  The case is Barclays Capital Inc. v. Theflyonthewall.com
Inc., 10-1372, U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 