-- 
Football Is Deadliest Sport Among Youth Athletes, Study Finds

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-06-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/football-is-deadliest-sport-among-young-american-athletes-research-finds.html
Football accounted for 57 percent of
trauma-related sports deaths among youth, many that would have
been prevented if athletes with head injuries had been kept off
the field, said researchers who analyzed 30 years of data.  The report, which reviewed information from a U.S. registry
of 1,827 sudden deaths of young athletes from 1980 to 2009,
found that 261, or 14 percent, were caused by blunt trauma.  The
study , published today in the journal of Pediatrics, analyzed
data on fatal injuries that occurred during 22 different sports.  Twelve percent of the 138 football deaths caused by head or
neck injuries involved students who returned to the game after a
concussion, researchers said. In some of these “second-impact
syndrome” deaths, athletes were cleared for play despite
symptoms from a previous head injury. More education is needed
for coaches, trainers, parents and students on the consequences
of repeat head blows, the researchers said in the report.  “Second-impact syndrome is avoidable,” said study author
Dr. Barry Maron of the Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation, a
cardiovascular education and research center.  “It’s obviously
a coaching and medical issue to avoid this, independent of the
equipment used, so football players do not return prematurely to
play.”  Symptoms of concussion include headache, dizziness,
disorientation,  memory loss  and seizures, according to the
study.  The deaths analyzed in the report occurred among those
younger than 21 and involved scholastic sports teams as well as
those in youth sports leagues not affiliated with schools. All
the second-impact football deaths occurred among high school
athletes, according to the report.  State Laws  Increased awareness of second-impact syndrome among
football players has led 21 states to enact laws that pull
student athletes from a game after a head injury and set
procedures for allowing them to safely return, according to Gail
Hayes, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention in Atlanta. North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue signed into law  one such bill  on June 16. The New York
state legislature approved a  similar bill  on June 14.  More than 90 percent of the football deaths analyzed came
from head and neck blows that led to subdural hematoma, the
accumulation of blood within the cranium shutting off vital
functions, Maron said. Ten of the deaths were the result of
helmet-to-helmet blows, the study found.  Offensive running back was the single most deadly position
in football, with 33 deaths in 30 years. Sixty-nine deaths
occurred among defensive players, according to the report.  Talking to Students  “Some of the things we talk to the students about are
making them aware of signs and symptoms that are typical of
concussions,” said Todd Nelson, Director of Safety and Risk
Management at  New York  State Public High School Athletic
Association. The group worked with Kemp Hannon, a New York state
senator, on the bill.  “It’s not the old days where you had to shake it off and
get back into the game,” Nelson said.  Among the 22 sports analyzed, track and field was the
second-most deadly sport with 27 fatalities, primarily from pole
vaulters falling outside the padded landing area, according to
the report. Batted balls were the primary reasons for 16 trauma-
related deaths in baseball. Boxing claimed 12 lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  