-- 
Foreign Minister Krishna in Myanmar as India Seeks to Offset China’s Sway

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-06-20T12:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/foreign-minister-krishna-in-myanmar-as-india-seeks-to-offset-china-s-sway.html
India ’s Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna began a three-day visit to Myanmar today, holding the
first high-level talks with the government elected in November
as he seeks to counter  China ’s influence in the country.  Krishna, accompanied by Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao,
will meet Myanmar President Thein Sein to discuss increasing
trade and cooperation in areas such as energy and defense. The
governments will also discuss work on the Kaladan project that
will improve transport links across their border, Krishna told
reporters in  New Delhi  today.  “India wants to strengthen its economic ties with Myanmar,
it doesn’t want it to go completely into the embrace of China,”
said S. Chandrasekharan, director of the South  Asia  Analysis
Group, a  policy-research organization  in New Delhi. “China has
a head start in terms of influence. India started late so it is
now looking to catch up.”  India and China are competing around the world to secure
oil, gas and metals to feed their fast-growing economies. The
two countries are investing in ports, railways and oil and gas
pipelines in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, that give them
access to natural resources and trade routes in the Indian Ocean
region.  November’s elections, the first in Myanmar in two decades,
were won by the military junta-backed Union Solidarity and
Development Party. The  United Nations  condemned the vote for
excluding pro-democracy leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  and about 2,100
political prisoners. Suu Kyi was released from house arrest on
Nov. 13, six days after the poll.  Energy Projects  Myanmar, sandwiched between China and India, Asia’s two
fastest growing economies, is a resource rich country, with a
proven 20 trillion cubic feet (570 billion cubic meters) of
natural gas and mines that are potentially the world’s greatest
source of high-quality rubies and jadeite jade.  Last year, China National Petroleum Corp. started building
oil and gas pipelines across the country, and India approved
plans for Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and GAIL India Ltd. to invest
a combined $1.3 billion in a natural gas project.  Thein Sein met Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in Beijing on
May 27, securing a series of financial agreements, including a
540 million euro ($776 million) line of credit from a government
lender.  Indian bilateral trade with Myanmar has more than doubled
since 2006 and reached $1.5 billion last year, according to
Indian  government figures .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  