-- 
Bank Foreclosure Deal May Include State Choice on Writedowns, Olens Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-21T14:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/foreclosure-settlement-may-include-writedown-option-for-states.html
States may get to choose
individually in a possible nationwide foreclosure settlement
with U.S. banks how to use any money, including whether apply
funds toward principal reductions for borrowers, Georgia
Attorney General Sam Olens said.  Including those choices may broaden support for any accord
among the  attorneys general  who oppose requiring banks to fund
principal writedowns, Olens said in an interview. He estimated
that as many as 20 of his colleagues are opponents.  “While one AG may want to use it for principal writedowns,
other AGs may use it for different methodologies to assist their
constituents,” Olens said yesterday at meeting of state top
legal officers in Chicago.  Attorneys general and federal official are negotiating with
the five largest mortgage servicers in the U.S., including  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , to set standards for
servicing loans and conducting foreclosures. The AGs from all
50 states began investigating banks’ procedures last year.  State and federal officials in March proposed settlement
terms that called for “a substantial portion” of monetary
relief from the banks to fund loan modifications, including
principal reductions.  At least eight attorneys general, including Olens, Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott  and  Florida ’s Pam Bondi, have
publicly opposed principal writedowns as part of any deal.  Housing Market  The March settlement proposal might discourage bank lending
and destroy the housing market, Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt wrote to  Iowa ’s Tom Miller, a Democrat who is leading
negotiations for the states. Olens, Abbott, Bondi and Pruitt are
Republicans.  Geoff Greenwood, Miller’s spokesman, declined to comment on
whether officials have discussed a structure that would give
states the option of using money to fund principal writedowns.  “Principal reduction is on the table and what form it
takes or what it will look like we don’t know because we’re
still discussing it,” he said in a phone interview.  State and federal officials have proposed a national fund
that would in part fund principal reductions, Greenwood said.
Money would also be allocated to states, and they would have
discretion for spending funds for “foreclosure-related
purposes,” he said.  The proposal doesn’t specifically allow states to use the
funds for writedowns or bar them from doing so, he said.  ‘Work in Progress’  “It’s a work in progress,” Greenwood said.  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen who criticized
Bank of America in a May 20 letter for “failing to devote
adequate resources” to servicing loans in the state, is
planning to meet with other banks about their mortgage-servicing
operations, he said in an interview yesterday.  Jepsen said he has the same concerns about other major
servicers that he has about Bank of America.  When asked if he may sue Bank of America, Jepsen said,
“Everything’s on the table.” He wants to see what comes out of
the national settlement negotiations, he said.  “We want the banks to commit the resources that will allow
them to deal adequately with the current crisis,” he said.
“It’s hard to see how the national banks can do what needs to
be done without a commitment of money, staff and a set of best
practices.”  Bank of America  In response to Jepsen’s letter, Bank of America spokesman
T.J. Crawford in May said the bank would continue to work with
the attorney general to address his concerns. Since January
2009, the bank has expanded staffing in default servicing
threefold, he said in an email.  In an interview at the Chicago meeting, Iowa’s Miller
declined to comment about details of the negotiations with the
banks. Besides Bank of America and JPMorgan, state and federal
officials are also negotiating with  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc.  Miller said he hopes principal reduction will be part of
any settlement.  “It’s important to take the time necessary to get the
agreement right,” he said. “I think there’s a meaningful
chance we will reach an agreement that’s good for the homeowner
and good for the housing market.”  Olens said requiring banks to fund principal reductions
will prompt some borrowers who are otherwise capable of meeting
their loan obligations to stop making payments while waiting for
“the panacea,” he said.  “It’s got to be done fairly,” Olens said, acknowledging
that many borrowers lost equity in their homes during the
recession. “My house lost 20 percent. I’m not immune.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in Chicago
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  