-- 
Foreign Direct U.S. Investment Rebounding, White House Says

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-06-20T16:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/foreign-direct-u-s-investment-rebounding-white-house-says-2-.html
Foreign direct investment in the
U.S. increased by 49 percent in 2010, rebounding from 2009
levels during the credit crunch, according to a report by the
 White House Council of Economic Advisers  released today.  President  Barack Obama  said in an e-mailed statement that
his administration’s “open investment policy” has helped fuel
economic growth and  job creation .  “By voting with their balance sheets, businesses from
abroad have clearly stated that the  United States  is one of the
best places in the world to invest,” Obama said in the
statement.  Seventeen months before the presidential election, Obama is
seeking to convince voters that his economic policies will help
lead to long-term growth even as recent data shows the economy
is slowing.  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
 Labor Department  figures released June 3 showed. Industrial
production in the U.S. rose less than forecast in May,
restrained by a slump in utility output and shortages of auto
parts from  Japan .  Consumer purchases in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
April as food and fuel prices climbed, and pending sales of
existing houses plunged, showing the economy was struggling to
strengthen at the start of the second quarter.  ‘Every Tool’  The president said foreign direct investment is
particularly important “at a time where we need to use every
tool in our toolbox to continue to put Americans back to work
and grow the economy here at home.”  The U.S., which has the most foreign direct investment of
any nation in the world, has been the beneficiary of a growing
number of companies with headquarters in other countries doing
business in the U.S., including building new warehouses, service
centers, and research and development facilities, according to
the report.  “This remains the most competitive and most desirable
place for investment in the world and that investment has had a
great impact on the economy,” said  Austan Goolsbee , the head of
the  White House Council of Economic Advisers , in a conference
call with reporters today. Goolsbee said the administration’s
foreign direct investment policy could help the president meet
his goal of doubling U.S. exports by 2015.  Low Barriers  The analysis concludes that the nation’s open economy and
low barriers to foreign capital have helped make the U.S. an
attractive investment. According to the report, in 2010 almost
90 percent of U.S. inbound foreign direct investment was from
corporations based in  Canada ,  Europe  and Japan.  Republicans, including former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the frontrunner for the party’s presidential nomination
in several polls, are using recent economic data to make the
case that Obama’s economic policies are failing.  Global investors increased their cash holdings to the
highest level in a year this month as  hedge funds  slashed the
amount of borrowed money invested in stocks, a survey by Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit showed on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  