-- 
Forint Drops Before Central Bank Vote as Greece Concerns Weigh

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-06-20T08:12:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/forint-drops-before-central-bank-vote-as-greece-concerns-weigh.html
The forint weakened ahead of a
central bank vote on  interest rates  and after European
governments failed to agree on a loan payment to avert a Greek
default.  The Hungarian currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 269.18
per euro by 9:37 a.m. in Budapest, extending its losses in the
past week to 1.4 percent. The yield on the  government bonds 
maturing in June 2022 rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.292 percent.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will keep the two-week deposit rate
at 6 percent today, according to all 21 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in
Budapest. The rate-setting Monetary Council is also scheduled to
sign off on the quarterly inflation report, which will include a
forecast on the direction of the main rate.  “We expect the National Bank of  Hungary  to once again
leave its policy rate on hold,” strategists at UniCredit SpA
including Gillian Edgeworth in  London  wrote in a research note
yesterday. “But the NBH cannot afford to take its eye off
financial stability,” the UniCredit strategists said. “While
Hungary has very little in terms of direct trade or financial
exposure to  Greece , the banking sector remains its weak spot.”  Euro-area finance ministers put off a decision on whether
Greece will get the full 12 billion euros ($17.1 billion)
promised for July as they pushed for budget cuts by Prime
Minister  George Papandreou , whose government faces a confidence
motion this week.  Hungary’s benchmark BUX index of shares slid 0.3 percent to
22,624.91, led by Mol Nyrt., the country’s biggest refiner, and
OTP Bank Nyrt., the biggest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  