-- 
SABMiller Deal Discipline Tested by Mackay’s $10 Billion Foster’s Pursuit

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-06-22T02:04:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/foster-s-rejects-unsolicited-sabmiller-takeover-approach-at-a-4-90-a-share.html
In building  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  from
 Africa ’s biggest brewer to the world’s second-largest by volume,
Chief Executive Officer Graham Mackay has earned a reputation
for not paying too much for purchases. His desire to snare
 Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  will test that discipline.  SABMiller said yesterday it will continue to pursue
Australia’s biggest brewer after Foster’s rejected a A$9.5
billion ($10 billion) offer at A$4.90 a share. London-based
SABMiller may have to raise its offer by 8.2 percent to A$5.30 a
share to secure a friendly takeover, according to the median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “They have a management ethos of not overpaying for an
asset,” said Samar Chand, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
London. “SABMiller will make another bid, but it won’t be a
step-change increase from where we are now.”  Mackay has made more than two dozen acquisitions since he
moved the company’s listing to London in 1999, though he’s
passed on many of the industry’s biggest deals since 2008. He
shunned buying the beer unit of Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB
last year after rival  Heineken NV (HEIA)  paid up a price it deemed too
high. Foster’s, the most profitable independent major brewer,
would be his biggest purchase yet and add about half the
Australian beer market to SABMiller’s portfolio.  “We expect SABMiller to return with a higher bid, though
question whether it can meet our view of the board’s
expectations,” said Andy Bowley, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.,
who estimated the board of Melbourne-based Foster’s wants an
offer of A$5.40 to A$5.50 a share. He has a “hold” rating on
Foster’s.  Stock Decline  Foster’s rose 1.6 percent to A$5.22 at 11:44 a.m in Sydney
trading after gaining 13 percent yesterday, the largest advance
in 25 years. SABMiller dropped 79 pence, or 3.6 percent, to
2,103 pence in  London  trading, the biggest decline since Jan.
19. SABMiller’s stock has risen almost fivefold since it listed
in London at 428 pence in 1999. Heineken shares have gained
about 35 percent in that period.  The offer for Foster’s “is expensive already,” said
 Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Groep in Amsterdam. “You only
have to look at the SABMiller share price to know that.”  SABMiller’s offer for Foster’s, which last month split off
its wine business, values the company at about 11.8 times the
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
reported by the beer division last year. Nomura estimates that
the average multiple for key transactions in the beer industry
in the past five years was an enterprise value of 13 times
earnings.  Emerging Markets  The bid “is the first step, and then they will start
talks” with the Foster’s board, said Rijk. In past brewing
transactions where the bidder’s first proposal was rejected,
offers were accepted at about 10 to 15 percent higher than the
original bid, he said. InBev NV raised its 2008 bid for
Anheuser-Busch Cos. to $70 from $65 before gaining control of
the Budweiser maker.  SABMiller has a higher exposure to emerging markets than
most rivals and is therefore considered to have less to lose by
increasing its exposure to developed markets. The percentage of
earnings from markets outside the U.S. and western  Europe  would
drop to about 70 percent after buying Foster’s, from more than
80 percent now, Deutsche Bank AG analyst Jonathan Fell
estimated.  Higher Offer  “SABMiller, or another potential suitor, will need to
offer above A$5 per share for the Foster’s board to recommend a
bid to shareholders,” Nomura analysts including David Cooke
said in a note to investors yesterday. Nomura estimates A$5.10
is fair value for the company and that potential buyers “could
find it difficult to bid much further above A$5.10 per share
given the subdued growth returns profile” of Foster’s.  An acquisition may boost SABMiller’s profit margins.
Foster’s beer business had an operating margin of about 38
percent in the 2010 fiscal year, the company said in a
presentation to investors in February. That compares with
SABMiller’s profit margin of 22 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  SABMiller said the proposed takeover will be funded from
existing resources and new debt facilities. The brewer plans to
fund the bid with about $10 billion of debt, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the situation. The company’s net
debt to Ebitda ratio would increase to 3.6 times from 1.3 times,
according to estimates by Ian Shackleton, an analyst at Nomura
in London.  ‘Resilient’ Australian Economy  Acquiring Foster’s would give SABMiller access to a
“resilient” economy in  Australia , with increasing disposable
income, CEO Mackay said yesterday. The company has a “sound
understanding” of the Australian market, he said, and can
improve revenue growth by selling more higher-priced beer.  The bid may spark a takeover battle for Foster’s.  Japan ’s
Asahi Breweries Ltd. and  Mexico ’s Grupo Modelo SAB de CV are
among rivals that may make offers, according to analysts.
SABMiller may have to raise its bid by about 13 percent based on
the price paid by Kirin Holdings Co. for Lion Nathan Ltd.,
Australia’s second-largest brewer, in 2009, said Dirk Van Vlaanderen, an analyst at Jefferies International in London.  “We expect SABMiller to return with a better offer given
that the first offer, whilst looking to be reasonable on
valuation, is by no means punchy,” Shore Capital analysts said
in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  