-- 
French Power Exports to Germany Rise Amid Record Low Dam Output

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-20T16:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/french-power-exports-to-germany-rise-amid-record-low-dam-output.html
France  was a net exporter of power
to Germany for a second month in May after a decision by German
Chancellor Angela Merkel to keep shut nuclear  power plants .  France exported a net 956 gigawatt-hours of electricity
last month to Germany, with the absolute level of exports rising
70 percent compared with the same month last year, according to
data posted on the website of French grid  Reseau de Transport
d’Electricite .  The increase came during a month when French hydroelectric
output was the lowest in 50 years due to a drought, RTE said.
Nuclear output was higher.  France, which gets three-quarters of its power from 58
nuclear reactors, has criticized Merkel’s decision to keep shut
the country’s seven oldest reactors plus another atomic station
and exit nuclear power completely by 2022. French ministers and
lawmakers have said the resulting lower generating capacity will
make  Germany  more reliant on French atomic power, possibly
putting strain on European power markets.  French power exports to Germany surged 54 percent during
the first five months of the year while imports dropped 45
percent, the industry ministry has said. The trend is a reversal
of last year when France,  Europe ’s second biggest electricity
market after Germany, was a net power importer from its
northeastern neighbor.  Output from Electricite de France SA’s nuclear reactors has
risen 7.2 percent since the start of the year while
hydroelectric output was down 46 percent in May and 30 percent
since the start of the year, RTE data showed.  French Dams  Production from French dams, mostly operated by EDF and  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  SA, fell to the lowest level since 1961 when capacity was
just half of what it is currently, the grid said. French
installed wind power capacity reached 6,000 megawatts.  France faces the prospect of having to rely on electricity
imports in August and September should the dry weather continue
and temperatures rise to higher than normal levels, according to
a forecast published this month by the grid.  Since the Fukushima disaster in  Japan  in March, French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is facing an election next year,
has vowed to continue to invest in the atomic industry. This
contrasts with the German and Swiss decisions to phase out the
energy and results of an Italian referendum to ban the energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  