-- 
French Industry Minister Rejects Poll Backing Nuclear Withdrawal

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-20T10:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/french-industry-minister-rejects-poll-backing-nuclear-withdrawal.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson
rejected the findings of an opinion poll that called for the
gradual phasing-out of the country’s 58 nuclear reactors.  “I don’t think it would be a good thing for the French,
for our economy, for employment and for our competitiveness and
our purchasing power” if the country abandoned atomic power,
Besson told RMC radio today. “What would be the cost in terms
of energy independence?”  France , which depends on nuclear power for about three
quarters of its electricity, should “progressively” exit from
atomic energy, according to 60 percent of respondents to a
Viavoice opinion poll published in today’s Liberation newspaper.
Thirty-five percent are against the change, the newspaper said.  Surveys in France since reactor meltdowns in  Japan  in March
have indicated mixed support for the future of an industry that
employs an estimated 200,000 people including workers at
Electricite de France SA’s reactors. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has announced a plan to switch off the country’s atomic
reactors by 2022 while Swiss lawmakers this month voted to back
the government’s plan to phase out the energy by 2034. Italians
voted in a referendum this month to ban nuclear power.  Fifty-one percent of respondents in an Ifop survey
commissioned by the European Green party published March 21 said
France’s reactors, along with its nuclear  energy policy , should
be phased out in the next 25 years. Just 19 percent wanted a
more rapid pullout.  Higher Costs  A TNS Sofres poll organized by Paris-based Electricite de
France SA, operator of the country’s reactors, found that 55
percent of those surveyed were against abandoning nuclear
energy, even as 68 percent said an accident like Fukushima was
possible in France.  “I don’t think the same French who are saying they want to
get out of nuclear would accept to pay 50 or 60 percent more for
their power,” Besson said today. “For a generation, we don’t
have another solution to produce low cost energy.”  Besson said renewable energies made from  wind turbines  and
solar panels can be used intermittently when weather conditions
permit energy production, though only nuclear, large
hydroelectric and thermal installations can provide reliable
base power.  “The key is to discover how to store” solar energy, he
said. “Imagine having in your car a giant battery that would
allow you to store solar energy, I would be the first to say
let’s get out of nuclear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  