-- 
Fukushima Disaster Failures Kept Behind Closed Doors at UN Atomic Meeting

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-06-20T16:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/fukushima-disaster-failures-kept-behind-closed-doors-at-un-atomic-meeting.html
The United Nations nuclear agency’s
decision to hold talks about the Fukushima disaster behind
closed doors this week ignores the “blindingly obvious” need
for greater transparency, said a former official in the U.K.
atomic industry.  “People deserve openness from the industry and its
regulators,” Malcolm Grimston, a former information officer at
the U.K.’s Atomic Energy Authority who is a London-based policy
adviser at  Chatham House , said in a June 17 interview. “It is
blindingly obvious that greater transparency is needed.”  The crisis, which involved three reactor meltdowns, has
been dogged by complaints that the plant operator and safety
watchdogs haven’t been transparent enough. The  International
Atomic Energy Agency ’s decision to shield the inquiry in Vienna
from public view may backfire, analysts and scientists said.  The handpicked participants include scientists, diplomats
and people from the industry who will have a chance to question
Japanese authorities about what went wrong in the worst nuclear
disaster in 25 years. Journalists are excluded.  IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano called the ministerial
meeting to learn lessons from the March 11 accident and plot
strategies to improve nuclear safety. While the agency, which
operates under the slogan “Atoms for Peace,” will give public
access to delegates’ opening statements, it’s locking down panel
discussions on Tokyo Electric Power Co’s response to the
accident and how nuclear safety can be improved after Fukushima.  Underestimating Risks  An IAEA team that visited  Japan  to investigate concluded
that regulators underestimated the risk because they mainly
relied on recent earthquake data, and didn’t adhere to the
agency’s guidelines recommending the use of information on
historical and pre-historic temblors, according to a  report 
released in Vienna today. Authorities also failed to review and
approve provisions for safeguarding against tsunami hazards
recommended by IAEA experts in 2002, it said.  Tepco has been criticized for a slow response to the
accident and for publishing erroneous radiation data, while the
government-run Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency has been
blamed for not ensuring the utility heeded warnings that a
tsunami could overwhelm the plant’s defenses.  ‘Detailed and Technical’  “This meeting should have been set up to establish a
technical baseline assuring that the agency will have all the
facts it needs in the next six months for an independent
assessment,” said  Mark Hibbs , a senior nuclear analyst at the
 Carnegie Endowment  in Berlin, in a June 17 telephone interview.
That probably won’t happen as ministers attending the sessions
get bogged down in “expressing generalities,” he said.  The Fukushima meetings will be closed “because of the
highly detailed and technical nature of the drafting work,”
 IAEA  spokeswoman Gill Tudor said in a June 17 response to e-
mailed questions. Summaries of the sessions will be made public,
she said.  Bloomberg News has filed a Freedom of Information Act
 request  to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission seeking
greater disclosure from meetings where decisions about
international nuclear safety are made.  Government ministers, nuclear regulators and power
operators from the IAEA’s 151 member states will meet for five
days in the Austrian capital. Japan’s Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  as well as the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  and French Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet are expected to attend.  Power Shortages  Kaieda said on June 18 the government has inspected all
nuclear plants in Japan, the third-biggest user of atomic energy
after the U.S. and  France , and concluded they have taken steps
to avoid a repeat of Fukushima.  Reactors down for regular maintenance should start as soon
as the checks are completed to avoid power shortages, Kaida said
in a statement.  The governors of the 14 prefectures with nuclear  power
plants  sent a letter on May 31 to the trade ministry asking for
new safety guidelines, according to a copy obtained by
Bloomberg. The governors agreed to hold off approving the
restarts of reactors, Issei Nishikawa, the governor of Fukui
prefecture, said in an interview earlier this month.  All reactors around the world should be stress-tested for
natural disasters, a group of concerned scientists and industry
heads said in a letter to Amano on May 31.  ‘Never Again’  “The reassessments should include an extremely careful
site- and design-specific search process to ensure that
extremely low-probability events and combinations of events have
been identified and taken into account,” the group said in a
proposal entitled “Never Again” to the IAEA on May 31.  The group includes among its members Adolf Birkhofer, a
former chair of the German Reactor Safety Commission, and Sam
Harbison, a former chief inspector of U.K. nuclear facilities.  Fukushima is “one of the most serious and complex
disasters which human beings have ever had to deal with,” Amano
said today in a speech. He appealed to IAEA members to overcome
national “financial difficulties” and give the agency more
money to increase nuclear safety oversight.  The centerpiece of Amano’s proposal would see reactor
operators worldwide subject to random safety reviews within the
next 18 months. “The knowledge that any plant could be subject
to review would give operators an additional incentive to
implement the highest safety standards,” he said.  Displaced Families  The reactors at the Fukushima plant had meltdowns after an
earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup generators,
crippling its cooling systems. The disaster displaced 50,000
households because of radiation leaks.  Japan in April raised the severity rating of the crisis to
7, the highest on an international scale and the same as the
1986 Chernobyl disaster.  “Technical organizations should be predictive and
analytical,” said former IAEA Director and U.S. nuclear
engineer Robert Kelley in a June 17 telephone call. “What
Fukushima showed is that the IAEA is primarily a political
organization beholden to its members.”  The IAEA came under fire from member states in the weeks
after the accident for not conducting independent analysis.
Amano, a Japanese diplomat before taking over the agency in
2009, repeatedly said that the IAEA’s role was limited to
corroborating what Japanese authorities reported.  “The information coming out of Japan was backward looking
and reactive,” Grimston said. “There wasn’t a sense of
importance in keeping the public informed about future events.”  While Amano blamed Japanese authorities for being slow to
share information, more transparency by the UN agency itself
would have benefited people threatened by the accident, Kelley
said. Releasing weather maps forecasting where radioactive
elements would be deposited could have helped the Japanese
public, he said.  “Information was slow in coming and the IAEA never seemed
to be the go-to place when it finally did arrive,” Kelley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  