-- 
G-20 Ministers Must Include Biofuels in Food Debate, Oxfam Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/g-20-ministers-must-include-biofuels-in-food-debate-oxfam-says.html
Agriculture ministers from the Group
of 20 nations should tackle food price volatility by getting rid
of biofuel subsidies and boosting efforts to increase food
reserves when they meet this week, Oxfam said.  The ministers, who are holding talks in Paris June 22-23,
said last week they would improve crop production, increase
market transparency, help manage food prices, strengthen
international policy and improve derivatives markets, in an
effort to decrease price volatility. Oxfam, an international
charity which released two reports on the food crisis today,
said in an e-mailed statement the ministers “did not go far
enough.”  Subsidies for biofuels including ethanol made from sugar
and corn, and biodiesel made from soybeans should be eliminated,
Oxfam said. Production and usage targets for biofuels should be
adjusted when commodity supplies used to make food are low,
Katia Maia, Oxfam’s Grow campaign head, said in the statement
released today.  “A recent interagency report to the G-20 on food price
volatility made it crystal clear that biofuels were part of the
problem,” Maia said in the statement. “The G-20 must urgently
remove biofuels subsidies and mandates that are increasing price
volatility. The G-20 must also have immediate contingency plans
to adjust their biofuels targets when food supplies are
endangered.”  Global Hunger  The  United Nations  Food Price Index last month neared a
record set in February. The  World Bank  estimates that 44 million
more people fell below the poverty line in the last half of 2010
due to high prices. According to the United Nations’ World Food
Programme around 1 billion people, or one in seven, around the
world are hungry.  French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said on June 17
there will be no agreement at the meeting on biofuels, which is
a “very sensitive subject.”  Agriculture ministers who released a preliminary report
last week aren’t doing enough to end food shortages, Oxfam said
in the statement, adding that global grain stocks are
dangerously low.  One way to deal with renewed price volatility would be to
bolster food reserves, said Thierry Kesteloot, co-author of an
Oxfam report called Preparing for Thin Cows. Living on a Spike
is the name of the second report released today, which was
written by Oxfam and the Institute of Development Studies, a
global charity. It looks at the how people have been affected by
rising food prices during the past few years.  “The prevailing view that food reserves in themselves
don’t work is unsophisticated and short-sighted," Kesteloot
said. ‘‘We’ve already seen the huge human cost of countries not
having food reserves."  -- Editors: Sharon Lindores, John Deane  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  