-- 
Gazprom Sees 2011 Europe Export Revenue Rising 37% on Prices

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-06-20T14:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/gazprom-sees-2011-export-revenue-surge-to-more-than-60-billion.html
OAO Gazprom expects revenue from
natural-gas exports to  Europe  to jump 37 percent this year after
prices for the fuel rose and demand recovered.  Sales may exceed $60 billion, compared with almost $44
billion last year, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Alexander Medvedev told reporters today in Moscow.  Gazprom, which meets a quarter of Europe’s gas demand, may
export as much as 159 billion cubic meters this year, Medvedev
said last week. Exports are expected to be at least 155 billion
cubic meters in 2011, he said. Europe is Gazprom’s biggest
market by revenue as domestic prices are still capped.  The producer sold about 139 billion cubic meters to Europe
last year, including 34 billion to  Germany , its biggest customer
outside the former  Soviet Union , it said in materials
distributed to reporters today.  Gazprom Export, the export arm of the gas producer, will
start combining sales to the former Soviet Union when reporting
total export revenue, Medvedev said. Combined export revenue
totaled $36.3 billion in the first five months of the year.  “This means we will have a record year this year,”
Medvedev said. Combined exports hit a record of $81.6 billion in
2008, he said.  Price Talks  The Moscow-based exporter is holding another round of talks
with some of its largest European partners on gas supply
contracts, Medvedev said, when asked about negotiations with EON
AG, Eni SpA and GDF Suez SA.  GDF Suez, Europe’s largest natural-gas network operator,
and German utility EON were among European gas buyers that
negotiated a higher weighting for spot-gas prices in their
multiyear contracts with suppliers including Gazprom last year.  Medvedev declined to reveal the essence of this year’s
talks or elaborate on timing. He said the exporter reached
“very balanced” conditions with partners including GasTerra BV
and Edison SpA recently, preserving the oil-linked prices.  GDF Suez Vice-Chairman Jean-Francois Cirelli said last
month that there’s “a lot of pressure” on the European gas
market, which can no longer abide by a two-tier pricing for gas.  Gazprom expects its average price to be about $400 per
1,000 cubic meters this year, while forecasting spot prices for
the winter of 2011-2012 of more than $400.  While there is still a risk that a gap between the two
prices could widen because of increasing oil prices, “many
illusions about the  spot market  are disappearing,” Medvedev
said.  Gazprom received $1.2 billion in December and May in
payments for gas that was contracted but not taken under a so-
called take-or-pay agreement, Medvedev said. An additional $1
billion is expected from  Turkey , he said, adding that the total
amount equals 7.2 billion cubic meters of gas that would
otherwise have been supplied. That compares with $1.2 billion,
or 4.1 billion cubic meters, that wasn’t taken in 2009, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  