-- 
Global Rise in Cancer Cost $300 Billion in 2010, Harvard Economist Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-06-23T21:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/global-rise-in-cancer-cost-300-billion-in-2010-harvard-economist-says.html
(Corrects cost of pulmonary disease in fifth paragraph of
story published June 20.)  Newly diagnosed cancer cases cost
the global economy $300 billion in 2010, as illnesses once
believed to be largely confined to wealthier countries took hold
in developing nations, a Harvard University economist said.  Tobacco use, alcohol intake, obesity and decreased physical
activity have grown in poorer countries, causing the rise of
cancer and diabetes, said  David E. Bloom , professor of economics
and demography at Harvard’s School of  Public Health  in  Boston .
Bloom and other researchers held a briefing today in advance of
the United Nations  High Level Meeting on noncommunicable
diseases.   The Sept. 19-20 meeting will be the first gathering of the
UN Assembly dealing with cancer, cardiovascular illness, chronic
lung conditions and diabetes. These diseases cause 60 percent of
deaths worldwide, killing 36.1 million people annually,
according to an  April report  by the  World Health Organization .  “Noncommunicable diseases will evolve into a staggering
economic burden in the coming years,” Bloom said. “It’s a huge
impediment to the mitigation of poverty.”  Bloom said treating newly diagnosed cancer cases cost $300
billion globally in 2010, and obstructive pulmonary disease --
often correlated with smoking tobacco -- costs $400 billion a
year.  Not Confined to Health  “Economic policy makers like ministers of finance and
ministers of planning see noncommunicable diseases as an issue
confined to the health sector,” a misperception that needs to
be addressed, Bloom said. “Dangers of NCDs are well-ensconced
in the business screen of the world community,” he said.  The global decline in productivity due to illness and
deaths from noncommunicable diseases will reach $35 trillion by
2030, Bloom said, an amount seven times larger than the current
level of global health spending. Noncommunicable diseases
undermine physical and human capital, as losses of labor put a
burden on  developing countries , he said.  “The main asset the poor possess is their labor, and that
is the most threatened by the noncommunicable diseases,” Bloom
said.  Cary Adams, chief executive officer of the Union for
International Cancer Control, said people in poorer countries
were “getting fatter, lazier, smoking too much tobacco, and
eating unhealthy food.”  “It is the poorest people in the poorest nations that
suffer the most,” said John Seffrin, CEO of the  American Cancer
Society , at the briefing.  Poverty Cycle  Seffrin said more than 80 percent of noncommunicable
diseases occur in low and middle-income countries.
“Noncommunicable diseases perpetuate the poverty cycle,” he
said.  The estimate of the costs of noncommunicable diseases
includes medical care, transportation, information and education
campaigns, and productivity losses from those who die, Bloom
said. Of 14,000 business executives surveyed worldwide, he said
half believed that noncommunicable diseases would have a
negative impact on their bottom line.  “Think about health spending as not consumption but
investment,” said Bloom. “As investment that yields a handsome
rate of return.”  “This is a moral issue,” Seffrin said. “Unlike other
health problems in the past, we know what’s coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 