-- 
Surge in Liquefied Natural Gas Fleet Risks Worker Shortage, Recruiter Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-06-20T15:07:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/global-job-vacancies-triple-for-lng-vessel-staff-recruiter-says.html
Expansion in the global fleet of
liquefied natural gas tankers may cause a shortage of shore-
based workers qualified to manage the ships, said Faststream
Ltd., the largest recruiter for the industry.  “Shipowners are going to be hard pressed to find the right
people to manage these complex vessels,” Southampton, England-
based Chief Executive Officer Mark Charman said by e-mail today.
“Many of our clients are looking for people and keeping one eye
open all the time, and they just can’t find the candidates they
need,” he said later by phone.  LNG demand is surging as  Japan , buyer of a third of the
world’s cargoes, seeks alternative fuels after 57 percent of its
nuclear power was closed following radiation leaks from Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. That’s spurring
owners to order more vessels at a time when earnings from other
shipping markets are slumping.  While LNG technical superintendents working ashore usually
earn between 62,000 pounds ($100,500) and 65,000 pounds a year,
they can make as much as 80,000 pounds tax-free working as
captains, Charman said in an interview. That’s forcing owners to
recruit from other areas of the shipping industry, meaning
candidates may lack the necessary expertise for LNG, he said.  More Job Openings  Faststream  has had 30 shore-based vacancies to manage LNG
tankers so far this year, compared with eight for all of 2010,
according to Charman. The complexities include different
propulsion systems and the requirement to chill LNG cargoes to
keep them in liquid form, he said.  New carriers ordered this year will expand LNG shipping
capacity to 380 billion cubic meters (13.4 trillion cubic feet)
by 2015 from 300 billion cubic meters today, said Charman. He
also said employee shortages are most acute in  Europe , with U.K.
immigration limits preventing hiring of experienced workers from
outside the region.  Use of the fuel may be entering a “golden age,” the
 International Energy Agency  said June 6, predicting a 50 percent
jump in demand by 2035 on higher consumption in  China  and the
 Middle East . Japan’s gas needs may gain 13 percent to a record
in the next 12 months, according to the agency.  Demand for fuel that’s liquefied by cooling natural gas to
about minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit will reach a record this year
as nations from the U.K. to South Korea increase curbs on
pollution,  Barclays Capital  estimates. Natural gas emits about
half as much carbon dioxide as coal. Owners are sailing the 900-
foot tankers that carry LNG at the highest speeds in at least
three years as the rush for fuel erodes a decade-long glut of
the ships.  Twenty-four LNG tankers have been ordered at shipbuilders
in  South Korea  and China in 2011, according to data from
 Clarkson Research Services Ltd. , a unit of Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker. There are 44 ships contracted and
362 LNG carriers in service, Clarkson data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  