-- 
Gold Rises for Fifth Session on Demand for Haven Amid Greek Debt Concerns

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-20T18:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/gold-rises-as-stalled-greek-debt-plan-renews-demand-for-a-haven.html
Gold rose for the fifth straight
session as negotiations for a Greek bailout stalled, boosting
the appeal of the precious metal as an investment haven.  Equity markets fell in  Europe  after the continent’s finance
leaders said further aid to Greece is dependent on the country
enacting austerity measures including asset sales and budget
cuts. Gold priced in British pounds reached a record.  “There’s a lot of nervous trades over the Greek debt
situation,” said  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC
in Chicago. “Investors are seeking stability and safety. Gold
is the international currency.”  Gold futures for August delivery rose $2.90, or 0.2
percent, to settle at $1,542 an ounce at 1:45 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York . The price climbed 0.6 percent last week.  The precious metal touched a record $1,577.40 on May 2 as
escalating sovereign-debt woes and record-low U.S. borrowing
costs increased the appeal of bullion as an alternative to
currencies. Gold denominated in euros reached an all-time high
on May 25.  “Gold is the most comfortable trade to be in,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock in
Chicago. “Gold will replace the dollar as the flight-to-safety
instrument until the U.S. can get their house in order.”  The metal has gained 24 percent in the past year as the
dollar slumped.  Gold’s gains were limited after the euro and European
equities pared earlier losses. Luxembourg’s Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said his Greek counterpart  George Papandreou 
assured him the government would do everything to ensure
financial aid from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund .  Silver, Platinum  Silver futures for July delivery rose 32.3 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $36.071 an ounce on the Comex. The metal fell 1.6
percent last week.  Platinum futures for July delivery fell $21.60, or 1.2
percent, to $1,730.50 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Palladium futures for September delivery rose $2.80, or 0.4
percent, to $748.20 an ounce on the Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 