-- 
Google Plans to Digitise 250,000 Out-Of-Copyright Books of British Library

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-20T12:06:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/google-digitises-250-000-out-of-copyright-british-library-books.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Internet search engine, plans to scan 250,000 out-of-copyright
books for the British Library as it expands its digital book
program with more libraries.  Google, which has already made available on the Internet
more than 13 million books through deals with libraries, will
scan texts from the 18th and 19th centuries over three years,
according to spokesman Peter Barron.  “The public domain material is an important part of the
world’s heritage and we’re proud to be working with the British
Library to open it up to millions of people in the U.K. and
abroad,” Barron said in a statement.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, will fund the
cost of the scanning program. The search engine has agreements
with more than 40 libraries to scan their collections. In the
U.S. the company has been seeking to scan out-of-print books
still protected by copyright law.  The British Library formerly had a partnership with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to make available 65,000 books. “It’s not the
beginning of our partnerships, and it’s certainly not the end,”
said Lynne Brindley, chief executive of the British Library.  Google is trying to rehabilitate its image in  Europe  after
years of rankling regulators, artists, publishers and privacy
advocates in the region. The company has pledged increased
hiring, more respect for intellectual property and improved
privacy safeguards to win over critics.  Europe is home to some of Google’s most loyal customers.
Its search engine had an 88 percent market share in March,
compared with 66 percent in the U.S., where Yahoo! Inc. and
Microsoft Corp.’s Bing are stronger competitors, according to
comScore Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  