-- 
Greek Woes, EU Reserve Sales Prospects Push CO2 to 4-Month Low

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-20T15:54:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/greek-woes-eu-reserve-sales-prospects-push-co2-to-4-month-low.html
European greenhouse gas emission
permits fell to their lowest in four months on concern that
 Greece ’s debt crisis will spread and on speculation that sales
of allowances from a $7 billion reserve will start this year.  Permits to discharge carbon dioxide in the European Union
emissions trading system, the world’s largest, dropped as much
as 3.1 percent to 15.16 euros ($21.69) a metric ton, the lowest
level since Feb. 21, after EU nations approved a regulation last
week that allows forward sales of allowances from a post-2012
reserve to as soon as the fourth quarter of this year.  Euro-area finance ministers meeting yesterday and today
failed to agree on releasing a loan payout to spare Greece from
default, ramping up pressure on Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
to first deliver budget cuts in the face of domestic opposition
and leaving open whether the country will get the full 12
billion euros promised for July.  “The news set stocks, oil and the euro tumbling, which had
a similarly bearish effect on EU allowances and the recently
very stable German power,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance
analysts including Konrad Hanschmidt said today in an e-mail.  Permits for delivery in December traded down 2 percent at
15.33 euros as of 3:28 p.m. on ICE Future Europe Exchange in
London, paring losses after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker
said Papandreou had assured him the government would do
everything necessary to ensure delivery of financial aid from
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Confidence Vote  Papandreou kicked off a three-day debate yesterday on a
confidence motion in his government set for June 21. He called
for the vote last week after opposition parties rejected pleas
for national consensus and the prime minister’s handling of the
crisis led to defections from his party.  “Traders will take confidence from the fact that EU
allowances bounced off the 15.15-15.20 euros support level and,
as we expect the vote of confidence in Greece to pass tomorrow,
EU permits could recover above 15.50 euros,” BNEF said. “At
the same time, traders will be wary of further announcements
regarding  energy efficiency  impacts on carbon prices this week,
leaving more room for the downside.”  EU commissioners are scheduled June 22 to consider a
directive to improve energy efficiency as part of their effort
to fight  climate change . The European Commission will watch
carbon prices to gauge whether the new measures cut demand for
emission permits and may later consider tightening the supply of
allowances if the efficiencies risk a decline in carbon price, a
senior EU official said last week.  EIB Transfer  Open interest for the December 2011 carbon futures
contract, the industry benchmark, rose 0.5 percent to a record
152.3 million metric tons on June 17 after EU nations backed a
regulation that will pave the way for the European Commission to
create 300 million permits and transfer them to the  European
Investment Bank  sometime around October. The EIB will then sell
the permits.  The volume to be sold from the so-called NER300 reserve
under the EU emissions trading system is about 15 percent of the
average annual ceiling of 2.08 billion metric tons in the 2008-
2012 period. The EIB said on April 4 that it is considering the
sale of permits through auctions, on an exchange, in over-the-
counter transactions or through “a combination of channels.”  New Entrants  The EU decided in 2008 to use the reserve for new entrants
to the bloc’s cap-and-trade program to raise funds for carbon-
capture and renewable-energy projects. The EU emissions-trading
system, known as the ETS, is the cornerstone of  Europe ’s climate
plan and imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 utilities
and manufacturers.  The “continued massive oversupply” of carbon permits will
cap prices in the coming months and the December 2011 contract
should stabilize near 17 euros for the rest of the year, said
 Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst for Orbeo, the carbon
venture of Rhodia SA and Societe Generale SA.  “On the supply side, the prospect of Phase 3 EU allowances
coming to market sooner than expected -- through EIB sales in
2011 or 2012 -- has weighed down carbon prices,” Fages said.
“On the demand side, the German decision to exit the nuclear
 energy industry  and improving generation margins will lead
utilities to increase their power hedging in 2013 and 2014 and
will result in greater carbon demand.”  The European Commission said yesterday it plans to deliver
NER300 permits to the EIB when the regulation enters into force
following a three-month scrutiny by the governments and the
European Parliament. Decisions taken under this regulatory
procedure, often referred to as comitology, usually take four to
five months to become binding.  The EIB is due to begin selling the allowances one month
after receiving them and sales will take place in regular
intervals and at least every second week. The bank may offload
about 5 million permits a week for approximately six weeks
leading up to Christmas, selling a total of 30 million this
year,  Trevor Sikorski , a Barclays Capital analyst in  London ,
said in a June 17 e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  