-- 
GTL Chairman Tirodkar Says Stock Plunge Because of  ‘Speculative Activity’

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-06-20T11:43:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/gtl-examining-reasons-for-record-plunge-in-share-prices-official-says.html
GTL Ltd. (GTS) , whose market value fell by
more than half in Mumbai, said “speculative activity” by
domestic investors triggered the record crash in its stock.  Shares of the company which manages telecommunication
equipment for mobile-phone companies plunged 62 percent to
127.95 rupees. More than 73 million shares, or more than twice
the number of shares available for trading, changed hands, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Group company  GTL Infrastructure
Ltd. (GTLI)  slumped 43 percent, the most ever, to 16.95 rupees.  “Today’s stock fall has nothing to do with medium and
large investors, and is on account of speculative activity,”
founder and Chairman Manoj Tirodkar told Bloomberg UTV in an
interview. “Institutional investors have not voiced any cause
for concern and there’s no panic. Long term investors continue
to believe in the business model. The fundamentals are intact.”  Speculation lenders sold GTL shares pledged with them by
the founders aided the slump. Founders pledged 12.5 million
shares, or 24.46 percent of their holding, according to an April
29 filing to the exchange. Creditors to the owners of the
company haven’t sold the shares, Tirodkar said.  “There are significant concerns regarding GTL’s funding
position and I think somewhere the promoter’s shares which have
been pledged must have been hit,” said Sudip Bandyopadhyay,
managing director of Destimoney Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “How
else can one explain such a steep fall.”  Founders own 52.71 percent of GTL, the statement said.  India ’s benchmark stock index fell to a four-month low
today after a report the government sought to tax  capital gains 
on investments routed through Mauritius sparked a selloff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ravil Shirodkar at 
 rshirodkar@bloomberg.net  