-- 
GTL May Ask India Market Regulator to Probe Trading After 62% Stock Crash

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-06-21T03:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/gtl-may-approach-india-market-regulator-after-62-stock-crash.html
GTL Ltd. (GTS) , whose market value plunged
by more than half in Mumbai yesterday, said it may approach the
market regulator after “speculative activity” by domestic
investors triggered the record crash in its stock.  Shares of the company which manages telecommunication
equipment for mobile-phone companies surged 11.1 percent to
142.15 rupees at 9:19 a.m. local time, the steepest gain since
April 2007, after tumbling by a record 62 percent yesterday.
Group company  GTL Infrastructure Ltd. (GTLI)  jumped 8.9 percent, the
most since January 2010, to 18.45 rupees.  The sell-off “has nothing to do with medium and large
investors, and is on account of speculative activity,” founder
and Chairman Manoj Tirodkar told Bloomberg UTV in an interview.
“Institutional investors have not voiced any cause for concern
and there’s no panic. Long-term investors continue to believe in
the business model. The fundamentals are intact.”  Speculation lenders sold GTL stock pledged with them by the
company’s founders aided the slump. Founders, who own 52.71
percent of GTL, pledged 12.5 million shares, or 24.46 percent of
their holding, according to an April 29 filing to the exchange.
Creditors to the owners of the company haven’t sold the shares,
Tirodkar said.  GTL has 78.7 billion rupees ($1.8 billion) of outstanding
debt, while GTL Infrastructure has a total of 57.9 billion
rupees debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Funding Position  “There are significant concerns regarding GTL’s funding
position and I think somewhere the promoter’s shares which have
been pledged must have been hit,” said Sudip Bandyopadhyay,
managing director of Destimoney Securities Pvt. in  Mumbai . “How
else can one explain such a steep fall.”  GTL Infrastructure bought 17,500 telecom towers from Aircel
Ltd. in July 2010 for about 80.3 billion rupees, while its plan
to acquire the phone towers from Reliance Communications Ltd.
fell apart in September. The company has a portfolio of over
30,000 towers located across  India , according to its website.  “We are advising investors to avoid GTL group stocks until
things become clear,” R.K. Gupta, managing director at New
Delhi-based Taurus Asset Management Ltd. said on the phone. “It
seems that selling of pledged shares has triggered a margin call
on the stock counters.”  India’s benchmark stock index fell to a four-month low
yesterday after a report the government sought to tax  capital
gains  on investments routed via Mauritius sparked a sell-off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 