-- 
IATA Encourages Russia to Resist European Union Carbon Curbs on Aviation

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-20T16:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/iata-encourages-russia-to-resist-european-union-carbon-curbs-on-aviation.html
The  International Air Transport
Association  said it encouraged  Russia  to be “more vocal” in
its opposition to the European Union’s plan to extend curbs on
carbon to the international aviation industry.  The EU decided in 2008 that flights to and from the bloc’s
airports should be added from 2012 to its emissions trading
system, known as the ETS, after airline discharges in  Europe 
doubled over two decades. The U.S. has criticized the plan and
China’s airline association said earlier this month the European
initiative may prompt trade conflict.  “Europe’s plan could not be more wrong,” IATA’s Chief
Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani  said today in a  statement 
after his visit to Russian Transport Minister  Igor Levitin .
“Europe needs to understand that imposing EU ETS on sovereign
states like Russia,  China  and the US could lead to consequences,
not just for its airlines, but for the weak European economy.”  The EU is not considering a change in the regulation to
include aviation in its cap-and-trade program, European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said June 8. The 27-nation
bloc is facing an escalating argument with countries including
China, Russia and the U.S. over the expansion of the ETS,
according to  Poland , which is taking over the rotating EU
presidency in the second half of this year.  Second-Largest Sector  The ETS, which covers more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers, is the cornerstone of Europe’s climate plan. It
requires companies that exceed their carbon dioxide emissions
quotas to pay a fine or buy spare permits from businesses that
emit less.  Airlines will be the second-largest sector in the system,
after power generators. Under the legislation, 82 percent of the
emission allowances making up the airline-industry cap will be
allocated for free and 15 percent will be auctioned. The
remaining 3 percent will be put into a special reserve for later
distribution to fast-growing airlines and new entrants.  The European legislation offers an option to exclude
incoming flights from a non-EU country if the nation implements
“equivalent” measures to cut pollution from aviation.  The aviation industry needs a “global solution” for
economic measures through the  International Civil Aviation
Organization , Bisignani said in the statement.  The EU plan “contravenes the Chicago Convention which
prohibits such taxation and it goes against the  Kyoto Protocol ,
which gives ICAO the responsibility to manage aviation’s
international emissions,” he said. “It’s an extra-territorial
action that will distort markets. Europe cannot be the sheriff
policing emissions outside its political territory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 