-- 
NATO Acknowledges It Did Conduct Airstrike on Compound West of Tripoli

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-06-20T16:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/libyan-officials-say-15-people-are-killed-in-nato-bombing-close-to-tripoli.html
NATO said it conducted an airstrike
early today on a compound in Sorman, west of Tripoli, after
earlier rejecting Libyan claims that it had attacked the site.  The target was a high-level military command and control
center, a North Atlantic Treaty Organization official, who spoke
on condition of anonymity according to NATO policy, said by
telephone from Naples. The organization said yesterday it may
have been responsible for civilian deaths in a separate attack
on a suburb of the capital.  Reporters were taken by bus today to the still-smoking
villa complex in a rural area about 90 kilometers (60 miles)
from Tripoli, which officials said was owned by Khweildi Hmeidi,
a senior figure with close ties to  Muammar Qaddafi . At least 15
people, including six members of Hmeidi’s family, were killed in
the attack, which occurred at 2:10 a.m. local time, Libyan
government spokesman Moussa Ibrahim told reporters at the scene.
It wasn’t immediately possible to establish whether the four
destroyed buildings were residential as Ibrahim said.  Opposition has been growing in the U.S.,  Europe  and the
Middle East to the aerial campaign carried out under a United
Nations mandate to protect civilians in  Libya . Four months after
the uprising against Qaddafi began, rebel troops have failed to
take and hold strategic towns such as Brega while other cities,
such as the rebel-held port city of Misrata, remain under siege
by loyalist forces.  ‘Civilian Casualties’  Reporters, who were prevented from exploring the entire
walled compound in Sorman, were later taken to a nearby hospital
where they were shown the remains of several people who
officials said were killed in the bombing.  Nine residents were killed early yesterday when a house was
destroyed in a northern suburb of Tripoli. NATO said in an e-
mailed statement that its warplanes didn’t all hit intended
targets during the night raid and it may have caused “a number
of civilian casualties.”  The  Arab League  condemned yesterday’s deaths,  Egypt ’s
state-run Middle East News Agency reported today. “The main
goal of imposing a no-fly zone in Libya” is “to protect
civilians, not target them,” MENA quoted Ahmed Ben Heli, deputy
secretary-general of the league, as saying.  NATO doesn’t target civilians or individual members of the
Libyan regime, the NATO official said.  ‘War Machine’  “What we’re trying to do is stop the Qaddafi war machine
from targeting his own people. There are snipers in towns
shooting innocent civilians,” U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
said today in an interview with the  BBC ’s Radio 2. “Where there
are civilian casualties caused by NATO, that’s hugely
regrettable.”  Concerns of disruption to  Middle East  oil supplies have
eased in the past month, with prices declining on speculation
that  Greece ’s debt crisis and a weakening global economy will
sap global demand. Crude for July delivery fell 45 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $92.56 a barrel at 10:58 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Libya has the largest oil reserves of any country in
 Africa , according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Tripoli at  mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 