-- 
Michigan May Get to Vote on Budget Cutters

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/michigan-may-get-to-vote-on-budget-cutters.html
Michigan voters angered by budget-
balancing moves by Governor Rick Snyder and the Legislature are
collecting signatures to force recall elections of the first-
term Republican and as many as 19 state lawmakers.  There also are efforts to remove nine Wisconsin senators 
who fought over limits on collective-bargaining rights for public
workers, and a proposed November referendum in Ohio on a law 
that contains similar strictures.  The moves are a response to changes Republicans have sought
in difficult budget times, creating early referendums on the
governors and their policies, said  Paul Beck , a professor of 
political science at  Ohio State University .  “They have moved very far, very fast, and they have
created a lot of controversy in how they’ve done it,” Beck said
in a telephone interview. “We’ll see how deep that reaction
goes because we’ll have votes.”  In Michigan, voter committees can file petitions July 1 to
require recalls, according to the secretary of state’s office.
Their efforts range from mere discussion to signature-gathering
to require recalls for Snyder and nearly a score of Republican
lawmakers, said Bill Ballenger, editor of the nonpartisan
newsletter  Inside Michigan Politics .  The  Committee to Recall Rick Snyder  opposes spending cuts
to balance the budget, and a new law empowering emergency
managers to take over the finances of local governments, said
Gerald Rozner, a spokesman.  “It’s too Draconian,” Rozner, 65, an electrical-
engineering consultant from Monroe, said in a telephone
interview.  Weathering the Storm  Snyder, 52, who took office in January, thinks the recall
attempts are “democracy in action,” said Sara Wurfel, a
spokeswoman. The governor remains committed to “making the
tough fiscal and policy decisions that have been put off for far
too long,” she said.  Forcing a recall for Snyder will be difficult because it
requires 806,500 signatures, said  Richard Hula , chairman of the
 Michigan  State University political-science department.  Nor is it clear how many recalls will proceed for
lawmakers, Ballenger said.  Michigan law  requires signatures
equal to 25 percent of the most recent vote for governor in a
lawmaker’s district, according to the secretary of state’s
office.  There’s a Chance  Representative Joel Johnson, a Republican from Clare, said
that while he doesn’t think his recall will reach the ballot,
it can’t be ruled out.  “We are doing things that make things a little tougher on
ourselves and things that might make things tougher on others,
but in the long run we think we are going to see Michigan bounce
back,” Johnson said in a telephone interview.  Similar movements in Michigan after tax increases produced
an unsuccessful recall attempt for the Democratic speaker of the
 House of Representatives  in 2008, and the removal of two
Democratic senators in 1983 that gave Republicans Senate
control, Ballenger said.  “If somebody is recalled, that will send shockwaves
through the Legislature, through the Republican ranks,”
Ballenger said in a telephone interview.  The fight over a Wisconsin law championed by Governor  Scott Walker  that curbs public unions’ bargaining power prompted
recall elections for six Republican senators July 12 and three
Democratic senators July 19, said Charles Franklin, a  University
of Wisconsin-Madison  political-science professor.  Proxy War  Walker, 43, by law can’t face recall this year. Senatorial
recalls let opponents make a statement about him and the law --
and may give Democrats control of the Senate, Franklin said in a
telephone interview. The races also give “pro-Republican voters
a chance to reaffirm their choice,” he said.  A Walker spokesman, Cullen Werwie, declined to comment.  In  Ohio , Democrats and labor activists have collected more
than 714,000 signatures toward a November referendum on the law
limiting public employees to bargaining for wages and working
conditions only, said Melissa Fazekas, a spokeswoman for We Are
Ohio, an umbrella opposition group. They needed just 231,000 by
June 30.  A Quinnipiac University poll last month showed that 54
percent of Ohio voters would repeal the law. It would be an
election about Republican Governor  John Kasich , 59, and his
approach to reforming government, said Peter A. Brown, assistant
director of the Hamden,  Connecticut , school’s polling institute.  Stakes are high, said Beck of Ohio State.  “If it’s defeated, he is greatly wounded as governor,”
Beck said. “If it wins, he has generated support that I think
will buoy him into the remaining years of his governorship.”  Sending a Message  In  New Jersey , all 120 lawmakers the Senate and Assembly
stand for re-election in November. The races will be proxies on
first-term Republican Governor Chris Christie’s leadership, said
 Ben Dworkin , director of the Rebovich Institute of New Jersey
Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville.  Christie has enacted a 2 percent cap on property taxes, cut
education funding, announced plans to pull the state from a
regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program and killed a
commuter-rail tunnel to  New York City .  Christie has implored voters to send more Republicans to
Trenton to accomplish his agenda. Democrats now control the
Assembly 47-33 and the Senate 24-16.  “For those who want to send a message to  Chris Christie ,
the 2011 legislative elections are going to be their first
chance,” Dworkin said. “By the same token, those who want to
endorse Christie are going to get the same chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
mniquette@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  