-- 
LightSquared to Use Alternate Airwaves as GPS Jamming Fix

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-20T18:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/lightsquared-to-use-alternative-airwaves-as-gps-interference-fix.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’s
LightSquared Inc. wireless venture said it will use a different
set of airwaves for its service than originally planned to help
prevent interference with U.S. global positioning-systems.  LightSquared will offer its service on a block of airwaves,
known as spectrum, that is controlled by satellite company
 Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  when it introduces service early next year, Chief
Executive Officer Sanjiv Ahuja said in an interview.  LightSquared has been buffeted by opposition from the U.S.
military, and device- and farm-equipment makers that say the
startup carrier’s plan to offer wireless service over 40,000
base stations risks jamming GPS receivers. The FCC had given
LightSquared until July 1 to propose solutions.  “This should resolve interference challenges for 99.5
percent of GPS receivers in this country,” said Ahuja. “We
believe this clears the path for us to move forward with a
coast-to-coast broadband network launch.”  Ahuja said the switch to Inmarsat’s spectrum will limit GPS
interference for all but a limited number of users, such as farm
equipment manufacturers. LightSquared also plans to reduce the
power of its transmitters by more than 50 percent.  LightSquared, backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, said it will submit a formal proposal to
the Federal Communications Commission by the end of the month.
The plan requires FCC approval, Ahuja said.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman in  Washington , declined in an
e-mail to comment.  GPS Resolutions?  Ahuja said the company will continue working to resolve the
GPS issues on its existing spectrum and deploy it at a later
time. He declined to say how much LightSquared will pay London-
based Inmarsat for use of its airwaves, which it had planned to
use in two to three years to supplement its current spectrum
holdings.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , agreed last year
to FCC conditions that it offer service to as many as 100
million Americans by the end of next year and 260 million by
2016. The company remains on schedule to introduce commercial
service by 2012, said Ahuja.  On June 17, Harbinger told investors it had reached a 15-
year agreement with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  on a plan to share
network equipment and building costs, according to a letter
obtained by Bloomberg.  Ahuja declined to comment on the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  