-- 
Milestone Channels Goldman Strategy With Fund Focused on Japanese Hotels

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-06-20T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/milestone-channels-goldman-strategy-with-fund-focused-on-hotels.html
Milestone Turnaround Management Co.
plans to raise about 15 billion yen ($187 million) for Japanese
hotel- and apparel-company investments patterned on strategies
used by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Fast Retailing Co.  MTM, as the company is known, aims to attract higher-
spending customers at resorts it buys by remodeling them,
“similar to the way  Hoshino Resort  turns around inns and hotels
jointly with Goldman,” said Keizo Hayase, president of the
Tokyo-based fund. MTM is in talks about investing in several
hotels and apparel companies, he said.  Hayase, who said his 9 billion yen first fund has returned
44 percent since its February 2007 start, plans to plow several
billion yen into about 10 hotels on the island of Kyushu because
its hot spring and mountain resorts are convenient to tourists
from  China  and  South Korea . The southwestern Japanese island has
also attracted resort investments by  RHJ International (RHJI)  SA, Daiwa
Securities SMBC Principal Investments and H.I.S. Co.,  Japan ’s
second-biggest travel agency.  “These opportunities are drawing investors’ interest,”
Hayase, 52, said in an interview in Tokyo on June 16. MTM may
also invest in trading companies and department stores to create
businesses that operate like Fast Retailing’s Uniqlo, which
designs the clothes it sells, he said.  Smaller Buyouts  Closely held Hoshino Resort Co. agreed with Goldman in 2005
to renovate about 50 ryokan, traditional Japanese-style resort
inns, as part of a plan to invest about 30 billion yen over
three years.  Buyouts in Japan worth between 5 billion yen and 30 billion
yen each more than doubled last year to 20 from 8 in 2009,
according to  Japan Buy-out Research Institute Corp.  Overall,
buyouts dropped to 44 in 2010 from 59 in the previous year,
according to the researcher.  Before starting MTM in 2005, Hayase spent two decades at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., including 2000 to 2002 at the
Tokyo-based lender as head of a turnaround team.  MTM is targeting annual returns of more than 20 percent
from its planned fund and will start raising the money this
month, Hayase said.  His first fund booked gains by investing as part of a group
that turned around Honma Golf Co., a sporting goods maker that
filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2005. It also turned around
electronics retailer Laox Co., eventually selling its stake to
Suning Appliance Co., the nation’s largest electronics retailer.  Mistakes  Hayase has also had to learn from his mistakes, he said.  Bobson Co., the Japanese jeans-maker Milestone bought in
2009, filed for bankruptcy protection in May after  cash flow 
worsened because of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, the
nation’s worst disaster since World War II.  “We couldn’t reform Bobson alone, even as many people have
a sense of crisis for the 9 trillion yen apparel industry, as
the industry has made little progress in consolidation and still
has low profitability,” Hayase said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in  Tokyo  at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  