-- 
Miller Buckfire Said to Approach Treasury’s Millstein About Role With Firm

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-06-20T15:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/miller-buckfire-said-to-approach-treasury-s-millstein-about-role-with-firm.html
Miller Buckfire & Co., under
pressure to recruit senior-level bankers after the retirement of
co-founder Henry Miller and other departures, is in discussions
with  Jim Millstein , the U.S. Treasury Department’s former chief
restructuring officer, said two people familiar with the matter.  The talks are preliminary and may not result in his hiring,
said the people, who requested anonymity because the discussions
are private. Millstein, 55, who left the government in March
after helping to oversee the bailouts of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  and Citigroup Inc., also is considering starting a
turnaround firm and has contacted other restructuring bankers
about joining him, the people said.  Miller Buckfire Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Buckfire,
52, aims to retain bankers and make high-profile hires after
senior managing directors departed and as others have talked
about leaving, the people said. The firm, which advised Calpine
Corp. on its $17.3 billion restructuring in 2008, said last week
that Miller, 65, will resign as chairman after a $40 million
investment from  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  announced June 8.  The deal gives Stifel the right to 40 percent of Miller
Buckfire’s distributable profits, said one of the people. Miller
Buckfire is using the cash infusion and its remaining equity to
lure bankers like Millstein or others from his former firm,
Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the people said.  Chuck Dohrenwend, a Miller Buckfire spokesman, declined to
comment on Millstein or the structure of the Stifel deal.  Aide to Geithner  Millstein, held earlier talks with Miller Buckfire that
didn’t lead to a deal, and the two held talks again after the
Stifel investment, according to one of the people. Millstein was
hired by the Treasury Department in 2009 for the newly created
position of senior restructuring officer and was a close aide to
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  A bankruptcy attorney, Millstein joined Lazard in 2000 as a
managing director in its restructuring group. Previously, he was
a lawyer with  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , where he led
its restructuring practice. At Lazard, he worked on the
restructuring of cable company  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  and
with the  United Auto Workers  in negotiations with General Motors
Corp., Ford Motor Co., Chrysler LLC and Delphi Corp.  Miller Buckfire, which faces competition from boutique and
mid-sized investment banks such as  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and
Peter J. Solomon Co., is focusing more on capital markets.  “We are very aggressively going to be recruiting senior
bankers to help reposition for the strategy we’ve now embarked
on, which is far more focused in capital markets,” Buckfire
said in an interview last week. “People come and go from Wall
Street firms all the time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  