-- 
IMF Says Sovereign-Debt Crisis May Overwhelm Favorable Euro-Area Outlook

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-20T14:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/imf-says-sovereign-debt-crisis-may-overwhelm-favorable-euro-area-outlook.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
warned that  Europe ’s debt crisis has the potential to crush the
otherwise positive economic outlook for the region unless policy
makers step up efforts to resolve it.  “A broadly sound recovery continues, but the sovereign
crisis in the periphery threatens to overwhelm this favorable
outlook, and much remains to be done to secure a dynamic and
resilient monetary union,” the Washington-based fund said in
its concluding statement on euro-area policies today. “Failure
to undertake decisive action could rapidly spread the tensions
to the core of the euro area and result in large global
spillovers.”  The fund said policy makers should scale up Europe’s rescue
fund and extend its potential uses “to secondary market
purposes and term funding guarantees.” That echoes proposals by
the  European Central Bank , which wants the rescue fund to
purchase  government bonds  in the secondary market.  European finance ministers said last night further aid for
 Greece , which needs a second bailout, hinged on embattled Prime
Minister George Papandreou delivering budget cuts in the face of
domestic opposition. Ireland and Portugal followed Greece in
obtaining emergency loans in the past year.  The IMF said policies “‘to stop contagion from sovereign-
debt adjustment or re-profiling are at a premium.’’  Spain , Italy  Spain’s finances came under the microscope last week, with
investors pushing the extra yield on 10-year Spanish bonds over
German bunds to as much as 282 basis points, close to a record
reached in November. The premium was at 265 basis points today.  Moody’s Investors Service said June 17 it may cut its Aa2
rating on  Italy , whose 2010 debt amounted to 119 percent of
gross domestic product, Europe’s second highest after Greece.  The IMF said Europe needs a signal that member countries
‘‘will do whatever it takes to safeguard the stability of the
euro area” and called on policy makers to “bring the
unproductive debate about debt re-profiling or restructuring to
closure quickly.”  The fund raised its 2011 growth forecast for the euro area
by 0.4 percentage point to 2 percent on June 17 in an update of
its April projections. For 2012, it cut its estimate by 0.1
percentage point to 1.7 percent.  The fund also advised the ECB, which is poised to raise
 interest rates  again in July, to normalize policy only
“gradually.” Moving cautiously will help “limit stress from
higher interest rates that could be felt in the periphery,” it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  