-- 
INA’s Sisak Refinery Fire Contained; Plant Output Stopped

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-20T14:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/ina-s-sisak-refinery-reports-fire-damage-to-be-determined-2-.html
INA Industrija Nafte d.d, a unit
of  Hungary ’s Mol Nyrt., halted production at its Sisak refinery
in  Croatia  following a fire in the morning hours, a company
official said.  The blaze broke out near a storage area at the facility
located about 50 kilometers (31 miles) south of the capital
Zagreb at about 11:30 a.m. today. The fire was contained after
almost three hours and two firemen suffered light injuries from
smoke inhalation, said Sisak chief Damir Butkovic.  The fire was completely extinguished at 1:45 p.m., Butkovic
said in comments distributed by a company spokeswoman.  It is “too early” to talk about the cause of the fire,
and that an inquiry will start tomorrow, Butkovic said. No
estimate of damages or how long output will be suspended has yet
been released.  Mol said in a statement from Budapest it is “heavily
concerned” by the fire. As 135 fire fighters and 60 vehicles
responded to the event, news agency HINA reported, citing their
own reporter at the scene.   “We are relieved that the fire was extinguished and the
situation is under control,” Gyorgy Mosonyi, chairman of Mol’s
supervisory board and vice president of  INA ’s supervisory board,
said in the statement. “With all our efforts we support INA and
the authorities in investigating into the reasons behind this
unfortunate incident.”  The Sisak site annually processes as much as 2.2 million
tons of oil and petroleum derivatives sold in Croatia and
elsewhere in the region.  INA also owns a refinery in Rijeka on the Adriatic coast.
Both plants have been undergoing an overhaul since 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  