-- 
India Yet to Start Talks on New Tax Treaty With Mauritius

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   K i a n   G a n z
-- 
2011-06-20T07:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/india-yet-to-start-talks-on-new-tax-treaty-with-mauritius-1-.html
India  said it hasn’t started talks
on a new tax treaty with Mauritius after a report that it was
seeking to tax  capital gains  on investments routed through the
island sent shares to their lowest level in four months.  India is still finalizing issues to be discussed at a
forthcoming meeting with Mauritius after the country’s
government expressed a willingness to hold talks three months
ago, said Shishir Jha, a spokesman for the Central Board of
Direct Taxes in  New Delhi .  The Business Standard newspaper reported yesterday that
India will be pushing during the negotiations to tax capital
gains by Mauritian companies, citing comments from the tax
board’s chairman, Prakash Chandra. The Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, dropped as much as 3.1 percent to
its lowest intraday level since February. It recovered to be 1.4
percent lower at 1:26 p.m. local time.  “I don’t really see a possibility the treaty will be
amended in the near future, due to various economic and
political considerations,” said Sanjay Sanghvi, a tax lawyer at
Khaitan & Co. in Mumbai. India may be reluctant to renegotiate
the treaty because of concerns it may lead to a drop in
investment, he said.  The Indian government is seeking to redraw its  tax code 
with Mauritius as a way to raise revenue. Mauritius, a small
tropical island off the east coast of  Africa , was the largest
source of  foreign direct investment  in India in the year ended
March because capital gains on Indian shares held by a Mauritian
company aren’t subject to Indian tax.  Direct foreign investment into India fell 29 percent in the
first three months of this year, compared with the same period a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  