-- 
India Charges Hindu Activists for Deadly Bombing of Pakistan Peace Train

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-06-20T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/india-charges-hindu-activists-for-2007-peace-train-blasts-that-killed-68.html
India  charged five Hindu activists
for their involvement in the 2007 bombing of a Pakistan-bound
train service that killed 68 people, an attack earlier blamed on
Muslim extremists.  Two of the accused are in custody, one is dead and two
others are absconding, the Ministry of Home Affairs said in a
 statement  yesterday in New Delhi. The  National Investigation
Agency  told a special court in the northern state of Haryana
that the men conspired to cause the blasts to avenge attacks on
Hindu temples, the statement said.  Explosions ripped through two carriages of the Samjhauta
Express near Panipat, about 90 kilometers (56 miles) north of
New Delhi, on Feb. 18, 2007. Most of those killed were
Pakistanis travelling home. Samjhauta means concord in Hindi and
the service was started to forge closer links between ordinary
people in the nuclear-armed neighbors and rivals.  Indian investigators had initially said terrorist groups
based in  Pakistan  were responsible for the explosions aboard the
service that links  New Delhi  and Lahore in Pakistan. India and
Pakistan said the attack was aimed at disrupting their  peace
process .  The accused men sought revenge against Muslims after a
series of blasts at Hindu temples in India, according to the
statement. The train was chosen as a target as most of the
passengers who travel on it are Pakistanis, it said.  Hyderabad Blast  One of those charged yesterday, Swami Aseemanand, also
known as Naba Kumar Sarkar, “not only provided financial and
logistical support to the terror group which executed” the
bombing “but also played a vital role in instigating and
motivating his associates to undertake this terrorist act,”
said the statement.  Aseemanand on May 12 denied any role in the blasts when he
appeared at a bail hearing, the  Press Trust of India  reported.
He was earlier charged by the NIA as one of the main
conspirators behind a 2007 bombing at a mosque in the southern
city of Hyderabad that killed nine people.  Peace talks between India and Pakistan were finally broken
off in the wake of the 2008 guerrilla assault on Mumbai, in
which 166 people died. India blamed the Pakistan-based Lashkar-
e-Taiba militant group for carrying out the raid and has
demanded that Pakistan dismantle it.  The neighbors restarted peace efforts last year and their
foreign secretaries will hold the latest round of talks this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  