-- 
Internet Moves Beyond Dot-Com With Approval for ‘.Anything’ Domain Names

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-06-20T14:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/internet-group-agrees-to-open-website-addresses-to-include-anything-.html
The Internet is moving way beyond
dot-com.  Websites will soon be able to end with anything from
“.shop” to “.canon” after the group that manages Internet
addresses approved what it called a historic change in a
statement on its  website  today. The Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers, which until now allowed 22 suffixes
including “.com” and “.org,” will accept requests for almost
any word in any language from Jan. 12 to April 12.  The move may help prevent cybersquatting, the practice of
registering domain names and selling them to trademark owners at
a profit. Large businesses may have to buy addresses to keep
their brands from being hijacked, which costs $500,000 per
company, estimated the Coalition Against Domain Name Abuse,
whose members include Morgan Stanley and Hewlett-Packard Co.  “Today’s decision will usher in a new Internet age,”
Peter Dengate Thrush, chairman of Icann’s Board of Directors,
said in the statement. “We have provided a platform for the
next generation of creativity and inspiration.”  Applications will cost $185,000, and the first of these
“top level domain names” won’t go live until the end of 2012,
Adrian Kinderis, a member of Icann’s advisory council, said in
an interview today.  Canon, Deloitte and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  are among companies that
have expressed interest in company domain names, while generic
names will be auctioned to the highest bidders, Kinderis said.  Dot-Com Dominance  Icann, based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , has authorized
small numbers of new domain names in the past, such as the
approval for the .xxx domain for adult content websites in
March. In 2009, the group also allowed domain names in languages
other than English, such as “.ru” for Russian sites.  None has approached the dominance of dot-com, which
accounts for 71 percent of all Web registrations since 2001.  Last year, dot-com had 89.2 million address registrations,
dot-net had 13.5 million, and dot-org had 8.3 million. All three
are so-called “legacy domains” that were created in 1985
before the formation of Icann. The next most popular domains
were dot-info with 6 million registrations in 2010 and dot-biz
with 2 million.  The hijacking of Web addresses cost large companies a total
of $746 million, according to estimates this year by the
Coalition Against Domain Name Abuse, an industry group in
Washington whose members also include Wells Fargo & Co.  “So far we’ve seen relatively little corporate interest” in
getting additional domain names based on brands, said Alan Drewsen, executive director of the International Trademark
Association, whose board of directors includes Microsoft Corp.
and PepsiCo Inc.’s Frito-Lay. “There’s a significant marketing
challenge. These companies have spent so much time and money
directing their customers to their sites.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  