-- 
IMF Not Negotiating New Greek Bailout: Lipsky

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-20T16:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/lipsky-says-imf-not-negotiating-new-greek-bailout-as-it-weighs-aid-payment.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
isn’t negotiating a second rescue package for Greece while it
weighs whether to approve the next payment of the country’s
initial program, acting IMF head  John Lipsky  said.  “We are not negotiating a new program,” Lipsky said today
in a press conference in Luxembourg. “There always exists that
possibility, but there has been no request by the Greek
authorities to negotiate such a new program. We are concentrated
today on the existing program and what is needed to put it back
on track and to therefore allow the next disbursement.”  Greece was due to receive the fifth payment of its original
110 billion-euro ($157.5 billion) rescue this month. Under the
original bailout,  Greece  was due to return to markets and sell
about 30 billion euros in bonds next year. The country remains
shut out of markets and the IMF has called on the EU to come up
with a plan to close that funding gap before it will release its
funds.  Lipsky’s comments came after European officials opted to
delay decisions on the next payment until July, along with any
discussion of a follow-up program. European estimates put
Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as much as 170 billion euros,
which would be filled by about 45 billion euros of new loans,
plus around 57 billion euros in unspent aid from the 2010
bailout, roughly 30 billion euros in asset-sale proceeds and
about 30 billion euros from creditors.  Confidence Vote  The European deliberations took place amid a Greek
parliamentary debate in  Athens  over a confidence vote tomorrow
in Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s new cabinet. Finance
ministers including  Germany ’s Wolfgang Schaeuble have said this
week that Greece must meet conditions in order to receive its
next slice of financial aid.  “The most important steps are those that are going to be
taken in Greece by the Greek authorities in adopting and
implementing the very ambitious program of structural reforms
necessary to heal that economy and set the stage for renewed
growth,” Lipsky said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene  today.  He called the adjustment required in exchange for the loan
“very substantial but not unprecedented.”  Lipsky said the Greek program needs “mid-course
corrections” that are “not trivial” in order to move forward.
He said it isn’t so much “what went wrong” with the package as
the “exceedingly difficult” market conditions when the plan
was put in place.  Earlier today, the IMF chided European leaders for
“unproductive debate” about whether to restructure or
reprofile Greece’s debt. Lipsky told reporters that he had
wanted to remove the word “unproductive” from the final
statement.  “In the wake of the discussion, there’s a real progress
being made to bring this to a close,” he said of Greece’s
existing rescue package and the review needed to assure a new
aid package.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  