-- 
Iran Shipping Firm Faces Charges in Money-Moving Scheme

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-06-20T18:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/iran-shipping-lines-charged-in-scheme-to-move-money-through-u-s-banks.html
Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping
Lines was charged with almost a dozen affiliated firms in a
scheme to move more than $60 million through at least seven U.S.
banks in violation of government sanctions.  The banks included  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , according to Adam Kaufmann, chief of
investigations for Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. The banks aren’t accused of any wrongdoing.  Since 2008, defendants “began using alias names and shell
companies to gain access to the U.S. financial system” and
“engaged in illicit commercial transactions through
correspondent bank accounts domiciled in New York,” according
to a 317-count indictment filed in New York state court.  The charges include falsifying business records in the
first degree and conspiracy, according to the grand jury
indictment.  The U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets
Control sanctioned the state-sponsored shipping company, IRISL,
in September 2008 for its logistical services to  Iran ’s Ministry
of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics, the arm of Iran’s
military overseeing its ballistic missile program.  Front Companies  Since then, IRISL has relied on a global network of front
companies and other behavior designed to evade scrutiny,
Treasury said in a statement. The department said it was
applying more sanctions and coordinating action with the
Manhattan District Attorney.  A call seeking comment from the Iranian office at the
 United Nations  wasn’t immediately returned.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to immediately comment.
Jon Diat, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, and  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, declined
to comment.  “Our office is shining a spotlight on the fraudulent
activities of IRISL, which has been sanctioned by the U.S., the
European Union and the U.N. for its role in the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction,” Vance said in a statement.
“IRISL and its sanctioned affiliates used a web of aliases or
corporate alter egos across the globe to exploit the services of
financial institutions located in  Manhattan .”  ‘More Desperate’  The Treasury Department today said it will apply sanctions
to 10 shipping companies affiliated with IRISL and three
individuals in response to Iran’s alleged evasion of sanctions
and its ongoing creation of front companies to protect IRISL,
according to a statement.  “As the private sector around the world increasingly turns
its back on Iran’s national shipping line, IRISL’s efforts to
evade international sanctions and increased scrutiny have grown
more and more desperate,” Adam Szubin, director of the  U.S.
Treasury ’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, said in the
statement. “The persistent attempts by IRISL to deceive the
world, including through the front companies identified today,
attest to the weakness of IRISL as it tries to maintain a
semblance of legitimacy while supporting Iran’s proliferation
activities.”  Including today’s action, Treasury has applied sanctions to
121 companies and individuals affiliated with IRISL.  China , U.K.  Treasury’s latest actions target the IRISL’s activities in
the United Arab Emirates,  Singapore , China and the U.K. The
companies include Singapore-based Sinose Maritime, UK-based
Fairway Shipping and Great Ocean Shipping Services in Adjman,
United Arab Emirates.  Officials at Sinose Maritime, Fairway Shipping and Great
Ocean Shipping couldn’t immediately be reached for comment after
regular business hours in their home countries.  Asked whether the foreign companies or five individuals
indicted would ever face judgment in  New York , Vance said
“possibly.”  “If sanctions are to mean anything, they must be
enforced,” Vance said at a press conference. New York
prosecutors have a responsibility to ensure that “information
provided to our New York state banking system is accurate and
that it comports with law,” he said.  Kaufmann added that the banks named in the indictment
included the largest U.S. dollar clearing institutions in
Manhattan, which weren’t complicit in the IRISL’s scheme.  “The banks were deceived into processing these wire
payments,” Kaufmann said.  Credit Suisse  The international shipping industry conducts business
primarily in U.S. dollars, necessitating access to the U.S.
financial system, prosecutors said.  As part of an earlier investigation by Vance’s office,
Credit Suisse AG, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and other banks came
under scrutiny for processing payments that allowed Iran and
other sanctioned nations to gain access to U.S. markets.  London-based Lloyds paid more than $350 million in 2009 to
settle the state and U.S. investigation. It admitted to altering
wire transfer information to hide the identity of its clients
and allowing billions of dollars to pass through U.S. banks in
violation of the sanctions, according to a settlement with the
Manhattan District Attorney and the  Justice Department .  Credit Suisse in 2009 agreed to pay $536 million to U.S.
authorities for making more than $1.6 billion in illegal
transactions involving Iran, Sudan,  Burma , Cuba and  Libya  from
the mid-1990s through 2006, according to court documents.  Barclays Plc, based in  London , last year entered into a
deferred-prosecution agreement over how it handled money from
countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions and paid
$298 million in fines and forfeiture, according to Vance’s
office.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Islamic
Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, 11-02924, Supreme Court of the
State of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan at
   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 