-- 
Yogi Takes on India’s Elite, Nobody Wins: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-06-20T19:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/mishra-dangerous-appeal-of-a-bearded-yogi.html
A few years ago, I visited a yoga
camp run by  Baba Ramdev  near my home in the Himalayas. Ramdev is
 India ’s latest bushy-bearded guru, and gained worldwide fame
this month when the government violently cracked down on his
anti-corruption crusade in New Delhi.  Over the years, I had glimpsed the orange-robed yoga
instructor on television, rippling his abdomen, or boasting
about his ability to cure cancer. I didn’t think much of him.
Charlatans proliferate in “rising” India; Ramdev seemed one of
the more harmless sort.  It was my landlord, a conservative Hindu, who persuaded me
to take him seriously. Ramdev, he reverently informed me, was on
a messianic mission to “cleanse” politics through yoga and
restore India to its ancient power and glory. As I toured his
camp, it became clear that Ramdev aimed at more than improved
digestion and muscle tone.  The audience, sitting on the floor in orderly rows,
received his every word with pure rapture as, half-hidden behind
a bank of marigolds, Ramdev rambled from one grievance (denim
jeans) to another (cow-slaughter). Much of the mixed-gender
crowd consisted of middle class-housewives in their best saris,
hoping to attenuate ghee-fed paunches with yoga.  A couple of mom-and-pop retailers I talked to told me they 
had traveled a great distance from their hometowns for Ramdev’s 
darshan (“vision of the divine” in Sanskrit). They were 
particularly receptive to Ramdev’s rants against multinational 
companies and his advocacy of Taliban-style justice (chop off 
the hands of thieves, hang the corrupt, that kind of thing).  The Resentfully Idle  But most of Ramdev’s eager camp-followers belonged to
India’s awesome mass of the “semi-educated unemployables,”
people forced or coerced out of the crisis-ridden  agriculture
sector  -- which still engages a majority of Indians -- but who
are unable to join India’s new knowledge economy because of the
poor quality of their social networks and education. Resentfully
idle, they seemed most susceptible to Ramdev’s vengeful
fantasies of a country cleansed of corrupt Indians and
corrupting foreigners.  Their rhetoric was disturbing, and made me fear the often-
complacently hailed future in which India’s demographic
“dividend” -- 600 million people under the age of 25 --
translates into an unbeatable advantage over aging  China .  Traveling in the early '90s for a book on small town India, 
I had met many such frustrated young men. Most of them belonged 
to the upper castes and, finding their futures blocked by
affirmative action in government jobs for low-caste Hindus, were
slipping into a militant, even murderous, mood. These provincial
no-hopers were at the forefront of the many vicious anti-Muslim
campaigns organized in the 1990s by Hindu nationalists.  Empowered and Angry  Yet many other Hindus who constitute Ramdev’s base belong
to the so-called backward and low castes. Politically empowered
in recent decades, they have also been partaking of the general
desires for prosperity and power unleashed by economic
globalization.  As early as 1990, V.S. Naipaul intuited that a new
generation of Indians was fast developing ideas “of who they
are and what they owe themselves.” Today, the information
revolution and rapidly disseminated images of global affluence
ensure that many more Indians know what they owe themselves. One
can see this attitude everywhere from the industrialist  Mukesh Ambani  -- who last year unveiled his billion-dollar, 27-story
home in  Mumbai , mocking old Indian expectations of austerity
from public figures -- to the landless peasants and indigenous
forest-dwelling people who lead a “Maoist” insurgency against
an Indian state they see as advancing corporate and mining
interests.  Revolution of Aspirations  The revolution of aspirations is well under way in India.
Nevertheless, employment rates in the countryside, where most
Indians live, have barely moved in the last decade, when India's
100 wealthiest people increased their combined worth to $300
billion,  a quarter of the country’s gross domestic  product.  Neither India’s service nor manufacturing sectors can
grow fast enough to absorb the poor forced to migrate out of
rural areas. Furthermore, entrepreneurial energies remain
fallow, largely because “twenty years on from reforms that
prized open  India’s economy ,  the system  still favors the
insider,” as a Financial Times analysis comparing Indian
business families to  Russia ’s crony capitalists put it.  As the euphoria provoked by India’s  “roaring capitalist
success story ” fades, it has become a truism that “economic
liberalization has not even nudged the lives of the country’s
bottom 200 million people.” A comprehensive report in  Foreign
Policy  on the Maoist insurgency points out that the “percentage
of people going hungry in India” hasn’t changed in two decades.  Rising Economy’s Losers  However delayed, this focus on the biggest losers of
economic liberalization is welcome. But it can deflect attention
from the deep frustration building up among the putative winners
of India’s capitalist transformation: the Indian middle class
optimistically pegged at 300 million, and the many more
aspirants to its ranks.  These urban or semi-urban Indians are much more directly
affected than their forest-dwelling compatriots by the fact
that, as  Foreign Policy  puts it, “India is now one of the most
economically stratified societies on the planet; its judicial
system remains byzantine, its political institutions corrupt,
its public education and health-care infrastructure anemic.”  For many supposedly rising Indians, private secession to
the many gated communities of the rich is an attractive
possibility. But social mobility remains a mirage, as the great
wealth created by a booming economy remains concentrated in very
few hands. According to a  widely cited report  by Michael Walton,
an economist at  Harvard University , the quality and distribution
of India’s amazing rate of GDP growth are structurally
“disequalizing.”  Road to Oligarchy  It’s not only that India isn’t “overflowing with Horatio
Alger stories,” as the Wall Street Journal  claimed  in an
article this month on the country’s extreme disparities. It is
also developing all the ingredients necessary for a Latin
American-style oligarchy, according to Walton.  This appalling possibility has been illustrated for
millions of Indians by a series of recent scandals, which have
badly tainted not only the country’s notoriously venal
politicians and bureaucrats but also the poster figures of  the
“New India“:  some of the most respected industrialists as well
as television celebrities.  For many educated Indians, economic liberalization
increasingly seems to have provided cover for a wholesale
plunder of national resources by a small incestuous minority.
Their simmering rage and discontent have found a handy outlet in
a series of recent mass movements against the wide target of
“corruption.”  Paying no Taxes  Financial malfeasance  has long been an accepted fact of
everyday life in a country where most people,  including Baba
Ramdev , avoid paying taxes, and where the smallest transaction
requires the greasing of palms. But for many Indians tormented
by rising inequality and almost 10 percent inflation, the scale
of the looting indulged in by the nation’s richest businessmen
and politicians ($39 billion in one recent scandal) is simply
too shocking.  India’s elected politicians, a startling number of whom
have  criminal records , have long been losing credibility. But
now the perception that India’s business, as well as political,
elites have no higher aim than rapid self-enrichment at all
costs has gained broad support. Not surprisingly, Ramdev could
mobilize almost 50,000 dedicated volunteers at his camp in
central Delhi in early June, part of his campaign to recover the
$1.5 trillion reportedly stored by powerful Indians in  foreign
banks .  Assaulting the Followers  Fearful of Ramdev’s followers, India’s government at first
sought to appease him, sending no less than four Cabinet
ministers to receive him on his arrival by private plane in  New
Delhi . When Ramdev proved recalcitrant, the government ordered
the police to clear his camp. The clumsy assault on sleeping
protesters in the middle of the night caused widespread
revulsion -- it’s unclear how many were injured. It also
underlined the government’s increasing recourse to violence
against political opponents.  In central India, the government has raised one
particularly vicious private militia in addition to deploying  
many thousands of paramilitary troops  against the Maoists.
Elsewhere in India, peasants protesting against the government’s
appropriation of their lands often meet with tear gas and
bullets.  Monopoly on Violence  This reflexive preference for brute force only stokes the
growing perception that non-violent and democratic movements
stand no chance of making themselves heard. Left-wing radicals
are already challenging the state’s traditional monopoly on
violence. Barely a week goes by without news of another
audacious raid by the Maoists, and Ramdev, humiliated by his
eviction from New Delhi, vowed to raise an 11,000-strong army
for “self-defense.”  Welcoming India’s “million mutinies” in 1990, Naipaul
didn’t fail to anticipate the near collapse of public order that
might follow acts of individual and collective self-assertion.
It was inevitable, he argued, that material and intellectual
growth in a country like India “with its layer below layer of
distress and cruelty” would initially translate into “rage and
revolt.”  Naipaul pinned his hopes, somewhat mystically, on a wise
Indian state that rescues its citizens from extremism -- a state
that is “the source of law and civility and reasonableness.”
But what if the state itself starts to lash out blindly and
loses its moral legitimacy as the ultimate arbiter of India’s
many struggles of class, caste and identity?  This is the socio-economic impasse India finds itself in.
Ramdev’s threats may amount to nothing. There is no doubt,
however, that messianic populists like him will continue to
flourish, feeding on the free-floating anger of an
overwhelmingly youthful people who are just beginning to realize
that they may never get what they are owed, even in the “New
India” of growth and opportunity.  (Pankaj Mishra is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Pankaj Mishra in Mashobra, India, at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  