-- 
Isner Meets Mahut at Wimbledon Again in Replay of 11-Hour Match Last Year

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/isner-meets-mahut-at-wimbledon-again-in-replay-of-11-hour-match-last-year.html
At first,  John Isner  thought it was
a joke, and not a particularly funny one.  A year after  the 26-year-old American  and Nicolas Mahut
played the longest match in tennis history at Wimbledon, they
face each other again in the first round today.  Last year’s opening round, which was played over three days
and took 11 hours, 5 minutes, ended in victory for Isner. The
American collapsed on the grass of a packed Court 18 when his
backhand passing shot secured a record-packed 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (7-
9), 7-6 (7-3), 70-68 win against the Frenchman.  Last week, a collective gasp and then laughter filled the
room at the draw ceremony as Wimbledon referee Andrew Jarrett
announced Mahut would be Isner’s first-round opponent.  “I was shocked, absolutely shocked,” Isner said in an
interview at the All England Club shortly before the start of
the tournament. “Your first instinct is, that draw is rigged,
but obviously it’s not. It’s a complete and total coincidence.”  Their match is scheduled on Court 3. Yesterday’s play on
the outside courts was stopped at 5 p.m., leaving matches
including  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. against  Germany ’s Andreas Beck unplayed and re-scheduled for today. Also today, women’s
defending champion  Serena Williams  will take on  France ’s Aravane Rezai as the American appears in her first Grand Slam event
after almost a year away because of a foot injury and treatment
for blood clots in both lungs in February.  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland starts his quest for a seventh title against Mikhail
Kukushkin of  Kazakhstan .  Isner and Mahut’s 138-game fifth set lasted 8 hours and 11
minutes. That itself was longer than the previous record match,
a 6-hour, 33-minute first-round contest at the 2004 French Open
between Frenchmen Fabrice Santoro and Arnaud Clement. The All
England Club has mounted an oval-shaped plaque on Court 18 to
commemorate their effort.  Standing Ovation  “When I announced 50-all final set, the spectators gave a
standing ovation to the players,” Mohamed Lahyani, a Swedish
umpire who was in charge of the longest match, said in an
interview at Queen’s Club in  London . “That was a great feeling.
You could see they were smiling, there was a nice atmosphere,
they did the wave for them. You could really see what kind of
appreciation the crowd gave the players.”  Isner and Mahut, who had previously never spoken, have
become good friends since their record-breaking first round.
They plan to play doubles together at an event in Atlanta next
month.  A practice session they had planned was canceled after the
draw because it would attract too much attention, Mahut, 29,
told French sports newspaper L’Equipe last week.  After a year of talking about their last meeting, Isner
said he had been looking forward to “put the match behind me.”  Tennis Gods  That will be impossible now, he said. “The tennis gods
have it out for us, they wanted us to meet again. That’s the
only way I can explain it.”  Isner produced 112 aces while Mahut had 103. Both broke Ivo Karlovic’s record of 78 in a Davis Cup match for Croatia against
the  Czech Republic  in 2009. Isner lost in the second round a day
later against Thiemo de Bakker of the Netherlands because he
could barely move.  “I still think about that match and I can’t believe it
happened,” 18-time Grand Slam singles champion  Chris Evert  said
on a conference call organized by broadcaster ESPN last week.
“How is that humanly possible to hold serve for that long for
that many games and somebody not break down or choke or
whatever?”  Roger Federer told a pre-tournament news conference their
match had been “very special and unbelievable.”  ‘Glued to TV’  “I went on court when they were midway through the fifth
set,” the Swiss said. “I finished a tough four-setter on
Court 1, came back, and they were stuck at 30-all, 30-all. Then
obviously I watched a bit at the end, did some press, came back,
and watched again. Then it got interrupted again. Then the
following day we were all glued to the TV.”  Seeded 23rd last year, Isner has dropped to No. 47 on the
ATP World Tour rankings. Mahut, who had been ranked at No. 148 a
year ago, is now at No. 94.  “I’ve regressed a little bit,” Isner, a six-foot-nine
right-hander, said.  His close first-round loss at the  French Open  to top seed
 Rafael Nadal  has given him confidence, he said. The Spaniard
beat Isner, but was forced to a fifth set for the first time at
 Roland Garros . Nadal went on to claim a sixth title in Paris.  “I did take him to the limit,” Isner said. “I could have
had a shot at winning that match, if a few more things had gone
my way.”  Isner said he just wishes he hadn’t been drawn against
Mahut.  “We didn’t want to play each other in the first round, I
think he would say the same thing, because somebody is going to
go home as the loser in the first round,” he said. “I’m sure
this one won’t be as memorable as last year. That’s
impossible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London newsroom at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  