-- 
Israel Rate Swaps Rise to Record Versus U.S. as Shekel Seen Extending Gain

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-06-21T13:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/israel-rate-swaps-rise-to-record-versus-u-s-as-shekel-seen-extending-gain.html
Israel ’s interest-rate swaps are
rising above contracts of the U.S. by the most on record,
signaling that the shekel may extend a 12-month rally.  The spread between Israel’s five-year interest-rate swaps
and similar maturity U.S. notes rose last week to 282 basis
points, or 2.82 percentage points, the biggest gap on record,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average spread since 2005
between the two swaps, which investors use to fix borrowing
costs in the future, is 135 basis points.  While Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said this
month that stimulus is still needed to boost a “frustratingly
slow” U.S. recovery, Israel’s accelerating growth has pushed
central bank Governor  Stanley Fischer  to raise the benchmark
interest rate four times this year. Higher rates have drawn
capital and strengthened the shekel, which is up 12 percent in
the past year through yesterday to 3.4390 per  U.S. dollar .  “This discrepancy would suggest that the shekel should be
trading at higher levels,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , an emerging-
market strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said by telephone from
London. “In the U.S. there was a soft patch of economic data.
In Israel, the central bank has been hiking rates.”  Gains in the shekel boosted the appeal for the local debt
with the yield on Israel’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due
January 2020 falling 20 basis points from a record high 5.36
percent level reached on April 11.  Five-Year Swaps  U.S. five-year swaps, which reflect expectations for the
average benchmark rate over five years, have dropped 32 basis
points this year to 1.85 percent, while the same maturity
Israeli notes climbed 66 basis points during the same period to
4.56 percent. The spread between the two notes was at 271 basis
points by 9:41 a.m. in New York.  The  Bank of Israel  has raised rates this year by 125 basis
points to 3.25 percent, the fourth biggest increase after
Belarus, Chile and  Brazil , among 50 key central banks tracked by
Bloomberg. The U.S. Federal Reserve left rates unchanged at 0.25
percent and the Euro region raised the refinance rate by 25
basis points in 2011 to 1.25 percent.  The Bank of Israel last raised rates by a quarter
percentage point on May 23. The central bank will probably leave
rates unchanged when it next meets on June 27, according to the
median estimate of 17 economists.  The shekel has been the best performer among Middle East
currencies in the past three months, gaining 3.4 percent versus
the dollar and 2.3 percent versus the euro.  Business Cycle  Israel’s currency “doesn’t share the structural challenges
that are holding the U.S. economy down and are making people
nervous about the European economies,” said  Koon Chow , a
London-based emerging markets strategist at  Barclays Capital .
“The U.S. going into a second patch of weakness compares with
the Israeli economy, where the business cycle continues to
develop.”  Growing concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown
in the U.S. economy may curb gains in the shekel, said  Benoit Anne , head of global emerging-markets strategy in  London  at
 Societe Generale , France’s second-largest bank.  “Israel is highly leveraged to global growth expectations
and that’s a tricky part right now,” he said by phone from
Paris. “It’s only going to change if we get the green light
from the markets that the Greek crisis is over and get
confirmation that global growth is slowing just marginally.”  Israel recovered from the global recession with growth of
4.65 percent last year. The economy is likely to expand 5.2
percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2012, the central bank said
in a June 1 forecast.  Greenspan Comments  Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said
in an interview with  Charlie Rose  last week that an “almost
certain” default by  Greece  would send the  U.S. economy  back
into a recession. The U.S. economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2011
and 2.95 percent in 2012, according to the median estimates of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Israel’s unemployment rate fell to 6 percent in the first
quarter from 6.5 percent in the fourth. The jobless figure will
probably decline to 5.8 percent for the year, according to the
central bank forecast. In the U.S., the jobless rate rose to 9.1
percent from 9 percent, Labor Department data showed on June 3.  In August 2009, Fischer became the first central bank chief
to reverse course in response to signs of a financial recovery
when he raised the benchmark interest rate by a quarter point
from a record low 0.5 percent.  “This rate spread reflects the underlying divergences in
growth in the two economies,” Chow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  