-- 
Japan Needs Nuclear as Main Energy: Mori

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-06-21T03:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/japan-needs-nuclear-as-main-energy-kansai-electric-s-mori-says.html
Japan  needs nuclear power as its
main energy source and the country shouldn’t follow European
examples in banning new reactors, said Shosuke Mori, chairman of
Kansai Electric Power Co., the nation’s second-biggest power
producer.  “It’s the only way to secure a stable supply of
environmentally clean electricity at a relatively low cost,”
Mori, who also heads the  Kansai Economic Federation , the biggest
business lobby in western Japan, said last week in an interview
in Osaka. “Nuclear power should keep its current status.”  The earthquake and tsunami that crippled Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in the northeast and Prime
MinisterNaoto Kan’s request for Chubu Electric Co. to shut its
 Hamaoka  plant to strengthen disaster defenses have cast doubt on
how Japan will meet its energy demands. Kansai Electric, which
supplies the country’s second-largest commercial region,  joined 
 Tokyo Electric  this month in asking users to cut consumption
this summer by 15 percent to avert blackouts.  Mori said Kansai Electric made the request because four of
the company’s 11 reactors shut for regular maintenance haven’t
been approved for restart. The move may pressure Panasonic Corp.,
Sharp Corp. and other companies based in the region around Osaka
as they work to recover production after the country’s March 11
disaster.  Italian Vote  The reactors, located 80 kilometers (50 miles) north of
Osaka on the Japan Sea coast in Fukui prefecture, accounted for
about 45 percent of Kansai Electric’s total power generation in
the year ended March 31, while renewable energy sources such as
solar and wind power account for only 1 percent, according to
the utility’s  website .  “The proportion of alternative energy sources will probably
increase after Fukushima,” Mori, 70, said. “It may rise to 2
or 3 percent but not to the level that can replace nuclear power
because supply is too unstable and expensive.”  Mori said referendums on nuclear power, like the one in
 Italy  earlier this month, are “inappropriate” because securing
an  energy supply  is an issue of national security.  “Emotional responses shouldn’t dictate our decisions at
times like this,” he said.  The Italian vote banning nuclear power, which followed the
Fukushima disaster, the worst such accident since Chernobyl in
1986, passed by a margin of more than 90 percent and followed
the German government’s pledge in May to discontinue nuclear
energy by 2022.  Nuclear Opposition  Yuji Nishiyama, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
Mori’s views may be a “holdover” from a time before the
Fukushima accident.  “It’s still unknown how much it will cost Japan’s
utilities to the fix damage caused by the disaster and pay
compensation,” said Nishiyama, who has a “neutral” rating on
Kansai Electric and has suspended coverage on  Tokyo  Electric.  While Japan is still focused on containing the radiation
leaking from the Fukushima plant and Kan’s leadership has been
weakened by a pledge to resign after the crisis is brought under
control, calls to change nuclear energy policies are increasing.
A government document submitted this month concluded the country
needs a national debate on the “whole concept of nuclear power
generation,” including a calculation of its total cost.  Anti-nuclear protests were organized in cities, including
Tokyo and Osaka, around the three-month anniversary of the
disaster and governors of prefectures with reactors are asking
for new safety guidelines. Kyodo News yesterday reported that
Osaka Mayor Kunio Hiramatsu, whose city is Kansai Electric’s
biggest shareholder, told the company he wants to eliminate
nuclear  power plants . Kyodo didn’t say where it got the
information.  ‘Strike While Hot’  Mori, who took over last month as chairman of the Kansai
federation, said the disruption of transportation and
distribution systems in Tokyo and eastern Japan following the
March disaster may also provide an opportunity to reverse a
decades-long trend that took investment and influence away from
the western region.  “It’s now clear the whole nation will stop functioning if
a big disaster hits the capital,” he said. “The earthquake
proved the potential risks of limiting the government’s workings
to Tokyo.”  Mori said the Kansai region, consisting of Osaka and its
surrounding prefectures including Kyoto and Hyogo, used to
account for almost a quarter of Japan’s electricity consumption
when he joined Kansai Electric in 1963. That ratio is now about
17 percent, after the central government shifted its investment
to the Tokyo area, he said.  “We in the west need to strike while the iron is hot if we
want to attract people and companies here,” Mori said. “In a
few years, people in Tokyo may start to forget what they went
through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in  Osaka  at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net  