-- 
Japan’s Exports Declined More Than Expected

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-06-20T01:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/japan-s-exports-declined-more-than-expected.html
Japan ’s exports fell more than
economists estimated in May, adding to signs the world’s third-
largest economy may struggle to recover from the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Exports decreased 10.3 percent from a year earlier after
April’s revised 12.4 percent drop, the  Finance Ministry  said
today. The median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for an 8.4 percent decline. The nation posted
a trade deficit of 853.7 billion yen ($10.7 billion), the second
biggest since comparable data were made available in 1979.  Shortages of power and parts have disrupted production and
slowed overseas sales, prompting Japanese companies including
Honda Motor Co. to forecast weaker earnings. Higher unemployment
in the U.S. and weakening demand in  Asia  indicate Japan won’t be
able to rely on global demand to pull itself out of a slump
caused by the quake.  “The state of the global economy is a little worrying,”
said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “Both
the U.S. and Europe aren’t doing that great and emerging
economies are also tightening at an incredible pace, increasing
uncertainty.”  Overseas shipments rose a seasonally adjusted 2.5 percent
in May from April, the first advance in three months, today’s
report showed, an improvement Kato says reflects a recovery from
supply disruptions spurred by the earthquake.  The yen traded at 80.15 per dollar at 10:05 a.m. in Tokyo,
unchanged from before the report was published. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average rose 0.6 percent.  Extended Slump  Recent data suggest the economy’s contraction has extended
into this quarter. Machinery orders fell 3.3 percent in April,
the first decline in four months, a sign companies are reluctant
to spend after the March disaster. The  unemployment rate  climbed
and households cut spending in April.  Honda Motor, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, last week
forecast a bigger-than-estimated 63 percent decline in full-year
profit, citing production disruptions on parts shortages and the
strong yen.  Hitachi Ltd., a Japanese electronics and power-equipment
maker, projected that net income will drop 16 percent in the
year ending March 31 after the disaster crippled its factories.  “Given a slowdown in the overseas economy, it’s difficult
to expect a long-term economic expansion, although a recovery in
production is becoming clear,”  Junko Nishioka , chief economist
at RBS Securities in Tokyo, said before the report. “A V-shaped
recovery scenario for later this year is looking fragile.”  Shipments Slide  Shipments to the U.S. fell 14.6 percent in May from a year
earlier, compared with a 23.3 percent drop in April, the report
showed. Sales to Europe decreased 8.8 percent.  Exports to  China , Japan’s largest market, fell 8.1 percent,
compared with a 6.8 percent drop in April. Shipments to Asia,
where countries from  South Korea  to the India have raised
borrowing costs to quell inflation, slid 8.7 percent.  An increase in energy prices pushed up import bills. Crude
 oil prices  have gained about 20 percent in the past year and
Japan gets virtually all of its oil from abroad. Imports rose
12.3 percent in May from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  “Japan’s trade deficit could remain intact for a prolonged
period,”  Kyohei Morita , chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Tokyo , said before the report. Still, “the driver is likely to
change from decreasing exports to increasing imports,” which
isn’t bad as it reflects domestic demand for reconstruction.  The nation’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized
3.5 percent rate in the first quarter. The economy may contract
around a 3 percent annual pace in the second quarter before
resuming growth in the second half of the year, according to the
average forecast of 43 economists in a survey by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  