-- 
Jimmy Choo, O2 Arena Snub Banks in Buyout Loans With Bigger Fund Portions

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-06-20T10:51:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/jimmy-choo-o2-arena-snub-banks-in-buyout-loans-with-bigger-fund-portions.html
Celebrity shoe designer  Jimmy Choo 
and London’s O2 arena are raising longer-term loans that don’t
start paying back until maturity, the kind of structures favored
by non-bank lenders.  The portion of European loans set up to attract funds rose
to 81 percent, or 22 billion euros ($31 billion) of total term
borrowings in  Europe  this year, compared with 72 percent in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while the amount
of amortizing loans distributed to banks has fallen.  Demand from investors including collateralized loan
obligations, bank loan mutual funds and  hedge funds  is fueling a
five-fold surge in deals to back private-equity led buyouts in
Europe this year to $16 billion. KKR & Co.,  CVC Capital
Partners , JC Flowers & Co. and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC are
seeking to raise more than 3.5 billion euros for acquisitions in
Europe, Bloomberg data show.  “Loan institutional demand should remain strong over the
next few months, allowing issuers to further reduce the
amortizing portion of their  capital structure ,” said Patrice
Maffre, co-head of EMEA acquisition and leverage finance at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in London.  Repayments  Funds are seeking to put cash to work as repayments on
leveraged loans in Europe continue to outstrip new deals, with
almost $11.8 paid down last month by members of Standard &
Poor’s European Leveraged Loan Index compared with $3.5 billion
of new issuance.  Leveraged loans are structured with a so-called  term loan  A
piece for banks and a term loan B tranche for non-bank lenders.
The B loans typically have bullet repayments made in one lump
sum after seven years, while the A portions pay periodic
installments of principal and interest and mature after six
years. The bank-financed loans now account for 19 percent of
deals, down from 28 percent in 2010, the data show.  Jimmy Choo is syndicating loans with no term loan A. As
much as 135 million pounds ($218 million) of the 160 million-
pound seven-year term loan B will be reserved for non-bank
lenders, according to UBS AG, coordinator of the loans. The deal
will finance the acquisition of the London-based fashion brand
by Labelux, the luxury venture formed in 2008 by  Germany ’s
billionaire Reimann family.  London’s O2 arena, controlled by billionaire Philip
Anschutz, plans to refinance with a new 150 million-pound seven-
year term loan B and an equity injection from its owner,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Both Jimmy Choo and O2 arena loans offered an initial
interest of 450 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Cinven Priority  Cinven Ltd. relied on non-bank investors to pay for its
buyout of SLV Group, a Ubach-Palenberg, Germany-based maker of
lighting systems earlier this year. The acquisition financing in
April used 219 million euros of loans B that paid initial
interest of 450 basis points over the euro interbank offered
rate, and 56 million euros of six-year term loans A with a
margin of 400 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  “Cinven in general has always prioritized flexibility even
if it means marginally higher cost,” said Soren Christensen, a
debt financing executive at the London-based private-equity
firm. “For us, the value of non-amortizing and longer-dated B
loan albeit at a higher interest margin, is still a better
proposition than an amortizing loan, given the flexibility it
provides to the business. The business can use the increased
 cash flow  to invest and grow instead of paying down debt.”  Inflows to funds dedicated to loans and floating-rate debt
jumped to $8.5 billion this year, compared with $1.7 billion in
the same period in 2010, data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global show. Gala Coral Group Ltd., the U.K. gaming
company run by Apollo Global Management LLC-led creditors, last
month repaid all its amortizing debt with 1.45 billion pounds of
term loans B and bonds.  “We will likely see more deals with little or no A loans
in the next 18 months,” Christensen said. “The financing
market has improved a lot this year, probably more rapidly than
people would have expected six to 12 months ago. It’s a good
market for issuers now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  