-- 
JPMorgan, RBS Sued by Federal Agency Over Mortgage Bonds

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-20T20:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/jpmorgan-rbs-sued-by-credit-union-agency-over-mortgage-bonds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  units were sued by the federal agency that
regulates credit unions, seeking to recover money lost on
mortgage-backed securities.  The National Credit Union Administration Board, or NCUA,
accused the institutions of packaging and selling mortgage bonds
with loans that didn’t meet underwriting guidelines. The bonds,
sold to federally chartered credit unions, caused more than
$800 million in losses, according to the agency.  A material percentage amount of the loans included in the
bonds “were all but certain to become delinquent or default
shortly after origination,” the regulator said in two
complaints filed in federal court in  Kansas City ,  Kansas . It
didn’t specify the amount of money sought.  Five so-called wholesale  credit unions  failed because they
purchased mortgage-backed securities that lost about $50
billion, David Small, an NCUA spokesman, said in an interview.
After repackaging about $28 billion worth of the bonds and
selling $10 billion worth, the final loss to the entire federal
credit union system will be between $7 billion and $9 billion,
Small said.  The agency plans to sue between five and 10 additional
banks related to the mortgage bonds, Small said. Agency
officials are in settlement talks with the banks, he said.  Untrue Statements  JPMorgan sold credit unions almost $213 million of mortgage
bonds using sale documents that contained untrue statements or
lacked important information, according to one complaint. RBS
used documents with the same flaws to sell credit unions about
$138 million of bonds, the NCUA said in the other complaint.  The NCUA wants the banks to help cover losses caused by the
failures of the credit unions, including U.S. Central Federal
Credit Union, which was placed into conservatorship in 2009. The
agency is liquidating the wholesale credit unions. Wholesale
credit unions provide services to retail credit unions, which
serve consumers.  The prospectuses for the bond sales contained “untrue
statements of material fact or omitted material facts,” in
violation of U.S. securities laws, according to the NCUA.  Michael Geller , a spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS, and
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment today.  The cases are National Credit Union Administration Board v.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 11-cv-02341, and National Credit
Union Administration Board v. RBS Securities Inc., 11-cv-02340,
U.S. District Court, District Of Kansas (Kansas City). 