-- 
Junk-Debt Markets Are ‘Most Bearish’ in 12 Months, McGrath Says

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T21:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/junk-debt-markets-are-most-bearish-in-12-months-mcgrath-says.html
Junk-debt markets are facing “the
most bearish sentiment we’ve seen” in the past 12 to 18 months,
Joe McGrath, head of global leveraged finance at  Barclays
Capital , said to reporters at a June 20 conference in New York.  The market has “pulled back” because of the economic
situation in  Europe  and “the slew of economic indicators we’ve
gotten recently,” McGrath said.  High-yield, high-risk bonds and loans, sometimes called
junk, are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less
than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  On the negative outlook in the high-yield bond and loan markets:  “We’ve probably seen with a three- to four-week downdraft
the most bearish sentiment we’ve seen in the leveraged markets
in probably 12 to 18 months.”  “Clearly we’re not out of the woods yet.”  On shortening the time for recovery after market contractions:  “Certainly what we’ve seen over the course of the last two
years is any time there’s a pullback, you can go back to the
early Greece issues going back into 2009, the market does pull
back for some period of time, and as soon as things stabilize,
cash flows back in again and we have a subsequent rally.  “Over the course of the last two years every time we had a
shock to the system the shock waves became shorter and shorter.
So if you go back to Greece 2009, the market was really at rough
times for probably six to eight weeks.”  On Barclays estimates for the second half of 2011:  “We’re still I’d say constructive as it relates to our
return thresholds for the course of the year. I think when we
discussed the levered markets at the tail end of the year we
were thinking that both leveraged loans and high-yield bonds
would return at about 8 percent for the year. High yield thus
far is up somewhere between 4 to 5 percent. We still are
constructive on that 8 percent backdrop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 