-- 
Netflix Threatens Canada Culture, Quebecor CEO Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-21T14:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/netflix-threatens-canada-culture-quebecor-chief-peladeau-says.html
(Corrects story published June 20 to show three of four
telecom companies have bought broadcasters.)  Online video providers such as
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are threatening  Canada ’s
broadcasting industry and culture and companies shouldn’t face
increased regulation as they take on this threat, said Quebecor
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Pierre Karl Peladeau.  The broadcasting regulator shouldn’t burden Canadian
broadcasters and content providers, such as Quebecor and BCE
Inc., with new rules, Peladeau said at  hearings  of the Canadian
Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission near Ottawa.  “What could have been perceived until now as a simple
market evolution has transformed into a veritable threat to the
Canadian character of our industry,” Peladeau said at the
hearings. “It’s the very existence of our cultural industries
that is in peril,” as the increased competition will reduce
cable carriers’ revenue, making them less able to contribute to
the fund for local content production, he said.  The  CRTC  is examining whether increasing integration of the
broadcasting and telecommunications industries means the
nation’s broadcasting rules need to be changed. Three of
Canada’s four biggest telecommunications companies by market
value have bought broadcasters in a wave of consolidation that
has seen the producers of television content merge with the
carriers that distribute it.  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s biggest phone company, completed its
C$3.2-billion ($3.3 billion) acquisition of broadcaster CTV in
April. Shaw Communications Inc., a Calgary-based cable
television and internet provider, bought the television assets
of Canwest Global Communications Corp. in October. Montreal-
based Quebecor owns the TVA French-language network and Sun TV.  Internet Competitors  Netflix started services in Canada in September, offering
to stream TV shows and movies over the Internet for C$7.99 per
month. Apple offers online viewing through Apple TV, while
Google Inc. owns  YouTube , which said last month it is adding
about 3,000 titles to its movie-rental service.  The arrival of companies such as Netflix is spawning an
uneven playing field for Canadian carriers, which are subject to
regulatory restraints and have made “colossal” investments
into network infrastructure, Quebecor’s Peladeau said.  Netflix has said that Canadian companies are exaggerating
the threat it represents. In  a submission  to the CRTC ahead of
the hearings, the company said its service has increased
competition in the market, encouraging Canadian companies to
introduce their own online video services.  By seeking help from regulators to slow down Netflix,
Canadian telecom companies are trying to “create another
competitive barrier to entry,” Netflix lawyer David Hyman said
in an April 27 letter.  The CRTC needs to ensure companies “fairly share”
televised content with competitors so consumers aren’t prevented
from watching sports and other programming on their mobile
phones, Ken Engelhart, senior vice president of regulation at
Rogers Communications Inc.  said  at the hearings today.  Exclusive Rights  Some companies that both produce and distribute televised
content have already tried to acquire exclusive rights to
television programming on mobile phones and the internet,
Engelhart said. Such an approach will lead to higher prices and
less choice for consumers, he added.  Toronto-based Rogers, which owns the  Sportsnet  sports
network, wants any televised content broadcast in Canada and
distributed online or on mobile phones to be made available to
competitors at a “commercially reasonable” rate, Engelhart
said.  Public Mobile , a Canadian company that offers flat-rate
mobile plans, said it is concerned that integrated telecom
companies will restrict content to their own mobile-phone
customers. The CRTC should ensure that companies don’t use their
content to create an “unfair advantage” in the wireless
internet market, Bob Boron, Public Mobile’s vice president of
regulatory affairs, told the hearings.  “The commission should not, either deliberately or
inadvertently, deem vertically integrated enterprises the chosen
ones,” Boron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  