-- 
New World Resources Board Gives Final Approval to Debiensko Mine

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-06-20T08:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/new-world-resources-board-gives-final-approval-to-debiensko-mine.html
New World Resources Plc, the biggest
Czech coking-coal supplier, said its board of directors gave
final approval for the project to extract coal from the
Debiensko mine in  Poland .  The Amsterdam-registered company completed a feasibility
study and expects to break ground at Debiensko before the end of
this year, it said today in an e-mailed statement.  The feasibility study indicates the mine has reserves of
some 190 million metric tons of the commodity, allowing average
annual production of 2 million tons. NWR expects to extract
first coal in 2017 and reach full production shortly thereafter.  “We are now in a position to push the button at
Debiensko,” Mike Salamon, the executive chairman, said in the
statement. “NWR believes that the coking coal market in  Europe 
will remain lucrative in the coming years due to projected
growth in regional steel production.”  The shares fell 0.6 percent to 924.5 pence at 8:26 a.m. in
 London  on the first day after the company was included in the
FTSE 250 index. In Prague, its home market, they fell 0.8
percent to 253 koruna.  Total investment in the mine will reach 411 million euros
($584 million), with 50 million euros earmarked for this year,
the company said. Investments will include land acquisitions,
engineering and operating existing infrastructure such as
electric and water-pumping equipment, according to the
statement.  Seven-eighths of the mine’s reserves are coking coal and
one-eighth is the less profitable thermal coal, the feasibility
study shows.  “The Debiensko project is very important for the
company,” Marek Hatlapatka, an analyst at Cyrrus brokerage,
said in a note today. “It significantly boosts the reserves NWR
can tap.”  NWR has a 50-year mining license, granted in 2008, to
extract coal from Debiensko. The company also applied for a
license to mine additional coal seams at the site and expects to
receive approval for that project by mid-2012, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in  Prague  at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  