-- 
News Corp. Hacking Claims Affecting Police Workload, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-06-20T17:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/news-corp-hacking-claims-affecting-police-workload-lawyer-says.html
A lawyer for  London ’s Metropolitan
Police force said that a lawsuit brought by people who suspect
their cell phones were hacked into by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the
World newspaper is becoming a major use of resources.  The force is receiving “daily” requests from lawyers for
more information and from the representatives of celebrities
asking if they were a target of the paper, police lawyer Jason
Beer said at a hearing in the case today.  “Our priorities are the investigation and detection of
crimes,” Beer said. “But those priorities have been
substantially affected by these claims.”  Lawyers for more than 25 celebrities, athletes and public
figures asked the court today to force the police to disclose
thousands of pages of documents seized in a 2005 to 2006
investigation into phone hacking at the newspaper. They already
have been given documents that contain the names of their
clients.  If the police were required to process the documents to
remove private information that shouldn’t be disclosed to third
parties, it could take thousands of hours of police time, Beer
said.  Justice Geoffrey Vos told the parties to consider a
compromise to narrow the categories of documents they are
seeking.  Celebrities and politicians have sued  News Corp. (NWS) ’s U.K.
unit over allegations the newspaper illegally accessed mobile-
phone messages for stories. The New York-based company in April
apologized and offered to settle some of the cases after
journalists linked to the paper were arrested. So far one
claimant, actress  Sienna Miller , has agreed to settle.  The scandal started when a former News of the World editor
and a private investigator were sent to jail in 2007 for hacking
into members of the royal household’s mobile phones. Former News
of the World Editor  Andy Coulson  resigned as Prime Minister
David Cameron’s head of communications in January over claims
the practice took place while he was at the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  