-- 
Nigerian Rescued Banks Rise After Report on Loans Purchase

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-06-20T13:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/nigerian-rescued-banks-rise-after-report-on-loans-purchase.html
Nigerian lenders bailed out by the
central bank in 2009 climbed after ThisDay said a state-owned
company set up to buy debts from banks has bought 9,000 non-
performing loans, or 30 percent to 40 percent of total assets in
the industry.  Afribank Plc rose for a second day, gaining 4.8 percent to
1.10 naira by 1:50 p.m. in Lagos. Oceanic Bank  Intercontinental
Bank Plc (INTERCON)  rallied 4.5 percent to 1.16 naira, heading for the
strongest close since June 10.  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM)  snapped 11 days of
declines, adding 4.4 percent to 71 kobo, while Intercontinental
Bank Plc increased for a fourth day, the longest streak since
April 14, rising 3.1 percent to 99 kobo.  Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria  will start to recover bad
debts it has bought from banks after Sept. 30, Lagos-based
ThisDay reported today, citing Amcon Chief Executive Officer
Mustafa Chike-Obi. A Federal High Court in Lagos on June 14
dismissed a case brought by former Intercontinental Managing
Director Erastus Akingbola challenging the memorandum of
understanding for a combination signed by  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS)  and
Intercontinental.  “Amcon’s comment is having a positive impact on the demand
for the rescued banks’ stocks, just like the judgment on
Intercontinental that cleared the way for all of them to be
recapitalized,” David Adonri, chief executive officer of
Lambeth Trust & Investment Co., a Lagos-based brokerage, said by
phone today. That judgement “indicates that recapitalization of
the banks can now be pursued to its logical conclusion” and has
created “new optimism.”  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  set Sept. 30 as the deadline
for the recapitalization of the eight lenders it bailed out in
2009 after they amassed 700 billion naira ($4.5 billion) of non-
performing debt by lending to investors who speculated in
stocks, according to the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission in Abuja.  Other lenders bailed out are Union Bank of Nigeria Plc,
 Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL) ,  Spring Bank Plc (SPRINGBK) , and Equitorial Trust Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 