-- 
No Education Agenda Left Behind Becomes Obama Legal Hurdle

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-06-21T13:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/no-education-agenda-left-behind-becomes-obama-hurdle-as-congress-deadlocks.html
When  Barack Obama  ran for president
in 2008, he pledged to “fix” the No Child Left Behind federal
education law and to promote rigorous standards, merit pay and
policies that made it easier to remove low-performing teachers.  As Obama -- who sold himself as a politician who could
forge bipartisan compromise -- seeks re-election next year,
Congressional gridlock has halted his plan to change No Child
Left Behind. While more than 40 states have signed onto parts of
the rest of his agenda, state budget cuts threaten to undermine
districts’ efforts to carry it out.  “These are blue times -- sad times,” said  Jack Jennings ,
a former general counsel for the House Education committee who
called it the worst environment for education funding since
 Ronald Reagan  proposed abolishing the Education Department in
the 1980s. “You have less money. You have deadlock.”  Calls from business executives and families to improve
education and U.S. competitiveness risk being ignored or
deferred, much like plans to recast Social Security and Medicare,
said Jennings, who now heads the Center on Education Policy, a
Washington-based nonpartisan research group.  U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan is pressing ahead,
saying that while budget cuts are “a real challenge,” they
won’t derail his agenda because more than 40 states have already
started instituting what he called in some cases
“breathtaking” changes.  ‘Tough Decisions’  “These budget times are forcing us to make very tough
decisions,” Duncan said in a telephone interview. “Often in
crisis comes opportunity.”  Seventeen months before Election Day, Obama needs a “win”
on his education plans, said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the
Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report. While jobs will be
the top priority, education is a “factor in defining the
candidates,” he said.  Obama has called for changing the nation’s main public-
education law,  No Child Left Behind , by the start of the next
school year. His plan, announced in March 2010, would let
schools be judged on subjects other than reading and math,
responding to criticism that the law’s standardized-testing is
narrowing what is being taught. It would also stop labeling
schools under a pass-fail system that Duncan said encourages a
dumbing down of standards to qualify for federal money.  Instead, the plan would require action to turn around the
lowest-performing schools, the bottom 5 percent, and provide
financial rewards for top performers.  Government Involvement  While Republicans have criticized No Child Left Behind,
which was signed into law in 2002 by Republican President  George W. Bush , they said Obama’s approach involves the federal
government too much in education, traditionally the province of
states and districts. No broad reauthorization of the law has
been formally introduced, giving Congress less than three months
to meet the administration’s deadline.  Republicans say they are planning to accomplish the task
through a series of targeted bills, two of which have been
introduced. One is aimed at promoting the growth of  charter
schools  -- privately run public schools -- and another seeks to
cut spending by eliminating half of the federal education
programs under the current law.  Schools are coming up to another deadline. If they don’t
show that all students are proficient on state standardized
reading and math tests by 2014, they could lose federal funding.
That prompted Duncan to announce June 10 that he is considering
granting waivers to states to ease parts of the law if they
agree to unspecified “reforms” favored by the administration.  Budget Cuts  Liberty County School District in  Florida  is running out of
time. Liberty’s $9 million budget has been cut by more than a
third since the 2007-2008 school year as federal stimulus money
dried up and the state budget shrank amid declining tourism. The
1,300-student district cut 14 people from its 216-member staff
and risks having to eliminate classroom teachers next year,
Superintendent Sue Summers said in a telephone interview.  Under  No Child Left Behind , all three Liberty schools are
labeled as failing because a relative handful of students aren’t
making adequate progress, even though they will be getting A and
B grades on Florida state academic report cards, Summers said.  Under the federal law, the system has to set aside about
$80,000 -- enough for two teachers -- for a tutoring program
that could be eliminated under a revamp of the law, Summers said.
She is also trying to come up with new teacher evaluations and a
curriculum to meet national standards.  “If they cut $100,000 from my budget, I’ll have to cut
something big,” Summers said. “I won’t be able to open schools.
I won’t be able to provide transportation or I won’t be able to
provide lunches.”  Money Dangled  To achieve Obama’s goals, Duncan has dangled money before
states, especially through his $5 billion in Race to the Top
grants, the biggest pool of discretionary federal education
money in U.S. history.  Republicans say Duncan is wielding too much power.  “More and more Americans have recognized that this
intrusion of the federal government has not helped, it has
gotten in the way,” said  John Kline , the Minnesota Republican
who chairs the House Education Committee.  As federal lawmakers debate, more than 220,000 teachers and
other educators could lose their jobs in the 2011-2012 school
year, according to the  American Association  of School
Administrators.  Washington  state cut $1.7 billion from this year’s
education budget. As a result, school districts will get $5
million, rather than $20 million, to help them pay for a new
teacher evaluation system tied to student performance.  Education Exit  Some governors, state school officials and superintendents
who support Obama’s approach have also left their posts,
threatening the drive to tie teacher pay to performance and
establish national academic standards, said  Michael Cohen , an
assistant education secretary under President  Bill Clinton .  Cohen cited the departures of Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue,
Louisiana State Superintendent Paul Pastorek and district
schools chiefs  Joel Klein  of  New York City  and  Michelle Rhee  of
Washington.  The new generation of school leaders is just as committed
to Obama’s policies as Rhee and Klein, Duncan said.  Forty-three states and the  District of Columbia  have signed
onto U.S. academic standards proposed by the nation’s governors
and school chiefs, the Education Department said. Sixteen states
changed laws so they can take action to replace staff in low-
performing schools. Twenty-two states enacted laws to improve
teacher quality. Illinois just passed legislation that makes it
easier to remove underperforming teachers, Duncan pointed out.  Poorly Educated  Businesses say a poorly educated workforce is hurting their
bottom lines.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, is
trying to fill 2,895 U.S.-based engineering positions, according
to Lisa Malloy, a spokeswoman for the  Santa Clara , California-
based company.  RightNow Technologies Inc. (RNOW) , which helps businesses offer
online and live-chat customer service, typically goes through
about 100 resumes to hire one person who has the necessary math,
science and computer technology training, said Greg Gianforte,
chief executive officer and founder of the Bozeman, Montana-
based company.  “We need reform,” Gianforte said in an interview.
“Without highly educated and motivated individuals, we don’t
have a future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  