-- 
Nortel Judge Orders Mediation on Rules For Units to Split Up $4 Billion

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-20T21:22:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/nortel-judge-orders-mediation-on-rules-for-units-to-split-up-4-billion.html
Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ’s units in
North America and  Europe  must go before a mediator to try to
resolve their differences over what process to use to divide
among about $4 billion, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
didn’t rule on the dispute among the bankrupt company’s units
over whether judges in the U.S. and  Canada  or a private
arbitrator should decide how to split up money.  “The risk of inconsistent decisions and the uncertainty of
the appellate process (with the further risk of inconsistent
decisions) may additionally delay and complicate the progress of
the cases,” Gross wrote in an order issued June 17.  Nortel said in a statement that the same order was issued
by Ontario Superior Court Judge Geoffrey Morawetz, in Toronto.  Nortel, once the biggest maker of telecommunications
equipment in  North America , put its units into bankruptcy in the
U.S., Canada and the U.K. in 2009. Since then it has raised
$3 billion for creditors by auctioning its technologies and
businesses. The last major auction will raise at least
$900 million from the sale of 6,000 patents, according to court
documents.  Nortel’s European units, which are under the jurisdiction
of a bankruptcy court in the U.K., claims the U.S. and Canadian
units promised to allow a private arbitrator to decide how that
money will be allocated to the various units. Those units would
then distribute their share to creditors, including bondholders.  Nortel’s North American units say they never agreed to
private arbitration and asked Gross and Morawetz to decide how
to split the cash.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  