-- 
Norway Oil Fund Confident Euro Survives With Doubts Increasing Over Greece

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-06-21T13:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/norway-oil-fund-confident-euro-survives.html
The chief executive officer of
 Norway ’s $570 billion sovereign wealth fund said the European
Monetary Union, which consists of 17 countries sharing the euro
currency, will survive amid increasing doubts that  Greece  will
avoid becoming the first member to default on its debts.  “Some people are saying Europe is facing a choice, there
is fiscal union or there is a break-up of the euro,”  Yngve Slyngstad , the head of the Oslo-based fund, said yesterday in an
interview. “I don’t think that’s necessarily true for the
union. It may be true for one single member for the moment.”  Greece’s plight has put the euro through its toughest test
since its inception 12 years ago. The currency, which German
Chancellor Angela Merkel in January called the “embodiment” of
 Europe , may not survive the region’s debt crisis as taxpayers in
 Germany  balk at the prospect of bailing out governments that
failed to comply with fiscal rules, the Centre for Economics and
Business Research said yesterday.  “We have proportionally a much higher stake in Europe than
in the rest of the world,” Slyngstad said. “There are not a
lot of market participants who expect the euro to break up and
we don’t expect that either.”  Norway’s wealth fund, which has 60 percent of its bond
holdings invested in Europe, has a “huge vested interest in
the success of the euro,” he said.  Greek Yields  Greek bond yields soared yesterday after European leaders
postponed a decision to make a 12 billion-euro ($17 billion)
loan payment, fanning speculation the country may run out of
money next month. Yields fell today amid speculation that Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will win a confidence vote
enabling austerity cuts.  Europe also still needs to agree on the terms of a second
bailout for Greece as a 110 billion-euro package agreed on in
May 2010 proves insufficient.  Policy makers in Europe are coalescing around a model for
the next bailout that would have bondholders roll over their
investment, a solution that  Fitch Ratings  last week said
wouldn’t constitute a default.  Norway’s wealth fund, which gets its capital from oil
production, has since the end of 2008 through 2010 cut its
combined holdings in Greek, Irish, Portuguese, Italian and
Spanish government debt by 13 percent to 13.89 billion euros. An
increase in Spanish and Irish bond holdings partially offset
large reductions in holdings of Greek and Portuguese debt. The
fund added about 3.5 billion euros in Italian bonds last year,
after slashing its holdings in 2009.  Main Risks  Slyngstad said the main risk associated with a Greek
default comes from the threat of contagion. The oil fund’s
holdings of Greek bonds are now “quite low,” he said. “A lot
of the concern for the moment is the secondary effect on the
European financial sector,” he said. The oil fund has a
“favorable” view of covered bonds versus senior debt, he said.  Greece’s 10-year bond recouped most of yesterday’s losses
as the yield eased 34 basis points to 16.28 percent. The debt
yielded 14.02 percentage points more than 10-year German bunds,
Europe’s benchmark.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 13 cut Greece by three levels to
CCC, the world’s lowest debt grade. Ireland and  Portugal  also
sought emergency loans in the past year, while  Spain ’s finances
came under scrutiny last week, pushing the extra yield on its
10-year bond to 261 basis points, the highest weekly close since
January.  Moody’s Investors Service warned on June 17 it may cut its
Aa2 rating on  Italy , whose 2010 debt reached 119 percent of
gross domestic product, Europe’s second highest after Greece.  Avoiding Inflation  Norway’s oil fund is Europe’s biggest equity investor and
got its first capital infusion in 1996. It’s mandated to hold 60
percent in stocks, 35 percent in bonds and 5 percent in real
estate in rules set by the  Finance Ministry . The fund first
moved into stocks in 1998, added emerging markets in 2000 and
this year bought real estate to lift returns and safeguard the
wealth of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter. The fund
invests outside Norway to avoid stoking inflation.  Norway, a nation of 4.9 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in Statoil ASA,
the country’s largest energy company.  The fund returned 9.6 percent last year as stock markets
rallied, adding to a 26 percent gain in 2009. It grew 2.1
percent in the first quarter, the smallest return since the
second quarter of 2010, as European bonds slumped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net 
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  