-- 
India Stocks Slump to Four-Month Low on Mauritius Tax Deal Talk

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-06-20T11:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/nse-s-nifty-futures-swing-between-gains-and-losses-on-oil-decline-greece.html
India ’s benchmark stock index sank
to a four-month low after a report the government sought to tax
gains on investments routed through Mauritius sparked a selloff.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  and  Reliance Communications
Ltd. (RCOM)  plunged more than 6 percent each after they were removed
from the benchmark index.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  fell
for a fourth day after the Financial Express said June 18 the
nation’s largest software maker has been ordered to pay 6.56
billion rupees in back taxes after tax officials denied some of
its claims.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s most valuable
company, tumbled to its lowest since April 2009.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
363.90 points, or 2 percent, to 17,506.63 at the 3:30 p.m. close
in Mumbai. The index closed at its lowest level since Feb. 10.
The gauge has dropped 11 percent from an April 4 high, exceeding
the 10 percent-level regarded by some investors as a
“correction.”  “The fear is that if the  tax treaty  is removed foreign
investors will be subject to  capital gains  and the entire
equation changes,” said Ravi Gopalakrishnan, chief investment
officer for equities in Mumbai at Pramerica Asset Managers Pvt.,
a unit of Prudential Financial Inc., which manages $784 billion.
“The street is pricing in the worst scenario.”  India will seek to tax capital gains on investments made
through Mauritius as talks on its tax treaty with the island
nation resume after three years, Business Standard reported
yesterday. India wants to impose a tax because the gains are
being made in India, the report cited Prakash Chandra, chairman
of the tax board, as saying.  The country has yet to start negotiations with Mauritius
after the latter expressed willingness to hold talks three
months ago, said Shishir Jha, a spokesman for Central Board of
Direct Taxes in  New Delhi .  Sensex Recast  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange lost
2 percent to 5,257.90 and its June futures settled at 5,265. The
BSE 200 Index decreased 2.1 percent to 2,179.38.  “Most companies have been attracting money through the
Mauritius route; if this case is reversed, it will be a double
whammy,” said Deven Choksey, managing director at Mumbai-based
K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities, which manages $125 million.
“One is the tax aspect. Secondly, money will get pulled out.”  Reliance Infrastructure sank 6.2 percent to 544.95 rupees,
is biggest since Feb. 9. Reliance Communications plunged 7.9
percent to 87.65 rupees, extending this year’s losses to 40
percent. Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) 
will replace the two Anil Ambani Group companies on the Sensex
from Aug. 8, the Bombay exchange said June 17.  Tata Consultancy dropped 3.6 percent to 1,069.3 rupees and
its June futures settled at 1,073.10 rupees. Reliance
Industries, owner of the world’s largest oil-refining complex,
lost 4.1 percent to 833.25 rupees, falling for seventh day.  ‘Listless’  Indian stocks will underperform in coming months amid
uncertainties over the magnitude of policy tightening, the
impact on demand, the direction of government policies and the
outlook for global growth, BNP Paribas said.  “Indian equities could remain listless with a downward
bias until the uncertainties dissipate,” analysts led by
Manishi Raychaudhuri wrote in a report dated today. The analysts
downgraded banks and auto shares to “neutral” and are
“overweight” on technology, telephone and utility stocks.  The analysts reduced the end-2011 estimate for the Sensex
to 20,500 from 23,600 to factor in lower earnings estimates and
valuation multiples, according to the report.  Worst Performer  The gauge has dropped 15 percent this year, the most among
Asian benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg, on concern rising
borrowing costs will hurt corporate profits. Sensex stocks are
valued at 14.2 times estimated earnings, compared with 10.7 for
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The central bank raised the repurchase rate to 7.5 percent
from 7.25 percent on June 16, extending the longest streak of
tightening in a decade, joining its peers from  China  to  South
Korea  in stepping up the fight against surging living costs.  Rising borrowing costs have begun to crimp demand. India’s
$1.4 trillion economy expanded 7.8 percent in the three months
through March 31, the slowest pace in five quarters, government
data show.  Overseas investors sold a net 4.23 billion rupees ($94.3
million) of Indian stocks on June 16, taking total withdrawals
from equities this year to 8.04 billion rupees, according to
 data  from the  Securities and Exchange Board of India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in  Mumbai  at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  