-- 
Nuclear Operators May Be Tapped for Safety Costs, IAEA Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-06-21T06:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/nuclear-power-operators-may-be-tapped-to-help-meet-safety-costs-iaea-says.html
The United Nations nuclear watchdog
is weighing whether atomic-plant operators should be tapped to
fill budget shortfalls needed to finance tougher safety reviews
in the wake of Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi meltdown.  The nuclear industry’s contribution to safety reform will
be discussed today by the  International Atomic Energy Agency  in
Vienna, where delegates from 151 countries are convening for the
second day of a one-week meeting.  “We should not stick to the traditional ways of receiving
funds from governments,” IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano
said yesterday at a press briefing in Vienna. The IAEA may
partner with “private companies, associations and industry” to
pay for expanded safety reviews, he said.  Scientists, diplomats and people from the nuclear industry
are meeting behind closed doors in the Austrian capital this
week to begin the process of drafting stricter international
nuclear-safety rules. The IAEA, best known for safeguarding
potential nuclear weapons material, will need more money to
increase its safety work.  “We have increasing demands,” said Amano, a Japanese
diplomat before taking over the agency in 2009. “There are lots
of requirements for the IAEA to increase its activities.”  Among proposed changes, the agency is weighing seeking the
authority to impose random nuclear-safety checks within the next
18 months. It’s also considering creating a stockpile of
equipment that can be used in an atomic emergency and aims to
boost cooperation with other UN agencies, the agency said in a
nine-page document.  Independent Oversight  Increasing the safety of nuclear plants shouldn’t involve
high cost increases, John Ritch, the director general of the
 World Nuclear Association , will say at the IAEA later today.  “It is crucially important that regulatory actions taken
in response to Fukushima have demonstrable benefit arising from
any increased costs,” Ritch said, according to an e-mailed
version of his speech.  The response to Fukushima should focus on “promising real
safety gain” by improving back-up emergency systems to maintain
post-shutdown cooling and introducing measures to regain outside
power in the event of a blackout, Ritch will say. The atomic
power industry also needs to make clear to the public that
accidents will happen.  “Even as we strive for impeccable management of nuclear
facilities, we can never have confidence that we will succeed,”
Ritch is to say. “Nor can we expect the public to believe that
we have. We must concede that human beings make mistakes.”  Regulatory Independence  The UN agency, with an  annual budget  of around 315 million
euros ($451 million), raises money from its member states. The
U.S., the European Union and  Japan  are its biggest contributors.  Earlier this month, Japan pledged to make its own nuclear
regulator more independent from industry. Tokyo Electric Power
Co., the utility that owns the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi, had
its  credit rating  cut to junk status yesterday by Moody’s
Investors Service.  A 160-page IAEA  report  released yesterday showed that
Japanese regulators underestimated the threat of tsunamis to
coastal atomic plants.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out power at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, disabling cooling systems and
triggering meltdowns at three reactors. The tsunami that hit
Fukushima rose to as high as 15 meters (49 feet), Tokyo Electric
said in April.  Voluntary Review  A voluntary review of safety carried out in 2002 by  Tokyo
Electric  raised the expected tsunami height to 5.7 meters, the
IAEA said. The conclusions weren’t reviewed by Japan’s nuclear
safety regulator, it said.  Estimates of the maximum magnitude of potential earthquakes
at Fukushima were based only on recent historical seismological
data and didn’t include evidence of prehistorical geological
movements, according to the report.  “Our regulators need to learn from each other, share best
practices and methodologies that will help increase transparency
and improve the overall safety of our nuclear reactors,” U.S.
Deputy Secretary of Energy Daniel Poneman said yesterday in a
speech.  The U.S. wants to use the Fukushima disaster to reform
nuclear liability laws that will cap company damages in the
event of a future atomic accident, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.netundefined  