-- 
Obama Says U.S. Connection With Israel Is ‘Unbreakable’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-21T01:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/obama-says-u-s-connection-with-israel-is-unbreakable-.html
President  Barack Obama  told
Democratic Party donors tonight that the bond between the U.S.
and Israel is “unbreakable.”  “The  United States  and Israel will always be stalwart
allies and friends,” the president told about 80 people at a
dinner for Americans in Support of a Strong U.S.-Israel
Relationship. “That bond is unbreakable and Israel’s security
will always be at the top tier of considerations of how America
manages its foreign policy.”  Obama said the protests sweeping the  Middle East , which
have toppled governments in Tunisia and Egypt and sparked
military conflict in  Libya , create opportunities for Israel to
achieve its goal of living in peace with its neighbors.  “The consequences of what’s happening there are
potentially as significant as what happened in  Europe  when the
Berlin Wall came down,” Obama said.  Obama is raising at least $3 million tonight for his re-
election campaign and the Democratic National Committee.  At a second fundraiser tonight, for donors from the mid-
Atlantic region, Obama said the nation is going through “one of
the toughest periods in American history,” which required
difficult decisions by his administration.  Those decisions, Obama said, have led to a growing economy
though there still is work to do.  “The reason that 2012 is important is that I did not run
for president just to get us back to where we were,” he said.
“What that means is what we’ve begun, we have to finish.”  Obama began fundraising for the 2012 elections in March and
has already raised millions of dollars for Democratic candidates
and party organizations across the country and in  Puerto Rico .  Candidates, political parties and outside groups may spend
as much as $3 billion during the 2012 presidential election, an
increase from the more than $2 billion the Federal Election
Commission said was spent during the 2008 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  