-- 
Obama Administration Says Foreign Investment in U.S. Is Growing

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-06-20T12:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/obama-administration-says-foreign-investment-in-u-s-is-growing.html
Foreign direct investment in the
U.S. increased by 49 percent in 2010, rebounding from 2009
levels during the height of the credit crunch, according to a
report by the  White House Council of Economic Advisers  to be
released today.  “At a time where we need to use every tool in our toolbox
to continue to put Americans back to work and grow the economy
here at home, promoting foreign direct investment is an
important opportunity to accelerate our economic recovery,”
President  Barack Obama  said in an e-mailed statement.  Seventeen months before the presidential election, Obama is
seeking to convince voters that his economic policies will help
lead to long-term growth even as recent data shows the economy
is slowing.  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
 Labor Department  figures released June 3 showed. Industrial
production in the U.S. rose less than forecast in May,
restrained by a slump in utility output and shortages of auto
parts from  Japan .  Consumer purchases in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
April as food and fuel prices climbed, and pending sales of
existing houses plunged, showing the economy was struggling to
strengthen at the start of the second quarter.  The U.S., which has the most foreign direct investment of
any nation in the world, has been the beneficiary of a growing
number of companies with headquarters in other countries doing
business in the U.S., including building new warehouses, service
centers, and research and development facilities, according to
the report.  Low Barriers  The analysis concludes that the nation’s open economy and
low barriers to foreign investment have helped make the U.S. an
attractive investment. According to the report, in 2010 almost
90 percent of U.S. inbound foreign direct investment was from
corporations based in  Canada ,  Europe  and Japan.  Republicans, including former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the frontrunner for the party’s presidential nomination
in several polls, are using recent economic data to make the
case that Obama’s economic policies are failing.  Global investors increased their cash holdings to the
highest level in a year this month as  hedge funds  slashed the
amount of borrowed money invested in stocks, a survey by Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit showed on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  