-- 
Lockheed May Pitch F-35 to Rejoin India’s $11 Billion Fighter Jet Contest

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-06-21T06:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/lockheed-may-pitch-f-35-to-rejoin-11-billion-india-jet-contest.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  may offer its
latest warplane, the F-35 stealth fighter, to India in a bid to
rejoin the Asian country’s $11 billion combat-jet competition
after its older F-16 model was eliminated.  Lockheed’s chances of offering the F-35 for the 126-plane
order were boosted last week when the U.S. Senate Armed Services
Committee asked the Defense Department to study the
“desirability and feasibility” of a joint strike fighter sale
to India, said Patrick Dewar, senior vice president for
corporate strategy and business development, in an interview at
the Paris Air Show.  The Senate committee report accompanying the Pentagon’s
2012 budget “opens the window to fifth-generation fighter
technology release to India, however the Indian services want to
deal with it,” Dewar said.  The Senate committee request for a Pentagon study on
selling F-35s to India was part of a broader amendment on U.S.-
India military ties offered by Senators John Cornyn, Republican
of  Texas , where the fighter is produced, and  Joseph Lieberman ,
independent of  Connecticut , home to  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
which makes the plane’s engines.  Cornyn’s spokeswoman, Jessica Sandlin, said the amendment
was “overwhelmingly adopted” by the Senate defense panel.
Cornyn is the co-founder and co-chairman of the  Senate India
Caucus . The provision is a so-called “Item of Special
Interest” that takes effect immediately after the bill report
is issued. It doesn’t need House approval and “takes effect
regardless of what happens to the bill itself,” she said.  MiG-Replacement  Lockheed’s F-16, based on a 30-year-old design, was
eliminated in April from the six-way Indian contest to replace
its aging fleet of 1970s-era MiG-21s, along with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
F/A-18 Super Hornet. On the shortlist are  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s
Rafale and the Eurofighter made by BAE Systems Plc,  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC)  and European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co.  The competition is one of the largest in recent years and
also attracted bids from  Russia ’s OAO United Aircraft Corp. and
 Sweden ’s  Saab AB (SAABB) , which offered the Gripen. President  Barack Obama  had lobbied on behalf of Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
and Chicago-based Boeing.  “I certainly believe it’s possible,” Dewar said when
asked if the potential F-35 offer could lead to the Indian Air
Force reopening the contest. India “might think differently
about the competition” should the stealth jet become available.  ‘Succumbing’ to U.S. Pressure  Admitting the joint strike fighter to the bidding at this
stage would be “contrary” to India’s weapons-acquisition
procedure, said Mrinal Suman, an arms-procurement adviser at the
Confederation of Indian Industry in  New Delhi . “It’s too late
in the day,” he said. “It would be seen by many as succumbing
to U.S. pressure.”  India ’s air force considered the F-35 in “very informal
discussions” at the start of its bid to upgrade its main
fighter jet force, said Kapil Kak, a retired Indian air vice
marshal who is a director of the  Centre for Air Power Studies , a
New Delhi think-tank. The plane’s “developmental time scale was
unacceptable” because the air force needs planes that can be
available as soon as possible to raise its fighter force from a
current 30 squadrons to more than 40, Kak said.  Indian defense ministry spokesman Sitanshu Kar couldn’t be
reached for comment.  Most Expensive Program  The F-35 jet is still in development. At an estimated $382
billion, it is the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program.
The U.S. Government Accountability Office has said the planes
cost about $133 million each in today’s dollars. The Pentagon
plans to buy more than 2,400.  Buying F-35s at $133 million each would boost India’s cost
in acquiring 126 fighters by about 50 percent, from a currently
estimated $11 billion to almost $17 billion.  While a sale of F-35s “would certainly raise concerns in
 Pakistan  about India’s capabilities, they have bigger, amazingly
complex challenges ahead of them,” said Kak. As India
modernizes its military with an eye on  China ’s growing
capabilities, “it’s in our interest not to score points against
Pakistan,” he said.  India has tripled its defense budget over the last decade
as it looks beyond its rivalry with nuclear-armed neighbor
Pakistan, with which it has fought three wars since both
countries gained independence from British colonial rule in
1947, to counter China’s rising power.  T-38 Partnership  The Senate defense panel’s request to study the F-35 sale
to India was part of a broader provision that would require the
Obama administration to prepare a “detailed assessment of the
current state of U.S.-India security cooperation.” The bill
seeks a five-year plan for more joint military exercises,
defense trade and support for India’s military modernization,
homeland security and coastal defense, and maintenance of secure
sea lanes of communication.  The lawmakers also asked the Pentagon to study the
possibility of a U.S.-India partnership for development of a
replacement for the U.S. Air Force’s T-38 trainer jet. The
planes, built by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s predecessor, have been
in use since the 1960s.  India has bought several U.S.-made weapon systems,
including C-130J transports made by Lockheed, and on June 15
signed an order for 10 C-17 transport planes made by Boeing
valued at about $4 billion.  Corruption Scandals  In April, when India shortlisted the European jet makers,
V.K. Kapoor, a retired lieutenant general in India’s military,
said the choice was driven by technical merits.  “It was a by-the-book technical assessment that the
American F-16 and F/A-18, despite their upgrades, are not
future-generation aircraft,” Kapoor said in April. “They can
remain current for another five or 10 years, but this deal is
going to determine the operational capacity of our  air force  for
the next 30 years.”  India’s arms-buying process has been slowed by officials’
sensitivities over corruption scandals in previous purchases,
including one that helped drive Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
Congress Party to defeat in 1989 elections, according to Rahul Roy-Chaudhury, senior fellow for  South Asia  at the International
Institute for Strategic Studies in  London .  Singh’s government already has seen its legislative program
stalled by opposition protests over alleged official corruption
in the sale of telecommunications licenses and in last year’s
staging of the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Paris at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  