-- 
Okinawa Marines Relocation Delayed as U.S., Japan Revamp Basing Plan

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T22:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/okinawa-marines-relocation-delayed-as-u-s-japan-revamp-plans.html
The U.S. and  Japan  will delay the
relocation of an American air base to a less-crowded part of
Okinawa, as both nations struggle with a plan to move thousands
of Marines and their families to new locations including Guam.  The two countries agreed today to extend their timeline due
to a lack of progress caused, in part, by Japan’s earthquake and
tsunami in March. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  met with their counterparts, Minister of
Foreign Affairs Takeaki Matsumoto and Minister of Defense
Toshimi Kitazawa, in Washington.  The ministers “confirmed their commitment to complete the
above projects at the earliest possible date after 2014 in order
to avoid the indefinite use” of the existing air station,
according to a joint statement released after the meeting.  As part of a  2006 agreement , 8,600 Marines and 9,000
dependents are to be transferred almost 1,500 miles south to
 Guam . By 2014, the Futenma Air Base would also have moved north
to a new facility at Camp Schwab.  Construction has yet to begin even as Japan committed $6.09
billion toward the relocation agreement and the U.S. said it
would pay for the rest of the $10 billion  “Japan has dragged its feet for almost two years and we’ve
had a struggle to get back to square one,” said Bruce Klingner,
an analyst at the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington and former
chief of the Central Intelligence Agency’s Korea branch.  Public Opinion  In Japan, public opinion has grown increasingly intolerant
of the almost 50,000 military personnel living in the country,
mainly on Okinawa. Still, both nations want to maintain regional
security as  China  displays growing military ambition in the
Pacific.  At stake is a five-decade old alliance, forged after World
War II, and a realignment plan that took 13 years of diplomacy
to get signed.  “During the past year or two with a more evident North
Korean and Chinese threat,” the  Democratic Party  of Japan,
which won its first national election in 2009, has reversed
“many of its naive policies,” said Klingner. “We hope to see
Tokyo now step up to the plate.”  Complicating matters in the U.S. is the decision by the
Senate Armed Services Committee to block funding for the
relocation of Marines amid concern that the plan is too
expensive.  The Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm
of Congress, said in a  May 25 report  that the total cost of the
realignment could be $29.1 billion. That figure is based on a
2006 study by the Japanese government.  ‘Unrealistic, Unworkable’  On May 11, three senators called the relocation agreement
“unrealistic, unworkable and unaffordable” and suggested it
would be cheaper to move assets to Kadena Air Base, Okinawa,
instead of building an air base from scratch.  They also propose the relocation of some of Kadena’s units
out of the country. The three are Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin ,
chairman of the the Senate Armed Services Committee; Arizona
Republican  John McCain , the committee’s ranking minority member;
and Virginia DemocratJim Webb, who heads the Senate Foreign
Relations subcommittee for East Asia and the Pacific.  After today’s meeting, Webb said his concerns about the
costs and feasibility of the administration’s plan still need to
be addressed before Congress releases funds.  The senators’ alternative plan “has been looked at many
times and rejected a number of times,” Klingner said in a
telephone interview. “Would it save money? No, it would rob
Peter to pay Paul.”  Prime Ministers Resigning  In Japan, which has had five leaders in as many years,
Okinawa is a politically charged issue that has already cost one
prime minister his job.  Yukio Hatoyama , who became the DPJ’s
first prime minister in 2009, was forced to resign after nine
months when he backed down from a campaign pledge to move a U.S.
military base from the island of Okinawa.  His successor,  Naoto Kan , has said he will resign after his
government passes a second disaster spending plan in response to
the March earthquake and tsunami that caused the worst nuclear
crisis in 25 years.  In view of the nuclear meltdown, the U.S. may be open to
renegotiating Japan’s pledge, to ease the Asian nation’s
financial recovery from this year’s natural disasters,
Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Michele Flournoy said on
April 29.  The U.S. Defense Department and representatives from Guam
and the Northern Mariana Islands signed an agreement on March 9
to begin the move of forces that will relocate away from Japan.
Two days later, Japan was struck by a 9-magnitude earthquake and
tsunami that also damaged a nuclear power plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  