-- 
Tepco May Get JBIC Funding Help for Overseas Asset Sales

-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-06-21T07:53:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/tokyo-electric-may-get-jbic-funding-help-for-overseas-asset-sale.html
The  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  may help fund  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s proposed
sale of overseas energy assets as the operator of the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant seeks to shore up its finances.  The state-run lender is considering loans to domestic
companies interested in acquiring foreign energy projects that
the utility might sell, Chief Executive Officer  Hiroshi Watanabe 
said in an interview. The bank may also offer emergency loans to
Tokyo Electric should prices of liquefied natural gas, a vital
fuel for thermal  power plants , surge, he said.  Tokyo Electric yesterday had its  credit rating  cut to junk
by Moody’s Investors Service as it struggles to contain the
worst nuclear crisis in 25 years. The utility is under pressure
to sell assets to raise at least 600 billion yen ($7.5 billion)
to scrap reactors and compensate victims of the disaster, which
was triggered by a record earthquake and tsunami on March 11.  “We’d consider offering loans if potential buyers are
Japanese companies,” Watanabe, 61, said in an interview on June
10 in Tokyo. “Tepco-invested projects overseas seem to be
performing well.”  Watanabe’s bank has notified Japanese utilities including
Tokyo Electric that the lender is preparing loans for LNG and
oil imports in case prices soar in months ahead, he said. More
oil, gas and coal are being burned at thermal power generators
around the country to supplement electricity after utilities
shut down reactors following the earthquake.  Reactor Shutdowns  Further reactor shutdowns planned for checks and
maintenance by the end of August mean 75 percent of  Japan ’s
nuclear power capacity is likely to be idled or damaged during
peak summer demand, data compiled by Bloomberg showed last month.  “We are considering the sale of assets in the process of
restructuring our business,” said Atsushi Sugiyama, a Tepco
spokesman. “Of course, that includes overseas assets.”  East Timor’s Bayu-Undan LNG plant run by ConocoPhillips,
and  Indonesia ’s Paiton coal-fired electric power plants are
among overseas projects that Tokyo Electric has invested in,
according to Tepco’s website. The utility also has a stake in a
dual-purpose desalination and electricity-generating plant in
the  United Arab Emirates  and owns stakes in power plants in the
 Philippines .  The utility’s overseas assets are valued at about 1
trillion yen, Jiji Press reported on April 23.  Slashed to Junk  Tepco fell 2.9 percent to 305 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo Stock Exchange trading. It has plunged 86 percent since
March 10. The benchmark Topix index of shares gained 1 percent
today, the biggest increase in a week.  Moody’s yesterday lowered Tepco four steps to B1 from Baa3
and said the rating may be reduced further as costs related to
the Fukushima disaster escalate. Moody’s assessment is now in
line with the ranking by  Standard & Poor’s , which slashed its
assessment of the utility’s debt by five levels on May 30.  Japanese credit rating companies maintain investment-grade
evaluations for Tepco. Rating and Investment Inc. on June 1
lowered the utility to A-, the seventh-highest level. Japan
Credit Rating Agency Ltd. cut it to A+, the fifth highest, on
May 13.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s cabinet agreed on June 14 to
provide a safety net for the utility while it pays claims for
damages related to the nuclear meltdown at the Dai-Ichi plant
that could exceed $130 billion.  Tepco has the equivalent of $84.7 billion of debt maturing
before the end of 2049, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 