-- 
One in Three U.S. Workers Wants to Leave Job, Mercer Survey Says

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-06-20T19:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/one-in-3-workers-wants-to-leave-job-mercer.html
About one-third of U.S. workers are
considering leaving their jobs, with younger workers most likely
to quit, according to human-resources consultant  Mercer LLC .  A survey of 2,400 workers found 32 percent are “seriously
considering” leaving his or her organization, up from 23
percent in 2005. Another 21 percent said they view their
employers unfavorably and don’t feel engaged at work, though
they don’t want to leave, according to a  statement  today.  Dissatisfaction is growing as workers think they are
getting less out of their employment. Workers satisfied with
base pay dropped to 53 percent from 58 percent in 2005,
according to Mercer. Sixty-eight percent of employees rate their
overall benefits as good or very good, down from 76 percent.  “They feel less attached to the organization emotionally
and psychologically, and they don’t necessarily believe that the
organization they work for has their best interests in mind,”
said Jason Jeffay, a senior partner at Mercer.  Among employees 25 to 34 years old, 40 percent are
contemplating leaving their jobs. Among employees 24 and
younger, the figure is 44 percent, Mercer said.  Depressed housing prices and underwater mortgages mean
older workers, who are more likely to own a home, are less
mobile than they once were, Jeffay said. This means they are
less able to seek out jobs and pursue the most satisfying one.  Young Americans  “Their ability to relocate, which has traditionally been a
strength of the American labor market, is no longer a factor,”
Jeffay said in an interview.  Young U.S. workers tend to be more optimistic about
opportunities outside of their current employer, according to
Stacey Randall, chief consultant at the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based SBR Consulting LLC. A recent SBR study found that
70 percent of workers 21 to 30 years old said there is a
possibility they will change jobs once the economy improves.  “They have bills to think about, but they are more mobile
than other demographics,” Randall said. “They’ve been riding
out the recession and recovery, like everybody else.”  Randall’s advice to workers hoping to change jobs in the
near future: “Network, be prepared and save.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  