-- 
More Rains Forecast for China After Floods Kill Dozens, Force Evacuations

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-20T15:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/more-rains-forecast-for-china-after-floods-kill-dozens-force-evacuations.html
More rains are predicted for parts
of China in the next several days after flooding killed dozens
and forced thousands to flee their homes.  Heavy rain is forecast to hit Sichuan, Shaanxi and Gansu
provinces before moving east to Henan and Shandong, the National
Meteorological Center said today. Rain in the middle and lower
reaches of the  Yangtze River  will ease, it said on its website.  While the downpours brought  floods  to central regions,
closing airports and roads, they helped end the worst drought in
decades, restoring reservoirs and aiding crops in the world’s
biggest grower of cotton and rice. That may also help ease
inflation that accelerated to 5.5 percent in May, the most since
2008. Poyang, the country’s largest freshwater lake, returned to
normal levels, the official Xinhua News Agency said on June 18.  The wet spell “helped farmers finish planting mid-season
rice, likely doing more good than harm” except in flood-
affected areas, said Wang Fang, analyst at research company
Cngrain.com, owned by China Grain Reserves Corp., the manager of
the country’s food stockpiles. Apart from rice and cotton, the
rains have helped corn where  China  is the second-biggest grower.  The floods killed 175 people and left at least 86 missing
from June 3 to June 20, and hundreds of thousands were
evacuated, the Ministry of Civil Affairs said in a  statement 
today.  Gansu Rains  Heavy rains have hit northwest China’s Gansu province since
June 15, affecting a total of 19,742 people in 19 towns in the
province, Xinhua reported today, citing the provincial
Department of Civil Affairs said on Monday.  Floods triggered by the heavy rains in the coastal province
of Zhejiang killed two people and left one missing as of 6 p.m.
Monday, and caused 5.35 billion yuan ($826 million) of damage,
the provincial government said in a  statement  on its website.  Seven provinces including Hubei had a record 60 days
without precipitation between March and May, said Chen Zhenlin,
a spokesman for the China Meteorological Administration.
 Shanghai  had the least rain through May in 138 years, the city
weather bureau said. The dry spell delayed planting of indica
rice crops and pushed futures in Zhengzhou to a three-month
high.  “While the change from drought to floods seems surprising,
the Yangtze River regions are known to have floods every year,
and so far there are no signs this year has been particularly
worse,” Tommy Xiao, an analyst at  Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co.,
said by phone from Shanghai.  Crops Helped  For most regions, rains aided grain crops including rice
and corn, Xiao said. For wheat, northern China was “lucky” to
have already harvested the winter crop, he said.  The downpours drenched cotton in Jiangxi, Hubei and Hunan,
FCStone Fibers & Textiles wrote in a research note June 17.
“Producer sentiment generally remains upbeat” for replanting
and reasonable yields if drier days return, it said.  The lower and middle areas of the Yangtze will be mostly
dry and cloudy, the weather office said.  Rains forecast to move to Henan and Shandong will help corn
and cotton in those areas, Xiao said. Henan and Shandong are
among China’s top five corn and cotton producing regions,
according to the China Agricultural Yearbook published by the
Ministry of Agriculture.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  