-- 
Panasonic Forecasts 59% Profit Drop as Quake Effects Linger

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-06-20T09:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/panasonic-forecasts-59-profit-drop-as-quake-effects-linger-2-.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  forecast full-year
profit will tumble 59 percent this fiscal year after  Japan ’s
March 11 earthquake disrupted factories and suppliers.  Net income will probably drop to 30 billion yen ($374
million) in the year to March 2012, the Osaka-based company said
in a statement today. That compares with the 35.4 billion yen
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the
past four weeks.  Japan’s biggest home appliance maker said the earthquake
and tsunami will cut sales by 160 billion yen and operating
profit by 90 billion yen this year, while boosting demand for
energy-efficient lighting, batteries, solar cells and housing
related products. Panasonic joins manufacturers including Toyota
Motor Corp., Canon Inc. and Hitachi Ltd. in forecasting declines
in annual profit after the quake.  Supply-chain issues “will likely affect Panasonic’s output
until about September,” Kazuharu Miura, a senior analyst at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said before the announcement. Sales
of low-emission appliances and solar panels may help the
company, while TV operations will likely continue losing money
because of lower prices, he said.  Sales will probably rise 0.1 percent to 8.7 trillion yen
during the 12 months started April 1, the company  said .
Operating income, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, may slide 12 percent to 270 billion
yen. Analysts estimated 8.45 trillion yen and 253 billion yen
respectively.  Earnings by Division  Profit at the main audio-visual products unit, which
includes TVs and cameras, will probably rise to 121 billion yen
during the 12 months, from 114.9 billion yen a year earlier, the
company said. Income at the appliance unit may gain to 104
billion yen from 92.3 billion yen, it said.  Sales of car-related components and mobile phones will
probably drop because of supply-chain bottlenecks and quake
disruptions, Chief Financial Officer Makoto Uenoyama told
reporters today. Revenue from batteries, solar panels and light-
emitting-diode lamps will likely rise, he said.  Sony, Panasonic’s nearest rival in terms of global
consumer-electronics sales, forecast last month a return to net
income of 80 billion yen for this fiscal year from losses caused
by writing down the value of deferred tax assets. Sony is
cutting costs to make its TV operations profitable.  Profit at Panasonic’s division that builds houses and makes
ceiling lights will probably rise to 76 billion yen this fiscal
year, from 73 billion yen in the previous year, according to the
company’s statement today.  Sanyo Electric Co., Panasonic’s battery-making unit, may
book a loss of 63 billion yen, wider than the 8 billion yen
shortfall a year earlier, because of parts shortages and a
decline in demand from automakers, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  