-- 
Papandreou Says It’s in Europe’s Interest to Find Solution to Greek Crisis

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-20T16:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/papandreou-says-it-s-in-europe-s-interest-to-find-solution-to-debt-crisis.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said it’s in  Europe ’s interest to find a solution to
the country’s debt crisis after finance ministers left open
whether they will give the country all the funds it was promised
next month under its bailout deal.  “We are determined as a country, as a government, to be on
track with the program, to move forward, to do what is necessary
in order to put our country into a fiscally much more viable
position,” Papandreou said in Brussels today. “At the same
time, we do hope that the European Union will have also the
similar will.”  The Greek leader, who faces a confidence vote tomorrow,
said Europe must show a “unity of purpose” to tackle a crisis
that has “not only reached Greek dimensions but wider European
dimensions.” European finance ministers yesterday said  Greece 
must pass laws to cut the deficit and sell state assets. They
pushed back a decision on disbursing the full 12 billion euros
($17.2 billion) promised for July.  Papandreou said he had “very constructive” discussion
with European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  today, adding
that Greece is in a “very intricate and difficult
negotiation.”  Van Rompuy said that he “underlined the need for Greece to
make further efforts to address the current challenges.”  “The package of measures agreed upon by the government and
the troika of fiscal consolidation, privatization and structural
reforms needs to be supported above all by the Greek
parliament,” he said. “This will pave the way for the next
disbursement by mid-July.”  In their statement yesterday, finance ministers said the
unlocking of fresh aid depends on working out “voluntary
private sector involvement in the form of informal and voluntary
rollovers of existing Greek debt at maturity.”  “We are working on a medium-term strategy including
voluntary private-sector involvement along the lines agreed upon
by the eurogroup yesterday,”  Van Rompuy  said. “Given the
length magnitude and nature of the required reforms in Greece,
national consensus is a prerequisite for success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  