-- 
Confidence Vote May Decide Greece’s Fate

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-21T21:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/papandreou-confidence-vote-looms-today-as-world-waits-for-delay-or-default.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is facing a confidence vote in his government that
may determine whether Greece becomes the first euro-area country
to default.  The vote caps a week of turmoil for Papandreou, who fended
off a revolt from his ruling socialist Pasok party in parliament
last week. That came after the opposition rejected his call for
a national unity government. The count, broadcast live on
television, got under way in Athens after midnight local time.
European Union leaders have insisted Papandreou secure multi-
party support for austerity measures as a condition of the aid
needed to avoid default as soon as next month. A vote on the
fiscal plan is due next week.  “Pasok now knows it has to close ranks,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in
 London . “The situation is volatile. A negative vote by the
Greek parliament could trigger a serious crisis in  Europe .”  The  International Monetary Fund , contributor of a third of
the bailout money for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned
European leaders that a failure to take decisive action on the
debt crisis risks triggering “large global spillovers.” At the
same time, Papandreou is struggling to convince Greeks to accept
a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of state-asset sales
and budget cuts, which include a “crisis levy” on wages.  While Greek bonds rose yesterday on optimism that
Papandreou will win the confidence vote, he will have to go back
to parliament next week to get his budget plan passed.  Bond Rebound  “Whether such a heterogeneous government can in fact
implement the plan is a different question altogether,” said
Miranda Xafa, senior investment strategist at Geneva-based
IJPartners and former IMF board member for  Greece .  The yield on two-year Greek yields, which surpassed 30
percent for the first time last week, fell 97 basis points to
27.64 percent as of 5 p.m. in London.  Papandreou, 59, now has 155 seats in the 300-seat chamber
after one Pasok deputy on June 14 resigned from the party and
declared himself independent in protest of the government’s
economic policies. Two days later, two socialist lawmakers quit
parliament, prompting Papandreou’s party to demand an emergency
meeting and stoking investor concern that his grip was slipping
and the chance of default growing.  Debate  In an effort to shore up political support, Papandreou on
June 17 replaced finance minister  George Papaconstantinou  with
Evangelos Venizelos, his defense minister and one-time rival for
the party leadership, in a cabinet reshuffle.  Papandreou hopes to meet EU leaders at a summit later this
week that will discuss a new financing package to shield Greece
from record borrowing costs for as many as three years. If
Papandreou survives the vote, he will seek approval in
parliament next week for his five-year economic plan.  Euro-area finance chiefs, pushing Greece to pass the laws
needed to cut its deficit and sell state assets, left open two
days ago whether the country will get the full 12 billion euros
promised for July as part of last year’s 110 billion-euro
lifeline. Finance ministers will meet again July 3 to decide on
Greece’s loans.  “Greece’s national unity has become a pre-requisite for
our partners,” Venizelos, 54, said after his first meeting with
European counterparts in Luxembourg. “It should have been the
nation’s self-preservation instinct.”  ‘Policy Mix’  Venizelos said EU partners required the parliament to vote
through the fiscal plan as well as a bill on implementing the
plan by June 30, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Athens-based  Finance Ministry . References to national unity
pointed to the “need for a climate and atmosphere of unity and
responsibility,” he said.  Defeat would embolden the opposition and could lead to
elections, giving Antonis Samaras, leader of  New Democracy , the
largest opposition party, the opportunity the pursue his vow to
renegotiate the package.  “We cannot support a further policy mix exactly in line
with the first policy mix which hasn’t produced any of the
results,” Notis Mitarachi, alternate head of economic policy
for the opposition party, told Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television. “We agree on the goals of the program but we
disagree on the policy mix through which it’s implemented.”  ‘Better Than Even’  Schmieding said there is “a better than even” chance
Papandreou will win the vote of confidence after the reshuffle.  “Putting party stalwart Venizelos at the top of the
finance ministry improves the chances that Pasok will stick
together,” he said. “It is a close call.”  More than 47 percent of 1,208 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research SA for  To Vima  newspaper oppose the new austerity
measures and want early elections. Almost 35 percent said the
package should be approved.  Unions have called strikes against the measures. The trade
union at  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  began rolling 48-hour strikes,
forcing the company to conduct scheduled power cuts to prevent a
blackout.  Protests outside Parliament House are held on a daily
basis, prompting leftist Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras to call
the gatherings “a new lower house” of parliament. Another
demonstration took place as lawmakers voted.  Papandreou has promised to call a referendum later this
year on changes to the country’s political system and
constitution to allay demonstrators’ concerns.  Elected in 2009, Papandreou first sought a financial rescue
in April 2010 to avoid default as investors refused to finance a
record budget deficit. The conditions attached to the aid have
helped deepen a slump that has driven the economy into recession
for a third year, lifted unemployment to 15.9 percent and fueled
popular discontent and unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  