-- 
Paulson Sells Its Sino-Forest Stake Amid Claims Timber Holdings Overstated

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-21T21:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/paulson-co-sells-entire-holding-in-chinese-timber-producer-sino-forest.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Hong Kong-
based tree-plantation owner that’s plunged 89 percent since
being targeted by short seller Carson Block, lost the support of
its biggest shareholder after Paulson & Co. sold all its stock.  John Paulson ’s New York-based hedge fund, which made $15
billion in 2007 betting against U.S. mortgages, said in a
regulatory filing yesterday that it sold all 34.7 million of its
shares. Sino-Forest has fallen to an eight-year low in Toronto
after Block, who runs Muddy Waters LLC, said June 2 that the
company overstated its production.  Paulson made his disclosure less than a week after Sino-
Forest Chief Financial Officer David Horsley said in an
interview that the hedge-fund manager has been “very
supportive, giving us suggestions” on how to deal with Block’s
allegations. Sino-Forest shares have lost about C$4 billion
($4.1 billion) in value since Block released his  report .  “Due to the uncertainty over Sino-Forest’s public
disclosures and financial statements, we have sold our stock,”
Paulson & Co. said in an e-mailed statement.  Sino-Forest dropped 74 cents, or 27 percent, to C$1.99 as
of 5 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, its lowest price
since June 3, 2003.  Allen Chan, Sino-Forest’s chairman and chief executive
officer, has denied the allegations from  Muddy Waters . He
established an independent committee to investigate and
appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.  ‘Losing Trades’  Paulson lost about 13 percent from his largest fund in the
first half of June, two investors briefed on the returns said
last week. They asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  “Paulson is under the limelight on this investment, but
any  money manager  is going to have some losing trades. It’s part
of life,” said Steven Persky of Dalton Investments LLC, a Los
Angeles-based fund with $1.3 billion in assets. Whenever there
are allegations of mismanagement, “you’ll have some very
reputable firms who have been taken in because a company doesn’t
get to that size without serious investors,” he said.  The “complexities” of Sino-Forest’s corporate structure,
prompted  Fitch Ratings  to today downgrade its long-term foreign
currency issuer default rating and senior unsecured debt rating
to “BB-” from “BB+,” Fitch said in a statement. The rating
may be cut further if the issues aren’t resolved, Fitch said.  ‘Inconsistencies’  “Inconsistencies” have been found in the valuation of
Sino-Forest’s holdings in  China ’s Yunnan province,  Canada ’s
Globe and Mail said June 18, citing Chinese government officials
and forestry experts it didn’t identify. A plantation where
Sino-Forest bought timber rights in 2007 is smaller than the
200,000 hectares (494,000 acres) it claims, the Globe said,
citing Xie Hongting, chairman of Gengma Forestry, which sold
trees to Sino-Forest, and a provincial forestry official the
newspaper didn’t identify.  Sino-Forest stands by the figure, the newspaper reported,
citing a statement from the company, which said it bought 13,300
hectares directly from Gengma, and another 180,000 hectares from
other sellers, using Gengma as a broker.  The Globe’s report is an “incorrect portrayal” of the
company’s business, Sino-Forest said yesterday in a statement.  Paul Quinn , a Toronto-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets ,
said today in a note that the bank suspended coverage of Sino-
Forest pending the findings of an investigation started by an
independent committee the forestry company set up, or the
“release of information by other independent and credible
sources.” Quinn previously had an “outperform” recommendation
on the stock.  Suspended Coverage  Richard Kelertas, an analyst at Dundee Securities who had
said on a June 7 conference call that there was nothing
fraudulent about Sino-Forest “to the best of our knowledge,”
suspended coverage of the timber company yesterday pending a
review of the independent committee’s findings. Dundee helped
Sino-Forest raise money in a stock offering as recently as 2009,
and Kelertas recommended buying the shares from September 2007
until June 3, when he started reviewing his rating.  Short selling has retreated to 20 percent of Sino-Forest’s
outstanding stock as of June 20 from a record 35 percent on June
2, according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm.
Short sellers borrow stocks and sell them in the hope of
profiting by repurchasing the securities later at a lower price
and returning them to the holder.  Orient Paper  Orient Paper Inc., target of a critical Muddy Waters report
last year, urged overseas-listed Chinese companies to increase
transparency to combat short sellers.  Chinese companies “should conduct the third-party
independent investigation like we did, they should do it even
better than us in order to shut others’ mouths,” Liu Zhenyong,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baoding, Hebei-based
Orient Paper, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Orient Paper’s shares are languishing 60 percent below
where they were before Block’s allegations, even after a four-
month investigation last year by Loeb & Loeb LLP, Deloitte &
Touche Financial Advisory Services and TransAsia Layers found
there was no evidence to support the claims.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 