-- 
Peso Bonds Post Longest Slump Since February as U.S. Slows: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-06-20T21:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/peso-bonds-post-longest-slump-since-february-as-u-s-slows-mexico-credit.html
Mexican peso bonds are posting their
worst losing streak in four months as slowing U.S. growth and a
deepening debt crisis in  Europe  prompt investors to shun the
Latin American country’s fixed-income assets.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark notes due in 2024 has
jumped 24 basis points over two straight weeks of losses, the
longest stretch since Feb. 11, to 7.31 percent. In  Colombia ,
yields on the country’s peso debt due in 2020 sank 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 7.81 percent during the
same period while those on Brazilian bonds due 2021 slid 10
basis points to 12.34 percent.  Growing concern that Greece may default and that the
slowdown in the U.S. economy will crimp demand for Mexico’s
exports are snapping a bond rally spurred by the slowest
inflation in almost five years. Yields on the benchmark bonds
touched a six-month low of 7.03 percent on June 1 as annual
inflation slowed to 3.3 percent in May from 4.4 percent in 2010.
Inflation in  Brazil  quickened to 6.55 percent in May.  “What’s happening is that people are getting more risk
averse,” Benjamin Souza, who manages 53 billion pesos ($4.5
billion) at San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico-based Grupo Invercap
SA’s pension fund, said in a telephone interview. “Any assets
where you see a bit of risk are getting hit.”  Greece’s growing debt crisis and the slowdown in the global
economy are driving investors to the safety of AAA-rated debt,
sparking a four-month rally in  U.S. Treasuries  that has sent
yields on the benchmark 10-year bond below 3 percent.  Month High  Yields on Mexico’s bonds due 2024 rose to a one-month high
of 7.32 percent on June 16, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bonds have returned 6.4 percent this year in
dollar terms, compared with an average gain of 4.9 percent for
local-currency debt sold by Latin American countries, according
to Bank of America Corp. indexes.  The U.S. economy buys 80 percent of Mexican exports.  Mexican peso bond yields may climb another 20 basis points
in the next month as negotiations on a bailout for  Greece  and on
an increase in the U.S. debt ceiling drag on, said Leonardo Armas, deputy director of research at Mexico City-based
brokerage Invex Casa de Bolsa SA.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is struggling to
gain parliamentary approval for a 78 billion-euro ($111.6
billion) five-year package of budget cuts and asset sales by
July to ensure the country receives a new aid package from the
European Union. U.S. lawmakers are seeking to reach an agreement
to increase the $14.3 trillion debt limit before Aug. 2, the
date on which the Treasury Department said it will have
exhausted all its borrowing authority.  Greek Situation  “The longer it takes to solve the Greek situation and the
U.S. debt problem, the more volatility we are going to see,”
Armas said in a telephone interview.  Mexican pension funds, the second-biggest holders of
government-peso debt after foreign investors, had boosted their
 holdings  of the securities in May to the highest level since
January, the regulator said on June 15. The funds held 59.2
percent of the 1.46 trillion pesos they manage in Mexican
 government securities .  The bond declines over the past two weeks are creating a
buying opportunity for investors, including pension funds, said
Alejandro Urbina, who helps manage $800 million in emerging-
market securities at Silva Capital Management LLC in  Chicago .  “Given the inflation outlook and the performance of
Treasuries, I don’t think the pension funds got in too late,”
Urbina said in a telephone interview. “These yields are here to
stay for a while. This is an opportunity and if it slides even
more, it’s a good entry point.”  U.S. Treasuries  The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries has plunged 47 basis
points to 2.95 in the past two months, the biggest two month
decline since the period ending in August.  Enrique Solorzano, who manages ING Groep NV’s  Mexico 
pension fund, declined to comment through an assistant. Javier Orvananos, the pension fund manager at Citigroup Inc’s Banamex
unit, didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail for comment.
Jorge Perez Samano, pension fund manager at BBVA Bancomer SA,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment. Banamex is the
 largest  fund, followed by Bancomer and ING.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December was unchanged at 4.99 percent today,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate by
then. Mexico is the only major Latin American nation to keep its
benchmark lending rate unchanged in the past year. The central
bank left the rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month. The
peso gained 0.3 percent to 11.867 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. New
York time, leaving it up 4 percent this year.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 4 basis points
to 145, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose three basis points to 113, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 forecast for
U.S. growth for the second time in two months on June 17, saying
that further setbacks to the recovery pose a threat to the world
economy. The world’s biggest economy will grow 2.5 percent this
year, less than the 2.8 percent projected in April, the IMF said
in the report. The  U.S. economy  expanded 2.9 percent last year,
helping foster growth of 5.4 percent in Mexico, the most in 10
years.  “There’s a global deceleration that’s made us start
talking about a double dip again,” Invercap’s Souza said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  