-- 
Acura Surges After Winning FDA Approval for Painkiller Oxecta With Pfizer

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-20T20:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/pfizer-acura-announce-fda-approval-of-oxecta.html
Acura Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACUR) , a maker
of technology to deter drug abuse, rose the most in 11 weeks in
Nasdaq trading after U.S. regulators approved its short-acting
painkiller Oxecta.  The Palatine, Illinois-based company climbed 63 cents, or
16 percent, to $4.50 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading. It was the stock’s biggest percentage
increase since April 4.  Acura said in a regulatory filing today that it will
receive $20 million from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  as a result of the Food and
Drug Administration approval. Pfizer, the world’s biggest
drugmaker, acquired marketing rights to the pain medicine,
formerly known as Acurox, in its $3.3 billion purchase of King
Pharmaceuticals in March. Sales of the pills may be limited to
$30 million a year because they don’t guard against intentional
overdose, according to Ian Sanderson, an analyst at Cowen & Co.  “While the Acura technology does prevent them from being
crushed and snorted and chewed, the primary means of abuse is
still wide open,” Sanderson said in a telephone interview from
 Boston . “It really does not have a lot of commercial
potential.”  The FDA in 2009 rejected the original Acurox formulation
that included niacin, a vitamin that causes redness and
irritation of the face when taken in excess.  Study Requirement  Acura said it expects Pfizer will begin selling Oxecta late
in the third quarter or early in the fourth quarter of this
year. The FDA is requiring New York-based Pfizer to conduct a
study to examine whether the medicine decreases the consequences
of abuse and misuse.  “We recognize our responsibility to physicians and
patients and remain committed to appropriate access to pain
treatment and developing medicines to potentially address this
important public health and safety issue,” said Olivier Brandicourt, president and general manager of Pfizer’s primary
care division, in a separate statement.  Oxecta is Acura’s first product. The company is entitled to
royalties on sales ranging from 5 percent to 25 percent,
according to the 2007 agreement with King Pharmaceuticals. Most
competing medicines are generic and sold at lower prices than
brand-name drugs.  Most abuse of opioid painkillers occurs with extended-
release versions. Pfizer is also developing Remoxy, a tamper-
resistant form of long-acting oxycodone that is working with
 Pain Therapeutics Inc. (PTIE)  of Austin,  Texas , and Cupertino,
California-based  Durect Corp. (DRRX)  The FDA is scheduled to rule on
that new drug application by June 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 