-- 
Pfizer’s Bid to Appeal $58 Million Prempro Jury Award Denied

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-20T17:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/pfizer-rejected-by-u-s-high-court-on-58-million-prempro-award.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
hear a  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  unit’s appeal of a $58 million award to three
Nevada women who contracted  breast cancer  after taking the
company’s Premarin and Prempro menopause drugs.  The rebuff leaves the award as the largest to be upheld on
appeal in thousands of hormone-replacement drug suits. More than
6 million women took Prempro and other menopause drugs before a
2002 study highlighted their links to cancer. Pfizer and its
units at one point faced more than 10,000 claims, according to
lawyers for former users.  The  Nevada Supreme Court  concluded jurors properly held
Pfizer’s Wyeth unit responsible for hiding the breast-cancer
risks of Premarin and Prempro. The original 2007 award totaled
$134.1 million to Arlene Rowatt, Jeraldine Scofield and Pamela
Forrester. The trial judge later reduced the verdict to $57.6
million.  “While we are disappointed with the  Supreme Court ’s
decision, it does nothing to change the fact that hormone
therapy medicines are an important treatment option for many
women with debilitating symptoms of menopause,” Chris Loder, a
Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  At the U.S. Supreme Court, Wyeth argued the Nevada judge
should have ordered a new trial rather than reduce the award.
The company argued the jury was swayed by an “improper and
inflammatory” closing argument by the women’s lawyer.  ‘False Reassurances’  Attorneys for the women urged the Supreme Court not to get
involved, saying the award was warranted in light of the
company’s mishandling of the drug and misleading marketing
campaign.  “Wyeth refused to accept responsibility for what it did to
these brave women,”  Zoe Littlepage , a lawyer for Rowatt,
Scofield and Forrester, said in an e-mailed statement. “Wyeth
can’t hide any more. These women will finally see justice.”  Annual sales of Wyeth’s hormone-replacement drugs exceeded
$2 billion before a 2002 study, sponsored by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health, suggested that women using the medicines
had a 24 percent higher risk of breast cancer.  Until 1995, many patients combined  Premarin , Wyeth’s
estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden Provera, made by
Pfizer’s Pharmacia & Upjohn unit. Wyeth then combined the two
hormones in Prempro. The drugs are still on the market.  Largest Drugmaker  New York-based Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker,
acquired Wyeth in 2009. The company, which has settled a third
of the pending cases over its Prempro menopause drug, said last
month that it set aside $772 million to resolve claims over the
medicine.  Rowatt, Scofield, Forrester were all in their 60s at the
time of the verdict. Forrester and Rowatt have since died of
causes unrelated to the litigation.  In April 2008, a judge awarded the women’s lawyers more
than $1.6 million in fees and expenses, Littlepage said in a
statement. That brings the total award to more than $59 million.  The case is Wyeth LLC v. Scofield, 10-1177, U.S. Supreme
Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  