-- 
PNC to Buy RBC’s U.S. Bank, Card Assets for $3.62 Billion

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-20T21:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/pnc-financial-to-pay-3-5b-for-rbc-u-s-unit.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
the sixth-largest U.S. bank by deposits, agreed to pay $3.62
billion in cash and stock for  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s U.S. retail
banking unit and credit-card assets.  PNC has the option to pay as much as $1 billion of the
purchase price in stock, Pittsburgh-based PNC said today in a
statement. The deal is expected to add to PNC’s earnings by the
end of 2013 or sooner depending on how much of the transaction
is paid in stock.  The acquisition will help PNC expand its retail business in
the U.S. Southeast beyond a foothold in  Florida . The RBC Bank
unit, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , has more than 420
branches in six states across the region. RBC said the deal will
result in a C$1.6 billion ($1.6 billion) loss this quarter,
which includes a goodwill write-off of C$1.3 billion.  “The addition of RBC Bank provides PNC a great opportunity
to enter attractive Southeast markets in a way that will create
value for our shareholders,” PNC Chief Executive Officer Jim Rohr, 62, said in the statement.  PNC has retail operations in 15 states and  Washington ,
D.C., including more than 2,500 branches, according to the
bank’s  website . The firm acquired National City Corp. in 2009
for about $3.9 billion in stock.  “There’s an appetite for acquisitions given their
capitalization and the lack of organic loan growth,” Tom Lewandowski, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said
of PNC in a June 17 interview. “They’re looking to go out there
and purchase that loan growth.”  Merger Costs  PNC, which is spending $165 million of the total cost on
RBC’s credit-card assets, expects to incur merger costs of about
$322 million, the lender said. The acquisition adds about $19
billion of deposits and $16 billion of loans based on RBC Bank’s
balances as of April 30, according to the statement. The deal is
expected to be completed in March 2012.  The option to pay as much as $1 billion of the purchase
price in stock is the “worst-case scenario” and is dependent
on regulations surrounding  capital requirements , Rohr said today
on a conference call with investors. If PNC doesn’t use the
option, the deal will be immediately accretive to earnings.  “We’re well capitalized from a Tier 1 common point of view
right now under almost any one of the scenarios that are coming
out of Basel or the regulations,” Rohr said. “There’s no
reason to make a decision on that today. It’s an option we have
down the road to solve a potential problem that we don’t see
today.”  Centura Takeover  Royal Bank is seeking to sell RBC Bank a decade after it
entered the U.S. with a $2.16 billion takeover of Centura Banks.
Competitors  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  are
expanding by acquiring troubled U.S. lenders.  “We certainly had a lot of the wrong assets in the wrong
places at the wrong time,” Jim Westlake, who runs the
international banking unit, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “A lot of things went bad before we had a chance to
do a lot of cleanup.”  PNC has been successful with acquisitions in the past, will
boost productivity and doesn’t have branch overlap in the
region, Westlake said.  RBC Bank posted 11 consecutive quarterly losses as of March
31, with combined annual losses of about $3.1 billion since
2007, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. filings. RBC
Bank is the smallest of Royal Bank’s U.S. operations, which also
include  wealth management  and the  RBC Capital Markets  investment
bank.  ‘Very Good Price’  “This is a very good price for Royal,” said Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto.
“Given the continued challenges in the operating performance of
RBC Bank USA and the fact that it was well-known the bank was
looking to divest, for Royal Bank to get more than 20 times
normalized earnings has to be seen as a win.”  Royal Bank rose 21 cents, or 0.4 percent, to C$54.54 at
4:15 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. PNC fell $1.13, or
2 percent, to $56.66 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  advised PNC on the deal, and RBC
Capital Markets and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  advised Royal Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ; 