-- 
Polish Central Bank Must Raise Benchmark Interest Rate, Kazmierczak Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-06-20T11:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/polish-central-bank-must-raise-benchmark-interest-rate-kazmierczak-says.html
Poland ’s central bank must add to
its 100 basis points of interest-rate increases this year after
inflation unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest in a decade,
central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak said.  While inflation probably peaked in May, prices will decline
more slowly than previously expected, with the rate remaining
above 3.5 percent through the end of the year, Kazmierczak said
in a June 17 interview in Warsaw.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its benchmark seven-day
rate by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent on June 8, the fourth
increase this year. Inflation accelerated to 5 percent in May,
double the central bank’s target and the highest since August
2001, exceeding all forecasts of economists  “Small and gradual rate increases have so far failed to
bring the desired effects as they neither slowed inflation, nor
calmed inflation expectations,” Kazmierczak said. “I’m
determined to continue monetary-policy tightening, and the May
inflation data only strengthened my determination to do so.”  The zloty has weakened 0.73 percent against the euro this
month, the fourth-worst performance among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, behind the Romanian leu,
the  Mexican peso  and the Chilean peso.  Poland’s currency traded at 3.992 per euro at 1:20 p.m. in
Warsaw, down from 3.98 late on June 17. Bonds fell pushing
yields on five-year notes 10 basis points higher to 5.48 percent
in the last five trading days.  FRAs Rise  Polish six-month forward rate agreements have climbed in
the past week after falling to 30 basis points above the three-
month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, the lowest level since
July. The spread rose to 37 basis points as of 12:53 p.m. in
Warsaw today.  Policy makers around the world are battling to contain
inflation spurred by rising food, commodity and energy costs.
Central banks in Norway, Russia and  Denmark , along with the
 European Central Bank , have increased borrowing costs in the
past two months in response to price pressures.  Polish policy makers signaled a pause in rate increases
this month and central bank Governor Marek Belka on June 15
said rate setters “won’t panic” because of the May inflation
report.  Growth Concerns  Monetary Policy Council members  Andrzej Bratkowski  and
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch also argued against higher borrowing costs,
partly because of concern tighter monetary policy would hurt
economic growth. Gross domestic product will probably expand
less than 4 percent next year, Kazmierczak said.  “The Monetary Policy Council may need to continue a
restrictive policy during 2012, which may limit economic
growth,” Kazmierczak said. “Elevated inflation causes a threat
to persistent and strong economic growth, which is impossible
without a strong currency, thus low inflation.”  Changing the central bank’s bias to neutral from
restrictive, as suggested by policy makers including  Jerzy Hausner , would be “premature,” Kazmierczak said. Following
recent inflation data, “the change to a neutral bias from the
restrictive one has been postponed” even if further rate
increases would limit economic growth, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  