-- 
Pound Weakens Against Dollar as Equities Decline on Greek Default Concern

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-20T12:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/pound-weakens-against-dollar-as-equities-decline-on-greek-default-concern.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar as falling stock markets sapped demand for riskier assets
after European governments failed to agree on releasing a loan
payment to Greece.  The yield on 10-year U.K. government bonds slipped to the
lowest in seven months, as investors sought the relative safety
of government debt. Britain’s benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  of
equities and the pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 declined 1
percent.  The market “is again focused on headline risk from
Greece,” said  Chris Walker , a foreign-exchange strategist at
UBS AG in London. “Safe havens are likely to stay the mile. If
you are looking to buy the dollar against something, then
against sterling is quite a good bet. It’s one of our least
favorite currencies.”  The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.6161 as of 12:41 p.m. in
London. Sterling strengthened 0.5 percent against the euro to
87.94 pence and rose 0.1 percent to 129.69 yen.  Sterling was supported versus the euro as decisions on the
next aid payout to Greece and a three-year follow-up package
were put off until early July. Euro-area finance ministers also
pushed  Greece  to pass laws to cut its deficit and sell off
state-owned assets.  The yield on 10-year U.K. government bonds was little
changed at 3.19 percent after sliding to 3.16 percent.  Bank Minutes  Gilts have returned 3 percent this year, compared with a
3.3 percent gain on Treasuries, according to European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg indexes.  The central bank publishes the minutes of its last policy
meeting on June 22. The Monetary Policy Committee held rates at
a record low 0.5 percent for a 28th month.  “The main drivers of the U.K. are still pretty weak and
the leading indicators are still pretty weak, so overall it’s
likely to offer quite a cautious tone,” Walker said of the
minutes. “I’d certainly want to be short ahead of it, so until
then we do see sterling struggling further.”  The pound may slide below $1.60 if the minutes indicate
 interest rates  are likely to stay at a record low into next
year, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The BOE minutes this week will likely indicate that the
BOE will keep rates on hold for a long time,” foreign-exchange
strategists led by Ray Attrill in  New York  wrote in an e-mailed
report today. The U.K.’s central bank will not raise interest
rates until at least 2013 due to “appalling” economic data and
low wage growth, they said.  U.K. Home Prices  Short-sterling futures rose, signaling traders cut bets on
an increase in borrowing costs. The implied yield on the on the
June 2012 short-sterling futures contract fell two basis points
to 1.16 percent.  Average home prices in  London  jumped 1.8 percent from May
to 438,622 pounds ($708,680), said London-based Rightmove Plc,
the operator of the U.K.’s biggest property website today.
Nationally, values increased 0.6 percent, according to
Rightmove, which added it doesn’t expect gains to be sustained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 