-- 
Premier Uses Pre-emption Rights Over BP’s Wytch Farm Sale

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-06-20T09:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/premier-buys-stake-in-wytch-farm-field-from-bp-for-96-million.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  paid $96 million in
cash to increase its stake in  BP Plc (BP/) ’s  Wytch Farm  oil and gas
fields after exercising its right of first refusal.  The purchase of 17.7 percent brings Premier’s overall
interest to 30.1 percent, according to a statement today. BP
will sell the rest of its stake to Perenco SA, which will have
50.1 percent and take over the role of operator.  Premier, which had the right to pre-empt the entire stake
up for sale, decided on a smaller interest to allow Perenco to
become the operator “with all the skills and capabilities to do
the job,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Lockett said in an
interview.  BP previously agreed on May 17 to sell its 68 percent stake
in Wytch Farm to Perenco for about $610 million. A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  a unit  of  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) 
are also shareholders in the fields.  Premier, a U.K.-based explorer with assets in Asia and
 Europe , will add the equivalent of about 12.5 million barrels of
oil resources from the purchase of the Wytch Farm assets,
currently producing about 13,000 barrels a day. The deposits
have a “significant amount of oil” that make them attractive
for development, Lockett said last week.  BP’s deal with Perenco included capital allowances on taxes
that Premier won’t benefit from, Lockett said.  “We don’t expect the acquisition to add much to 2011
forecast production as the deal is not expected to close till
year-end,” Phil Corbett, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, wrote in an e-mailed report. “Current Wytch Farm
production is running at a lower level than we had expected due
to plant downtime.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  advised Premier on the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  