-- 
Professor Bernanke Warning of Paralysis Meets Fed Facing Same

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-20T09:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/professor-bernanke-warning-of-japan-paralysis-meets-fed-chief-facing-same.html
As a Princeton University professor,
 Ben Bernanke  castigated the Bank of  Japan  in 2000 for a “case
of self-induced paralysis” that led to a decade of stagnation.
Now, the Federal Reserve chairman may be allowing the U.S.
central bank to fall into the same trap after its second round
of quantitative easing ends this month.  By all but ruling out another cycle of bond purchases, Fed
officials have left themselves with little in the way of policy
options to respond to slowing growth and rising unemployment.
This raises the risk that the U.S. will remain saddled with what
Bernanke himself has called a “frustratingly” sluggish
recovery that leaves millions of Americans out of work.  “I worry that QE3 will be hostage to QE2,” said  Vincent Reinhart , a former director of the Fed’s monetary-affairs
division who is now a scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington. “That may lead to that self-induced
paralysis” in further easing policy to aid the economy.  Fed officials, who begin a two-day meeting tomorrow to plot
monetary strategy, are betting the slowdown will prove short-
lived and growth will pick up from July through December as
shocks from Japan’s earthquake and an oil-price surge fade.  GDP Outlook  Private economists agree. After growing at a 2.3 percent
annual pace this quarter, the world’s largest economy will
expand at a 3.2 percent rate in the second half of the year,
according to the median forecast of 67 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 8.  Economist  Allen Sinai , who sees growth strengthening to
between 2.5 percent and 3 percent in the second half and 3
percent in 2012, called the recent stock-market swoon a
“consolidation” and forecast that the Standard and Poor’s 500
Index of stocks will rise as high as 1,450 by the end of the
year. It was at 1,271.50 on June 17.  The president of Decision Economics in  New York  also said
the “new trading range” for the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note is 2.75 percent to 3.375 percent as the Fed responds to the
recent economic slowdown by putting off any move to tighten
credit until next year. The yield was 2.91 percent as of 9:54
a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The danger is that, once again, forecasts for an improved
economy prove too optimistic. Economists polled by Bloomberg
began 2011 looking for 3.1 percent expansion this year; they now
predict a 2.5 percent rate. Fed policy makers are likely to
follow suit this week.  “The last batch of data is disappointing, and it is
causing us to rethink our outlook for growth for the remainder
of the year,”  Jeffrey Lacker , president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Richmond, told reporters on June 13.  Shaved Forecast  The central bankers may cut their estimate for this year to
2.75 percent from the 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent they foresaw in
April, said  Laurence Meyer , a former Fed governor who is now
vice chairman of St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers.  They probably also will shave their forecast for 2012, by a
couple of tenths of a percentage point, he added. In April, the
bulk of policy makers saw growth of 3.5 percent to 4.2 percent
next year.  The odds have doubled in the last few months to 10 percent
that the U.S. will suffer a growth recession -- with gross
domestic product rising at an annual pace of about 1 percent for
two or more quarters while other economic indicators remain
soft, Sinai said.  “If I were at the Fed, I’d be looking at ways to do
something like QE3,” he added.  Fed officials don’t seem so inclined.  “We’ve done enough,” Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said in a June 13 speech.  Dangers of Deflation  The successes and failures of QE2 have diminished chances
of QE3. When Bernanke first raised the possibility of a second
round of stimulus last August, he stressed the central bank’s
determination to avoid deflation: an across-the-board fall in
consumer prices and wages that would drive the economy down.  Such concerns have since dissipated as surging oil and food
prices have driven up inflation and inflation expectations, said
Roberto Perli, a former Fed economist who is now a managing
director at International Strategy & Investment Group in
 Washington .  Consumer prices rose at a rate of 3.6 percent in May from a
year earlier, compared with a 1.1 percent advance in November,
when the central bank began its purchases of $600 billion worth
of Treasury securities.  Further Action  The bond buys have had less of a discernible impact on GDP,
raising questions inside the Fed about the efficacy of further
action, Sinai said. While the purchases did lift stock prices
and household wealth,  consumer spending  has lagged behind,
dragging the growth of the overall economy down to 1.8 percent
in the first quarter from 3.1 percent in the final three months
of 2010.  The political opposition to QE2 -- Congressional
Republicans have attacked it as an inflationary policy -- also
weighs against the launch of QE3, especially at a time when
fiscal policy makers are squabbling over the budget and debt
ceiling.  “There are some political constraints that inhibit their
willingness to do more,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York and a former
member of the Fed’s economic forecasting team.  While voicing frustration with the slow pace of the
recovery, Bernanke gave no hint he’s ready to do anything about
it in a June 7 speech in Atlanta. Instead, he spoke of the
limits on the Fed, declaring that “monetary policy cannot be a
panacea” for all the economy’s ills.  Real-Estate Bubble  In a  paper  Bernanke wrote while at Princeton in 2000, he
took  Bank of Japan  officials to task for saying they had done
all they could to help an economy that had grown about 1 percent
a year in the previous decade after the country’s real-estate
bubble burst.  While agreeing Japan faced structural problems that
monetary policy couldn’t solve, including a broken banking
system, Bernanke argued the central bank could do more to pump
up demand beyond cutting short-term interest rates to zero.  Among the steps he discussed were “nonstandard open-market
operations,” including the purchase of Japanese  government
bonds  -- just the sort of strategy the U.S. pursued under QE2.  “The Fed has been a lot more proactive than the Bank of
Japan was back then,” said  Alan Blinder , a former central bank
vice chairman who is now a professor at  Princeton University  in
 New Jersey .  ‘Too Passive’  Still, the Fed “is a little too passive” now for
Blinder’s tastes. He wants it to cut to zero from 0.25
percentage point the interest rate it pays banks on the excess
reserves it holds for them. To encourage the banks to deploy
that money elsewhere, the Fed could go even further and
effectively charge them for holding the reserves through a
negative interest rate, said Blinder, a former colleague of
Bernanke’s at Princeton, who acknowledged such a radical step
isn’t likely.  “I don’t think that the Fed has any options left that it’s
at all likely to use,” Blinder said.  Bernanke instead may suggest at his June 22 press
conference that he will keep short-term interest rates low for
longer, according to Perli.  “It is becoming increasingly likely that the Fed will be
on hold until 2013,” he said.  The Fed cut its target for the federal funds rate -- which
banks charge each other for overnight money -- to between zero
and 0.25 percent in December 2008 and then followed in March
2009 with a declaration that rates were likely to remain
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  Big Balance Sheet  Feroli, who doesn’t expect the Fed will raise rates until
2013, said the central bank may decide to make the same sort of
statement about the size of its balance sheet if the economy
fails to pick up in the next few months.  One option, according to Feroli: The central bank could
commit to maintaining an enlarged balance sheet for an extended
period, thus reassuring investors it won’t be quick to reduce
its holdings of securities such as Treasuries.  A delayed tightening of policy is effectively a form of
easing because it acts to restrain long-term interest rates on
everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds, Meyer said.
The impact, though, is smaller and less persistent than actual
easing through additional bond purchases or a reduction in the
funds rate, he added.  Bernanke defended the Fed’s performance at a press
conference following the central bank’s last meeting in April.  ‘Extraordinary Things’  “We have done extraordinary things in order to try to help
this economy recover,” he said, pointing to the near-zero fed
funds rate and two rounds of securities purchases.  The U.S. is on firmer ground than it was last year when the
Fed started discussing QE2, according to Neal Soss and his
fellow economists at Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc.  “An extra year of economic growth, profits, retained
earnings and cash holdings has added a layer of insulation for
the corporate sector,” they wrote in a June 10 note to clients.
Soss, the bank’s chief economist in New York, served as an aide
to former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker.  The recent rise in  core inflation  may have convinced
Bernanke to hold off on QE3 for now, said  Joseph Gagnon , a
former Fed official who is now a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington. Excluding
food and energy costs, consumer prices increased at a rate of
1.5 percent in May from a year earlier, up from 0.6 percent in
October.  ‘Transitory’ Increase  If the increase proves “transitory” -- as Bernanke has
suggested -- then the central bank should push ahead with more
bond purchases, Gagnon said, adding that “the  unemployment rate 
is just way too high.” Joblessness was 9.1 percent in May,
compared with a 5 percent rate in December 2007 when the last
recession began.  If Bernanke says the “little blip in inflation is
temporary and it’s going to go back below target, and he says
he’s very unhappy with the unemployment rate, then why isn’t he
doing more?” Gagnon asked. “It’s really ironic. It’s a self-
induced paralysis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  