-- 
Publicis to Buy Genedigi to Become China’s Largest Public Relations Agency

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T17:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/publicis-agrees-to-buy-chinese-firm-genedigi.html
Publicis Group SA, the third-largest
advertising company, said it agreed to buy China’s  Genedigi
Group  to become the largest public relations network in the
country.  Genedigi has 400 employees and offices in Beijing, Shanghai
and Guangzhou, Publicis said in a statement today. The Chinese
company has more than 50 clients in the automotive,  consumer
goods , technology and financial services industries and offers
public relations, event marketing, digital marketing and market
research services.  Publicis, with clients including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , has announced the acquisitions of more
than a dozen companies so far this year, almost matching the
number of 2010 deals, according to Bloomberg data. Genedigi will
be at least the third agency addition in China in 2011. In
addition to emerging markets, Paris-based Publicis is also
aiming to bolster faster-growing offerings, such as online
marketing, and its business in emerging markets.  “Their Chinese organic revenue performance looks quite
tame when you compare it with the growth in the advertising
market in  China  and the performance of some of their peers,”
said Ian Whittaker, a London-based analyst at Liberum Capital.
The deal “is part of their plan to revamp their Chinese
operations.”  Acquisition Spree  Publicis’s revenue and profit are recovering, freeing up
cash for acquisitions, after a global recession cut into
companies’ advertising budgets in 2009. The company’s sales rose
20 percent to 5.4 billion euros ($7.7 billion) last year.  The stock rose 1 cent to 38.29 euros in Paris trading at
the close of trading in Paris, valuing the company at 7.34
billion euros. The stock has declined 1.8 percent this year.  Genedigi, founded in 1997, will be added to the MSLGroup
branch of Publicis. Financial terms of the deal were not
disclosed.  Publicis rival  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest advertising
company, has said it will more than double its spending on
acquisitions with an emphasis on emerging markets, such as  Asia .  “All these firms are looking for acquisitions,” said
Whittaker, who advises investors to buy Publicis. “If you think
someone else is going to come in and buy the asset, and you
think it’s a high-quality asset, you have to get in and spend
some cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  