-- 
Qantas Cancels Sydney, Melbourne Flights Tomorrow on Ash Cloud

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-06-21T09:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/qantas-virgin-australia-cancel-flights-as-ash-cloud-approaches.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  canceled Sydney,
 Melbourne  and  New Zealand  flights tomorrow because of a cloud of
volcanic ash that stranded at least 40,000 travelers across
Australia today.  Domestic flights from Sydney have been canceled through 2
p.m. tomorrow, Qantas said in a statement. Melbourne services
will be halted from 9 p.m. until 11 a.m. New Zealand routes will
be closed from 7 a.m. until further notice.  “We do expect upcoming delays over the next 24 to 48
hours,”  Olivia Wirth , a spokeswoman, said in a televised media
conference from Canberra. “This will have a knock-on effect to
the rest of the network.”  Ash from the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex in
southern Chile today forced Qantas and Virgin  Australia  to
cancel more than 370 flights, including services on the Sydney-
Melbourne route, the world’s third busiest. The ash has hampered
flights in Australia, New Zealand and  South America  since an
eruption on June 4 because of concerns it may clog  jet engines .  Virgin Australia, the nation’s second-biggest carrier, will
suspend Melbourne services tomorrow until 1 p.m., and Sydney and
Canberra flights until 4 p.m., it said in a  statement .  Qantas plans to resume Canberra flights at 11 a.m. tomorrow,
it said. International flights from Sydney and Melbourne
scheduled for tomorrow are under review, according to the
Sydney-based carrier’s Website.  Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd., Qantas’s budget arm, canceled
Sydney flights until about 2 p.m. tomorrow and Melbourne
services until about 11 a.m. All New Zealand routes will be
halted until midday, it said. Air New Zealand Ltd. is operating
a full schedule, according to its  Website .  Greyhound Coaches  Greyhound Australia, the nation’s biggest coach operator,
will triple services over the next two days to help stranded
travelers, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said on its website,
citing Chief Operating Officer Tony Hopkins.  The  ash cloud , which is denser and larger than one last
week, may “seriously impact” flights across the south of
Australia for as long as 48 hours, said Airservices Australia,
the nation’s air-traffic controller.  Qantas scrapped more than 200 services today, stranding
more than 20,000 passengers, Wirth said. Virgin Australia
canceled 170 flights, affecting another 20,000 customers,
Melissa Thomson, a spokeswoman, said by phone.  Tiger Airways
Holdings Ltd.  grounded all of its Australia domestic flights
today and canceled 14 tomorrow, according to a statement.  Qantas separately added a refueling stop on flights to
Johannesburg and said that services from Buenos Aires may also
need to touch down en route for more fuel.  In 1982, all four engines on a British Airways Boeing Co.
747 stalled when the plane encountered ash spewed from Mount
Galunggung in  Indonesia . The plane fell for almost four miles
before the pilot was able to restart three engines and make an
emergency landing in Jakarta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  