-- 
Rambus Says Hynix, Micron Conspired Illegally as Trial Opens

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-20T20:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/rambus-antitrust-lawsuit-against-hynix-micron-goes-to-trial-in-california.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  carried out an “unlawful conspiracy” to drive
Rambus Inc. out of the computer memory market, a Rambus lawyer
said as an antitrust trial began today in  California .  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, is seeking as much
as $12.9 billion from Hynix and Micron over Rambus-designed
dynamic random access memory, or RDRAM, chips. The $4.3 billion
in damages sought by Rambus against the two companies would be
automatically tripled under California law, according to Rambus.
The chip manufacturers deny the claims.  Hynix and Micron engaged in “a secret and unlawful
conspiracy to kill a revolutionary technology, make billions of
dollars and hang onto power,” Rambus lawyer Bart Williams told
jurors. “The conspiracy worked,” he said. “Rather than win
the race to become the next industry standard,” due to the
conspiracy, RDRAM “was condemned to a smaller market share.”  Micron and Hynix are scheduled to present their arguments
tomorrow.  Rambus claims Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix and Boise,
Idaho-based Micron inflated the price of RDRAM chips and
collusively underpriced their own SDRAM and DDR chips to
undercut competition from Rambus.  ‘Niche Technology’  Micron General Counsel Rod Lewis said in an e-mailed
statement that Rambus’s case in one example of its “continued
attempts to place blame on third parties for its failure to
compete successfully in the marketplace.” RDRAM failed because
of technological deficiencies, because it was less efficient,
and more costly to produce and implement than its competitors,
Lewis said.  “Ultimately, RDRAM proved to be a niche technology for
limited, high-density use and not suitable for the mass PC,
laptop and tablet market,” Lewis said.  Hynix lawyer Ken Nissly didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron Technology Inc.,
04-431105, California Superior Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  