-- 
Rams Linebacker Vobora Awarded $5.4 Million in Tainted-Supplement Lawsuit

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-20T17:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/rams-linebacker-vobora-awarded-5-4-million-in-tainted-supplement-lawsuit.html
St. Louis  Rams linebacker  David
Vobora  was awarded $5.4 million from  Anti-Steroid Program LLC , a
nutritional supplement company, in a lawsuit over claims it sold
him a contaminated product leading to his suspension from the
 National Football League .  U.S. District Judge Rodney W. Sippel in St. Louis made the
award June 17 against the Fultondale, Alabama-based company,
which the athlete sued in May 2010.  Vobora was drafted by the Rams in 2008 from the University
of  Idaho . He became the first “Mr. Irrelevant,” the nickname
given the last pick in the draft, since 1994 to start as a
rookie. He was suspended for four games in 2009 after testing
positive for the banned methyltestosterone, later found in the
bottle of Ultimate Sports Spray he was using, Sippel wrote.  “The court believes the evidence demonstrates that as an
NFL player, and due to Mr. Vobora’s position as a ‘Mr.
Irrelevant’ (who became a starter in the NFL), he had unique
opportunities to earn income from non-NFL sources to promote and
market products and events for economic gain,” the judge wrote.  The judgment includes $2 million for general damages,
$3.04 million for loss of future income, $170,000 for lost
performance bonuses, $90,588 for forfeited game pay and $100,000
for loss of marketing endorsements.  “So many of the athletes are claiming that they haven’t
cheated and the supplements have been tainted,  R. Daniel Fleck ,
Vobora’s lawyer, said in a phone interview. “And it’s true.”  NFL’s Position  The league supports Vobora’s effort and hopes such
judgments will help stop supplement-makers who seek to mislead
consumers,  Brian McCarthy , an NFL spokesman, said today by e-
mail.  “But our policy is clear and places strict liability on
the player,” McCarthy said. “Players are responsible for what
is in their bodies.”  The league cautions players that supplements are
unregulated and labels may be inaccurate, and it certifies some
supplements as free of banned substances, he said.  The company’s owner, Mitch Ross, said today in a telephone
interview that more than 50 NFL players and coaches endorsed the
product. He said somebody outside the company tainted the sample
used in the case.  “I don’t have the money to get an attorney,” Ross said.
“They dropped the case against me personally, and they sued
S.W.A.T.S., and we are broke and out of money, and he basically
put me out of business.”  The company stopped defending the suit and the judge
entered a default judgment.  The case is Vobora v. S.W.A.T.S., 4:10-cv-00810, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington 
at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 