-- 
Rand Falls for First Day in Three as Greece Concern Saps Demand for Risk

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-20T14:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/rand-falls-1st-day-in-three-to-dollar-as-greece-concern-saps-risk-appetite.html
The rand weakened for the first day
in three against the dollar as concern  Greece  won’t avoid a debt
default sapped demand for riskier emerging-market assets.  The rand declined as much as 1 percent to 6.8286 per dollar
and traded 0.3 percent weaker at 6.7847 as of 4:07 p.m. in
Johannesburg. It depreciated 0.3 percent to 9.7049 per euro.  The rand pared its losses as the euro rallied after
European leaders reassured investors a solution would be found
to spare Greece from default on its debts, easing concern about
a spreading regional credit crisis. The MSCI Emerging Market
stock index tumbled to the lowest level in three months, the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodities index fell for a fourth day,
and South Africa’s benchmark stock index dropped to its lowest
since March 16.  “People are worrying that there is going to be more bad
news out of Greece,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at
Bidvest Bank, which runs  South Africa ’s largest chain of
moneychangers, said by phone from Johannesburg. “The rand’s
move is largely due to the euro starting the week weaker.”  The rand often moves in tandem the euro, with a statistical
correlation of 0.823 over the past month. A value of 1 would
mean they moved in lock step. The eurozone accounts for 45
percent of South Africa’s exports and 34 percent of its imports,
according to  South African Revenue Service  data.  Greece needs parliamentary approval of a 78 billion-euro
($111 billion) package of budget cuts to ensure the payment of a
fifth loan under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout. Euro-area
finance ministers pushed Greece to pass laws to cut the deficit
and sell state assets, and left open whether the country will
get the full 12 billion euros promised for next month.  EU, IMF  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said Italy was not in
danger amid the euro area’s debt crisis. Juncker said Greece’s
Papandreou had assured him the government would do everything
necessary to ensure financial aid from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund .  Concern about Greece’s debt crisis and global economic
growth outweighed calls at the weekend by  Julius Malema , the
leader of the youth wing of the ruling  African National
Congress , for the nationalization of banks and mines, analysts
said.  “There is minimal reaction to Malema and the ANC Youth
League’s statements in the foreign exchange market,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of South Africa’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by e-mail. “Sentiment remains
dominated by the euro and the Greece sovereign debt rescue
crisis.”  Bonds gained. The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 15
cents to 121.22 rand, driving the yield down four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.53 percent. The 10.5 percent
securities due 2026 climbed 9 cents to 116 rand, reducing the
yield one basis point to 8.61 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  