-- 
RBC May Use U.S. Proceeds on Wealth Management, Nixon Says

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-20T20:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/rbc-may-use-u-s-sale-proceeds-on-wealth-management-business-nixon-says.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  may use
proceeds from the $3.62 billion sale of its money-losing U.S.
consumer bank to expand in global asset management, Chief
Executive Officer Gord Nixon said.  Canada’s largest lender may also use the cash from the sale
of the unit and credit-card assets to  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. (PNC)  for share buybacks, dividends and organic growth,
Nixon said in a conference call today with analysts.  “We feel confident that we will have the flexibility to
invest, when most banks will be de-investing because they have
to build up capital,” Nixon said. “Our priority is to fill out
our global wealth-management platform.”  Royal Bank agreed to sell RBC Bank USA to PNC after the
Raleigh, North Carolina-based business had 11 straight quarterly
losses, according to filings with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. The unit’s losses were equal to 6 Canadian cents a share
in the first half of the year, Chief Financial Officer Janice Fukakusa said on the call.  Royal Bank has spent about $4.6 billion buying a network of
U.S. consumer banks over the past decade, beginning with its
2001 takeover of Centura Banks. RBC Bank has posted annual
losses totaling almost $3.1 billion since 2007, according to
FDIC filings.  “This is a very good price for Royal,” said Sumit Malhotra, a Toronto-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
“Given the continued challenges in the operating performance of
RBC Bank USA and the fact that it was well-known the bank was
looking to divest, for Royal Bank to get more than 20 times
normalized earnings has to be seen as a win.”  Takes Loss  Royal Bank rose 21 cents to C$54.54 at 4 p.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading. PNC fell $1.13, or 2 percent, to $56.66
in  New York .  Royal Bank will post a loss of C$1.6 billion ($1.6 billion)
on the sale this quarter, including a C$1.3 billion writedown.
Pittsburgh-based PNC is paying 0.97 times book value for the
consumer lender and its 424 branches.  RBC Bank was “challenged from day one,” and lacked the
size to compete with other U.S. lenders, Nixon said. The bank
needed to make a large acquisition to be competitive.  “Size and scale and quality are extremely important when
going into a new market,”  Nixon said. “When you look at the
prices of potential large acquisitions in that marketplace, our
belief is we can deploy capital elsewhere in our business at
significantly higher rates of return.”  RBC plans to spread the cash from the sale of the U.S. unit
across its business, which operates in 58 countries.  ‘Liberated Capital’  “I don’t want people to think we’ve liberated this capital
and we’re going to turn around and immediately invest it in
 wealth management  in the U.S or  Asia ,” Nixon said. “All of our
businesses have various capital-growth plans, as well as looking
at opportunities to invest in businesses or in acquisitions.”  The sale of RBC Bank helps put Toronto-based Royal Bank at
an advantage compared with other banks as new international
 capital requirements  force lenders to sell assets to build up
cash, Nixon said. PNC has the option to pay as much as $1
billion of the purchase price in stock.  RBC Bank was expected to fetch as much as $3.7 billion,
according to  Peter Routledge , an analyst at National Bank
Financial. JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised on the sale.  “We view the transaction as a fairly positive and should
be accretive to earnings, reducing the headwinds and negative
impact that the U.S. retail banking operations has represented
to the overall bank,” said  John Aiken , a bank analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in Toronto.  Cash on Hand  RBC had C$8.95 billion of cash on its balance sheet on
April 30. The sale will increase 2012 earnings by 10 cents a
share, the bank said.  The bank will continue to operate some services in the U.S.
and may make another purchase in the country if it offers
“reasonable” rates of return, Nixon said.  The Canadian bank says it’s the fifth-largest U.S. advisory
firm with $220 billion in assets under administration and 4,700
asset-management employees. The U.S. also accounts for more than
40 percent of revenue and staffing at the RBC Capital Markets
investment bank, according to bank figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: 