-- 
U.S. 10-Year Yields Rise From Almost 2011 Low as Concern Eases on Greece

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-20T21:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/treasuries-pare-gain-as-greece-sovereign-debt-turmoil-concern-eases.html
Treasury 10-year yields rose from
almost the lowest level this year after comments from European
and International Monetary Fund officials eased concern  Greece ’s
debt crisis is worsening, reducing U.S. debt’s refuge appeal.  U.S. two-year yields were little changed after falling for
the past 10 weeks, the longest rally in a quarter-century.
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, said Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  assured him the government would do everything
necessary to ensure delivery of financial aid from the European
Union and IMF.  “The market anticipates that Papandreou will gain the
support to do that,” said  Chris Ahrens , head U.S. rates
strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at UBS AG, one of the 20
primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The
market is focused like a laser on events in Greece. The big
event is still in the foreground.”  Ten-year yields increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.96 percent at 5:20 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
3.125 percent note maturing in May 2021 fell 1/8, or $1.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 13/32. The yield, which earlier fell
six basis points to 2.89 percent, touched its 2011 low of 2.88
percent on June 16. It has lost 33 basis points since the start
of the year.  Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.37 percent
after earlier rising to 0.39 percent. They reached a low for the
year of 0.34 percent on June 16.  ‘Softened Up’  “No one is sure how it will unfold, but there’s a
commitment to resolving the issue,” said  Sean Murphy , a
Treasury trader at  Societe Generale  in New York, another primary
dealer. “The market is coming to its own conclusion that they
are going to receive some sort of package, so Treasuries have
softened up.”  U.S. government securities rose earlier after European
governments failed to agree on releasing a loan to help Greece
avoid defaulting on its debt.  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in  Luxembourg  pushed
Greece to pass laws to cut its deficit and sell state assets,
and left open whether the country will get the full 12 billion
euros ($17.1 billion) promised for July.  Decisions on the next payout and a three-year follow-up
package were put off until early next month, ramping up pressure
on Papandreou to first deliver budget cuts in the face of
domestic opposition.  The IMF is focused on getting Greece’s first bailout
program on track, Acting Managing Director  John Lipsky  told
reporters in Luxembourg today. Greece hasn’t approached the
agency to ask for additional aid, he said.  2011 Returns  Treasuries have returned 3.3 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained 0.4 percent,
while U.K. gilts advanced 3 percent, the indexes show.  The Fed purchased $9.2 billion of Treasuries in its program
to acquire $600 billion in  U.S. debt  under quantitative easing.
It bought $4.62 billion due from August 2018 to May 2021 in one
operation and $4.58 billion maturing from December 2013 to May
2015 in a second.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  at a two-day meeting that
starts tomorrow is anticipated to leave accommodative language
unchanged and is not likely to undertake a new round of
quantitative easing.  ‘A Non-Event’  “It’s going to be a non-event,” said Steven Ricchiuto,
chief economist in New York at the primary dealer Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. “There’s not going to be QE3. There’s a
greater reluctance to do QE3 because they are not too sure about
the value of it, especially since the economy is still
struggling.”  The Fed has left its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Its
Treasury-purchase program is scheduled to end this month.  Japan ’s biggest bond investors see increasing parallels
between the nation’s debt market and Treasuries, indicating that
historically low yields in the U.S. have room to fall.  Just as in Japan, deposits at U.S. banks exceed loans,
reaching a record $1.45 trillion last month, Fed data show. As
recently as 2008, there were more loans than deposits. The gap
is also at an all-time high in Japan, where banks use the money
to buy bonds, helping keep yields the lowest in the world even
though the country has more debt outstanding than America and a
lower  credit rating .  Paring Growth Estimates  While none of the more-than 40 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expect the U.S. will see two decades of stagnation
like Japan, they are paring growth estimates as unemployment
remains above 9 percent and the housing market struggles to
recover. The IMF cut its forecast for U.S. growth in 2011 for
the second time in two months on June 17, bolstering the appeal
of fixed-income assets.  U.S. home sales probably dropped in May to the lowest level
this year, economists said before a report tomorrow. Purchases
of existing houses decreased 5 percent to a 4.8 million annual
rate last month, the weakest since October, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  