-- 
Treasury Yields Fall to 2011 Low on Concern Europe’s Debt Crisis Worsening

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-06-24T21:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/treasuries-advance-as-greece-default-concern-increases-demand-for-safety.html
Treasury notes rallied, pushing
yields to this year’s lows, as U.S. stocks fell on concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse.  Two-year notes rose for an 11th consecutive week in the
longest rally since the 1980s on speculation  Greece ’s government
will struggle to pass austerity measures needed to secure a
bailout. U.S. securities extended their gains after breaking
through a level where orders to sell may have been clustered.  “All eyes are on Europe,” said Christopher Bury, co-head
of fixed-income rates in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one
of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .
“We’ve seen a steady grind to lower yields without a
significant pullback for several weeks now. Investors are just
waiting for the storm to pass until there is some clarity.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes dropped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.87 percent at 5:11 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
3.125 percent securities maturing in May 2021 rose 13/32, or
$4.05 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 7/32.  The 10-year note yields touched 2.85 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 1. They have fallen eight basis points this
week in what would be a sixth straight drop.  U.S. 10-year notes rose further today after traders were
able to push the yields below the 2.88 percent level where the
securities had found resistance three times since June 16,
according to Suvrat Prakash, an interest-rate strategist in  New
York  at BNP Paribas Securities Corp., a primary dealer.
Resistance is a level where sell orders may be clustered.  ‘A Big Deal’  “We’ve decisively rallied through that level,” Prakash
said. “That is a big deal. This rally can probably reach 2.75
percent.”  Yields on two-year notes, among the most sensitive to what
the Fed does with its target rate for overnight lending because
of their short maturity, dropped one basis point to 0.33
percent. They touched 0.32 percent, the lowest level since Nov.
4, when they fell to the all-time low of 0.3118 percent.  The yields have fallen four basis points this week in the
longest stretch of decreases since September through November
1984, when the U.S. central bank had switched to cutting from
raising  interest rates .  Treasuries have returned 3.6 percent this quarter in the
best performance since the second quarter of 2010, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Italian Bonds Drop  Italian 10-year bonds fell today, increasing the additional
yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of
benchmark German bunds to the most since the euro was introduced
in 1999 as Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may cut
the ratings of Italian banks. The difference in yield widened to
2.15 percentage points as  Italy ’s 10-year yield advanced to 4.99
percent. Greece’s yield fell to 16.78 percent.  For Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou , the next
hurdle is to shepherd 78 billion euros ($11 billion) of
austerity measures through parliament. The program was endorsed
yesterday by experts from the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  “We have agreed that there will be a new program for
Greece,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters at an
European Union summit in Brussels today. “This is an important
decision that says once again we will do everything to stabilize
the euro overall.”  The euro dropped for a third day against the dollar,
falling 0.7 percent to $1.4160. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slid 1.1 percent. Crude oil for August delivery dropped 0.2
percent to $90.80 a barrel after falling below $90 yesterday for
the first time since February.  Durable Goods  Bonds dropped briefly today after the Commerce Department
reported that orders for goods meant to last at least three
years rose 1.9 percent in May following a revised 2.7 percent
decrease in the prior month. The median forecast of 69
economists was for a 1.5 percent gain.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.9 percent annual rate from
in January through March after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace
during the last three months of 2010, revised figures from the
Commerce Department showed. The government reported in May a
quarterly expansion of 1.8 percent.  “We finally got some relatively positive data for the
economy,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading
in New York at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for
institutional investors.  Fed Debt Buying  The Fed said after the June 21-22 policy meeting that it
would maintain monetary economic stimulus after its $600 billion
program of debt buying ends this month. The central bank
purchased $4.6 billion of Treasuries maturing from April 2014 to
May 2015 today.  Economic growth will pick up in the second half while
remaining slow, and the Fed will maintain its record asset
holdings for an “appropriate” period, according to  Dallas  Fed
President  Richard Fisher .  “It’s going to take quite some time to achieve a glide
path that brings unemployment down significantly,” Fisher said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview from Dallas. “It’s a
slow recovery, and it’s going to continue to be slow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  