-- 
Regulators Debating Too-Big-to-Fail Insurer List, Sants Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-06-20T13:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/regulators-debating-list-of-too-big-to-fail-insurers-sants-says.html
Insurance companies considered too
big to fail may be identified by global regulators as part of an
initiative to reduce risks taken by firms so crucial to the
financial system that their collapse could be catastrophic.  Regulators are “debating whether it would be reasonable to
create a list” of insurance companies that may be subject to
tougher rules,  Hector Sants , chief executive officer of the
U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority , said in an interview in
London today.  “The view of the FSA is that it’s a question that has to
be debated, rather than an answer that is being reached,” Sants
said in an interview. “It’s a good debate to have.”  Discussions on systemically important banks are more
advanced and the Group of 20 nations agreed in November that so-
called SIFIs should face tougher capital rules than other
lenders, increasing their ability to take losses. The extra
reserve requirement would go beyond capital rules for
internationally active members of 7 percent of their risk
weighted assets.  Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said last week he
expected capital buffers of 2 to 3 percentage points for a group
of “some 25 to 30 banks” deemed too-big-to-fail because their
collapse could endanger the wider financial system and hurt
economic growth.  Insurance Regime  Speaking at a conference organized by the FSA and Bank of
England to discuss regulation of the  insurance industry , Sants
told the audience that officials understood that banks and
insurers were different types of business and needed to be
treated differently.  The need for a special resolution regime “is clearer” for
banks than insurers because banks face the risk of runs, said
 Andrew Haldane , executive director for financial stability at
the central bank. The need for a new regime was “learned
painfully” in the case of Northern Rock Plc, which had a
depositor panic in 2007 and had to be rescued by the government.  Still, the bailout of American International Group in 2008
shows that it’s possible for insurers to have systemic
importance and supports the case for regulators to consider how
to deal with them, Haldane said. If history had been different,
and AIG failed while Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was rescued,
the consequences for the global financial system may have been
worse, he said. Lehman declared bankruptcy in September 2008.  “It is possible to envisage states of the world where
insurance-type activities could ripple more widely to influence
systemic risk,” he said. “Does that make the case for a
separate resolution regime per se? Not necessarily.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  