-- 
Republican Lawmakers’ Districts Seen Bearing Brunt of Social Security Cuts

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-06-20T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/republican-districts-seen-bearing-brunt-of-social-security-cuts.html
Cutting U.S. Social Security
benefits for seniors and the disabled may cause steeper spending
declines in House districts controlled by Republicans, hurting
local businesses, a Bloomberg Government study found.  Republicans are likely to represent districts with more
residents collecting Social Security checks for retirees or
benefits for the disabled, compared with Democrats, according to
the study. Curtailing the federal aid would give recipients less
spending money, said Jason Arvelo, the Bloomberg Government
labor analyst who wrote the report released today.  “It tends to be the case that those checks are spent and
are not being saved,” he said. “Businesses in those areas
would see less spending. So those businesses may be concerned.”  Unlike federal benefits such as Medicaid and Medicare,
Republicans didn’t include cuts to Social Security in their
budget-cutting plan this year, and Democrats have said the
program’s future should be considered separately because the
benefit draws on a trust fund that doesn’t directly affect the
federal deficit.  “Social Security will need to be dealt with as insolvency
looms for its trust funds,” Arvelo said. “Social Security is
the largest government spending program.”  Congress will be under pressure to cut Social Security
benefits eventually because its disability trust fund will be
insolvent by 2018 and the retirement fund by 2036, according to
a May report by the Social Security Board of Trustees. Among
options are increasing payroll taxes or the eligibility age.  AARP’s Position  AARP, the biggest U.S. lobbying group for retirees, is
“open to talking about different options to strengthen Social
Security for the long term,” including “changes on the benefit
side,” David Certner, the association’s legislative director,
said in an interview on June 17.  The program pays about 55 million retirees, disabled people
and survivors. Monthly checks to seniors and survivors averaged
$1,114.38 in May and average disability payments were $921.06.  Republicans control eight of 10 House districts -- in
 Florida , Michigan, New Jersey and  Pennsylvania  -- with the most
Social Security retirement benefits to seniors and survivors per
resident. Democrats hold the 10 districts in  Illinois ,
 California ,  New York ,  Texas  and  Arizona  with the lowest average
benefits.  Reducing benefits would cause the biggest economic impact
in  West Virginia , Florida, Pennsylvania and Michigan, according
to the report by Arvelo, formerly a senior analyst at economic
consulting firm Compass Lexecon LLC, a subsidiary of FTI
Consulting Inc. based in West Palm Beach, Florida.  West Virginia, Kentucky,  Arkansas  and Alabama top the list
of states that would be likely to be hurt by bills curtailing
disability benefits.  Florida congressional districts would face the greatest
economic effects from Social Security benefit cuts because they
have a higher proportion of seniors receiving checks.
Republicans control 240 of the 435 districts in the U.S. House
and hold 29 governors’ offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  