-- 
House Republicans Draft Letter on Warren Mortgage-Talks Role

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-06-20T19:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/republicans-request-details-on-warren-s-role-in-mortgage-foreclosure-talks.html
U.S. House Republicans will press
for new details on  Elizabeth Warren ’s role in talks to settle
federal and state claims that mortgage servicers improperly
processed foreclosures.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus 
of  Alabama  is leading a group of lawmakers who are drafting a
letter that requests copies of “any and all” communication
between Warren, the White House adviser setting up the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, and any state attorneys general or
representatives of their offices since September 2010.  “It appears the CFPB has been deeply involved in the
mortgage-servicing settlement negotiations and that role goes
far beyond the mere offering of ‘advice’ under the Merriam-
Webster’s definition or any other reasonable interpretation of
that term,” according to a draft of the letter to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , circulated today in Washington and
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The letter was prepared after e-mails detailing some of
the agency’s meetings on the settlement talks were released as
the result of a public-records request from  Judicial Watch , an
independent group that describes itself as a “conservative,
non-partisan educational foundation.”  $5 Billion  The e-mails, which the group made public last week, show
that representatives from state attorneys general offices
scheduled time to hear a consumer bureau presentation stating
that a $5 billion settlement with banks like  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  would be “too low.” The agency
wanted the offices to “stress the confidential nature of the
briefing,” one of the e-mails said. The e-mails also discuss a
presentation from Warren on the bureau’s views of loan
modifications.  Republican Representatives Randy Neugebauer of  Texas , the
chairman of the Financial Services investigations subcommittee,
and Shelley Moore Capito of  West Virginia , the chairwoman of the
financial institutions subcommittee, have agreed to sign the
letter, their spokespeople Matt Crow and Jamie Corley said
today. Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina
Republican and Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee
chairman, also intends to sign after reviewing the final letter,
his spokesman Ryan Minto said.  House Republicans  have been sparring for months with Warren
over her role in the settlement negotiations. During a March 16
subcommittee hearing, Bachus questioned the propriety of her
participation in the talks since the consumer bureau doesn’t
officially begin operations until July 21. Warren responded that
the bureau provided advice when asked.  April Letter  The lawmakers followed that hearing with a letter
requesting further information on her role in the talks.  “We provided advice to federal and state officials
regarding a potential servicing settlement,” Warren wrote in
her April 4 response. “In doing so, we have been an active
participant in inter-agency discussions, sharing our analysis
and recommendations in support of a resolution that would hold
accountable any servicers that violated the law.”  President  Barack Obama  has yet to nominate a director for
the bureau, which is located in the Treasury Department until it
begins operations next month.  State and federal agencies last year began investigating
mortgage servicers’ lapses in foreclosure procedures. Unprepared
for the record number of loan delinquencies caused by subprime
loans and the collapse of housing prices, servicers relied on
inexperienced workers who failed to track paperwork or
improperly signed legal documents.  Plaintiff Attorneys  The draft letter requests communications between Warren or
other consumer bureau representatives with federal agencies,
mortgage servicers and “any other interested party, including
plaintiffs’ attorneys preparing class action lawsuits.”  House and Senate Republicans, who almost unanimously
opposed the creation of the consumer bureau in last year’s Dodd-
Frank financial regulation overhaul, have pushed throughout this
year for changes to the agency’s oversight and funding. Warren
has fought against the changes, leading to several tense
exchanges during her testimony in front of the Financial
Services and Oversight and Government Reform committees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  