-- 
Rich Nations Break $30 Billion Climate Promise, Poor World Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-06-20T08:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/rich-nations-break-30-billion-climate-promise-poor-world-says.html
Richer countries have failed to
supply the $30 billion of climate financing they pledged at the
Copenhagen summit in 2009, developing world officials and non-
governmental organizations said.  Only about $5 billion of the funds due to be delivered
through next year are “new and additional” as promised, with
the rest of the so-called Fast Start money diverted from other
aid budgets or previously announced, according to a report by
the Washington-based Institute of Policy Studies that was
endorsed by  Pakistan , Bangladesh and Solomon Islands officials.  “This is overseas development aid repackaged as climate
finance,” Farrukh Khan, Pakistan’s lead negotiator, said in an
interview in Bonn,  Germany , last week. “Deep down, the feeling
is very real that this is not happening.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama , as well as Nicolas Sarkozy of
 France  and German Premier  Angela Merkel , pledged to mobilize the
funds in Copenhagen as they could not agree on limiting  carbon
emissions  beyond 2012. The failure to make good on the promise
is eroding developing nations’ confidence in the United Nations-
led process to limit global warming that is increasingly reliant
on goodwill rather than legal guarantees.  “It’s damaging the fragile confidence that we have,”
Collin Beck, the Solomon Islands’ ambassador to the UN, said in
an interview in Bonn, where delegates met last week to negotiate
further measures to control emissions. “These are things that
have been promised but not delivered.”  Voluntary Pledges  Small island states and those living in low-lying coastal
areas, among the most vulnerable to  climate change , are relying
on countries’ voluntary pledges to restrain emissions because
the legally enforceable limits set out in the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol  will expire at the end of next year.  Developed nations last month reported $28 billion in
finance has been pledged to help poor countries reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to variations in the climate.
Japan was the biggest contributor with $15 billion, according to
the report. Still, $10 billion of the money Japan declared was
already promised under its 2008 Cool Earth Partnership.  “We had dialogue with the African and Island countries.
For them the important thing is not the definition of new and
additional, but to have an impact on the ground,” Masaki Noke,
deputy director general at  Japan ’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs 
said in an interview. “Some expressed a strengthening of trust.
If you want further action the essential element of Fast Start
was to act pragmatically and fast.”  Fast Start Program  The Fast Start program was intended to identify sources of
funding and establish mechanisms for channeling that to poor
countries to help them deal with rising temperatures and shifts
in weather patterns. Richer countries pledged to increase the
flow to $100 billion a year by 2020 in a move that paralleled
efforts by the Group of Eight leading industrial nations to
tackle global poverty.  “There’s been a long history of the G-8 announcing these
massive amounts of money and when actually disbursed it gets
smaller,” Mariama Williams, a senior fellow at The South Centre
in Geneva who helped write the study, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Bonn at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  