-- 
Rio Tinto May Add 25 Million Tons of Coal a Year Through Riversdale Deal

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-20T17:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/rio-could-see-25-million-tons-mozambique-coal-riversdale-says.html
Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest
mining company, may add 25 million metric tons of Mozambique
coal to its annual output after buying  Riversdale Mining Ltd. (RIV)   “When you add it up, Rio will be potentially producing, by
2016-17, 25 million tons of product, both coking and thermal”
coal, Riversdale Managing Director Steve Mallyon said in a phone
interview today. “That’s if all goes according to plan.”  Riversdale’s Benga project, due to begin output in November
or December, will ship about 5 million tons of unprocessed coal
and may expand to 20 million tons, he said. The adjacent Zambeze
project, possibly costing $4 billion, may produce 42 million
tons a year, rising to as much as 90 million tons of unprocessed
coal, making it one of the world’s largest coal mines, he said.  Producers such as Vale SA are digging mines in  Mozambique ,
and Anglo American Plc is seeking coal projects there, as prices
for the fuel climb. The cost of steam coal sold through South
 Africa ’s  Richards Bay  terminal rose about 30 percent in the past
year to $118.83 a ton, IHS McCloskey data on Bloomberg show.  A “scoping study,” completed on a “Richards Bay-type”
coal terminal in Mozambique earlier this month, “looks pretty
good,” Mallyon said. Richards Bay is Africa’s largest coal
terminal, with an annual capacity of 91 million tons.  Rio Review  Rio may review the level of 10 percent to 12 percent that
Riversdale planned to keep in its proposed $1.3 billion Benga
power plant, Mallyon said. Rio “as a bigger company, I think,
sees the strategic value” of the project, he said. Riversdale
has previously had interest in the project from Chinese banks,
as well as companies in the U.K., U.S. and  South Korea .  Eskom Holdings Ltd., the largest provider of electricity in
 South Africa , may buy power from the plant, Mallyon said.  Riversdale expects this year to complete the sale of its
Zululand Anthracite Colliery, “too small” for Rio and a
specialized product it doesn’t know well, after interest from
South Africa,  Australia ,  Canada  and the U.K., he said. It may
produce almost 900,000 tons this year, Mallyon said.  Rio gained almost full control of Sydney-based Riversdale
last week after Tata Steel Ltd. said it would sell 26.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 