-- 
Rising Wealth Is the Way to Fulfill China’s Revolution: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/rising-wealth-is-the-way-to-fulfill-china-s-revolution-view.html
China ’s rise as an economic power
presents the world’s rich nations with a quandary: How should
they handle an authoritarian state intent on joining their
ranks? In seeking a solution, it’s important to recognize that a
prosperous China is in everyone’s best interests.  Ever since free-market democracy gained ascendancy, its
practitioners in the U.S. and elsewhere have worried that some
other system might do better. In the last century, the  Soviet
Union ’s command economy presented the main challenge. Now,
China’s model of one-party rule, state-directed investment and
limited capitalism has taken its place.  The knee-jerk tendency is to see China as a threat to
democracy, as if an authoritarian state could achieve economic
primacy and subject the world to its yoke. The Chinese
government’s recent crackdown on the country’s Jasmine
Revolution, and the jailing of critics such as artist Ai Weiwei,
add to the sense of trepidation.  History suggests such worries are misplaced. In a world in
which the best minds gravitate toward open societies, where
those with talent and drive can excel, oppressive states can’t
compete in the long run. With the exception of a few Middle
Eastern countries that rely on exploiting non-renewable  natural
resources , no authoritarian government has ever made its people
rich by today’s standards.  Hitting the Wall  Two economists at the INSEAD business school in
Fontainebleau,  France , have found that in states without
political freedom, secure property rights, impartial courts and
other elements of good governance, living standards run into a
barrier. The “Great Wall” stands at an annual per capita
output of $10,000 to $15,000, adjusted for the purchasing power
of different currencies. That compares with roughly $47,000 in
the U.S.  Countries that stick with authoritarian forms of government
invariably hit the wall. The Soviet Union, after a strong spurt
of growth through the early 1970s, peaked at an output per
person of about $12,500 in today’s dollars.  By contrast, nations that change their form of government
can become rich, though the process often involves painful
upheaval.  Japan  and  Germany  both emerged from the horror of
World War II to join the ranks of the world’s wealthy.  South
Korea  shifted to a more democratic system after a series of
sometimes bloody clashes in the 1980s, and has since reached an
output per person of about $30,000.  Becoming No. 2  China may have surpassed Japan to become the world’s
second-largest economy, but it’s still very far from rich. Its
output per capita stood at about $7,500 in 2010, less than one-
sixth the level in the U.S. The government has done an
impressive job of lifting many of its people out of poverty, and
its well-honed model could take  living standards  higher than the
level other authoritarian states have achieved. Still, the next
leg of the path to prosperity will be tougher.  Standing by and waiting for China to fail isn’t the right
solution. A poorer China means a poorer and less secure world.
In the short term, a hard landing in the Chinese economy could
derail an already weak global recovery. In the longer term,
Soviet-style stagnation could breed the kind of nationalist
policies and insecurities that would make China a greater
military threat.  To encourage the best possible outcome, U.S. officials in
particular will have to display an unusual degree of humility
and long-term thinking. Many years may pass before China is ripe
for political change, and foreign powers will never have much
influence over that process. That doesn’t mean the free world
should stay silent when China punishes its people for taking a
stand against oppression. Those brave enough to do so need to
know the international community is watching.  Offering Encouragement  On the economic front, wealthy nations should do what they
can to ensure China joins their ranks as smoothly as possible.
China’s inclusion in the Group of 20 developed and developing
nations has already had a positive impact, helping avert the
protectionist policies that could have arisen amid the global
recession. Encouraging China’s greater involvement in the  World
Trade Organization  might speed progress toward removing barriers
to the free flow of goods and services. Efforts to ease the
trade imbalance between the U.S. and China can go beyond sterile
talks about exchange rates to deeper structural changes, such as
curbing incentives for U.S. consumers to take on debt and
removing barriers to Chinese consumption.  Our fates are entwined. The wealthier China becomes, the
better off we are all likely to be.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials . 