-- 
Russia Holds Key Lessons for Greece on Default: Roland Nash

-- B y   R o l a n d   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/russia-holds-key-lessons-for-greece-on-default-roland-nash.html
European leaders fear disaster if
they allow the Greek government to renege on its debt and drop
the euro. But that outcome may not be as bad as it seems. The
experience of  Russia  suggests that what looks like catastrophe
before the event can be something very different after it.  After three years of crisis, rising unemployment and
falling living standards in Greece and other strapped nations,
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  are
demanding more austerity in return for emergency loans. The
logic: The pain wrought by a default and an exit from the euro
would be so catastrophic that it is better to force governments
to slash spending in the depths of a recession.  Neither austerity nor loans, though, are likely to solve
the fundamental problem. For Greece -- as for Portugal, Ireland
and  Spain  -- the value of the euro against other currencies is
too high. As a result, their economies aren’t competitive,
making it difficult for them to generate enough money to pay
their debts. Meanwhile, the burden of interest payments renders
them unable to stimulate the economic growth that could make
their obligations more manageable.  Greece ’s predicament is familiar to many governments in
emerging markets, and particularly to Russia. Back in the mid-
1990s, Russia anchored its currency to the dollar, a move with
similar economics to joining a monetary union. Inflation slowed
and interest rates fell, but Russia quickly developed a
competitiveness disadvantage. The ruble’s strong value against
the dollar made Russia uncompetitive. Imports replaced domestic
production, and the economy was unable to generate growth.
Investors lost faith in Russia’s creditworthiness, pushing
borrowing costs higher.  Fear of Default  As in Greece, the IMF, governments and holders of Russian
debt saw default and devaluation as akin to Armageddon. After
the Asian financial crisis in 1997, Russia was the line in the
sand. It was simply too big to fail. The government was told
repeatedly that default would mean that Russia wouldn’t be able
to access the credit markets for a generation and that foreign
money would never dare return.  In late 1997 and early 1998, Russia received huge (for the
time) loans from  Germany ,  Japan , the U.S., the IMF and the  World
Bank  to compensate for the market’s reluctance to lend. But the
loans didn’t address the underlying issue. Ultimately, on Aug.
17, 1998, Russia gave in to market pressure and did the
unthinkable: The central bank allowed the value of the ruble to
slide, and the government defaulted on billions of dollars in
debt. But the catastrophe didn’t happen.  Decade-Long Boom  The pain lasted only about six months, followed by a
decade-long boom during which the dollar value of Russian
economic output increased 10-fold and the stock market rose 20-
fold. The private sector reacted in textbook fashion to the
boost to competitiveness provided by the devaluation -- and also
by rising oil prices -- and started to recover for the first
time since the breakup of the  Soviet Union . Global investors
were back lending to Russia within 12 months, and the government
ultimately paid a large portion of its debts in full, often
ahead of schedule or at a premium.  As far removed as it may seem from Europe’s situation,
Russia’s experience may hold some important lessons. Currently,
default and, in particular, removal from the  euro zone  seem like
they would amount to failure. Governments are afraid of caving
in on obligations and losing credibility in the eyes of voters
and markets.  Certainly the political capital invested in the euro is
greater than anything seen in emerging markets. But the
economics are remarkably similar.  Stimulus Needed  Coming out of the 2008 global crisis, with growth anemic
and banks unwilling or unable to lend, Greece and other
peripheral European countries need to stimulate their economies.
They can’t do so by lowering  interest rates  because the  European
Central Bank  runs monetary policy for the entire euro area. They
also can’t do so by increasing  government spending  because
international lending agencies are demanding fiscal austerity.  As a result, they are left with the all but impossible task
of restoring competitiveness by lowering wages and cutting costs
-- an approach that means pain for the majority of voters.  Russia’s experience doesn’t bode well for the ability of
international lenders to contain Greece’s problems. The only
result of the foreign loans to Russia was to allow the private
sector to get out of their holdings of government debt and
offload their credit mistakes onto international agencies.  Avoiding Obligations  Throughout peripheral  Europe , the first steps toward
austerity have resulted in the opposite of what was intended.
The cost of debt is rising and the credibility of governments is
falling. National solidarity wasn’t achieved. Instead, regional
governments, companies and households are doing what is rational
and finding ways to avoid their obligations. Protesters are out
in the streets and politicians are being voted out. The economic
and political costs of resisting market pressure are rising.  By contrast, if Greece and other countries defaulted and
left the euro, they would have the leeway to stimulate their
economies, and their currencies could find the level needed to
restore competitiveness. Moreover, the first country to jump
would benefit most.  The lesson from Russia in 1998 is how quickly the
unthinkable can become the inevitable, precisely because it is
the beneficial.  ( Roland Nash  is chief investment strategist at Verno
Capital, manager of the Russia-focused Verno Capital Growth
Fund. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer on this story:
Roland Nash at  rnash@verno-capital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 