-- 
Russia RTS Index Futures Rise as Optimism Grows for Greece Pact

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-06-20T22:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/russia-rts-index-futures-rise-as-optimism-grows-for-greece-pact.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
rose, signaling shares in Moscow may snap a six-day losing
streak, as Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  offered
assurances that a solution will be found to rescue Greece.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September advanced 0.3 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, gained 0.4 percent,
and OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, rose 0.1
percent. Contracts on OAO Sberbank increased 0.4 percent while
OAO Lukoil climbed 0.2 percent.  Juncker said Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou vowed
that his government would take necessary actions to obtain
financial aid from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  before the Greek parliament resumes debating a motion of
confidence. Juncker, who leads a group of euro-area finance
ministers, added that Italy wasn’t in danger from the debt
crisis, comments that helped reverse declines in commodities and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Nobody is putting any big bets on the table ahead of the
confidence vote, but the fact that U.S. markets are in positive
territory reflects that expectations of a positive outcome
tomorrow are dominating any negative expectations,”  Paul Biszko , a senior emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto, said in a phone interview. “Things are at
least stabilizing.”  Commodities, S&P  U.S. stocks rallied, sending the  S&P 500 Index  up for a
third straight day. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
19 raw materials rose 0.2 percent after dropping as much as 0.6
percent.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  Crude oil for July delivery increased 0.3 percent to $93.26
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , after dropping as
much as 2 percent. The euro rose against the majority of its
most-traded counterparts.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 1.2 percent to 1,626.14 in
Moscow yesterday, its sixth consecutive decline, the longest
losing streak since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  