-- 
Hong Kong’s Tsang Struggles to Meet Tax Pledge as Singapore Threat Looms

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-06-20T01:22:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/tsang-struggles-to-meet-hong-kong-tax-cut-pledge-as-singapore-threat-looms.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive Donald Tsang said “You got me on that,” when challenged on his claim
to have carried out all he pledged when he stood for office in
2007. The missing achievement: cutting corporate taxes.  With a year left of his term, Tsang is running out of time
to restore some of Hong Kong’s edge against regional rivals
including Singapore, which has slashed taxes in a bid to attract
global companies to base their Asian operations there.  “We are losing the advantage that used to be an
astonishingly low tax rate,” David O’Rear, chief economist of
the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, the city’s largest
business group, said in a phone interview. “We’ve seen others,
including China and  Taiwan  and Macau, also lower their tax rates
in competition with us.”  Singapore narrowed the corporate tax rate gap with Hong
Kong to 50 basis points last year from 10 percentage points in
1999, drawing investment that put the island’s economy on course
to overtake more-populous Hong Kong’s this year,  International
Monetary Fund  estimates show. Surging  home prices  and rising
income inequality in Hong Kong have helped drive Tsang’s
approval rating to a record low.  “I’m still trying to find the opportunity” to meet the
tax cut promise, Tsang said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  Melbourne  aired today. “At the moment, the Hong Kong people
feel we should not reduce corporate profits tax and while it was
feasible and acceptable in 2007, it is not acceptable now.”  Casinos, Exports  Singapore ’s gross domestic product surged 22.5 percent in
the three months through March from the previous quarter,
compared with Hong Kong’s 2.8 percent expansion. As well as
slashing taxes on company profits, Singapore has lifted a ban on
casinos and boosted the financial and legal services industries
to reduce reliance on exports.  Hong Kong is still the world’s biggest market for initial
public offerings. Russian and Mongolian resource companies as
well as European luxury brands have joined the city’s $2.4
trillion stock market. The total value of Singapore-traded
shares is $562 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hong Kong cut taxes for companies by half a percentage
point to 16.5 percent in 2008 to fend off the threat from
Singapore. Tsang had pledged to bring the rate to 15 percent.
Hong Kong's chief executive is chosen by the 800-member
Election Committee whose appointees are sanctioned by  China .   Cutting taxes now would be seen by the public as “a strong
indication that Donald serves the interests of big business,”
said  Joseph Cheng , a political-science professor at the  City
University of Hong Kong .  Income Gap  Hong Kong’s biggest income gap since it was returned to
China is stoking protests against the government. Home prices
that surged more than 70 percent since the start of 2009 are
making property increasingly unaffordable, the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said last week.  Tsang’s approval rating has slumped to 23 percent, the
lowest level since he began leading the city in 2005, according
to a survey of 1,000 residents by the  University of Hong Kong 
released June 14. The poll was carried out between June 1 and 8
and had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  The “gap between rich and poor unfortunately is a
byproduct of capitalism, particularly in a very successful
global financial center like Hong Kong,” Tsang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net 
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  