-- 
Saudi Women Ask Clinton Why She Hasn’t Supported Female Drivers

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-06-20T14:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/saudi-women-ask-clinton-why-she-hasn-t-supported-female-drivers.html
A group campaigning for the right of
Saudi women to drive sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  asking why she hasn’t expressed support for
those who defied a ban on driving last week.  More than 50 women got behind the wheels of their cars on
June 17, according to Saudi Women for Driving, a group of
women’s-rights activists, bloggers and academics challenging the
world’s only ban on female drivers. No arrests were reported.  In a letter released today, the group said it asked Clinton
in a June 3 letter to “make a public statement supporting our
right to drive.”  “Three days ago, on June 17, more Saudi women drove a car
than ever before,” the group said in today’s letter. “But as
we launch the largest  women’s rights  movement in Saudi history,
where are you when we need you most? In the context of the Arab
Spring and U.S. commitments to support women’s rights, is this
not something the  United States ’s top diplomat would want to
publicly support?”  The group sent a similar letter to European Union foreign
policy chief  Catherine Ashton .  The driving campaign began last month when a group of
Saudis called on women with international driver’s licenses
through the Facebook and Twitter social-networking websites to
get in their cars and drive on June 17. They insisted their plan
wasn’t a protest. Saudi Arabia, holder of the world’s biggest
oil reserves, has avoided the anti-government demonstrations
that have rocked the Arab world this year.  ‘Beep Beep’  One of the organizers, Manal al-Sharif, a 32-year-old
computer-security consultant, was arrested last month in the
city of al-Khobar, in  Eastern Province , after she drove on more
than one occasion and urged other women to drive in a video she
posted on YouTube, according to  Amnesty International . The
human-rights group said al-Sharif was forced to sign a pledge
that she wouldn’t drive again and was released 10 days later.  “Beep beep and solidarity to the Saudi women & supporters
challenging the driving ban!” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi   wrote on  Twitter  on June 17.  The last time a group of women publicly defied the driving
ban was on Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops massed in Saudi Arabia
to prepare for a war that would expel Iraqi forces from  Kuwait .  The Saudi women were spurred by images of female U.S.
soldiers driving in the desert and stories of Kuwaiti women
driving their children to safety, and they were counting on the
presence of the international media to ensure their story would
reach the world and ease any repercussions. The women were
briefly detained and lost their jobs for at least two years.  Preventing Vice  Some Saudis including Sheikh Mohammed al-Nujaimi, a cleric,
say the driving ban prevents the spread of vice. They say if
women were allowed to drive, they would be free to leave home
alone whenever they like. The women would also break the strict
rules that limit the mixing of genders by interacting with male
mechanics if their cars break down or with attendants at gas
stations.  Saudi Arabia  enforces restrictions interpreted from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. Women aren’t allowed to apply
for a driver’s license, though some drive when they’re in desert
areas away from cities. They can’t travel or get an education
without male approval or mix with unrelated men in public
places. They aren’t permitted to vote or run as candidates in
municipal elections, the only balloting the kingdom allows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  