-- 
Schneider May Sell $1.4 Billion Sensors Unit

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   J a c k i e   S i m m o n s ,   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-06-20T10:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/schneider-may-sell-1-4-billion-sensors-unit.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, is
considering a sale of its sensors unit, said five people with
knowledge of the matter.  The French company, based near Paris, weighed selling the
unit, Custom Sensors & Technologies, before the 2008 global
recession and may revive the idea this year, said four of the
people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Schneider hasn’t made a formal decision on whether to
sell the unit, which may fetch about 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion), said the people.  The unit, based in Moorpark,  California , makes sensors that
react to changes in pressure or temperature and are used in the
automotive and aeronautics industries. Schneider Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire has said the company favors
expansion in automation products and systems that help improve
energy management and efficiency in buildings and factories.  The unit may attract private-equity firms as well as
corporate buyers, three of the people said. A spokesman for
Schneider declined to comment.  CST, created through acquisitions in the last decade,
posted operating profit of 71 million euros last year, while
sales rose 21 percent to 433 million euros. In 2005, Schneider
bought BEI Technologies Inc. for $562 million, a year after
purchasing Solectron Corp.’s Kavlico unit. It bought French
sensor maker Crouzet in 2000.  U.S. buyout firm Bain Capital LLC owns 51 percent of Dutch
sensors maker  Sensata Technologies Holding NV. (ST)   Schneider has announced three acquisitions in less than a
month, including a $2 billion takeover of Spanish software
company  Telvent GIT SA (TLVT) , and the $650 million purchase of Chinese
drives maker Leader Harvest Power Technologies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 