-- 
Sino-Forest Slides After Globe & Mail Says It Overstated Forestry Assets

-- B y   A m a n d a   J o r d a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-06-20T20:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/sino-forest-falls-after-globe-says-holdings-overstated-correct-.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree-
plantation owner targeted by short seller Carson Block, dropped
14 percent in Toronto trading after a newspaper said the company
may have overstated the value of its holdings.  The shares fell 46 cents to C$2.73 at 4:16 p.m. on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. Sino-Forest, whose biggest shareholder
is hedge-fund firm Paulson & Co., has tumbled 85 percent since
Muddy Waters LLC, a research firm founded by Block, said in a
report published June 2 that the Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based timber company exaggerated its holdings.  “Inconsistencies” have been found in the valuation of
Sino-Forest’s holdings in  China ’s Yunnan province,  Canada ’s
Globe and Mail said June 18, citing Chinese government officials
and forestry experts it didn’t identify. A plantation where
Sino-Forest bought timber rights in 2007 is smaller than the
200,000 hectares (494,000 acres) it claims, the Globe said,
citing Xie Hongting, chairman of Gengma Forestry, which sold
land to Sino-Forest, and a provincial forestry official the
newspaper didn’t identify.  Sino-Forest stands by the figure, the newspaper reported,
citing a statement from the company, which said it bought 13,300
hectares directly from Gengma, and another 180,000 hectares from
other sellers, using Gengma as a broker. The Globe’s report is
an “incorrect portrayal” of the company’s business, Sino-
Forest said today in a statement.  ‘No Discrepancy’  “There is no discrepancy” between Sino-Forest’s public
disclosure of its 2007 agreement to acquire plantations in
Yunnan and the description of the accord and related
acquisitions provided to the Globe and Mail, Sino-Forest said in
the statement.  The company has set up an independent committee to
investigate the allegations in the  Muddy Waters  report and
appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist. Sino-Forest said
last week it expects the investigation to take at least two to
three months.  Richard Kelertas, a Montreal-based analyst at Dundee
Securities Corp. who had said on a June 7 conference call that
there was nothing fraudulent about Sino-Forest “to the best of
our knowledge,” suspended coverage of the timber company today
pending a review of the independent committee’s findings.  ‘Past Ratings’  “Effective immediately our past ratings, target prices,
valuation and estimates should no longer be relied upon,”
Kelertas said in a note to clients.  Kelertas, who said on the call Muddy Waters had “pre-
marketed” its report to hedge funds before it was published,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Greenheart Group Ltd., a subsidiary of Sino-Forest, sank
12 percent in Hong Kong trading today after a 15 percent decline
on June 17.  “The board is not aware of any reasons” for fluctuations
in the price and trading volume of company shares, Greenheart
said today in a statement issued at the request of the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange.  “The board would also like to reiterate that operations of
the group are independent of Sino-Forest,” the company said in
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda Jordan in  London  at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 