-- 
Smiling Bob Dylan Dances, Gets Into Irish Spirit at London Fest

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-06-20T07:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/smiling-bob-dylan-dances-gets-into-irish-spirit-at-london-fest.html
Here’s something you don’t see so
often:  Bob Dylan  shuffling a dance and cracking a smile.  Many fans wondered what he was doing on the lineup of
 London ’s  Feis  Festival, celebrating mainly Irish music, held in
the suburban  Finsbury Park . Fortunately, Dylan had left his
notoriously grouchy self at his nearby London bolt-hole. The
crowd was soon dancing around in the sludgy mud and their rubber
boots and everyone dropped the “Robert O’Zimmerman” jibes.  The 70-year-old got into the spirit of things. His set,
mixing folk-based greatest hits and electric blues, fitted the
bill perfectly. The singer-songwriter visibly enjoyed himself,
shifting between keyboard, harmonica and guitar and grinning
during “Ballad of a Thin Man.”  Dylan’s black-suited band kept up a chugging momentum.
“Like a Rolling Stone” inspired a mass sing-along. The star
himself, in a white shirt and cowboy hat, managed to make some
melodies indecipherable: “It’s All Over Now, Baby Blue”
initially failed to spark mass recognition in the crowd.  There were no such problems for Van Morrison, who played
the sunset slot last night. Dressed in black, with a golden
monogrammed microphone stand, the Northern Irish songwriter
opted for a smooth jazz sound. He kept a fearsomely tight grip
on his horn-rich group’s immaculate performance.  Hits like “Brown Eyed Girl” “Moondance” and “In the
Garden” flowed. A rendition of the traditional “Star of the
County Down” led the way for a joyous stomp through “Gloria.”  Christy Moore  Elsewhere, folk singer  Christy Moore  was the darling of
Saturday’s crowd. His acoustic guitar was softened by the
lyrical electric contributions from Declan Sinnott.  There was a fair amount of plodding rock, thanks to U.S.
band  Gaslight Anthem  and others. The Cranberries remained
inspiration free.  Eddi Reader  brought a personal twist to a
selection of classics.  Camille O’Sullivan  was endearingly
demented.  O Emperor  played a set of stylistically diverse, pleasingly
melodramatic comfort rock on the tiny Third Stage, tucked like
an afterthought behind a row of burger vans.  The young Waterford quintet can be highly recommended.
Bigger stages must surely beckon for next year.  Rating: ***.  Information:  http://londonfeis.com/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 