-- 
Smith & Nephew Loses in Arthrex’s Appeal of Patent Verdict

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-20T16:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/smith-nephew-loses-in-arthrex-s-appeal-of-patent-verdict-1-.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s largest
maker of shoulder and knee implants, lost in  Arthrex Inc. ’s
appeal of a $4.7 million patent-infringement award.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington today overturned the February 2010 jury verdict that
had found Arthrex’s RetroButton device to fix a graft to a bone
infringed a Smith & Nephew patent. Smith & Nephew “presented
insufficient evidence at trial to support” an infringement
finding, the appeals court said in the  decision  on its website.  The dispute between London-based Smith & Nephew and Naples,
Florida-based Arthrex is over the attachment of the grafts used
to replace the anterior cruciate ligament in the knee. It’s one
of the most commonly injured ligaments during athletic activity.
The grafts are ligaments taken from other parts of the body,
typically the hamstring, patella or Achilles region.  Smith & Nephew is “currently evaluating our options for
the next steps,” said Joe Metzger, a spokesman for the company.  A separate Smith & Nephew retrial against Arthrex over a
patent on suture anchors began June 13 in federal court in
 Portland ,  Oregon . Smith & Nephew had won a $14.7 million verdict
in 2008 against Arthrex in that case before the Federal Circuit
in 2009 ordered a new trial after determining the judge erred in
his interpretation of the patent.  The case  today is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc.,
2010-1427, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v.
Arthrex Inc., 07cv335, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of  Texas  (Marshall).  The Oregon case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc.,
04cv29, U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon
(Portland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  