-- 
Snow Falling in Colorado on Eve of Northern Hemisphere’s Summer Solstice

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-20T19:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/snow-falling-in-colorado-on-eve-of-northern-hemisphere-s-summer-solstice.html
The calendar says summer starts
tomorrow in the Northern Hemisphere. The snow falling in the
mountains of  Colorado  tells a different story.  A storm that has prompted a tornado watch across Nebraska
and  Kansas  today also left 2 to 4 inches of snow in the  Rocky
Mountains , said Joe Ramey, a weather service meteorologist in
 Grand Junction, Colorado .  “It is unusual,” Ramey said. “Here it is the last day of
spring.”  A winter storm advisory has been posted in the mountains of
Colorado above 10,000 feet until 6 p.m. local time, and at least
one tornado was reported in Kansas, according to the weather
service. The Northern Hemisphere summer starts at 1:16 p.m. New
York time tomorrow.  Ramey said the lingering effects of the La Nina ocean
cooling are still playing havoc with local weather patterns.
Normally at this time of year the daytime high temperature in
 Grand Junction , at an altitude of almost 4,600 feet, is 88
degrees Fahrenheit (31 degrees Celsius), according to the
weather service. Yesterday it was 59, Ramey said.  La Ninas can bring more rain and stormy conditions to the
northern U.S., while drying out the southern half of the
country. The most recent La Nina was declared over earlier this
month by the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in Camp Springs,
 Maryland .  The atmosphere is still showing signs of the phenomenon,
however.  Ramey said the snow won’t mean ski slopes will be able to
reopen. The snow is in patches, he said.  “You could ski a little bit, pick up your skis and walk
some, and then ski a little more,” Ramey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  