-- 
Somaliland Government Calls for African Recognition, Help Fighting Piracy

-- B y   M o h a m o u d   A l i   M o h a m e d
-- 
2011-06-20T04:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/somaliland-government-calls-for-african-recognition-help-fighting-piracy.html
Somaliland appealed to African
nations to grant the semi-autonomous region recognition as a
sovereign state and called for international help to deal with
piracy off its coast.  “We need more support from African states,” Foreign
Minister Mohamed Abdillahi Omar said in an interview on June 15
in the capital, Hargeisa. “We need recognition, cooperation and
assistance from African states.”  Somaliland, a former British colony, declared independence
from Somalia in 1991, following the ouster of former Somali
dictator Mohammed Siad Barre. No sovereign state has formally
recognized the area as independent. In March, the region opened
a maximum-security prison built with United Nations funding to
incarcerate pirates convicted of attacks off the coast of
Somalia.  An increase in piracy, spurred by a 36-fold jump in ransom
payments in five years, has threatened vessels carrying 20
percent of world trade and raised expenses for shippers. Costs
linked to piracy may reach $13 billion to $15 billion by 2015 as
global trade rebounds and pirates operate over wider areas,
according to research firm  Geopolicity Inc.   The impact on Somaliland has been that fewer ships are
visiting its main port of Berbera, doubling the cost of its
exports, Omar said. He didn’t provide more detailed figures.  Somaliland’s economy relies on shipments of camels, cattle,
sheep and goats to the  Middle East  and North Africa, as well as
remittances sent home from citizens living abroad, to generate
foreign exchange.  ‘Hijack Fears’  “Many ships have stopped coming to Berbera Port because of
the fear of being hijacked by pirates,” Omar said. “The price of
exports has doubled and we need to have more cooperation with
the international community to discuss how to handle that
burden.”  Somaliland’s  Finance Ministry  currently estimates the size
of the economy at $1.2 billion, while the central bank puts the
figure at $700 million, Bank of Somaliland Governor Abdi Dirir Abdi said last month.  As a step toward gaining recognition, the country has begun
working more closely with neighboring countries including
Djibouti, where it has opened an embassy, Ethiopia and  Kenya ,
Omar said. “We are hoping to gain a better understanding of our
aims in the near future,” he said, without providing further
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohamoud Ali Mohamed in Hargeisa via Nairobi at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 