-- 
South African Yields Reach Highest in Month Before Sale on Greek Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-20T12:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/south-african-yields-reach-highest-in-month-before-sale-on-greek-concern.html
South African government bond yields
rose to the highest in more than a month before tomorrow’s debt
auction as concern  Greece  won’t avoid a debt default sapped
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank is offering 2.1 billion
rand ($308.6 million) of bonds maturing in 2018 and 2021 at its
weekly auction, according to bank data on Bloomberg. The
secondary market yield on the 2021 bonds rose five basis points,
or 0.05 percent, to 8.48 percent at 2:01 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the highest on a closing basis in more than a month and 20 basis
points higher than at the previous auction of 10-year debt on
May 31.  Foreign investors sold a net 1.5 billion rand of South
African bonds in the week ended June 17, after buying 6.8
billion rand of debt the week before, according to JSE Ltd.
data. The premium investors demand to buy South African 10-year
debt over U.S. Treasuries has widened about 26 basis points in
the past week to 5.57 percentage points.  “The Greek debt debacle will continue to be closely
watched, with waning sentiment over the past week having driven
local yields weaker as foreign accounts have looked to de-
risk,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet said in
a research note.  The secondary market yield on the 2018 bonds climbed one
basis point to 8.33 percent, the highest since May 18.  Budget Cuts  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is battling a
confidence motion in parliament this week as he tries to secure
parliamentary approval of a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion)
package of budget cuts to ensure the payment of a fifth loan
under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout. Euro-area finance
ministers pushed Greece to pass laws to cut the deficit and sell
state assets, and left open whether the country will get the
full 12 billion euros promised for next month.  South African government debt has returned 3.8 percent this
quarter, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, as
investors bet the central bank won’t raise borrowing costs to
counter inflation driven by rising fuel, food and electricity
prices. The country’s central bank left its benchmark rate at
5.5 percent on May 12.  “The recent sell-off need not be the start of a new trend
as much as it may reflect a necessary breather after a fairly
strong bull run,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.
“All bets would however be off if the Greek prime minister does
not successfully secure a vote of confidence in parliament on
Tuesday.”  The Pretoria-based statistics agency may report on
Wednesday that consumer inflation rose to 4.3 percent in May,
from 4.2 percent the month before, according to the median
estimate of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Tomorrow’s bond auction starts at 11 a.m. in Johannesburg
and the results will be announced at about thirty minutes later,
the  Reserve Bank  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  