-- 
Stray Cats Roam Tampa as U.S. Local Services Lapse With Shrinking Payrolls

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-06-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/stray-cats-roam-tampa-as-u-s-local-services-lapse-with-shrinking-payrolls.html
Call the Animal Services Department
in Hillsborough County,  Florida , and you’ll hear this recording:  “Please be advised that due to budget cuts, Animal
Services no longer handles nuisance calls, such as barking dogs
or trapping of cats. Effective Oct. 1, the shelter will be
closed to the public on Mondays as well as Sundays and
holidays.”  Residents of Hillsborough, home to Tampa, must contend with
stray cats and their neighbor’s yappy Chihuahua without
government help after plunging revenue forced the county to
shrink payrolls excluding law enforcement by  15 percent  since
 2007 . Fewer workers means the county also cut back on litter
removal, original programs on its television channel and
maintenance of athletic fields.  Hillsborough, one of only three Florida counties with the
top credit rank of all three major ratings companies, isn’t
alone in lowering labor costs to cope with plunging revenue in
the longest recession since World War II. U.S. state and local
payrolls have contracted 2.7 percent since their peak in August
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are way past anybody trimming at the edges,” Jon Shure, director of state fiscal strategies at the Washington-
based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said in a
telephone interview. “These cuts are affecting key services.”  State Reductions  Teacher furloughs in  Hawaii  reduced the school term by 17
days this year;  South Carolina ’s Juvenile  Justice Department  cut
260 workers, closing five group homes, two dormitories and 25
after-school programs; and  Arizona  shut 11 Motor Vehicle
Department offices, firing 115 employees, said a Feb. 9  report 
by the center, which studies policies affecting low- and
moderate-income families.  Florida, which already has the  lowest ratio  of employees to
population among states, plans to slash 4,526 positions, or 3.6
percent of its workforce, closing four juvenile-detention
facilities and slimming the agency for growth management.  The reductions have left the ratio of U.S. state-government
non-education employees to residents at its lowest since 1976,
Chris Mauro, director of municipal research at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  New York , said in a June 13 note to clients.  For local governments, income from property taxes, their
main revenue source, has plunged along with home values. An
S&P/Case-Shiller index of prices in 20 cities dropped 31 percent
in five years. That, coupled with reductions in federal and
state aid, means municipal cutbacks are unlikely to end soon,
said Joshua Zeitz, an analyst with MF Global Inc., a  New York- 
based broker and dealer.  Challenging Year  “Local governments face their most challenging year in
several decades,” Zeitz said in a June 9 note to clients.
“Over the next six months, we expect large numbers of public-
sector layoffs.”  Taxable property values in Hillsborough, on Florida’s west
coast, fell 29 percent from 2007 to 2011, Tim Wilmath, director
of valuation for the appraiser’s office, said in an e-mail.  That will mean more reductions for a county staff now at
5,968 excluding sheriffs. The proposed $3 billion  2012 budget ,
22 percent smaller than in 2007, lowers authorized positions
other than  law enforcement  by 5.3 percent.  To avoid more service cuts for its  1.2 million  residents,
Hillsborough is “transitioning” work to non-profit and private
entities, said Michael Merrill, the county administrator. Those
in an afterschool program set to be canceled will be encouraged
to attend the YMCA or the Boys and Girls Clubs, he said.  Other Providers  “While we’ve worked within our available resources, we’ve
done that without sacrificing services,” Merrill told
commissioners June 8. “The service may be provided by someone
else, such as the YMCA, but the service will be there.”  Bonnie Dixon, 55, is one such provider. She captures the
stray cats that Animal Services can’t after its staff was
reduced 27 percent since 2007.  “Fifteen of us are very active trappers in Hillsborough,”
said the Riverview resident, who caught about 400 cats last year
using sardines, tuna or chicken from Yum! Brands Inc.’s KFC
restaurant as bait. She brings them to the  Humane Society  for
neutering and releases them. “Most of us are booked every
single week,” Dixon said.  Sherry Silk , executive director of the Humane Society of
 Tampa Bay , said her privately funded organization increased the
number of animals it accepts from the county’s adoption program.  “Each year we’re taking in more and more,” she said in a
telephone interview. “The reduction of their staff and cutting
budgets is certainly affecting the animals.”  New Priorities  The Hillsborough  Animal Services Department  had to make
public safety and protecting animals from abuse and neglect a
priority over “quality of life” issues like responding to
complaints about barking dogs, said Bill Armstrong, the retiring
director.  After the loss of 30 staff, it’s decreased the number of
animals coming into the shelter by encouraging people to spay
their pets, discouraging surrenders and expanding the adoption
program.  At  Keep Tampa Bay Beautiful , a non-profit organization that
recently merged with Keep Hillsborough County Beautiful, the
volunteer base doubled since the county curbed litter clean-up.  People “get it,” Debra Evenson, executive director, said
in a telephone interview. “It’s where we live, it’s our
responsibility.”  Plenty to Do  The volunteers have plenty to do, according to a “litter
index” they compiled. On a scale of one to four, with four
being dirtiest, Hillsborough’s rubbish level rose to 1.97 last
year from 1.56 in 2007.  Shifting work to outsiders hasn’t always gone smoothly. In
2007, the county asked volunteer youth groups to take over
maintaining athletic fields.  “Many have struggled with the responsibility,” said a
strategic plan released April 21 for the  Parks, Recreation and
Conservation Department,  which has lost a quarter of its staff.  At the county  Communications Department , which lost 23
percent of its staff from 2007 to 2011, television programming
has been curtailed, said Willie Puz, a spokesman. In place of
some original shows, such as a daily local-news briefing, board
meetings are now shown “over and over again,” he said.  State and municipal spending cuts reduced the national
economic growth rate by 0.39 percentage point in the first
quarter of 2011 after cutting it by 0.18 point in 2010 and 0.11
point in 2009, according to U.S. Commerce Department  data .  “When someone in the public sector loses their job, it’s
just as bad as when someone in the private sector loses their
job,” said Shure of the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities .  Hillsborough, where unemployment was  10.4 percent  in May
compared with the 9.1 percent U.S. rate, will help fired workers
find new jobs, Merrill said at the  June 8  commission meeting.  “The last thing we want to do,” he said, “is to put more
people on the street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 