-- 
Structured Notes Protecting Against Inflation Rise Almost 40%

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T18:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/structured-notes-protecting-against-inflation-rise-almost-40-.html
Investors have pushed sales of
structured notes tied to  interest rates  and commodities up
almost 40 percent on concern that inflation may rise, making
them the fastest-growing types of offerings in 2011.  Issuance has increased to $6.35 billion in the U.S. in the
first five months from $4.56 billion a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from prospectuses filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Equity-tied securities
gained at less than half that pace, or 17 percent, to $10.1
billion.  The notes are being purchased as protection against
inflation, said Justin Capetola, who helps manage about $300
million as a partner at Blue Bell Private Wealth Management, a
fee-based advisory firm in Blue Bell,  Pennsylvania .  “Investors are concerned that the dollar is going to be
worth less and less,” Capetola said in a telephone interview.
“So there’s been more interest in rate- and commodity-linked
notes.”  Sales of commodity-tied notes rose to $2.27 billion in the
first five months, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index, an
index of 24 raw materials, increased 12 percent, Bloomberg data
show. Rate-linked notes climbed to $4.08 billion.  Bank of America Corp., the biggest seller of structured
notes in the U.S., issued $60.9 million of  18-month notes  tied
to the price of oil on May 25. Investors receive twice the gains
in crude oil futures, capped at 44 percent annually, with the
risk of losing all of their principal, according to a prospectus
filed with the SEC.  JPMorgan Notes  JPMorgan Chase & Co. issued $71.2 million of 10-year,
 fixed-to-floating-rate notes  linked to the  consumer price index .
The bonds pay 4 percent interest annually for two years, then
switch to the 12-month difference of the CPI plus 2 percent,
with the total capped at 8 percent, according to a prospectus
filed with the SEC.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 