-- 
Sudanese Plane Drops Bombs Near Southern Kordofan Airstrip, UN Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-20T14:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/sudanese-plane-drops-bombs-near-southern-kordofan-airstrip-un-says.html
A Sudanese aircraft dropped seven
bombs near an airstrip in the town of Kauda in Southern Kordofan
state, where government forces have been fighting units from
 Southern Sudan ’s army for two weeks, the  United Nations  said.  The airstrikes took place at 11:30 a.m. yesterday in
Southern Kordofan, northern  Sudan ’s only oil-producing state,
the same day that Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir said he was
prepared for war and that the recent border clashes with the
southern army were “lessons.”  “The security situation is still deteriorating” in the
state, UN spokesman Kouider Zerrouk said today by phone from
Khartoum, the Sudanese capital. The government has maintained
its closure of the state’s airspace, he said.  Clashes in the border areas of Southern Kordofan and the
disputed region of Abyei have raised concern about a resumption
of the two-decade civil war in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-
biggest oil producer that ended with a 2005  peace agreement . The
south is due to become independent on July 9.  Fighting and air strikes by Sudan’s military in the past
two weeks in Southern Kordofan displaced 60,000 people,
according to the UN. About 113,000 people have fled their homes
in nearby  Abyei  since Sudanese government forces occupied the
area on May 21, the UN says.  Oil-Rich States  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent next month. The crude is pumped
mainly by  China National Petroleum Corp. , Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Al-Bashir’s government has accused the southern Sudanese
army of starting the violence in both regions.  “We told our brothers in the south, do you want peace?
Everything we’ve done is for peace,” al-Bashir said yesterday
in a speech in Red Sea state, broadcast on the state Sudan TV.
“But if you want war, you can see what’s going on in Abyei and
in Southern Kordofan, and these are all lessons.”  Authorities in Southern Sudan say the government is trying
to disarm northerners in Southern Kordofan, such as members of
the Nuba ethnic group, who fought alongside the south’s army
during the civil war. They accuse al-Bashir’s government of
attempting to militarily occupy disputed border areas before the
south’s independence.  Delegations from the north and south are discussing the
proposed mandate of an Ethiopian force that would replace UN
peacekeepers in Abyei after Southern Sudan’s independence. Talks
in the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , also include the
structure of Abyei’s future administration.  The talks also aim to reach a cease-fire in Southern
Kordofan, according to  Thabo Mbeki , the head of the African
Union’s High-Level Implementation Panel on Sudan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 