-- 
Sudanese Forces to Withdraw From Abyei Region as Ethiopian Troops Move in

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T17:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/sudanese-forces-to-withdraw-from-abyei-region-as-ethiopian-troops-move-in.html
Northern and  Southern Sudan  agreed
today to withdraw their forces from the disputed border region
of  Abyei  and the  United Nations  Security Council prepared to
authorize deployment of Ethiopian peacekeepers.  “The agreement provides for demilitarization of Abyei, so
the Sudan forces that are there will pull out and be redeployed
out of Abyei, as well as any other military force,” former
South African President  Thabo Mbeki , who negotiated the
agreement as head of the African Union’s High-Level
Implementation Panel on Sudan, told reporters in Addis Ababa,
 Ethiopia .  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, told a meeting
of the Security Council in  New York  that her government would
circulate a draft resolution authorizing the Ethiopian mission.
Envoys of the  Security Council  15 member governments are
considering a U.S.-drafted statement endorsing the accord.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon backed the agreement in a
statement released in New York and said both sides to the
conflict should “establish an administration and police service
and to provide their full cooperation to the United Nations and
government of Ethiopia in deploying peacekeeping troops and
police to the area.”  Sudan’s army seized the main town in Abyei on May 21 after
accusing Southern Sudan’s security forces of attacking its
troops. The south is due to become independent on July 9.
Fighting in Abyei and the northern Sudanese border state of
Southern Kordofan has raised concern of a return to the two-
decade civil war in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil
producer that ended in 2005.  Comprehensive Proposal  Mbeki told the Security Council that “good progress” has
been made in a broader agreement on post-independence issues,
including Sudan’s foreign debt, trade, currency and
apportionment of oil revenue. This “comprehensive proposal”
will be discussed in  Addis Ababa  tomorrow, Mbeki said.  “We are hoping that by the end of this month we should
have concluded all of these, so that there is a clear picture by
the beginning of July of what will happen,” Mbeki said. He also
said discussion of security arrangements on the border of Sudan
and Southern Sudan was “close to resolution,” with the size
and composition of the force the outstanding issues.  “The government of Sudan is sincere in its determination
to resolve all pending issues,” Daffa-Alla Elhag Ali Osman,
Sudan’s ambassador to the UN told the Security Council.  Since the Sudanese army’s occupation of Abyei, about
113,000 people have fled their homes, according to the UN.  Security Committee  A five-member security committee, with of two members each
from the north and south and a chairman nominated by the head of
the  African Union , will “take overall responsibility for
security in the Abyei area,” Mbeki said. The Abyei legislature
will have a chairman nominated by the government, he said.  “Both sides have agreed that you could not come to the
matter of determining the final status of Abyei until you had
stabilized the security situation and taken all these measures
to ensure there will be no further conflict in this area,”
Mbeki said.  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  A referendum in Abyei scheduled for January on whether to
join the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  Right to Vote  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements. That largely excluded the Misseriya, who say that
as seasonal inhabitants of the area, they should also have the
right to vote.  The court also set key oilfields run by the  Greater Nile
Petroleum Operating Co. , which is 40 percent owned by Beijing-
based  China National Petroleum Corp. , outside of the Abyei
region. Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels a day, according
to  Sudan ’s Oil Ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  