-- 
Swiss Stocks Decrease for Fourth Day as Syngenta Shares Slide

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-06-20T15:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/swiss-stocks-decline-for-fourth-day-credit-suisse-ubs-drop.html
Swiss stocks declined for a fourth
consecutive day, extending their losses into a sixth week, as
European governments failed to agree on a loan payment to spare
 Greece  from default.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
insurer, dropped 0.7 percent.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest
producer of crop-protection chemicals, fell 1.3 percent.  EGL AG (EGL) ,
a Swiss utility, surged 21 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies lost 0.5 percent to 6,113.7 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. The measure has declined 9 percent since its
high on Feb. 18, as concern mounted that Greece will default on
its debt. The broader Swiss Performance Index decreased 0.6
percent today.  “The peripheral crisis has become more intense at the same
time as the business surveys have moderated,” wrote Robert Barrie, an analyst at Credit Suisse in  London , in a note to
clients today. “For now, the first of those developments is
clearly the most urgent. It is an uncertain and unhelpful mix
for markets and for risk appetite.”  European finance ministers failed to agree to release a
loan payment to spare Greece from default, ramping up pressure
on Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to deliver further budget
cuts in the face of domestic opposition.  Euro-area finance ministers put off a decision on whether
Greece will get the full 12 billion euros ($17.2 billion)
promised for early July as they pushed for budget cuts by
Papandreou, whose government faces a confidence vote tomorrow.  Swiss Life Slides  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s largest life insurer,
plunged 4.5 percent to 132.70 francs, as a gauge of European
insurers was among the worst performers of the 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Swiss Re Ltd. fell 2.3
percent to 46.91 francs.  Zurich Financial Services dropped 0.7 percent to 213.90
francs after the company forecast claims of about $295 million
from the tornadoes that struck the U.S. in April and May. The
insurer predicted that its Zurich North America unit will record
claims of $200 million and its Farmers Re unit about $95
million.  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG, which makes anti-bacterial and
anti-fungal compounds, slipped 1.5 percent to 67.35 francs after
the company cut its forecast for sales of the hand eczema drug
Toctino, the company’s only marketed product, because of the
strength of the franc and government austerity measures. The
Basel, Switzerland-based company predicted that Toctino will
generate 32 million francs ($38 million) to 34 million francs of
sales this year, compared with a previous estimate of 40 million
francs.  Clariant, Syngenta Fall  Clariant AG (CLN) , the maker of chemicals and paints, slid 1.7
percent to 16.48 francs after Patrick Rafaisz, an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, lowered his price estimate for the company
to 22 francs from 24 francs.  Syngenta fell 1.3 percent to 269.30 francs after Neil Tyler, an equity analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., lowered his
rating on the company’s shares to “underweight” from
“neutral.”  EGL surged 21 percent to 843 francs after saying that Axpo
Holding AG, its main shareholder with 91 percent, will make a
public tender offer for the company at 850 francs a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 