-- 
Syrian Revolt Drives Wedge Between Erdogan’s Regional Popularity, Friends

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-21T09:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/syrian-revolt-drives-wedge-between-erdogan-s-regional-popularity-friends.html
Syrian refugees in  Turkey  are
driving a wedge between Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
popular standing among the region’s people and his friendships
with leaders targeted by revolts.  Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, or AKP, has
pursued a so-called Zero Problems foreign policy with regional
neighbors. That policy may conflict with his ambition to make
Turkey the most influential nation in the region and a voice for
Muslims against oppression.  “Turkey is getting caught in the classic dilemma of trying
to maintain relationships with existing regimes while sending
signals to the opposition saying, ‘We are with you’,” said
Bulent Aliriza, director of the Turkey Project at the Center for
Strategic & International Studies in  Washington . “You cannot
improve relationships with everybody.”  Before winning a third term in June 12 elections, Erdogan
had scrapped visa restrictions for travel with  Syria , backed
energy agreements with  Iran  and mended ties with Kurdish leaders
in northern  Iraq .  The eastward shift led the U.S. and some allies to question
Erdogan’s commitment to Turkey’s traditional pro-Western
policies. It also overlapped with a push by Turkish industry, as
hundreds of companies expanded into Syria,  Libya  and other
Middle Eastern markets. Their executives often traveled with
Erdogan when he visited regional leaders.  Syrian ‘Savagery’  Prompted by deadly crackdowns on protesters, Erdogan has
turned against some of those former allies. On May 3 he demanded
Libya’s  Muammar Qaddafi  end the “bloodshed and autocracy,” and
on June 10 lambasted Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad for
“savagery” by his security forces.  The shift may endanger exports. Turkey’s sales to the
Middle East and North Africa rose more than sixfold, to $30
billion last year, since Erdogan’s party came to power in 2002.
The region now takes 27 percent of Turkish goods sold abroad, up
from 13 percent and making it the second-biggest buyer after the
European Union, whose share shrank to 46 percent from 57
percent, according to Turkey’s  statistics agency .  Istanbul-based businesses with regional ambitions include
 Tav Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , which runs airports in  Tunisia  and
is bidding for one in  Saudi Arabia . Its shares are up 45 percent
in the past year, seven times the gain on the benchmark ISE-100
index. Builder  Tekfen Holding AS (TKFEN)  has won contracts from  Abu
Dhabi  to  Morocco .  Aksa Enerji Uretim AS (AKSEN)  is using one-third of
its capacity to generate electricity for Syria as part of a 500
megawatt sale accord that entered force yesterday.  Fleeing Libya  Turkish companies have won $40 billion of business in the
region, according to the Foreign Economic Relations Board.  After conflict broke out in Libya in February, as Turkey
evacuated about 25,000 citizens, Tav’s parent company Akfen
Holding AS pulled out staff from two airport projects with $450
million of work remaining, while Tekfen suspended $140 million
of contract work after its main site was looted. Erdogan
initially opposed U.S.-led military action against Qaddafi.  In Syria, too, when protests erupted in mid-March, Erdogan
urged Assad to reform, and refrained from criticizing a leader
he has vacationed with. That tone has changed as Assad’s
crackdown on protest intensifies nears the Turkish border.  More than 10,000 Syrians are staying in camps in Turkey
after escaping a military operation in Jisr al-Shughour, and
Assad’s army seized a second northwestern town, Ma’arrat an
Nu’man, last week.  About 1,300 civilians and more than 300 security personnel
have died in the unrest, according to the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights. Erdogan has pledged to keep Turkey’s borders open
to “our Syrian brothers.”  ‘Assad’s Commitment’  Yet his government hasn’t cut ties with Assad and is still
urging him to introduce democratic measures.  “We want a strong, stable, prosperous Syria and for that
to happen wide-ranging reforms need to be enacted as per Assad’s
commitment to democratization,” Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, the architect of Turkey’s policy of “zero problems”
with neighbors, said after a four-hour meeting in Ankara on June
16 with Assad’s envoy Hassan Ali Turkmani.  Assad yesterday called for national dialogue and said there
is “absolute conviction in the process of reform,” while
continuing to blame the protests on foreign-led conspiracies.  In a phone call with  Barack Obama  yesterday, Erdogan told
the U.S. president that Assad must respect the “legitimate
demands” of his people, Erdogan’s office said on its web site.  Turkish Influence  The problems Erdogan faces in the  Middle East  highlight the
limits of Turkish influence, said Fadi Hakura, a Turkey analyst
at London-based research institute  Chatham House .  “Turkish foreign policy, whether it’s soft power or zero
problems, when applied in a region as fluid and unstable as the
Middle East, needs constant adapting,” he said. “It’s limited
to being a facilitator rather than being a dominant player.”  Meanwhile, after eight years of steady growth, exports to
the Middle East are flat in 2011. The turbulence in the region
is hurting trade, said Sabit Karadeniz, the founder of Gurtas
Insaat Taahhut Sanayi & Ticaret Ltd., a construction, cement and
asphalt company based in Hatay, near Turkey’s border with Syria.  Karadeniz said he turned down an opportunity to expand
there. “I was invited to invest in Syria and there were certain
incentives,” he said. “I didn’t think it right to invest in an
undemocratic country that lacks basic human rights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  