-- 
U.A.E. May Win MSCI Emerging-Market Status Amid Limits on Stock Ownership

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-21T11:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/u-a-e-may-win-msci-emerging-market-status-amid-limits-on-stock-ownership.html
The United Arab Emirates’ improved
securities settlement system may help  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  overlook
foreign-ownership limits and boost the nation to emerging-market
status,  Franklin Templeton Investment Management Ltd.  said.  Introduction of the so-called delivery-versus-payment, a
program for completing stock transactions, may spur MSCI to lift
the U.A.E. from its frontier market ranking, said Joe Kawkabani,
Franklin Templeton Investments (ME) Ltd.’s chief investment
officer of equities in Dubai. Three other countries eligible for
upgrades -- Qatar,  South Korea  and  Taiwan  -- probably will stay
in their respective categories, analysts and investors said.
MSCI is due to announce the decisions at  10 p.m.  London time.  The U.A.E. has “solved most of the issues mentioned by
MSCI,” Kawkabani of Templeton said in a June 19 phone
interview. “If the U.A.E. becomes part of the MSCI emerging-
markets index, it would have a very small weighting because of
the foreign ownership limits. It’s still a big positive as it
puts the U.A.E. on additional radar screens for investors.”  An upgrade of the U.A.E.’s $110.3 billion stock markets is
likely to draw more investors as fund managers buy their shares
to mirror MSCI’s indexes. About $3 trillion of funds are
benchmarked against the index compiler’s gauges.  Israel ’s
benchmark TA-25 Index has surged more than 60 percent in dollar
terms since MSCI announced the country’s promotion to developed
market status on June 16, 2009. The advance compares with a 45
percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index’s 34 percent climb.  Popular Uprisings  MSCI’s emerging-market gauge climbed 1.1 percent at 2:50
p.m. in Dubai, halting a four-day slump. The gauge of developed-
nation equities rose 0.5 percent.  The BGCC200 Index of Persian Gulf stocks has fallen 4.9
percent this year amid popular uprisings in the  Middle East  and
North Africa. Dubai’s measure dropped 3.2 percent and  Abu
Dhabi ’s gained 0.4 percent. Both emirates are part of the
U.A.E., which has so far avoided the unrest that toppled leaders
in Egypt and  Tunisia , sparked an armed conflict in  Libya  and
reached Bahrain and  Saudi Arabia .  The U.A.E. and Qatar haven’t faced uprisings, strengthening
the notion of “the U.A.E. and Dubai in particular being the
natural hub for businesses working across the Middle East,”
Simon Williams, a Dubai-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc,
said June 20.  Dubai’s DFM General Index has climbed 2.9 percent and Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  advanced 5.1 percent after the U.A.E.
bourses started the DVP system on May 29.  ‘Positive’ Pace  DVP is a securities industry procedure in which payment for
a security must be made when the security is delivered. Under
the previous dual-account system, the payment is made to a bank
first, which then pays for the security. MSCI cited the old
system as a reason for keeping the U.A.E. and Qatar as frontier
markets a year ago.  While the process of upgrading the U.A.E. is moving at a
“positive” pace, hurdles such as foreign ownership limits
remain, Manuel Rensink, MSCI’s head of Middle East and North
Africa, told a conference in Abu Dhabi on May 3.  Under existing U.A.E. law, foreign companies must have
U.A.E. nationals as their sponsors and are limited to a maximum
49 percent ownership of businesses, except in free zones.
Economy Minister Sultan al-Mansouri said June 16 the caps
wouldn’t change for now.  “The fact that the U.A.E. wants to keep foreign ownership
limits as they are, isn’t a barrier for the markets to be
promoted,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, the chief investment
officer at Abu Dhabi-based financial services company CAPM
Investments. “There are countries that have foreign ownership
limits that are already in” the emerging-markets index, he
said.  Ownership Restrictions  Countries designated as emerging markets by MSCI must have
“significant” openness to foreign ownership, the index
provider’s website said. Taiwan, which is already an emerging
market, limits overseas holdings of companies in key industries
in varying degrees. Foreign ownership of  China Airlines Ltd. (2610)  is
limited to 49.99 percent and Chunghwa Telecom Co. to 49 percent,
according to a  company list  on the Taiwanese exchange’s website.  Qatar, also a frontier market, caps overseas ownership at
25 percent and started the DVP system on April 11. The QE Index
has fallen 1.9 percent since the nation’s stock exchange said
May 31 that the ownership limits wouldn’t change in the near
future.  “Until recently investors had hoped Qatar would raise
their limits but such hopes were quashed,” said  Paul Cooper ,
Dubai-based managing director at Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd.,
which oversees more than $500 million in the Middle East.  South  Korea , Taiwan  Companies in Dubai’s DFM gauge are valued at an average 0.7
times net assets, or book value, compared with 1.8 times for
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  South Korea and Taiwan,  Asia ’s biggest emerging markets
after China and  India , will retain their MSCI classifications as
emerging markets because the index compiler’s requirements for
upgrades haven’t been met, according to Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch.  MSCI skipped South Korea for an upgrade for a second year
in 2010, citing the “rigidity” of the country’s investor
identification system and the lack of an active offshore
 currency market  as well as anti-competitive practices relating
to stock market data. MSCI cited concerns such as lack of full
currency convertibility for not upgrading Taiwan last year.  No Change  “We do not forecast a change to Korea’s market status
within the MSCI as the issues previously highlighted by MSCI
have largely not been addressed,” Arik Reiss, the head of Asia
equity derivatives research at Merrill Lynch, wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions. If the market isn’t reclassified
there will be "little or no impact except for a small dent to
sentiment."  Stocks from the two Asian nations are already included in
the $7.79 trillion MSCI Emerging Market Index, which is down 3.6
percent this year. South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  is little
changed, while Taiwan’s Taiex Index has retreated 4.2 percent.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.4 percent today, the
most since June 15, while Abu Dhabi’s ADX General Index slipped
0.9 percent. Qatar’s QE Index was little changed.  An upgrade for the markets to emerging-market status may
draw as much as $5 billion in new money “as a best case
scenario of an overweight bias,” according to Walid Shihabi,
chief executive officer at Shuaa Securities LLC, a Dubai-based
brokerage.  “The MSCI Emerging Market Index is the most commonly
followed index for investors in the emerging world,” said
Cooper of Sarasin-Alpen. “Entry into it will provide a higher
profile and almost certainly yield a significant increase in
demand for local shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  