-- 
U.S. Company Credit Swaps Decline as Juncker Eases Greece Default Concern

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-20T21:05:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/u-s-company-credit-swaps-approach-8-month-high-as-greece-rescue-falters.html
A benchmark credit-default swaps
index in the U.S. eased for a second day amid European
assurances that a Greek default can be avoided.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.3 basis point to a
mid-price of 99.3 basis points as of 4:48 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed to
100.5 on June 16, the highest level since Oct. 4, as economists
lowered growth forecasts for the U.S. and Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  faced domestic opposition to budget cuts,
roiling debt markets globally.  The index reversed an earlier increase today of 1 basis
point after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said Papandreou
assured him the government would do everything to ensure
financial aid from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  before the Greek parliament resumes debating a motion of
confidence in the government. Juncker leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers.  Over the weekend,  Europe ’s leaders left open whether the
country will get the full 12 billion euros ($17.1 billion)
promised for July as part of last year’s 110 billion-euro
lifeline.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which falls as
investor confidence deteriorates and rises as it improves, was
unchanged at 99.7 percent of face value, according to Markit.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  