-- 
Huawei Adds New MediaPad Tablet in Growing Consumer Push

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-20T09:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/huawei-unveils-tablet-computer-based-on-google-s-android-operating-system.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest phone-network equipment maker, introduced its second
line of tablet computers in eight months, as the company expands
its push into consumer markets.  Huawei’s new MediaPad tablet with 7-inch screen will run
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android Honeycomb 3.2 operating system, Victor Xu,
chief marketing officer of the company’s device business unit,
said at a press conference.  Chief Executive Officer Ren Zhengfei is broadening
offerings of devices such as smartphones and tablet computers to
maintain sales growth amid slower demand for its traditional
phone-network gear. The thrust into consumer markets, along with
a drive to expand business-computing services, aims to triple
annual sales to about $100 billion in the next five to 10 years,
Shenzhen-based Huawei said in April.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad currently dominates the global tablet
market. Competition from new entrants will  cut Apple’s share  of
the market for the device to about 50 percent next year, from
almost 100 percent when the Cupertino, California-based company
began selling the iPad a year ago, IHS ISuppli said in April.  Huawei had introduced the 7-inch Ideos S7 running the
Android system at a Beijing trade show in October. Huawei’s S7
tablet and an updated S7 Slim announced in February are already
on sale in Europe and  Asia .  The MediaPad will be sold globally and will have more than
six hours of battery life, according to the statement. The
device comes pre-installed with software to operate the social
networking sites of Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc., it said.  One Percent  Huawei captured 1 percent of global tablet shipments in the
first quarter and the company will have to work to build brand
awareness with tablet buyers, according to  Neil Mawston , a
London-based analyst at  Strategy Analytics .  “Huawei’s portfolio of tablets is currently limited,
distribution is modest, and despite having a strong global
position in cellular laptop dongles, Huawei’s brand is not yet
widely known among consumers for computing devices,” Mawston
wrote in a June 17 e-mail.  Huawei in April forecast total sales this year will climb
to 199 billion yuan ($31 billion) from 185.2 billion yuan last
year. Still, sales growth this year will be less than half the
24 percent increase in revenue last year as the company faces
challenges including yuan appreciation, a shortage of labor and
accelerating inflation.  Sales of smartphones and other handheld devices may
increase to $20 billion in the next five years, from $5 billion
last year, the company said in April.  Huawei got 65 percent of its revenue from outside China
last year, up from 60 percent in 2009, according to the
company’s annual report. Overseas sales jumped 34 percent at
Huawei to 120.4 billion yuan last year, according to the report.  Its sales in China gained 9.7 percent to 64.8 billion yuan.
China accounted for 35 percent of the company’s sales last year,
down from 40 percent in 2009. Net income rose 30 percent to 23.8
billion yuan, from 18.3 billion yuan a year earlier.  The company is entirely employee-owned and the Chinese
government holds no shares, according to its website. The
company employs 110,000 worldwide, the annual report said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  