-- 
Huawei’s Worldwide Push Relies on Facebook, Twitter Sites Banned in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-20T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/huawei-global-consumer-push-leads-to-banned-facebook-youtube.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of phone equipment, got word out about its new
MediaPad tablet computer by creating a page on a site where Web
users in the Asian nation are forbidden to go: www.facebook.com.  The Facebook Inc. page links to a video the Chinese company
posted on another site that the country’s Internet censors block
domestic users from accessing:  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube site.
Social networks are “very important” for Huawei as it seeks to
overcome the “huge difficulties” of building a global brand,
Victor Xu, Huawei’s chief marketing officer for devices, said in
an interview yesterday in Singapore.  The prominence in Huawei’s global marketing campaign of
social media like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter Inc. that are
banned by China shows the growing importance of overseas markets
in  Europe  and the U.S. as the company aims to more than triple
annual sales to about $100 billion in the next five to 10 years.
International business surpassed Huawei’s China sales for the
first time in 2005, and rose to 65 percent of revenue last year,
from 60 percent in 2009, according to its annual report.  “If China doesn’t let exporters access these networks,
it’s basically like a tax on Chinese companies,” said Duncan Clark, chairman of Beijing-based BDA China, which advises
technology companies. “Through social media, Huawei can reach
tech-savvy bloggers, people who tweet a lot, and that makes an
impact. It’s also cheaper than massive advertising everywhere.”  China Censorship  China, the world’s largest Internet market with 477 million
Web users, bans pornography, gambling and content critical of
the ruling Communist Party.  Wang Lijian , a spokesman for China’s
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology , declined to
comment on the country’s Internet censorship policies.  “The issue of censorship in China is irritating, and there
is definitely a cost” to local companies, Clark said. Still,
Huawei is “ahead of the rest of China in its
internationalization,” he said.  Huawei created the Facebook page for its MediaPad tablet on
Facebook on June 11, nine days before the company unveiled the
device at a press conference in Singapore. Tags at end of the
YouTube video point users to the company’s accounts on Twitter
and Facebook: www.twitter.com/huaweidevice, and
www.facebook.com/huaweidevice.  “Around social networks, it’s very important,” Huawei’s
Xu said in an interview in  Singapore  after the company unveiled
the MediaPad tablet. “The Internet makes the world closer,
between vendors and consumers. Our target audience is young and
around social networks, from the ages of 18 to 34 years old.
They are very active.”  Huawei, ZTE  Huawei’s press office has maintained a Twitter account
since December 2009. A separate account for Huawei Device, which
sells consumer products including smartphones and tablet
computers, was set up last July. The main Huawei Press Twitter
account had 4,401 followers as of June 20, while the Huawei
Device account had 1,385 followers.  “They have to run effective consumer marketing campaigns
in regions where they are still relatively unknown as a consumer
electronics brand,” said Mark Natkin, managing director of
Marbridge Consulting Ltd., a Beijing-based market research firm.
“They have come a long way up the learning curve in terms of
how to effectively use outside public relations firms and
consulting firms to penetrate foreign markets. That’s something
five or six years ago they were not so adept at doing.”  Establishing Brands  Huawei’s cross-town competitor,  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second
largest maker of phone equipment, has also begun using social
media. ZTE’s press office set up a Twitter account in November
and has 665 followers so far.  ZTE’s Twitter account is maintained by an outside public
relations firm in  Hong Kong , Fan Jiongyi, vice president of
terminals, said in a May 25 interview, without elaborating.  Both Huawei and ZTE have made handsets for carriers
globally and are now trying to establish their own brands to
reach consumers directly, BDA’s Clark said. The rising
popularity of Google’s Android operating system, combined with
stumbles in the smartphone area by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , have provided an
opportunity to build a consumer device business for low-cost
phones that can surf the Web, he said.  Huawei aims to boost handset sales to $20 billion within
five years, from $5 billion last year and $6 billion this year,
the company said in April.  Overseas sales jumped 34 percent at Huawei to 120.4 billion
yuan ($18.6 billion) last year, according to the company’s
annual report. That was more than triple the pace in its home
market, as sales in China gained 9.7 percent to 64.8 billion
yuan. China accounted for 35 percent of the company’s sales last
year, down from 40 percent in 2009.  The company is owned by its employees, and the Chinese
government holds no shares, its website says. Huawei employs
110,000 people worldwide, according to its annual report.  As it markets its brand abroad using social networks that
are blocked at home, Huawei may become the best proof of the
shortcomings of China’s current restrictive Internet policies,
BDA’s Clark said.  “The government wants companies to be innovative and to
have Chinese brands go forth,” Clark said. “These blocks on
social media are an impediment to that.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 