-- 
UniCredit’s Khayat Wants Balance Sheet to ‘Sweat’ in Fee Push

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-06-21T10:41:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/unicredit-s-khayat-wants-balance-sheet-to-sweat-in-fee-push.html
Olivier Khayat, who last month
became the No. 2 at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s investment-banking unit, is
betting he can help engineer a turnaround to boost profit from
the bulging corporate loan book of  Italy ’s biggest bank.  “We need to make our balance sheet sweat a bit,” Khayat
said in an interview at the bank’s headquarters in Milan.
“Other institutions are probably better than we are in
leveraging relationships.”  UniCredit’s corporate and investment-banking chief, Jean- Pierre Mustier, who previously ran Societe Generale SA’s
investment-banking business, hired his former colleague to
increase commissions and market share, particularly in advising
on mergers, where it ranks 21st this year in its home markets,
and in managing stock sales, where it ranks 12th, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The bank has 455 billion euros ($651 billion) of risk-
weighted assets, ranking fourth in  Europe , the data show. It is
No. 1 in organizing loans to companies in  Austria ,  Germany ,
Italy and  Poland , its home nations. The challenge, said Khayat,
is to use those strengths to build the rest of the business.  “We have a big lending capability, but we need to
complement that with a more distribution-oriented culture,”
said Khayat, 47.  Combining Businesses  The firm said last month it would combine the debt and
equity businesses with merger advice and lending to win more
deals. Khayat also wants to challenge rivals by reallocating
resources to help the bank sell securities that it’s
underwritten. Investment banks find buyers of shares and bonds
for companies that need funding and sell securities.  Investment banking , which contributed about 51 percent of
the bank’s operating profit in 2010, absorbed about 43 percent
of the bank’s risk-weighted assets in the first quarter. Khayat
said that under Basel III rules on capital, the bank won’t
reduce assets though it plans to sell some holdings that
“aren’t yielding enough in terms of client revenue.”  Investment banks face declining profitability as stricter
capital rules force lenders to set aside more capital for their
riskier operations. Industry-wide, investment-banking revenue in
the second quarter may decline by 16 percent because of a
slowdown in trading, JPMorgan Cazenove analyst Kian Abouhossein
said in a note to clients June 7.  New CEO  The investment-banking overhaul comes as UniCredit reviews
its strategy, including retail lending and asset management, to
increase profitability after last year’s management shakeup led
Federico Ghizzoni to be named as chief executive officer,
replacing  Alessandro Profumo . Ghizzoni is scheduled to present a
new business plan by the end of the year, which will include the
review proposed by Mustier and his team.  Profit before tax at Mustier’s unit, which has about
350,000 corporate clients in 22 countries, rose to 1.3 billion
euros in the first quarter from 850 million euros a year
earlier, the lender said last month. Operating costs declined 2
percent to 681 million euros in the period, while risk-weighted
assets decreased 10 percent amid lower market risk.  UniCredit shares have dropped 3.6 percent this year
compared with the FTSE MIB Index’s 2 percent decline.  Speaking to analysts on May 13, Mustier, who led the
Societe Generale division that suffered a 4.9 billion-euro
trading loss in 2008, said he doesn’t anticipate the firm’s
value-at-risk to increase. The measure of how much its traders
could lose in a day won’t post a “massive rebound,” he said.  ‘A Great Manager’  Instead, UniCredit is seeking to generate more returns from
corporate clients by competing on advice and securities
underwriting with global players such as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley and local banks such as Italy’s  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s Banca Imi SpA.  “I expect that Mustier will focus more on investment
banking and less on corporate business, targeting more fees,
more services and less net interest income,” said Alberto Segafredo, banking analyst at Main First Bank AG in Milan. “At
SocGen, he was a great manager, able to find segments of growth
where the absorption of capital was very low.”  In the reorganization announced on May 5, UniCredit named
Khayat as the unit’s No. 2 and the co-head of financing and
advisory along with Vittorio Ogliengo, who heads investment
banking in Italy. T.J. Lim was named sole head of markets.  “Focusing on distribution is a winning strategy, but may
be hard to implement,” said Angelo Drusiani, a  fund manager  at
Albertini Syz & Co. in Milan, who manages about 3 billion euros.
“The bank may not have the appropriate internal resources.”  Appointment Pending  The bank plans to name Patrick Soulard, another former
Mustier colleague at  Societe Generale (GLE) , to head investment
banking in  France , according to two people with knowledge of the
hire, who declined to be identified because the appointment
hasn’t been approved by the board. The role, a new one, is
designed to tap into clients in a number of markets the bank may
pursue, said the people.  Khayat declined to comment on the appointment. Soulard, a
former deputy CEO in investment banking at Societe Generale
before leaving in 2009, couldn’t be reached for comment.  “In five years, we would like to be considered as one the
undisputed leaders in corporate and investment banking in the
countries where we’re present and committed,” said Khayat.
“That will enable us to expand the business much further and
access new territories.”  Plans Scaled Back  Mustier’s effort follows his predecessor’s attempt to
bolster the investment bank.  Sergio Ermotti , now  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s
chairman and CEO for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa , wanted
to compete with the world’s top securities firms as mergers
soared and business flourished before the subprime crisis of
2007. He later scaled back the plan to focus on corporate and
investment banking in the lender’s home markets.  This time, UniCredit is seeking to boost revenue while
stock markets contract and companies abandon securities sales
amid concern that  Greece  may not receive a bailout payment next
month needed to avert a forced debt restructuring. The
International Monetary Fund yesterday warned that Europe’s debt
crisis has the potential to crush the otherwise positive
economic outlook for the region unless policy makers step up
efforts to resolve it.  Investment-banking “competition is fiercely intense and
the economics are very challenging,” said Sanford C. Bernstein
analyst Dirk Hoffmann-Becking. “Volumes have been subdued since
May 2010, and it’s not inconceivable that we might go into an
extended period of low activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  