-- 
Wisconsin Labor Law Should Be Blocked Pending Court Challenge, Unions Says

-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-06-21T04:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/unions-seek-u-s-court-order-to-block-enforcement-of-wisconsin-labor-law.html
Wisconsin ’s law limiting the
collective bargaining rights of some government workers should
be blocked by a federal judge, unions said.  The unions said yesterday in a court filing that allowing
the law to take effect would irreparably harm workers because it
will be impossible to reverse or remedy employment decisions if
the court declares the law is unconstitutional. They asked a
judge to block the law while their lawsuit is being considered.  Decisions “to terminate or lay off employees, reassign
employees to different job duties or to different shifts, demote
employees, deny promotions, eliminate and contract out jobs, or
any of a myriad of other large and small job decisions, will
either be irreversible or will require considerable
‘unscrambling the egg’ in the form of numerous workplace
grievances once collective bargaining rights were restored,”
according to the filing in federal court in Madison, Wisconsin.  The state law violates the U.S. Constitution by creating a
“disfavored” class of public employees and a “favored” class
consisting of firefighters and law enforcement officials, who
are exempt from the law, the unions representing teachers,
health-care workers and other public workers, said in a
complaint filed Feb. 15.  “We were expecting the filing,” said  Bill Cosh , a
spokesman for Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen.
“Whenever it is scheduled, we will be in court to defend the
law.”  Earlier Ruling  Wisconsin’s  Supreme Court  on June 14 rejected a county
judge’s ruling invalidating the measure backed by Governor Scott Walker, a first-term Republican. Walker signed the legislation
on March 11. It requires annual recertification votes for public
employees’ union representation and makes their payment of
membership dues voluntary.  Under the law, state workers would contribute 5.8 percent
of their salaries toward pensions and pay 12.6 percent of their
health-insurance costs. Democrats and organized labor opposed
the legislation as an attack on workers’ rights. Opponents
protested inside and outside the state capitol for almost four
weeks.  Fourteen Wisconsin Senate Democrats left the state Feb. 17
and spent more than three weeks in  Illinois  in an attempt to
block the law by denying the chamber a quorum. Republicans were
able to vote on collective bargaining after they stripped the
bill of some fiscal measures allowing them by law to vote
without the Democrats present.  The case is Wisconsin Education Association Council v.
 Scott Walker , 11-00428, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Rohde in Madison, Wisconsin at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  