-- 
Murderous Garlands, Hunky Gods Bring India to Paris: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-06-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/murderous-garlands-hunky-gods-evoke-india-in-paris-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Is there more to India’s cultural
scene than Bollywood, its prolific  movie industry ?  To help find out, the  Pompidou Center  has mounted “Paris-
Delhi-Bombay.” The title of the exhibition promises more than
it can deliver. “Paris-Berlin,” “Paris-New York” and
“Paris-Moscou” were some of the museum’s most glorious
achievements, filled to the brim with masterpieces.  The sequel focuses on some 50 contemporary artists, two-
thirds of them Indian. The rest are French or live in  France .
Most of the works have been created for the occasion.  How representative they are is hard to tell. Judging from
what you see, you’re inclined to believe that the dominating
trends are the same in both countries -- installations, video
art and photography.  Many of the Indian works have a political subtext.  Upon close inspection of Sunil Gawde’s red garlands, you
discover that, instead of flowers, they are made of painted
razor blades -- an allusion to the murder of Prime Minister
Rajiv Gandhi in 1991 with an explosive hidden in a garland.  Krishnaraj Chonat has built two walls. The first,
symbolizing our throwaway society, is made of computer mice and
other electronic waste. The second, showing the way to a
“greener” future, is covered with sandalwood soap and wraps
the viewer in its fragrance.  Mini Slum  Another pair of walls, made of recycled material by Hema
Upadhyay and forming a corridor, is supposed to be a vertical,
miniature version of Dharavi, a sprawling slum near Bombay.  Subodh Gupta, one of the most successful Indian artists
whose works sell for seven-figure prices, has created a vast
installation of stainless-steel tableware, piled from floor to
ceiling as in an emporium.  The French participants either don’t know  India  at all or
only superficially. Their contributions are fantasies rather
than informed comments.  Leandro Erlich mocks his own ignorance with a traditional
French bedroom. Through one of the windows, you see filmed
images of a busy street in Bombay.  Pierre & Gilles, the grand masters of gay kitsch, have
transformed Hanuman, the monkey god, into a muscular hunk.  “Paris-Delhi-Bombay” runs through Sept. 19. Information:
 http://www.centrepompidou.fr  or +33-1-4478-1233.  Royal Riches  For a more coherent Indian experience, don’t miss “Lucknow
-- A  Royal Court  in India” at the  Musee Guimet . The show, which
was on display in a previous version last year in  Los Angeles ,
glorifies the ancient kingdom of Awadh or Oudh.  During its golden age, beginning in the middle of the 18th
century, Lucknow was one of the richest cities on the
subcontinent. The glory days ended in 1857 when the British,
after the so-called Indian Mutiny, a failed revolt against their
rule, deposed the king and sent him into exile.  The exhibition -- paintings, miniatures, garments, jewelry
and other objects from the royal household -- reveals a colorful
mix of indigenous and European influences.  Lucknow’s extravagant architecture, amply presented in
ancient photographs, looks like an Indian variation on a Rococo
theme, the perfect style for the fairy-tale kingdom whose
capital it once was.  The show, which is supported by Areva SA and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) , runs through July 11. Information:
 http://www.guimet.fr  or +33-1-5652-5300.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 