-- 
Lira Weakens on Greek Talks Failure, Increased Curbs on Lenders

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-20T15:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/turkish-lira-weakens-on-failure-of-greek-talks-increased-curbs-on-lenders.html
The lira weakened the most among
emerging-market currencies and  default risk  rose to a nine-month
high after European officials failed to agree on a loan payout
for Greece and  Turkey  increased efforts curb lending.  Turkey’s currency depreciated for a fifth day in six,
weakening 0.5 percent to 1.6038 per dollar at 5:47 p.m. in
Istanbul. Yields on benchmark two-year bonds climbed four basis
points to 9.08 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The cost of protecting against default by Turkey rose seven
basis points to 180, the highest since August, according to CMA.  “Now there is a risk that Greece’s problem will spread to
Spain and  Italy  and this is irking us,” Bulent Topbas, a
portfolio manager at Strateji Menkul Degerler AS in Istanbul,
said by telephone.  Euro-area finance ministers put off a decision on whether
 Greece  will get the full 12 billion euros ($17.1 billion)
promised for July as they pushed for budget cuts by Prime
Minister  George Papandreou , whose government faces a confidence
motion this week. Turkey’s bank regulator increased provisions
for banks that exceed a new limit for  consumer lending ,
according to a decision published in the Official Gazette on
June 18.  The regulator’s move signals the central bank will not
raise rates in the short term, Tufan Comert, a strategist at
Garanti Securities, said in a note to clients.  ‘Postponement’  “Postponement of interest-rate hike expectations is
negative for the lira,” Comert said, and estimated that the
lira would weaken to 1.62 per dollar and 2.30 per euro, without
giving a time frame. “Pressure on the lira will continue in the
short term.”  The lira pared declines after European leaders reassured
investors a Greek default on its debts can be avoided, easing
concern about a spreading regional credit crisis.  Bank loans fell 0.2 percent to 608.8 billion liras ($378
billion) in the week to June 10 and were 35 percent higher than
a year earlier, the banking regulator in Ankara said on its
website today.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will convene
on June 23 and is likely to hold its benchmark interest rate at
a record low of 6.25 percent, the Bloomberg survey of 14
analysts showed. Policy makers have raised banks’ reserve
requirements four times since December to contain the credit
expansion and rein in a ballooning current-account deficit.  The lira may weaken toward 1.70 and 1.75 versus the dollar
amid concern the current-account gap may increase, HSBC Bank Plc
said in a report today.  “The market could test the central bank’s tolerance for a
weak lira,” HSBC currency strategist Murat Toprak in  London 
said in the report.  The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  of stocks sank 1.2 percent to
61,007.73, falling for the first time in three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  