-- 
Turkish Loan Curbs Seen Cutting Bank Profits, Shares Fall

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-20T15:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/turkish-bank-lending-curbs-seen-cutting-earnings-about-1-percent.html
New measures to curb loan growth in
 Turkey  may cut profits at the country’s banks this year,
according to analysts including Muge Dagistan at BGC Partners in
Istanbul. Banking stocks fell.  The measures, enacted by Turkey’s banking supervisory
agency over the weekend, exclude home and  car loans  and “will
have a limited negative effect on bank earnings,” Dagistan said
in a telephone interview.  Turkey’s banking index fell 1.9 percent to 124,380.0 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul. The regulator’s action, announced
in the Official Gazette on June 18, includes an increase in
mandatory provisions for banks that exceed 20 percent growth in
consumer loans excluding car and housing loans.  “We believe the new requirements signal that the Banking
Regulation and Supervision Agency will be more vigilant,” Tunc Yildirim director at broker Standard Unlu in Istanbul, said in
an emailed report. “We believe the regulatory pressure will
intensify in the months ahead.”  Most Affected  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS and state-run banks  Turkiye Halk
Bankasi AS (HALKB)  and Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO will be among those
most affected by the increase in charges, Dagistan said. The
measures may hurt overall profit in the industry by about 1
percent, she said.  Yapi Kredi lost 1 percent to 3.88 liras and Halkbank fell
2.2 percent to 11.25 liras. Vakifbank declined 1.1 percent to
3.53 liras.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) ,  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and  Turkiye Is
Bankasi (ISATR)  AS also qualify for the new provisioning rules based on
first-quarter disclosures, Standard Unlu said.  The measures also redefine how the regulator calculates
consumer credit risk for the purpose of capital adequacy ratios,
a move intended to discourage banks from issuing more general
purpose loans, according to Mete Yuksel, financial analyst at
EFG Istanbul Securities, which invests more foreign money in
Turkish stocks than any other local broker.  “Some banks have been using so-called general purpose
loans to cover some of their  mortgage loans  and the regulator
wants to prevent this,” Yuksel said. “These are preventive
measures and the long-term effect on profit will be
negligible.”  Current Account  Turkish economic policymakers are trying to limit bank
lending that has contributed to Turkey’s widening current
account deficit, which reached $7.7 billion in April, the
second-highest since records began in 1984.  The central bank has kept  interest rates  at a record low of
6.25 percent while raising  reserve requirements  at banks four
times since December, limiting the amount of capital available
to lend.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will convene
on June 23 and is likely to hold benchmark interest rates
unchanged, a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts showed.  The Istanbul National 100 Index fell 1.2 percent to
61,007.73, with Garanti and Isbank leading declines, at 2
percent and 1.1 percent, respectively.  The lira dropped 0.6 percent to 1.6054 to the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  