-- 
TV Ratings for Rory McIlroy’s U.S. Open Golf Last Round Fall 26% From 2010

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-20T16:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/tv-ratings-for-rory-mcilroy-s-record-u-s-open-golf-final-round-fall-35-.html
The final round of Rory McIlroy’s
eight-stroke win at the  U.S. Open  drew 26 percent lower
television ratings than the finish of last year’s tournament,
which concluded in prime time in part of the country.  McIlroy’s record-setting win yesterday at Congressional
Country Club in Bethesda,  Maryland , was seen on Comcast Corp.’s
NBC in an average of 5.1 percent of households in the top 56
U.S. television markets,  NBC Universal  spokesman Adam Freifeld
said in a telephone interview.  That’s 26 percent lower than last year’s final-round rating
of 6.9, when Graeme McDowell won the title at Pebble Beach Golf
Links in  California  in a final round that concluded at 9:15 p.m.
on the East Coast, compared with a 7:45 conclusion for McIlroy’s
victory.  Tiger Woods tied for fourth at  Pebble Beach , three strokes
back. The 14-time major champion didn’t play this year due to
injuries.  In 2009, when  Lucas Glover  won the tournament at Bethpage
State Park in New York, the television rating also was a 5.1 on
Sunday. That tournament concluded on Monday due to weather
delays.  The win for McIlroy, a 22-year-old from  Northern Ireland ,
came two months after he blew a four-stroke final-round lead at
the  Masters Tournament , finishing with an eight-over-par 80.  Lowest Score  McIlroy became the first start-to-finish winner at the U.S.
Open since Woods in 2002. With his 16-under-par finish, he set
12 records, including the lowest score in the golf tournament’s
111-year history.  Woods, 35, withdrew from this year’s U.S. Open on June 7
because of leg injuries. He hasn’t won a tournament since
November 2009 and has fallen to No. 17 in the  Official World
Golf Ranking  after holding the No. 1 spot for a record 281
weeks.  Woods’s last major title came at the 2008 U.S. Open, where
he beat  Rocco Mediate  in a 19-hole playoff before disclosing
that he had played on a fractured leg. The victory left Woods
four shy of Jack Nicklaus’s all-time major title record of 18.  The PGA Tour’s network contracts with CBS Corp. and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal expire after the 2012 season. Tour
Commissioner Tim Finchem said in January that negotiations would
begin soon.  The financial terms of the PGA Tour’s current television
contracts haven’t been disclosed. The previous deal, which
expired after the 2006 season, was $850 million for four years,
bolstered by Woods’s dominance in the sport.  ‘Inflated’ Price  Sean McManus, president of CBS News and Sports, said last
year that the value of golf’s last two television contracts were
“inflated” by Woods’s play and that the network would be
“monitoring pretty closely” Woods’s performance, factoring
that into the negotiations.  McIlroy has what it takes to help U.S. television ratings
because of his skill and personality, said  Rick Gentile , a
former executive producer for  CBS Sports .  “He’s such an incredibly likable kid that I do think the
American audience will react to him,” Gentile, who runs the
Seton Hall University Sports Poll, said in a telephone
interview. “The idea of Tiger and McIlroy head to head I’m sure
has networks salivating.”  McIlroy, who earned $1.4 million for yesterday’s win, has
played seven tournaments in the U.S. this year after entering 16
in 2010.  In an interview during yesterday’s trophy presentation,
McIlroy expressed appreciation for the fans’ support and said he
may have to enter more tournaments in the U.S.  “It’s just been incredible the way people have supported
me and cheered for me the whole week,” he said at a news
conference that followed. “And to be able to have that when you
come over here and feel like you’re one of their own is probably
going to be pretty important in the next few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  