-- 
Venus Williams, Nadal, Murray Win as Rain Curtails Wimbledon Opening Day

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-06-21T00:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/venus-williams-defeats-amanmuradova-in-her-opening-round-at-wimbledon.html
Five-time champion  Venus Williams 
moved to the second round of Wimbledon on day one of the tennis
Grand Slam tournament as men’s title holder  Rafael Nadal  and
fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  also advanced.  Williams, who made her comeback from injury last week, beat
Akgul Amanmuradova, the world No. 97 from Uzbekistan, 6-3, 6-1.
Nadal defeated Michael Russell of the U.S. 6-4, 6-2, 6-2, while
Murray came from a set down to beat Spain’s Daniel Gimeno-Traver
4-6, 6-3, 6-0, 6-0 on Centre Court, which had a closed roof
because of rain in London.  Showers stopped outdoor play at 5 p.m. local time yesterday
and tournament organizers postponed all outside matches at 7:15
p.m. On the only covered court, former French Open champion
Francesca Schiavone and Murray followed Nadal into round two.  Williams reached last week’s quarterfinals at Eastbourne,
where she lost to Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia for the first
time in 11 matches. Williams, 31, had been sidelined with hip
and abdominal injuries since the Australian Open in January.  “The few matches in Eastbourne helped me feel pretty
comfortable here,” she told reporters after lifting her
Wimbledon record to 69-9 in 15 appearances.  Russia’s  Vera Zvonareva , who lost last year’s final to
Serena Williams, overcame 20-year-old American Alison Riske, 6-0,
3-6, 6-3.  Nadal’s Slow Start  Top-seeded Nadal of Spain lost the first two games before
beating the 33-year-old Russell. Nadal, 25, is trying to be the
first man since Bjorn Borg in 1978 through 1980 to win both the
French Open and Wimbledon in three straight years.  Nadal, who’s never lost a first-round match in a Grand Slam
event, won in 2008 and 2010.  “I started, in my opinion, trying to play too fast in the
beginning,” Nadal said. “I had a few mistakes with the
backhand, with the forehand. So he had the break.”  Serena Williams  begins her title defense today against
Aravane Rezai of  France  in her first major for a year. Williams
sustained a foot injury shortly after winning her fourth title
at the All England Club and had treatment for lung blood clots
in February.  In other matches today,  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  starts
his quest for a seventh title against Mikhail Kukushkin of
Kazakhstan and No. 2 seed Novak Djokovic plays France’s Jeremy Chardy. Yesterday’s unplayed matches -- including  Andy Roddick 
of the U.S. against  Germany ’s Andreas Beck -- were rescheduled
for today.  Schiavone Victory  Italy’s Schiavone, who lost to  China ’s Li Na in Paris in
this year’s championship match, beat Dokic for the first time in
five attempts, 6-4, 1-6, 6-3. Belgium’s Yanina Wickmayer, Elena Vesnina of  Russia  and Georgia’s Anna Tatishvili also advanced.  Russia’s Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 12th seed, beat China’s
Zhang Shuai in three sets. Another Russian, Ksenia Pervak, upset
Israel’s  Shahar Peer , the 22nd seed, and American Christina
McHale ousted Ekaterina Makarova, the 28th seed from Russia.  Kimiko Date-Krumm, the oldest woman in the draw at 40,
defeated Katie O’Brien, a 25-year-old Briton. The Japanese
player first appeared at Wimbledon in 1989, when 34 of the women
in this year’s tournament hadn’t been born.  In the last match of the day, Gimeno-Traver used his
forehand to take control of the first set with Murray, who had
never lost his opening-round match at Wimbledon. With the roof
closed and no wind or weather to deal with, the Spaniard ran
around his backhand to hit winners.  After getting a break in the second set, Murray was able to
run away with the match, not losing a game in the third or
fourth sets after Gimeno-Traver got treatment for a knee injury.  ‘Good Tennis’  “I played some really good tennis in the third and fourth
sets,” Murray told reporters. “I just sort of changed the way
I was playing and the way I was returning.”  Last year’s runner-up, sixth seed Tomas Berdych, defeated
Italy’s Filippo Volandri 6-2, 6-2, 6-1. The Czech Republic
native beat Federer and Djokovic to reach the 2010 final.  American Mardy Fish, seeded 10th, beat Marcel Granollers of
 Spain  7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-5), 6-4. France’s No. 9 seed Gael Monfils and 14th-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland
advanced in straight sets, while Germany’s Rainer Schuettler
upset 30th seeded Thomaz Bellucci of  Brazil  in three sets.  Canada’s Milos Raonic, who has risen to 26th on the men’s
ATP World Tour from 156th at the start of the year, beat
France’s Marc Gicquel 6-3, 7-6 (7-3), 6-3. Raonic, 21, was
making his Wimbledon debut.  “The tournament’s been around for 125 years, and I think
that’s something pretty special,” Raonic told reporters. “The
best players find a way to win here.”  Play on the outside courts today is scheduled to begin at
12 p.m. local time. Centre Court action starts an hour later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  