-- 
Vienna’s Leopold Settles With Heir on Nazi-Looted Paintings

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-06-20T08:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/vienna-s-leopold-settles-with-heir-on-nazi-looted-paintings.html
Vienna’s  Leopold Museum  said it paid
an undisclosed amount to keep two paintings by Anton Romako in a
settlement with the heir of a Jewish construction entrepreneur
whose art collection was seized by the Gestapo before 1941.  The two paintings, “Greillenstein Castle” and “Countess
Kuefstein at the Easel,” were owned by Moriz Eisler, an art
collector who lived in Brno, now in the  Czech Republic . He was
arrested, together with two brothers, in 1939 for “lack of
respect for the Fuehrer.” He survived Auschwitz and returned to
his Brno home in 1945 to rebuild his company.  “Although these works belong without doubt to the Leopold
Museum Foundation, they were taken from Moriz Eisler and not
returned, so it was important to the  Leopold Museum  to find a
settlement,” the museum said in a news release handed today to
reporters in Vienna.  The Leopold Museum was founded by Rudolf Leopold, an
ophthalmologist and art collector who died last year at the age
of 85. During his lifetime, the museum argued that as a private
foundation, it was not subject to  Austria ’s  restitution law ,
which only applies to federal government museums.  After Leopold’s death, his son Diethard Leopold promised to
settle all outstanding claims for Nazi-looted art in the
museum’s collection as quickly as possible.  Romako was a 19th-century Austrian painter of portraits and
landscapes whose works influenced later artists including Oskar Kokoschka.  Good Faith  “We understand that this was difficult because Professor
Leopold had acquired the paintings in good faith,” said Filip
Marco, the lawyer representing the four heirs, all of whom live
in the Czech Republic. “We are extremely pleased,” Marco told
reporters in Vienna.  The Leopold Museum is selling an Egon Schiele painting,
“Houses With Colorful Washing,” at a  Sotheby’s (BID)  auction on June
22. The cityscape is expected to fetch as much as $50 million, a
record for the artist.  The revenue will help to pay for “Wally,” a portrait by
Schiele that was the subject of a decades-long restitution
dispute. In July last year, the museum agreed to pay $19 million
to the heirs of the Jewish art dealer Lea Bondi Jaray to keep
the portrait, which was stolen by the Nazis in the 1930s.  Last month, the Leopold Museum agreed to pay $5 million to
the granddaughter of Jenny Steiner, a Jewish silk-factory owner,
to keep in its collection “Houses by the Sea,” another Schiele
painting that was stolen by the Nazis.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 