-- 
Wal-Mart Ruling Hurts Bias Cases, May Spare Other Class Actions

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-20T20:29:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/wal-mart-ruling-hurts-bias-cases-spares-others.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court ’s rejection
of a nationwide class action for female workers suing  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  doesn’t foreclose the ability of employees to bring
similar suits for many other types of claims against companies.  The ruling “is adding a higher burden” of proof before an
employment discrimination class action can be certified, said
Cyrus Mehri, a Washington lawyer who represents workers in such
cases. Plaintiffs lawyers said other class actions against
companies, including those alleging bias over a written company
policy, product liability for items such as defective medicines
or claims against banks for illegal fees, may not be affected.  “To get a class certified, there will have to be a closer
link between cause and effect,” said Mehri, who recently won a
$32 million settlement in a gender bias lawsuit against  Wells
Fargo & Co . “In the employment area, it’s a steeper climb for
plaintiffs.”  Class certification allows workers to pursue their claims
as a group, pooling resources and putting greater pressure on
defendants to settle. Companies often seek to avoid classes,
instead attempting to fight employees one-by-one, forcing them
to use their own financial resources to litigate.  The Supreme Court today said lawyers for women suing
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart failed to point to a common
corporate policy that led to gender discrimination at thousands
of its U.S. stores. The court said the women couldn’t pursue
their claims in a nationwide class action, or group suit, because 
they hadn’t shown a sufficient connection between their claims.  ‘No Convincing Proof’  “Because respondents provide no convincing proof of a
companywide discriminatory pay and promotion policy, we have
concluded that they have not established the existence of any
common question,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  wrote for the
majority, reversing a lower court ruling. Use of statistical and
anecdotal evidence to show managers discriminated and exercised
these decisions in a common way fell “well short,” he said.  The ruling limits the ability of plaintiffs’ lawyers to win
multimillion dollar damages through a single lawsuit,
particularly against employers. Units of Cigna Corp., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Bayer AG, Toshiba Corp., Publicis Group SA,
Deere & Co. and Costco Wholesale Corp. all face gender
discrimination complaints that seek class-action status.  More than 20 companies supported Wal-Mart at the Supreme
Court, including  Intel Corp ., Altria Group Inc., Bank of America
Corp., Microsoft Corp. and General Electric Co.  Pattern of Discrimination  The lawsuit, filed in 2001, claimed Wal-Mart engaged in a
pattern of discrimination against women in pay and promotions
nationwide and sought to cover every woman who worked at the
company’s stores from 1998 onward.  The court “reversed about 40 years of jurisprudence,”
said Joseph Sellers, attorney for the women suing Wal-Mart. The
decision forces a consideration of the merits of a claim at the
class certification stage, contrary to prior practice, Sellers
said at a press conference today.  Sellers and co-counsel  Brad Seligman  said the lawyers would
be pursuing individual actions against the company and may
pursue smaller class actions.  “There are a number of options still available,” he said.
“None of them are as efficient” as a nationwide class action.
“Wal-Mart may regret the day” it sought a rejection of class
certification, he said.  “The case is not over,” said Seligman. “Wal-Mart is not
off the hook.”  Women Nationwide  About 12,000 women nationwide have contacted the lawyers
suing Wal-Mart to join the case, Seligman said. The company said
in a statement that the ruling “effectively ends this class-
action lawsuit.”  “The plaintiffs’ claims were worlds away from showing a
companywide pay and promotion policy,” Wal-Mart said.  Mehri said the justices added a new hurdle for plaintiffs.  Previously, employment lawyers seeking to have a class
action allowed “had to show that there is a common issue of
fact,” the lawyer said. Today’s decision would require lawyers
to “show that the common issue predominates,” he said.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers would have to provide more evidence
before seeking a class certification decision, he said.  “There has to be greater proof of causation, so you see
the disparities,” Mehri said in an interview.  The decision may have limited effect on some other pending
bias class actions, said Seligman. He is also representing women
suing Issaquah, Washington-based Costco over gender
discrimination. “Costco was a much narrower case,” covering
two types of managers who were affected by decisions made above
the store level, he said.  ‘Very Specifically’  The justices “focus very specifically on our case,”
Seligman said of today’s ruling. “It’s not at all clear on the
impact” on these other cases, he said.  Today’s decision may change how plaintiffs’ lawyers pursue
claims, Mehri said. While the decision doesn’t affect cases
already settled, it may alter a lawsuit he’s pursuing claiming
gender bias against Ruth’s Chris Steak House, Mehri said.  “We will be informed by the Supreme Court on how we shape
our filings,” he said. “It doesn’t stop the case by any
stretch.”  The decision isn’t likely to affect other class actions
alleging other types corporate wrongdoing, said attorney Michael
Donovan, who represents Wal-Mart workers in  Pennsylvania  suing
the company over wage-and-hour claims.  “I don’t think it has that much significance for most
general class actions,” Donovan said in an interview. “It was
pretty much tied to whether the plaintiffs could prove a
companywide policy or practice of discrimination.”  Manager Discretion  The plaintiffs claimed in the Wal-Mart case that allowing
individual store managers’ discretion to make their own
decisions may provide the basis of a disparate impact theory --
that women were affected more adversely than men by the policy.  While the judges found that such a theory can be pursued in
a class action lawsuit, that the claim can “exist does not lead
to the conclusion that every employee in a company using a
system of discretion has such a claim in common,” Scalia wrote.  The workers’ lawyers “have identified no ‘specific
employment practice’ -- much less one that ties all their 1.5
million claims together,” Scalia wrote. “Merely showing that
Wal-Mart’s policy of discretion has produced an overall sex-
based disparity does not suffice.”  Donovan said this aspect of the ruling “makes it difficult
for employees to sue for corporate culture claims where there
isn’t any direct evidence but for the impact.” Lawsuits outside
the employment arena often have business records plaintiffs can
use to prove claims, he noted.  Preclude Class Actions  The Supreme Court decision would only preclude class
actions in lawsuits where there wasn’t some sort of test or
policy or uniform condition, or business records pointing to
those items, Donovan said.  “There’s not a whole lot of cases like that out there.”  The court ruling makes pursuit of discrimination class
actions “very difficult,” said  David Sanford , a  Washington 
lawyer who won a $175 million settlement in a gender bias suit
against Novartis AG.  “It’s not impossible. It hasn’t closed the door, but it’s
made the challenge much harder,” Sanford said in an interview.  “The Supreme Court has articulated a view that if you have
a policy of not discriminating, and if you have a company that’s
big, and you’re a plaintiff suing that company, if you cannot
identify a policy that suggests sex discrimination, then you’re
in trouble,” he said.  Lawyers representing workers may begin filing claims with
subclasses, rather than as companywide actions, he said.  Multiple Bias Suits  Sanford has multiple bias lawsuits seeking class action
status against companies including Philadelphia-based Cigna,
Bayer, Eaton Corp. and Toshiba. All these cases are in “fairly
early stages of litigation,” and motions for class
certification haven’t been filed, he said.  The precise impact of today’s decision on these cases
hasn’t been determined, he said.  “We’re going to have to look at it very carefully,” he
said.  Sanford said he used the same theory of law in his Novartis
case that lawyers for the Wal-Mart plaintiffs used in theirs --
that the company’s policies allowed a disparate impact on pay
and promotions for women.  “That’s a theory that plaintiffs won’t be able to avail
ourselves of going forward,” he said. “We’re going to have to
look at ways to alter our theory.”  Another change that may result from today’s ruling is to
the plaintiffs’ employment bar, Sanford said.  “There aren’t many plaintiffs lawyers who do this work,”
he said. “That number will shrink further.”  The case is  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-00277, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
Greg Stohr in Washington at   gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 