-- 
Wal-Mart Million-Worker Bias Suit Thrown Out by High Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-20T20:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/wal-mart-wins-u-s-supreme-court-gender-discrimination-class-action-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, in a  ruling 
that will mean new limits on nationwide class-action suits,
ruled that  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  can’t be sued for discrimination
on behalf of potentially a million female workers.  The justices, dividing 5-4, said the lawyers pressing the
case failed to point to a common corporate policy that led to
gender discrimination against workers at thousands of Wal-Mart
and Sam’s Club stores across the country.  The workers “provide no convincing proof of a companywide
discriminatory pay and promotion policy,” Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the majority. All nine justices voted to
overturn an appeals court decision that approved the class
action, with four of them saying they would have ordered further
proceedings.  Wal-Mart rose 22 cents to $53.04 at 4 p.m. in trading on
the New York Stock Exchange. The company, based in Bentonville,
Arkansas, said in a statement that the ruling “effectively ends
this class-action lawsuit.”  “As the majority made clear, the plaintiffs’ claims were
worlds away from showing a companywide pay and promotion
policy,” Wal-Mart said.  Limiting Lawsuits  The ruling limits the ability of plaintiffs’ lawyers to win
multimillion-dollar damages through a single lawsuit,
particularly against employers. Units of  Cigna Corp. (CI) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Publicis Group SA,
 Deere & Co. (DE)  and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  all face gender
discrimination complaints that seek class-action status.  More than 20 companies supported Wal-Mart at the Supreme
Court, including  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Four justices -- Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan -- said they would have returned the
case to a lower court and let the workers try to press a class
action using a different legal theory.  The women’s lawyers said they would seek to move ahead with
claims on behalf of aggrieved workers, either as individuals or
as part of smaller groups.  Case Not Over  “This case is not over,” said  Brad Seligman , one of two
lead attorneys for the workers. “Wal-Mart is not off the hook.
There are thousands of claims of discrimination that remain to
be filed.”  The case was one of the most closely watched  Supreme Court 
business disputes in years, in part because the justices hadn’t
looked at the standards for certifying a class-action suit in 12
years. Billions of dollars were at stake for Wal-Mart, the
world’s largest private employer.  “This is without a doubt the most important class-action
case in more than a decade,” Robin Conrad, who runs the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce’s litigation unit, said in a statement.
“Our economy would be better served if businesses could spend
more resources creating jobs and fewer resources fighting
frivolous litigation.”  Women’s advocates called on Congress to enact new
legislation protecting the rights of female workers.  “With this decision, the Supreme Court has assisted Wal-
Mart in its efforts to systematically dole out promotions and
pay raises on the basis of sex,” said Terry O’Neill, president
of the National Organization for Women.  White House Reaction  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  declined to comment on the
case, while saying President Barack Obama supports proposed
federal legislation to ensure pay equity for women in the
workplace.  Filed in 2001, the suit aimed to cover every woman who
worked at the retailer’s Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club’s stores at any
point since December 1998, including those not hired until years
after the suit was filed.  The women pressing the suit claimed they and colleagues
across the country were victimized by Wal-Mart’s practice of
letting local managers make subjective decisions about pay and
promotions. More than 100 Wal-Mart employees filed sworn
 statements  saying they were paid less and given fewer
opportunities for promotion than male colleagues.  Scalia said that neither those anecdotes, nor statistical
evidence that workers said showed a gender-based pay disparity,
was enough to show a common corporate practice.  “Even if every single one of those anecdotes is true, that
would not demonstrate that the entire company operates under a
general policy of discrimination,” Scalia wrote.  Appeals Court Ruling  A federal appeals court had let the suit go forward on
behalf of women who were working at Wal-Mart at the time the
suit was filed.  Ginsburg said she would have resolved the case on narrower
grounds. She said the appeals court should have required the
workers to meet the standards that normally apply to class
actions seeking damages, instead of the looser requirements for
plaintiffs seeking an injunction.  “The plaintiffs’ evidence, including class members’ tales
of their own experiences, suggests that gender bias suffused
Wal-Mart’s company culture,” Ginsburg wrote.  Wal-Mart was represented by Theodore Boutrous Jr. of
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. The lead attorneys for the plaintiffs
are Joseph Sellers of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll and Seligman
of the Impact Fund, which describes itself as a foundation that
handles public interest litigation.  The case is  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-277.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 