-- 
Walter Kwok Says Hong Kong Home Prices Have Peaked, May Drop 15% This Year

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-06-20T09:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/walter-kwok-says-hong-kong-home-prices-have-peaked-may-drop-15-this-year.html
Hong Kong property prices may fall
as much as 15 percent by the end of the year, said  Walter Kwok ,
former chairman of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s
biggest developer by market value.  Lukewarm demand at an auction on June 9 for a parcel of
land near the Peak district, about a 10-minute drive from the
Central business district, will lead to a softening of prices of
finished properties, said Kwok in an interview in the western
Chinese city of Chongqing on June 18.  “I wouldn’t be surprised they will fall 10 to 15
percent,” Kwok said. “We have already seen the peak.”  Government officials including Chief Executive Donald Tsang
have warned of an asset bubble in the Chinese city, where  home
prices  have surged more than 70 percent since the beginning of
2009. In the most recent measures to curb prices, announced on
June 10, the government raised up-front payments for properties
costing more than HK$6 million ($770,000) and required borrowers
whose income is primarily from outside  Hong Kong  to deposit an
extra 10 percent when they buy properties unless they can
demonstrate a “close connection” to the city.  The government will add more than 20,000 homes this year
and may offer more land for residential projects, Tsang said in
an interview in  Melbourne  on June 17.  Prices may drop 10 percent to 20 percent in 2012 and a
further 10 percent in 2013 on rising interest rates, Andrew Lawrence, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , said in
a June 7 Bloomberg Television interview.  Property Shares Fall  The Hang Seng Property Index, which includes Sun Hung Kai,
has declined 12 percent this year, while the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  is down 6.2 percent. Sun Hung Kai fell 16 percent this
year and dropped 2 percent to HK$108.90 to close at its lowest
since September.  Rising prices should not be entirely blamed on mainland
Chinese, and the measures making it more difficult for non-
residents to buy property will not solve the problem, Kwok said.  “Hong Kong should not give the impression to the outside
world that it practices discrimination; this is open door,” he
said.  Mainland Chinese buyers of property in Hong Kong are
exacerbating the territory’s shortage of land for development,
Tsang said on June 17. Mainland China doesn’t include Hong Kong,
Macau or  Taiwan .  ‘Reasonable’ Level  Buyers from other Chinese cities account for 20 percent to
30 percent of sales, a level Kwok called “reasonable,”
especially when compared with  London  and  New York  where foreign
ownership is larger.  Overseas buyers and those from other Chinese cities
accounted for about a third of luxury home transactions in Hong
Kong in the first quarter of this year, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held realtor.
Savills Plc ranks Hong Kong as the most expensive place to buy
an apartment.
     Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing  paid about HK$26,763 per square foot, according to
Centaline. That is considerably less than the HK$35,000 per
square foot the market expected, said Kwok.  Kwok is the eldest son of Sun Hung Kai’s late co-founder
Kwok Tak Seng. He was stripped of the company’s chairmanship in
2008 by brothers Thomas and  Raymond Kwok , who replaced him with
their mother. Walter remains a non-executive director of the
company. The family’s combined wealth of $20 billion is second
on Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong Kong richest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  