-- 
WaMu Trust Preferred Holders Seek to Join Probe of Hedge Funds’ Trading

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-20T22:31:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/wamu-trust-preferred-holders-seek-to-join-probe-of-hedge-funds.html
A group of  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) ’s
creditors, including Black Horse Capital, is seeking to join a
probe of four hedge funds accused of using confidential data to
trade in the debt of the bankrupt former  bank holding company .  Lonestar Capital Management LLC, Greywolf Capital
Management LP and other holders of WaMu’s trust preferred
securities asked the judge overseeing the company’s bankruptcy
to force the four hedge funds to turn over trading-related
documents. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath has already agreed
to let a committee representing common and preferred
shareholders question the hedge funds under oath and request
documents.  Common shareholders and the trust preferred holders are
among the last opponents to WaMu’s $7 billion reorganization
proposal, which was crafted with help from the four hedge funds,
Centerbridge Partners LP, Appaloosa Management LP, Owl Creek
Asset Management LP and Aurelius Capital Management.  Aurelius called the probe “a shakedown operation” in a
June 17 court filing and vowed not to participate in any
settlement talks between shareholders and the other hedge funds.  “Aurelius prizes its integrity and reputation,” the hedge
fund said in court papers. “It will not allow its reputation to
be so sullied, it will never settle to appease such abhorrent
tactics, and it has never supported the settlement with the
Equity Committee recently under discussion.”  An agreement to end the investigation fell apart last week
and the shareholder committee renewed its plans to question the
hedge funds. The committee has already questioned Aurelius
Managing Director Dan Gropper, according to a court filing.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
WaMu owned Washington Mutual Bank, the biggest bank to fail in
U.S. history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  Walrath will hold a hearing on July 13 to decide whether to
approve WaMu’s current reorganization plan, which pays senior
noteholders, including the four hedge funds, in full and gives
shareholders nothing.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 