-- 
Facebook, Primary Global, WaMu, Credit Suisse in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-20T12:36:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/wamu-primary-global-j-j-airgas-credit-suisse-imperial-in-court-news.html
Paul Ceglia , who says that a 2003
contract entitles him to half the  Facebook  Inc. holdings of the
company’s co-founder and chief executive officer,  Mark
Zuckerberg , showed no deception on a polygraph test about his
claim last week, his lawyers said in a court filing.  The June 11 test was disclosed in papers filed June 17 by
Ceglia’s lawyers opposing Facebook’s request that it be allowed
to immediately inspect the original of the alleged contract and
the e-mails Ceglia claims he exchanged with Zuckerberg in 2003
and 2004, before being required to turn over any evidence to
Ceglia.  “I respectfully suggest that Mark Zuckerberg undergo the
same polygraph examination I have in order to expose who is
really telling the truth,” Ceglia, 37, said in a sworn
statement submitted June 17 to the federal court in Buffalo,  New
York , where his suit is pending.  In the filing, Ceglia’s lawyers asked the court to order
both sides to turn over evidence to determine whether the
contract is genuine, including all of Zuckerberg’s documents, e-
mails and instant messages relating to Facebook before July 30,
2004. Ceglia asked the court to order both sides into mediation.  Ceglia hasn’t shown the original contract publicly or to
representatives of Facebook. The two-page document is in a bank
safe-deposit box in Hornell, New York, according to Ceglia’s
lawyers.  Ceglia claims he is entitled to a multibillion-dollar stake
in Facebook. The closely held company may be worth $69.3
billion, according to Sharespost.com, an online marketplace for
investments in companies that aren’t publicly traded. Palo Alto,
California-based Facebook runs the world’s biggest social-
networking site.  In its June 2 request, Facebook called Ceglia “a hustler”
who has engaged in various swindles over the past several years.
The company said Ceglia’s claimed contract is “an amateurish
forgery” and the e-mails fabricated. Facebook argued it needed
to examine the documents immediately to put an end to a fraud on
the court.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  SIPC Opposes Bid by Mets Owners to Move Madoff Dispute  The Securities Investor Protection Corp. opposed an effort
by the owners of the New York Mets to move a $1 billion lawsuit
filed by the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s defunct firm
to federal district court from bankruptcy court.  In a filing June 17 in federal court in Manhattan, the SIPC
backed the trustee,  Irving Picard , who has asked the district
court to leave the case to the bankruptcy court. The SIPC argued
that the bankruptcy court is better equipped to consider the
case and that the Mets owners and a group of related parties
willingly submitted themselves to bankruptcy-court jurisdiction
by filing claims in that forum.  “The motion is an unwarranted attempt to remove to this
court matters within the bankruptcy court’s ‘core’ jurisdiction
and competence,” the SIPC argued.  Picard sued Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, owners of the Mets,
seeking the return of $300 million in what he called
“fictitious” profit and $700 million in principal taken out of
the Madoff firm by Wilpon’s Sterling Equities Inc. and its
partners. The Sterling-related parties are trying to have the
suit moved to district court and to block Picard’s attempts to
collect from them.  Picard and the SIPC claim the Sterling defendants were so
dependent on the money they made from Madoff that they turned a
blind eye to indications he was running a fraud. The Mets owners
claim they were innocent victims of Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Debit-Card Swipe-Fee Cap ‘Not Traditional,’ Bank Lawyer Says  A planned cap on the debit-card swipe fees charged to
merchants by the biggest U.S. banks is “discriminatory,” a
lawyer for one of the affected banks told a U.S. appeals court
panel.  Timothy D. Kelly, a lawyer for TCF National Bank, told the
St. Louis-based court June 16 that it should reverse a trial
judge’s decision denying the bank’s bid to block the cap while
the lender challenges its legality. The provision is scheduled
to take effect July 21.  The limit on per-transaction charges is part of the Dodd-
Frank financial overhaul. Banks with more than $10 billion in
assets won’t be allowed to collect more than the cost of
providing the service, making profit impossible, TCF claims.  “Below-cost rates and widespread exemptions are not
traditional rate regulation,” Kelly told the three-judge panel.  TCF, a Sioux Falls, South Dakota, unit of  TCF Financial
Corp. (TCB) , sued last year seeking to invalidate the measure, arguing
it violates the U.S. Constitution’s promises that the government
won’t confiscate private property without just compensation and
of equal protection under the law.  The federal government has “unlimited discretion” to
regulate the U.S. banking industry, Justice Department lawyer
Lindsey Powell told the judges, in defense of the regulation.  The as-yet-unannounced rate is to be fixed by the Federal
Reserve. It’s part of a regulatory program intended “to restore
to reasonable levels” fees charged to merchants and, through
them, to consumers, attorneys for the government argued in
appellate filings.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is the lead
defendant in the TCF suit, which also names Vice Chairman Janet
Yellen, four Fed governors and Acting Comptroller of the
Currency John Walsh.  The U.S. central bank in December said it was considering
fixing the rate, required by law to be “reasonable and
proportional” to the cost of providing the service, at 12 cents
per swipe. The Fed hasn’t said when the rate will be announced,
Susan Stawick, a spokeswoman, said June 13.  The lower-court case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-
cv-04149, U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota (Sioux
Falls). The appeal is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 11-1805,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (St. Louis).  For more, click here.  Jiau Jury Begins Deliberations on Insider-Trading Charges  Jurors began deliberations on insider-trading charges
against Winifred Jiau, a former  Primary Global Research LLC 
consultant accused of illegally passing nonpublic information to
hedge fund managers.  Prosecutors said Jiau used friends at  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , then sold the financial data to
Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai
Capital Management LP. Freeman testified at Jiau’s trial that he
and Barai paid $10,000 a month for exclusive access to Jiau.  Jiau, 43, of Fremont, California, is charged in federal
court in New York with securities fraud and conspiracy to commit
securities fraud. If convicted, she faces as long as 25 years in
prison.  She denies the charges. Her lawyer, Joanna Hendon, argued
to the jury in closing statements June 16 that while her client
did give the men information, the information wasn’t
“material,” meaning it wasn’t something a reasonable investor
would consider important in trading and wouldn’t have a bearing
on the stock price.  Freeman and Jason Pflaum, an analyst who worked for Barai,
both are cooperating with the U.S. and testified at the trial. A
third man who admitted being part of the scheme, Sonny Nguyen, a
former Nvidia financial analyst who was a friend of Jiau’s,
testified he passed confidential information about Nvidia’s
quarterly earnings once to her in August 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil
complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-WaMu Executives in Settlement Talks With FDIC Over Losses  Former  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief Executive Officer Kerry
Killinger and Chief Operating Officer Stephen Rotella are in
lawsuit settlement talks with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., according to a court filing.  Lawyers for Killinger, Rotella and David Schneider,
Washington Mutual’s former home-loans president, exchanged term
sheets with FDIC attorneys and are “diligently working to
resolve their remaining disputes,” according to papers filed
yesterday in federal court in Seattle.  “In some instances, the settlement terms must have consent
of certain third parties,” lawyers for both sides said.  In September 2008, regulators seized WaMu, once the
nation’s biggest savings and loan, and sold it to New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion. The FDIC sued the bank
officials in March, claiming they took extreme risks with WaMu’s
home-loans portfolio, causing billions of dollars in losses.  Lawyers for both sides asked the court to extend until July
1 the deadline for the former executives to file their initial
response to the complaint, which also names Killinger’s and
Rotella’s wives as defendants. A final mediation session is
scheduled for June 30, according to court papers.  Bank executives blamed Killinger during hearings before the
U.S. Senate last year for ineffective management and lax lending
standards. Killinger was CEO for 18 years before he was ousted
on Sept. 8, 2008. He told senators last year that his company
became the largest bank failure in U.S. history in part because
it was excluded from a group of financial institutions favored
by U.S. policy makers.  Rotella, who blamed Killinger for failing to institute
stricter lending controls, said in a letter to friends in March
that the FDIC suit was an abuse of power. A copy of the letter
was provided in March to Bloomberg News by Rotella’s spokesman,
Daniel Hilley.  Hilley declined to comment June 17 on any potential
settlement. David Barr, a spokesman for the FDIC in Washington,
also declined to comment on a possible settlement.  Steven Caplow, an attorney for Schneider and the Rotellas,
didn’t return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment. David
Aufhauser, an attorney for the Killingers, also didn’t return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  For more, click here.  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Likely to Get Same Sentence  Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker  Eric Butler  is likely
to receive the same five-year sentence after a federal appeals
court overturned his securities-fraud conviction earlier this
week, a judge said June 17.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York on June 15 overturned
Butler’s securities-fraud conviction, ruling that Brooklyn was
the wrong venue for the trial on the charge. The appeals court
upheld Butler’s conviction on two conspiracy counts.  The appeals panel said that, because of its decision,
Butler will have to be resentenced. In January 2010, U.S.
District Judge Jack B. Weinstein sentenced Butler to five years
in prison on each count, to be served concurrently. He has been
out on bail pending his appeal.  “While the matter is open, it is unlikely that the
sentencing terms on Counts One and Three will be changed from
five years’ imprisonment, concurrent,” Weinstein said in an
order June 17.  Butler and his partner  Julian Tzolov  were accused of
intentionally misleading clients about securities purchased on
their behalf, falsely claiming they were backed by federally
guaranteed student loans.  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to bank deposits or money-market funds, according to
Lynch’s office. Victims’ losses were more than $1.1 billion,
according to the government.  Steven Molo, an attorney representing Butler, didn’t return
a message left at his office seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is U.S. v.
Tzolov, 10-562, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  J&J Wins Trial Over Claims Antibiotic Levaquin Caused Injuries  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  isn’t responsible for a tendon injury
sustained by an 84-year-old man and properly warned of the risks
posed by its antibiotic Levaquin, a Minneapolis jury decided.  Calvin Christensen, who said he ruptured the Achilles
tendon in his right foot after taking the drug while
hospitalized for pneumonia, sued the company and its Ortho-
McNeil Pharmaceutical unit in 2007. Christensen said the
companies downplayed the risks of Levaquin to boost sales of the
drug.  Johnson & Johnson denied any failure to warn and contended
Christensen needed Levaquin to treat the pneumonia. The
Minneapolis federal court jury rejected his claim June 17.  “The jury took a good, hard look at all the evidence and
correctly concluded that Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. acted responsibly and properly in disclosing the risks
associated with this effective and life-saving medicine,” James
B. Irwin, a lawyer for the company, said in a statement after
the verdict.  Christensen’s case is the second of more than 2,500 pending
claims in U.S. courts to go to trial over allegations that
Levaquin caused tendon damage in patients and that the company
failed to adequately disclose the risk. J&J and Ortho-McNeil
lost the first trial when a separate Minneapolis jury awarded
$1.8 million to an 82-year-old man who ruptured both Achilles
tendons.  Ron Goldser, a lawyer for the plaintiff, said in a brief
interview that his side is “disappointed.”  The lawsuit is Christensen v. Johnson & Johnson, 07-03960,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For more, click here.  Colonial Bank’s Kissick Sentenced in $2.9 Billion Fraud  A former executive of the defunct Colonial Bank, Catherine
Kissick, was sentenced to eight years in prison for her role in
a $2.9 billion fraud involving Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp.  Kissick, 50, whose role in the fraud contributed to the
failures of Colonial Bank and Taylor, Bean, was sentenced June
17 by U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema in Alexandria,
Virginia, the U.S. attorney for the district said in an e-mailed
statement.  Kissick, who headed the bank’s mortgage warehouse lending
division, pleaded guilty in March to one count of conspiracy to
commit bank, wire and securities fraud. Co-conspirator Teresa
Kelly, a former operations supervisor at Colonial who reported
to Kissick, was also sentenced June 17 to three months in
prison, prosecutors said.  Lee Farkas, the ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean, on April 20
was found guilty of 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and
securities fraud in what prosecutors said at the time was an
almost $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage assets.  Colonial Bank was one of the 25 largest banks in the U.S.
and Taylor Bean was one of the largest closely held mortgage
lending companies in 2009, according to the statement.  Brooklyn Money Manager Gets 20 Years for Ponzi Scheme  Philip Barry, a money manager from Brooklyn, New York, was
sentenced to 20 years in prison for running a $45 million Ponzi
scheme that defrauded hundreds of investors over three decades.  Barry, 53, was sentenced June 17 by U.S. District Judge
Raymond J. Dearie in Brooklyn. After a one-week trial in
November, a jury convicted him on all the counts he faced -- one
of securities fraud and 33 of mail fraud.  “I hurt a lot of people,” Barry told Dearie before being
sentenced. “I do not wish to hide how bad it was.”  Barry, a resident of the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn,
began accepting money in 1978 from investors, guaranteeing
fictional annual profits, according to prosecutors in the office
of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch. Instead, he used new investors’
money to pay earlier ones, prosecutors said. His fraud is
believed to be the longest-lasting Ponzi scheme in U.S. history,
they said.  In a separate action, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said Barry diverted some of the investor money to a
mail-order pornography business. In April, the SEC asked the
court to dismiss a libel suit Barry brought over the accusation.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Barry, 09-cr-0833, the SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Barry, 09-cv-3860,
and Barry’s suit against the SEC is Barry v. SEC, 10-cv-4071,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Imperial Tobacco Says Court Dismisses Vending-Machine Appeal  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , the maker of Davidoff
cigarettes, said one of its units lost an appeal to block a U.K.
government ban on sales of tobacco from vending machines.  The Court of Appeal in London upheld June 17 a December
ruling rejecting the challenge to parts of the U.K. Health Act
2009, which will ban such sales beginning Oct. 1, Imperial said
June 17 in a statement.  “We will be asking the court for permission to appeal the
decision to the Supreme Court,” Imperial said in the statement.
“If permission to appeal is granted, we have also asked the
court to delay implementation of the vending ban until the
appeal has been decided.”  The loss for Bristol, England-based Imperial’s Sinclair
Collis unit comes as tobacco companies seek to offset declining
demand by increasing prices and fighting new regulations. In
April 2010, Imperial and competitor  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) 
joined retailers seeking court review of a government ban on
stores displaying cigarettes, cigars, pipes and rolling tobacco.  Atrium Cuts Ties With Meinl in Billion-Euro Legal Settlement  Atrium European Real Estate Ltd. (ATRS) , a developer of shopping
malls in eastern Europe, and former affiliate Meinl Bank AG
agreed to settle multibillion euro lawsuits against each other.  Atrium, based on the Jersey Channel Island, and Meinl Bank
agreed to drop all claims and withdraw all lawsuits against each
other, according to separate statements by the two companies.
They will also sever all remaining business ties, including
Meinl’s role as trustee for several of Atrium’s outstanding
bonds. No payments will be made as part of the agreement, they
said.  “This settlement will enable Atrium to focus on a forward-
looking strategy rather than historical issues,” Atrium said in
its statement. “Consistent with the position that each party
has taken in cases in which it is a defendant, each party denies
that it has engaged in any wrongdoing.”  “This is good news for Atrium,” said Igor Muller, an
analyst at Wood & Co. in Prague. “It takes away all potential
risks associated with the past of the company and eliminates the
pressure that was put on the management.”  Israeli property developer  Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GLOB)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  took control of Atrium in 2008 after the company, then
called Meinl European Land, was investigated for using 1.8
billion euros ($2.6 billion) in 2007 to buy back shares without
informing investors in advance. Julius Meinl V, who heads Meinl
Bank, was arrested in 2009 over the allegations and released
after posting 100 million euros bail.  Last August, Atrium sued Meinl Bank, Julius Meinl and eight
other people and companies for 2.1 billion euros in London.
Meinl Bank countersued Atrium’s management and shareholders
Gazit and Citigroup in November for more than 1.2 billion euros.  Julius Meinl and the other Meinl executives sued by Atrium,
as well as Atrium’s management and shareholders Gazit and
Citigroup are all part of the settlement, the companies said in
their statements.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Airgas Settles Suit Against Cravath Swaine Over Air Products  Airgas Inc. (ARG)  said it settled a lawsuit accusing Cravath
Swaine & Moore LLP of having access to confidential information
while helping rival  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  prepare a
failed takeover offer.  Airgas, the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based distributor of
industrial gases, sued Cravath in state court in Philadelphia in
February 2010 claiming the New York firm violated state ethics
rules prohibiting conflicts of interest. The case, which sought
to bar Cravath from representing Air Products, was later
transferred to federal court.  “The lawsuit has been dismissed by agreement of the
parties,” Airgas said June 17 in a statement. “The terms of
the settlement are confidential.”  Cravath served as Airgas’s legal counsel in at least 25
financing deals from 2001 to October 2009 when it notified the
company it could no longer continue in that role because of a
conflict.  Air Products pursued Airgas beginning in February 2010
before dropping its $5.9 billion hostile bid a year later after
a Delaware judge upheld the company’s anti-takeover defense.  Robin Shanzer, a spokeswoman for Cravath, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  The case is Airgas Inc. v. Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, 10-
612, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  U.S. Lawyer Fighting Boeing Says He Regrets Causing Job Fears  The U.S. lawyer who filed a labor complaint against  Boeing
Co. (BA)  over a nonunion plant the aerospace company opened in South
Carolina said he regrets the fear the dispute has caused workers
there about their jobs.  “These are difficult economic times, and I truly regret
the anxiety this case has caused them and their families,” Lafe
Solomon, acting general counsel of the National Labor Relations
Board, said in testimony at a congressional hearing June 17 in
the state. “The issuance of the complaint was not intended to
harm the workers of South Carolina but rather to protect the
rights of workers.”  The NLRB said in the April 20 complaint that Boeing built
the nonunion assembly plant for its new 787 Dreamliner in North
Charleston, South Carolina, in retaliation for work stoppages by
unions at its Seattle-area production hub. Republicans who lead
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee called the
June 17 hearing in North Charleston to examine what they called
the NLRB’s “unionization through regulation.”  Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company, should be
required to build an additional 787 assembly line in Washington
state as a remedy, according to Solomon. A hearing on the
complaint began June 14 in Seattle before an administrative law
judge, who urged the Chicago-based company and the Machinists
union to settle their differences.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  Bear Stearns Loan Suit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  A lawsuit by Syncora Guarantee Inc. alleging that J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC, formerly Bear, Stearns & Co., made false
and misleading statements about loans pooled into a 2007
mortgage-backed securities transaction was the most-read
litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  The transaction, known as GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Trust
2007-HE1 and insured by Syncora, resulted in more than $168.6
million in unreimbursed insurance claims after about two years,
according to the complaint, filed June 6 in New York state
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The case is Syncora Guarantee Inc. v. J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC, 651566/2011, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  