-- 
Woodside’s Decline in Sydney May Rekindle BHP Interest, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-06-20T07:57:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/woodside-decline-may-rekindle-bhp-interest-credit-suisse-says.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  may become a
more attractive target for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  if its shares
remain “depressed” in Sydney after announcing a cost increase
and delay at its Pluto gas venture, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Woodside, whose shares have dropped 13 percent since Peter Coleman took over as chief executive officer on May 30, could
give BHP a platform to become “a major player” in supplying
liquefied natural gas supply to  Asia , Credit Suisse analysts
including Sandra McCullagh in Sydney wrote in a report.  Australia ’s second-largest oil producer has been the
subject of takeover speculation since its biggest shareholder,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , sold part of its stake in the company in
2010. Woodside fell 3.8 percent to A$40.80 June 17, the most in
more than seven months, after saying its Pluto LNG project would
start six months later than expected and cost 6.4 percent more.  “Woodside may have been too expensive for BHP once a
takeover premium is included, but if Woodside’s share price
stays in the low A$40s, BHP’s interest in Woodside may be
renewed,” the Credit Suisse analysts said in the report today.  Laura Hammer, a Woodside spokeswoman in Perth, declined in
an e-mail to comment. Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for the
world’s largest mining company in  Melbourne , declined to comment.  Woodside dropped 2.2 percent to A$39.91 at the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney, compared with a 0.7 percent decline for the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. BHP fell 1.4 percent to A$41.36.  Pluto is set to cost A$14.9 billion ($15.8 billion),
compared with a prior estimate of A$14 billion. First cargoes of
LNG are due in March 2012, according to Woodside, which had
earlier slated shipments for September. The company, Australia’s
largest oil and gas producer after BHP, owns 90 percent of Pluto.
Tokyo Gas Co. and Kansai Electric Power Co. each has 5 percent.  Expanding Pluto  Woodside may delay an investment decision to expand Pluto
until 2012 and defer an approval of its proposed Browse venture
from a current mid-2012 target,  John Hirjee , a Melbourne-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a report dated June 17.  The operator of the North West Shelf LNG project is
planning the Browse and Sunrise LNG developments after Pluto to
tap rising Asian demand.  Coleman, appointed on May 12 to replace  Don Voelte , was
previously vice president of Exxon Mobil Development Co., where
he led work on more than $40 billion of projects worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 