-- 
Yen Heading to New High as No Intervention in Sight With Fed Rates on Hold

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-06-20T18:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/yen-heading-to-new-high-as-no-intervention-in-sight-with-fed-rates-on-hold.html
As the yen rallies to levels that
prompted the Group of Seven to weaken the currency in March,
traders are forecasting more gains, even as  Japan  falls into its
third recession in a decade.  Three months ago, the yen soared as much as 8.5 percent in
less than a week on speculation insurance companies would
repatriate assets to pay for damages from the record earthquake
and tsunami in northeastern Japan that triggered the worst
nuclear disaster in 25 years. Now, politicians and central
bankers are focused more on the slowdown in U.S. growth,
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and uprisings in the Middle East.  “The situation around the March intervention was very
different,” said Paul Robinson, the global head of foreign-
exchange research at  Barclays Capital  in London, the world’s
second-largest currency trader according to Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc. “Uncertainty was just incredibly
high and the speed of the yen’s move was the really worrying
aspect from the authorities’ perspective.”  The yen strengthened 0.34 percent last week to 80.05 per
dollar, and rose 0.62 percent to 114.52 per euro. The currency
traded at 80.22 per dollar and 114.81 per euro as of 2:25 p.m.
in  New York  today. Analysts have become less pessimistic on the
currency, in part because the recent appreciation has been
gradual. They predict it will end the year at 86 to the dollar,
according to the median of 45 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
In May, they forecast 88.  Coordinated Action  In the aftermath of the record magnitude-9.0 earthquake and
tsunami, the yen appreciated to 76.25 per dollar on March 17
from 82.98 on March 10 as damage estimates climbed to 25
trillion yen ($313 billion).  Europe’s central banks, the  Federal Reserve  and the Bank of
Canada responded by joining with the  Bank of Japan  in selling
yen on March 18 in the first coordinated intervention since they
supported the euro in 2000. The yen fell the most against the
dollar since September, ending at 80.58. By April 6, it had
depreciated to 85.53, the weakest level in about seven months.  A weaker currency would help Prime Minister Naoto Kan lift
the world’s third-largest economy out of recession after the
Cabinet Office said June 9 in  Tokyo  that gross domestic product
shrank 3.5 percent in the first quarter.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Honda Motor Co. have said profits will fall because of the
stronger domestic currency and disruptions caused by the quake.
Both automakers said they may move production out of the
country.  Slower Growth  “There is a lot of concern in Japan about the yen
appreciation at this stage,” Steven Englander, the head of
Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York,
said in an interview. Japanese firms need to rebuild after the
disaster and “the strength of the yen may induce them to move
that spare capacity abroad,” he said.  The yen has rebounded since the coordinated intervention as
economists pare forecasts for global growth. A surplus in
Japan’s current account, the broadest measure of trade, means
the nation doesn’t rely on foreign capital to finance a  budget
deficit , making the currency a haven for traders.  The  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington  trimmed its
forecast for growth in the  U.S. economy , the world’s largest,
for the second time in two months on June 17. The IMF said it
expects the U.S. to expand 2.5 percent this year and 2.7 percent
in 2012, down from the 2.8 percent and 2.9 percent projected in
April. It pared the global forecast to 4.3 percent from 4.4
percent two months ago.  Fed Outlook  Futures traded on the Chicago Board of Exchange indicated
in January that Fed policy makers led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke would raise the target rate for overnight loans between
banks from a range of zero to 0.25 percent in 2011. Now, traders
don’t see an increase until late 2012 at the earliest.  Besides slower economic growth, the risk of a default in
 Greece , where leaders are in talks to restructure the nation’s
debt, and  Middle East  unrest have shifted attention from Japan.
Also, inflation-adjusted yields on Japan’s 10-year government
debt make the securities attractive for domestic investors
relative to Treasuries. So-called real yields in Japan are 82
basis points, compared with negative 63 for similar-maturity
Treasuries.  Increasing Yen Demand  FX Concepts LLC, the world’s largest currency-hedge fund,
predicts demand for yen will increase as investors conclude that
the rally in equities and other higher-yielding assets has come
to an end. The exchange rate will likely move to 78 yen per
dollar by July and may reach 75 in the fourth quarter, the firm
founded by John Taylor predicts.  Futures traders increased their bets to the most since
March that the yen will gain against the  U.S. dollar , figures
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the yen compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 24,768 on June 14,
the biggest amount since March 22. A long position is a bet an
asset will rise.  While the rest of the world slows, former Bank of Japan
Deputy Governor Toshiro Muto said June 16 in Tokyo that the
nation’s economy will probably expand 3.4 percent in the fiscal
year starting April 2012 as reconstruction projects boost
demand, after contracting a projected 0.3 percent this fiscal
year.  No Confidence Motion  Japan’s deteriorating finances may restrain the yen,
according to Alan Wilde, head of fixed-income and currencies in
 London  at Baring Asset Management, which oversees $52 billion.
The nation’s debt is twice the size of its economy, the most
among developed countries, and its Aa2 credit rating was put on
review for a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service May 31.  Kan survived a no-confidence motion this month after
pledging to resign once the crisis from the meltdowns at the
Fukushima nuclear plant is contained.  “I am a bit puzzled by the strength of the yen as its
fundamentals, from credit ratings to its economic growth
prospects, are not particularly stronger than in any other
developed market,” Wilde said.  The stronger yen is hurting exports, which subtracted a net
0.2 percent from GDP in the first quarter of 2011. Many Japanese
companies based their fiscal year forecasts on the yen trading
at about 80 per dollar.  Toyota, Honda  Toyota, Japan’s largest carmaker, forecast on June 10 that
profit will drop 31 percent in the year ending March 31 after
the earthquake caused disruptions in production and the yen’s
strength cut into sales. An exchange rate below 82 per dollar
may reduce earnings from overseas by as much as 100 billion yen
this year, the Toyota City, Japan-based company said.  Toyota built 45 percent of its cars in Japan last year and
may need to produce more abroad because of the yen’s strength,
Chief Financial Officer Satoshi Ozawa said last month.  Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, forecast a 63
percent decline in full-year profit on June 14. Global vehicle
sales may decline 6 percent this year to 3.3 million, the Tokyo-
based company said in a statement.  The yen’s gradual appreciation is less destabilizing than
the more than 5 percent surge between March 11 and March 17.
One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen exchange rate
has slid to 9.70 from a two-year high of 20.1 on March 17, when
the yen reached its postwar peak of 76.25 per dollar.  ‘Sense of Resignation’  “Business people here won’t likely mount pressure on the
Bank of Japan to do something unless the yen surges alongside a
drop in stocks,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist in
Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest bank. “Downward pressure on U.S. yields and dollar
weakness are pretty strong, and I think there’s a sense of
resignation” in Japan about the yen’s strength, he said.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has gained about 14
percent to 9,378.73 as of 12:47 in Tokyo since falling to its
2011 intraday low of 8,227.63 on March 15. The index is down 8.3
percent this year.  “More people are coming around to the idea of yen strength
because they have given up on the notion of Fed tightening,”
said London-based John Normand, global head of foreign-exchange
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Unless and until volatility
spikes again, intervention is unlikely.”  Risks of a credit rating cut in the U.S. and continued
stimulus by the Fed may drive the yen to 75 against the dollar,
said  Eisuke Sakakibara , a professor at Aoyama Gakuin University
in Tokyo who became known as “Mr. Yen” during his 1997-1999
tenure at the Ministry of Finance.  “Recent comments from Bernanke suggest they will continue
monetary easing, meaning  interest rates  will remain low,”
Sakakibara said. “When you look at Japan, you see more yen-
negative factors because the earthquake and the nuclear issue
are weighing heavily on the economy. But the yen is more likely
to advance due to weak recovery in the U.S. economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  