-- 
Zimbabwe Will Resist Any Special Monitoring of Gem Exports, Minister Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-06-20T18:47:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-20/zimbabwe-will-resist-any-special-monitoring-of-gem-exports-minister-says.html
Zimbabwe  will resist any “special
monitoring” of exports of gems from the Marange diamond fields
beyond the  Kimberley Process  Certification Scheme, said Mines
Minister  Obert Mpofu .  “Marange is fully compliant and we will resist any attempts
to have any special monitoring mechanism for Zimbabwe which is
outside the  Kimberley Process  guidelines,” Mpofu said in an
interview today in Kinshasa.  The process was started in 2003 to monitor the trade in so-
called “ blood diamonds ” that funds conflicts. In 2009,
restrictions were placed on the export of gems from the Marange
field, which is near Zimbabwe’s border with  Mozambique , after a
review mission found human-rights violations and smuggling at
the site. In 2008, more than 200 people were killed when
Zimbabwean security forces took over the concessions, according
to a report by New York-based advocacy group  Human Rights Watch .  Zimbabwe was the world’s ninth-largest producer of diamonds
in 2009, producing $20.4 million from 1 billion carats,
according to the most  recent data  from the Kimberley Process
website. Production from the Marange diamond fields is about 1
million carats a month, Chaim Evan-Zohar, president of industry
consultant Tacy Ltd., said in February, citing government
information.  Politicizing Process  The fields are run by Mbada Mines (Private) Ltd. and
Canadile Miners (Private) Ltd. in ventures with the state-owned
Zimbabwe Mining Development Corp. The southern African nation
will choose a company to further survey the Marange area for
diamonds and other minerals “anytime now,” Mpofu said.  On March 19, Kimberley Process Chairman Mathieu Yamba said
Zimbabwe could begin shipping gems from Marange “with immediate
effect.” The decision was questioned by other members including
Canada, the U.K., and the U.S., who called for a consensus
agreement before shipments resumed.  Those countries are politicizing the Kimberley Process,
said Mpofu, referring to U.S. and European Union sanctions
against Zimbabwe President  Robert Mugabe  and senior members of
his political party.  “This isn’t about the U.S. versus Zimbabwe, this isn’t
about any other country versus Zimbabwe,” said Daniel Baer, the
U.S. deputy assistant secretary for democracy, human rights and
labor. “This is about a problem that was assessed and trying to
figure out a way to move forward so that progress can continue,”
he said in an interview in Kinshasa.  Points of Conflict  Who should monitor Marange’s exports and how it should be
done remain the main points of conflict, Eli Izhakoff, chairman
of the World Diamond Council, said in an interview in Kinshasa,
adding that he hopes exports can continue.  Other African producers have been “rallying around
Zimbabwe,” said Don Hubert, an independent analyst and professor
of public and international relations at the University of
Ottawa who attended the meetings with Partnership Africa  Canada ,
one of the body’s civil-society overseers.  “But it seems ludicrous to me that there wouldn’t be at
least some kind of monitoring, we have it in every other case in
the process where we know there are flagrant problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 