-- 
Singapore’s Growth May Stall Over Next Few Quarters, Central Bank Predicts

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-10-27T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-27/singapore-s-growth-may-stall-over-next-few-quarters-central-bank-predicts.html
Singapore ’s growth will stall over
the next few quarters as the global economy deteriorates, before
a “modest recovery” in the second half of 2012, the central
bank said.  Gross domestic product will probably increase about 5
percent this year and the expansion may slow to below the
economy’s potential rate of 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012, the
 Monetary Authority of Singapore  said in a report today,
reiterating earlier forecasts. The central bank, which said this
month that it will slow currency gains while allowing a modest
and gradual appreciation, said today the stance will anchor
price expectations and support growth.  The monetary authority, which uses the island’s dollar to
manage inflation, joins Asian policy makers in trying to juggle
price pressures with protecting growth amid a faltering global
recovery. Dubbed the region’s most volatile economy by Credit
Suisse Group AG in July, Singapore may experience “larger
swings” in economic expansion, according to the central bank.  “The immediate outlook is clouded by significant
uncertainties,” the central bank said. “The step-up in
uncertainties in recent months has clearly skewed the risks
towards the downside, with the outlook in Singapore very much
dependent on how economic events in the U.S. and  euro zone 
unfold.”  European leaders agreed on a plan to expand a bailout fund
to stem the region’s debt crisis today. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said the fund will be leveraged by four to five times,
and investors have agreed to a voluntary writedown of 50 percent
on Greek debt.  Global Recession  The risk of another global recession triggered by  Europe ’s
crisis and a weakening U.S. economy erased about $10 trillion of
equities worldwide last quarter and prompted officials from
 China  to  Indonesia  to boost fiscal measures or cut  interest
rates . Singapore’s monetary policy stance has been
“recalibrated to support the economy’s transition to a weaker
phase in the business cycle,” the central bank said today.  “Given Singapore’s heavy exposure on global production,
trade and financial flows, the economy will not be able to avoid
the knock-on effects of the deteriorating external environment
and the softening global IT cycle,” it said. “The
manufacturing, transport-hub, financial and tourism services
sectors will be disproportionately affected.”  The monetary authority guides the local dollar against a
basket of currencies within an undisclosed band. It adjusts the
pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the slope,
width and center of the band. The central bank said in April it
would allow further currency strengthening.  Singapore Dollar  Peak  The Singapore dollar “mostly fluctuated” in the upper
half of the exchange-rate policy band after the April policy
review and reached a peak in early September, the central bank
said. It weakened to the lower half of the band last month amid
 risk aversion  because of the European debt crisis, it said.  The currency was the second-worst performer in  Asia  last
month, falling about 8 percent against its U.S. counterpart,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at S$1.2645 a
dollar as of 11:45 a.m. in Singapore today.  Inflation will average about 5 percent this year and 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent in 2012, the central bank reiterated
today.  “Domestic cost pressures will abate as the tightness in
the labor market gradually eases,” it said. “Accommodation
costs and car prices will remain sticky in the near term, given
continuing supply constraints. This will keep headline CPI
inflation high for the rest of 2011 and into the early part of
2012 before falling more significantly in the second half of the
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  