-- M23 Rebels May Sign Peace Accord With Congo in ‘Coming Hours’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-10-19T09:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/m23-rebels-may-sign-peace-accord-with-congo-in-coming-hours-.html
M23 rebels may sign a peace accord
with  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s government in the Ugandan
capital Kampala “in the coming hours,” a rebel leader said.  “The M23 has made major concessions on its political
grievances in order to make possible the signing of the peace
agreement in Kampala in the coming hours,” according to an e-mailed statement from rebel leader Bertrand Bisimwa. It didn’t
provide further details.  The two sides may sign a document today outlining “the
conclusions of discussions,” Congolese Media Minister Lambert Mende said by phone from Kinshasa, Congo’s capital. He declined
to give further details.  M23 rebels deserted Congo’s armed forces last year, saying
the government hadn’t respected a 2009 peace agreement that saw
them integrated into the force. The rebels held the eastern
trading hub of Goma for 11 days in November last year before
withdrawing under international pressure to begin peace talks.  Heavy fighting resumed in August, with a new United Nations
intervention force offering support to Congolese troops. The UN
has about 19,000 peacekeepers in Congo, which has struggled to
prevent conflict in its eastern region that began nearly two
decades ago.  M23’s officer ranks are dominated by ethnic-Tutsis, and
over the years the group has demanded more protection for
minority groups and the return of tens of thousands of Tutsi
refugees living in neighboring  Rwanda . Congo says M23 is backed
by Rwanda, whose government is also dominated by Tutsis. Rwanda
denies the charges.  War Crimes  The UN and advocacy groups including  Human Rights Watch  say
the rebels may have committed  war crimes  by using child
soldiers, raping civilians, and committing arbitrary executions.
They’ve also been involved in mineral smuggling, according to
the UN. Eastern Congo is rich in tin ore, gold, and coltan.  Bosco Ntaganda, who is under indictment by the
 International Criminal Court , led the group until March, when he
turned himself into the U.S. Embassy in Kigali, Rwanda’s
capital. He is now awaiting trial in  The Hague .  On Aug. 30, M23 announced it was withdrawing from the
frontlines after more than a week of bombardment by the army and
UN peacekeepers. UN special envoy, Mary Robinson, a former
president of Ireland, is in Kampala overseeing the peace talks
with representatives from regional organizations including the
International Conference for the Great Lakes Region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  