-- Abbott Extends Emergency Aid to Sydney as Wildfire Losses Mount
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-19T01:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/abbott-extends-emergency-aid-to-sydney-as-wildfire-losses-mount.html
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said federal and state governments will provide emergency
assistance to communities hit by wildfires in the Sydney region,
warning threats remain even as local weather conditions ease.  Food, clothing and accommodation will be available to
families and individuals, and concessional loans for small
businesses and farmers, Abbott and New South Wales state Premier
Barry O’Farrell said. The Rural Fire Service said 193 houses had
been destroyed and another 109 damaged in the Springwood and
Winmalee areas of the Blue Mountains, about 80 kilometers (50
miles) west of Sydney.  “A very high level of threat still continues for many
communities around NSW and emergency services and support
agencies are working around the clock to contain these
threats,” Abbott and O’Farrell said in a statement today.
“While the extreme weather has eased, the threat for many
communities is not yet over.”  Fire crews from around the country have been dispatched to
NSW to fight 19 uncontained blazes among the more than 80
burning. The nation’s bushfire season has started early after
the country’s warmest September on record, and while the haze
that blanketed Sydney’s skyline two days ago has cleared, the
smell of smoke is still in the air today.  Weather ’Pause’  Rural Fire Service Deputy Commissioner Rob Rogers said
current conditions were a “pause” before higher temperatures
and stronger winds forecast for tomorrow.  “It’s just calmed down a little bit and obviously we’re
bracing ourselves for these worsening conditions,” Rogers told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. “What we have is a time
for the crews to anticipate the weather coming ahead and try and
get as much containment as possible and prevent that fire
threatening major population centers when we get worse
weather.”  A 63-year-old man died protecting his home from a fire at
Lake Munmorah on the NSW Central Coast, about 110 kilometers
north of Sydney, NSW police said in a statement on its website
yesterday.  Police are investigating allegations that two girls aged 12
and 13 tried to light a fire on Sydney’s western fringe. Police
said in a statement the girls had been questioned and released.
An investigation is continuing.  Wildfires are a regular feature of  Australia ’s warmer
months. In February 2009, bushfires across Victoria state killed
173 people and destroyed 150 homes in the worst blazes in
Australian history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  