-- Berlusconi’s Ban From Public Office Cut to Two Years on Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2013-10-19T11:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/berlusconi-s-ban-from-public-office-cut-to-two-years-on-appeal.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s ban from holding public office, imposed after he
was convicted of  tax fraud , was reduced to two years by an
appeals court in Milan.  The ban was cut from five years, according to a statement
read over the phone by a court official today. Berlusconi’s
lawyer,  Niccolo Ghedini , said they will appeal the ruling with
Italy’s  Supreme Court , according to the Ansa newswire. Ghedini
wasn’t immediately available to comment when contacted by phone.  Berlusconi, 77, is losing the political influence he
wielded over the last two decades as his legal troubles
intensify. Senior members of his People of Liberty party, or
PDL, turned on him in an Oct. 2 confidence vote, and Prime
Minister Enrico Letta has refused to come to his aid. Berlusconi
faces possible expulsion from the Senate in a vote in the coming
weeks.  The sentence is “another reminder to Berlusconi and the
world that his days are numbered,” said  James Walston , a
professor of international relations at the American University
of  Rome . “There’s a sort of inexorability of all these things
closing in him.”  The tax-fraud conviction, tied to evasion by his  Mediaset
SpA (MS)  in 2002 and 2003, has already been rendered final. The
billionaire’s appeals were exhausted on Aug. 1 when the Supreme
Court upheld his guilty verdict and sent the public-office ban,
which represents a portion of the sentence, back to the appeals
court for review. Berlusconi’s four-year prison sentence was
confirmed by the top court in its August ruling.  Jail Time  The billionaire media entrepreneur is unlikely to spend a
day in jail due to leniency measures that he and former Prime
Minister  Romano Prodi  created in 2005 and 2006. The provisions
reduce his term to a year, and he remains free as the court
decides whether to have him complete the sentence under house
arrest or in a supervised community-service program.  Berlusconi’s expulsion from parliament was recommended on
Oct. 4 by the Senate committee for elections and immunities,
which ruled that his tax-fraud conviction runs afoul of a 2012
anti-corruption law. The full chamber will be called to ratify
the committee’s decision with a vote.  The appeals court ruling doesn’t alter the expulsion
process.  Berlusconi’s career has been in decline since his inability
to contain debt-market speculation forced him to resign the
premiership in November 2011. He made a comeback in this
February’s general elections, finishing second, and became a
partner in Letta’s broad ruling coalition.  Bruising Partnership  That collaboration was bruised in the Oct. 2 confidence
vote as Berlusconi’s attempt to bring down the government was
thwarted. The PDL, the ruling coalition’s second-biggest group,
was split by the vote as Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino Alfano 
and other senior members defied Berlusconi and ensured the
survival of Letta’s administration.  Berlusconi is appealing criminal convictions for illegal
use of wiretaps, abuse of power and engaging a minor in
prostitution. He has denied all wrongdoing, saying his trials
amount to political persecution.  Berlusconi’s second government approved a November 2005 law
giving some convicts over the age of 70 the option of serving
sentences at home. That measure was dubbed the “Save Previti”
law by opponents because it ultimately allowed Cesare Previti, a
Berlusconi lawyer who was convicted of bribing a judge, to enter
house arrest.  Berlusconi can thank Prodi, a long-time political
adversary, for a clemency measure passed in July 2006 that
knocks up to three years off sentences for crimes committed
before May 3 of that year. That law was dedicated to the late
Pope  John Paul II , who had requested a clemency provision in a
2002 address to parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  