-- Burwell Says Strong Progress Made on Obamacare (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2013-10-19T00:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/burwell-says-strong-progress-made-on-obamacare-transcript-.html
Sylvia Mathews Burwell, director of
the White House Office of Management and Budget, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that the Obama administration is
making “strong progress” in fixing enrollment problems in
health-care exchanges under the U.S. Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Joining me now is White House Office of Management
and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell. It’s always hard for
me to say “Burwell,” because I knew you when you were first
Mathews, but thank you so much for being with us.  SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL: Thank you.  HUNT: Madam Director, we’ve just been through one
political, economic trauma. I’m sure that you had a lot of
almost sleepless nights, but we have another -- budget and debt
deadlines are looming in January and February. Given the
political polarization, why is it going to be any different?  BURWELL: I think one of the things that hopefully will be
different is having passed through and been through what we have
been through and seeing the ramifications of that, especially
with regard to the shutdown and what that meant economically and
to people as individuals, in terms of how they interact with
their government, I think we’re hopeful, and we see signals on a
bipartisan basis that a shutdown is no longer on the table.  HUNT: Just as a quick aside, how much will it affect your
economic forecast? And how much will it affect unemployment and
the budget?  BURWELL: So one of the things is, we will have to work
through exactly what that will mean. One of the things that
didn’t happen because we had a shutdown is we weren’t able to
close the government’s books for the year. And so now that
everyone’s back, that’s one of the first tasks at hand that
we’ll be setting about to do, to close the year’s books and
think about how we set our baselines for the following year.  HUNT: Let’s look ahead to these budget -- House-Senate
budget negotiations, which you will -- are very important, due
to report Dec. 13. What is your realistic expectation as to what
could come out of that in a broad sense?  BURWELL: I think what we’re hopeful for is that having a
conference we’ll return, one, to regular order, get a process
that will work in terms of the way historically these things
have happened, and I think that we’re hopeful that many issues
can be on the table, both big and small. And that means -- I
think you’ve seen the president’s budget has a wide range of
issues in it, in terms of long-term deficit reduction, in terms
of the ability to buy out the sequester and do those kinds of
deficit reduction in a way that we believe is healthier for the
current economic recovery and taking care of some of our long-term problems, as well as other issues like corporate  tax reform 
that we have mentioned in our budget and the president’s
mentioned recently as part of talking about a grand bargain and
what we need to do to grow this economy.  HUNT: Well, let me tell you what  Paul Ryan  and some of his
allies are talking about. They say there is a deal, there is a
deal to be made that they would accept the president’s own
proposals on entitlements, means-testing in Medicare and chained
CPI, in return for alleviating much of the sequester. Does that
sound like a good deal to you?  BURWELL: I think when we think about those things that were
in the president’s budget, we actually thought of a larger deal
and a deal that included both revenues, as well as entitlement
issues. And as we think through what we’re going to do, I think
we want to understand, what is the size of the package that
people are talking about?  HUNT: So that deal would have to include revenues, too, as
well as what I just enumerated.  BURWELL: That is what we have said.  HUNT: The Republicans say they’ve given the opposite. In
January, they increased revenues.  BURWELL: I think when one thinks about the long-term
issues,  deficit reduction , and when you look at the president’s
budget, that was a $1.8 trillion proposal, $1.2 trillion of that
was to shift out the sequester and then an additional $600
billion. To do those kinds of changes in long-term changes, we
believe you have to think about it in a balanced way over time
and include not just entitlements, but also revenue.  HUNT: And do you have any realistic idea what the scope
could be of either over one or two years, over 10 years of such
a deal, if you got it?  BURWELL: So I think when one thinks about what the
conference can do, I think the conference can think about a 10-year deal that includes some of these big issues that you and I
are just talking about, or can think about a smaller approach,
and that approach would be more like one or two. And so I think
either are possible.  And I think what we’ve seen in the last weeks, in the last
months is, one, you actually can’t predict exactly what will or
will not happen in terms of where people will go and what you
can get. So I think what we need to do is go in with optimism,
put everything on the table, and see how far we can take moving
the economy forward using fiscal policy.  HUNT: Let me ask you about these next eight weeks and how
involved the president will be.  Leon Panetta , one of your
predecessors at OMB and also a former White House chief of
staff, says the president -- these are his words -- can no
longer walk away from the table. And if he feels Republicans
won’t deal with him, he, quote, “ought to be willing to
delegate that responsibility to someone who can do it,” end
quote. Your reaction?  BURWELL: My reaction is that the president and the
administration have been engaged and been engaged throughout the
spring and the fall, since I entered the administration five
months ago, in terms of whether it’s dinners, meetings,
conversations, calls, with both sides of the aisle, and we’ll
continue to do that.  HUNT: So you expect the president to be deeply involved in
these next eight weeks, in these negotiations?  BURWELL: What I expect is that the administration and the
president will do what we have been doing up to this point and
will continue to do, and that is engagement in the way we have
been engaging, as well as a clear articulation of our
principles. And that’s what the president and the administration
did during the period leading up to where we are today.  HUNT: Madam Director, as well as budget, you run the Office
of Management. Now, the administration just saw a management
debacle. It’s not your primary responsibility, I know, but the
rollout of Obamacare frustrated millions, including my own son,
who went to try to sign up. What can OMB do in supporting the
implementation of these exchanges to make sure this is -- this
is rectified? This really was awful.  BURWELL: So I think, first, I’d start with the fact -- what
the president has said in terms of his disappointment about the
problems and challenges that you’re articulating. And the
administration has put together a team and is deeply focused on
the issues of, how do we fix those problems?  Second, in terms of one of the things, as OMB thinks about
our programmatic and policy, focusing on two very large issues,
and one is actually what the Affordable Care Act set out to do,
and that is provide a product, affordable insurance, for those
who are uninsured. And on that front, I think we’re making very
strong progress.  HUNT: But people can’t sign up. They can’t get affordable
care. And can you guarantee the public that by Dec. 15, say,
which is a little over two weeks before they can, you know,
really join, that these problems will be largely rectified?  BURWELL: I think that the administration is working deeply
on the problems that exist, and I think it’s also important to
recognize that there are other places and ways, in terms of
whether those are the phone numbers, the navigators, and other
tools and choices that people have to do that.  I think also, from an OMB perspective, it’s important to
also recognize, in addition to the issue of health care for the
uninsured, the issue of people who have children up to 26 being
covered, the issue of pre-existing conditions, all of those are
being worked on in a very successful way, in terms of the
substance and reducing cost.  HUNT: Cautiously optimistic you’ll have it rectified by
Dec. 15?  BURWELL: I am optimistic that we will continue to make
progress on that issue.  HUNT: Sylvia Burwell, thank you so much for being with us
today.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 