-- C.W. ‘Bill’ Young, Most-Senior House Republican, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/c-w-bill-young-most-senior-house-republican-dies.html
C.W. “Bill” Young, the longest-serving Republican in Congress, who rose to the top seat on the
House Appropriations Committee and exerted his influence on
defense and health spending, has died. He was 82.  Young died yesterday at Walter Reed National Military
Medical Center in Bethesda,  Maryland , his chief of staff, Harry Glenn, said in an e-mail. The cause of death was “complications
related to a chronic injury,” according to a family statement
provided by Glenn.  The congressman entered Walter Reed on Oct. 4 for surgery
to treat a back injury. Five days later, he announced that he
would retire in January 2015 rather than seek a 23rd term.  Following 10 years in  Florida ’s state Senate, Young was
sworn in to the U.S. House of Representatives on Jan. 3, 1971.
Only two other current members of Congress, both Democrats from
 Michigan , have  served longer :  John Conyers , in office since
1965, and John Dingell, who took office in 1955 and holds the
record for longest congressional tenure in history. (Democrat
Charles Rangel of  New York , another current House member, was
sworn in the same day as Young.)  Young was chairman of the Appropriations Committee from
1999 to 2005, serving the maximum six years under Republican-imposed  term limits . He liked to point out that his tenure as
chairman coincided with the last time the federal government ran
a surplus.  Until his death, Young was  chairman  of the Appropriations
subcommittee on  defense spending . He was a defender of the
congressional practice of earmarking money to specific district
projects, even when fellow Republicans challenged the practice.  Favored Earmarks  He was an advocate for increased  government spending  on
medical care, immunization and research on Parkinson’s and
Alzheimer’s diseases. In 1986, he helped create the U.S.
Department of Defense Marrow Donor Program, which now  carries
his name .  In September 2012, following years of support for the U.S.
war in  Afghanistan , he called for an immediate pullout of
American troops. He said the death of an Army Ranger from his
district helped change his mind.  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel last night praised
Young’s “commitment to a strong national defense” and his
dedication to members of the military.  “He will be remembered as a passionate advocate for the
welfare of America’s service members and military veterans,”
Hagel said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Rare Republican’  Young’s Florida district, which includes Clearwater and
most of St. Petersburg, backed President  Barack Obama , a
Democrat, in 2008 and 2012 while re-electing him with 60 and 57
percent of the vote, respectively.  The Tampa Bay Times, in an  editorial  marking his
announcement that he would retire in 2015, said he “brought
home projects worth hundreds of millions of dollars that created
jobs and helped define the region as a hub for military
contractors, marine science and public education.”  The newspaper also credited him with resisting partisan
anger in the nation’s capital, calling him “the rare Republican
who still acknowledges that the responsible answer to reducing
the federal deficit is a combination of spending cuts and new
revenue.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  expressed sorrow at Young’s
death, citing the Florida lawmaker’s service.  “Not a day went by without a colleague seeking Bill’s
counsel as he sat on his perch in the corner of the House
floor,” Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said in an e-mailed
statement. “Here was a man who had seen it all.”  Plane Crash  Charles William Young was born on Dec. 16, 1930, in
Harmarville,  Pennsylvania , on the Allegheny River about 15 miles
northeast of Pittsburgh. His family moved to Florida when he was
15, and he dropped out of high school to support his ill mother
by hauling concrete blocks and mixing mortar, according to “The
Almanac of American Politics.”  Young sold insurance and served in the Army National Guard
before winning election to the state Senate in 1960. He was
minority leader from 1966 to 1970.  His back problems stemmed from a plane crash in 1970, when
he was a state senator. The Tampa Bay Times reported that Young
was returning to Tallahassee, the Florida capital, from a
fundraising dinner in  St. Petersburg  when the small plane he was
in went down three miles short of the airport.  The House Ethics Committee investigated Young and six other
lawmakers for allegations they steered federal contracts to
companies represented by the now-defunct lobbying firm known as
PMA Group. Young and the others were cleared in February 2010,
when the committee found that nobody had “violated any law,
regulation, rule or other applicable standard of conduct.”  Young’s first marriage produced three children and ended in
divorce. He had two children with his second wife, Beverly, who
also had a son from a previous marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  