-- Caesars Drops Gansevoort From Vegas Project After Probe
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/caesars-drops-gansevoort-deal-after-massachusetts-gaming-probe.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  dropped
the Gansevoort Hotel name from a project in Las Vegas after
regulators raised concerns about the hotel operator, forcing
Caesars to pull out of a separate partnership in Massachusetts.  Massachusetts gaming investigators recommended that Caesars
not be licensed in the state, in part due to questions about an
investor in Gansevoort, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Gary Loveman said in a telephone interview yesterday.  While the hotel that was to be branded Gansevoort is in
 Nevada , casino regulators in other states typically conduct a
broad review of business relationships before granting licenses
to operators. Caesars said on Oct. 18 that it dropped out of a
proposed casino resort in East Boston after the  Massachusetts 
probe. Caesars was a partner with the Suffolk Downs horse track
in a $1 billion project in the Boston neighborhood.  The investigators’ findings were “extraordinary,” Loveman
said. He predicted other large casino companies will have
difficulty meeting Massachusetts’ licensing standards.  “It’s going to be very hard for a multi-jurisdictional
operator to pass this test,” Loveman said, citing the many
business relationships large companies have, beyond gambling to
include hotels and nightclubs. “It’s going to be very hard for
anyone to pass.”  Caesars said in March it planned to turn its Bill’s
Gamblin’ Hall and Saloon on the Las Vegas Strip into a boutique
hotel using the Gansevoort name, at a cost of $185 million.
Gansevoort Hotel Group, whose flagship hotel is in the
Meatpacking District of New York, is led by father and son team
William and Michael Achenbaum.  Hotel Investor  Arik Kislin, an investor in Gansevoort, was identified in
German court filings as allegedly having ties to organized crime
in  Russia , according to a 2012 report in the New York Post.
Kislin’s lawyer, Lisa Cohen, told the Post then that he had “no
recollection” about the company with the alleged mob ties.  Gansevoort agreed to end its role in Las Vegas to minimize
any controversy for Caesars, Nancy Friedman, a spokeswoman for
the hotel, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We expected a serious government agency to act on the
basis of substantiated fact, not rumor or innuendo previously
printed in gossip columns,” Friedman said. “No new facts have
arisen since we passed the internal gaming compliance process of
Caesars prior to the execution of our agreements.”  Caesars did its own background checks before entering into
the licensing agreement with Gansevoort, Loveman said.  “We certainly did not expect to have trouble,” Loveman
said. Caesars also told Massachusetts regulators they would end
the relationship, a remedy casino regulators often allow but not
in this case, he said.  Caesars Debt  The report from Massachusetts Gaming Commission
investigators also cited concerns about Caesars’ finances,
Loveman said. The company, which was purchased in a 2008
leveraged buyout by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and TPG
Capital, has $23 billion in debt.  The rejection of Caesars is “a bit surprising given their
existing licenses,” Matthew Landry, a consultant with Strategic
Market Advisors in Somersworth, New Hampshire, said in an e-mail. “Massachusetts does seem to be determined to distinguish
itself in this process.”  Massachusetts legalized casino gambling two years ago with
plans to have three resort-style properties in three separate
parts of the state.  New Partners  Suffolk Downs, whose principal owners are Richard Fields,
chairman of Coastal Development LLC, and Joe O’Donnell, founder
of Boston Culinary Group Inc., is competing with two other
operators for the sole casino resort license in the Boston area.
The other applicants are  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and Crossroads
Massachusetts LLC, which is affiliated with  Connecticut ’s
Foxwoods casino.  Suffolk Downs could partner with another casino operator,
according to Clyde Barrow, a professor at the University of
Massachusetts Dartmouth.  The most likely candidates are Wynn, which is looking to a
build a casino in Everett, or Hard Rock International, which was
denied a casino bid by voters in West Springfield last month,
Barrow said.  Fields has a relationship with Hard Rock that dates back to
casinos he built with the company in Tampa and Hollywood,
 Florida , Barrow said.  Public Hearing  The commission will hold a public hearing Oct. 29 to review
facts before Suffolk Downs’ suitability is determined, Elaine
Driscoll, a spokeswoman for the commission, said in an e-mail
yesterday. A redacted version of the report will be released on
Oct. 23, she said.  Voters in East Boston are being asked to approve a host
agreement in a Nov. 5 election. The state’s five-member
commission plans to pick a winner of the Boston-area license by
April, according to its website.  Caesars fell 6.9 percent to $18.70 on Oct. 18 in New York.
The shares have risen 170 percent this year, as the company
restructured debt and offered stock in a subsidiary that has a
stake in its online gambling business.  Loveman said he didn’t expect the Massachusetts
recommendation to impact the company’s licensing in other
jurisdictions. Caesars, which owns more than 50 properties, was
licensed recently in Maryland and  Ohio .  “We hold more licenses than any company in the history of
gambling,” Loveman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  