-- Caesars Withdraws From Massachusetts Casino Venture After Probe
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-19T05:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/caesars-withdraws-from-massachusetts-casino-venture-after-probe.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  withdrew
from a partnership seeking a  Massachusetts  gambling license
after a report on its involvement by state regulators became an
obstacle to the casino project.  Partner Suffolk Downs asked Caesars to withdraw following
an investigation by the state’s gaming commission, according to
a statement yesterday from the horse-track operator, which
didn’t didn’t specify the findings and said it was confident it
would receive approval on its own.  The decision clouds Caesars’ prospects for expansion in the
U.S., where it is the biggest operator of casinos. The company,
which was purchased in a 2008 leveraged buyout by  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital, has $23 billion in debt and has
relied on partners such as Suffolk Downs to help fund new
projects.  Massachusetts regulators cited in their report concerns
about the company’s financial structure, according to a person 
with knowledge of the matter who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Suffolk Downs, whose principal owners are Richard Fields,
chairman of Coastal Development LLC, and Joe O’Donnell, founder
of Boston Culinary Group Inc., is competing with two other
operators for the sole casino resort license in the Boston area.
The other applicants are  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and Crossroads
Massachusetts LLC, which is affiliated with  Connecticut ’s
Foxwoods casino.  November Vote  Voters in East Boston, where Suffolk Downs is located, are
being asked to approve a host agreement in a Nov. 5 election.
The state’s five-member commission is expected to pick a winner
of the Boston-area license by April, according to its website.  Caesars fell 6.9 percent to $18.70 yesterday in  New York .
The shares have risen 170 percent this year, as the company
restructured debt and offered stock in a subsidiary that has a
stake in its online gambling business. In a statement, the Las
Vegas-based company said it would focus on properties outside of
Massachusetts.  “The commission is attempting to set standards of
suitability that are arbitrary, unreasonable and inconsistent
with those that exist in every other gaming jurisdiction,”
Caesars said, without elaborating.  A spokeswoman for the Massachusetts commission didn’t
immediately respond to telephone and e-mailed requests for
comment outside of business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  