-- Canada Dollar Declines on Concern U.S. Adds to Economic Slowing
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-19T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/canada-dollar-declines-on-concern-u-s-adds-to-economic-slowing.html
     Oct. 19 (Bloomberg)  -- The Canadian dollar fell versus
most of its 16 major peers for a third week, the longest streak
since June, on concern the 16-day U.S. government shutdown added
to economic headwinds for the country’s largest trading partner.  The currency rose against the  U.S. dollar  on speculation
the 16-day closure may lead the  Federal Reserve  to delay
tapering its bond-buying program. A government report yesterday
showed inflation remained at the low end of the Bank of  Canada ’s
target band. The central bank is forecast to retain its 1
benchmark interest rate target at a policy meeting Oct. 23.  “With inflation so low and uncertainty in the  U.S.
economy , the economic metrics are just not showing enough growth
for the Bank of Canada to start normalizing policy,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange in Toronto at
 National Bank of Canada , said in a telephone interview. “Until
we see better economic releases domestically and the central
bank takes a more hawkish approach any potential for the loonie
is to gain ground is remote.”  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, added 0.6 percent this week to
C$1.0286 per U.S. dollar in Toronto. One loonie buys 97.22 U.S.
cents. It last weakened against a majority of its 16 most-traded
peers during the three weeks ended June 28.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for one-month options on Canada’s dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart reached 5.3 percent, the least since
May. The measure is used to set option prices and gauge the
expected pace of currency swings. The average for this year is
6.6 percent.  The nation’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields down six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.53
percent, reaching the lowest level since Aug. 12. The 1.5
percent securities maturing in June 2023 added 52 cents to
C$91.28.  Options traders assign no probability for the central bank
to raise its benchmark  interest rate  at its Oct. 23 policy
meeting, pricing in 0.2 basis points looser policy, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index swaps.  Canadian consumer prices advanced at a 1.1 percent pace for
a second month in September on gains in shelter and food costs,
 Statistics Canada  reported yesterday in Ottawa.  Price Levels  The core rate, which excludes eight volatile products, also
matched August’s pace at 1.3 percent. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast total inflation of 1.0 percent and core
inflation of 1.4 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said last week that
growth has “disappointed” and the economy is operating below
the level the central bank expected six months ago. The bank
predicted in July that inflation will stay below its 2 percent
target until the second quarter of 2015.  “September’s slightly weaker-than-expected core inflation
reading is consistent with the increase in economic slack over
the past year,” David Madani, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd.  wrote in a note to clients. “With the  Bank of Canada ’s
export-led recovery hopes likely to face even more delays, we
expect underlying inflation to remain muted over the remainder
of this year.”  Canadian investors are withdrawing the most cash from
domestic fixed-income funds in three years, joining foreign
counterparts exiting the country’s bond markets as rising
interest rates cut returns.  Capital Flows  Investors withdrew C$1.38 billion ($1.34 billion) from
Canadian government and investment-grade funds in September,
according to data from the Investment Funds Institute of Canada.
The withdrawals were the largest since the mutual-fund group
started keeping current records in May 2010. Statistics Canada
said Oct. 17 that foreigners sold C$1.22 billion of Canadian
government debt in August, while buying a net C$2.03 billion of
the nation’s corporate bonds.  The standoff over U.S. fiscal policy that shut the
government “encouraged our enemies” and slowed economic
growth, President  Barack Obama  said on Oct. 17. Speaking at the
White House after federal agencies opened for the first time
since Oct. 1, Obama said the U.S. suffers because of repeated
fiscal brinkmanship.  Canada and the European Union reached an “agreement in
principle” on a free-trade treaty that brings near an end more
than four years of negotiations. Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen
Harper  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  announced
the agreement yesterday following a meeting in Brussels.  Trade Support  The pact, which would need the approval of EU national
governments and the European Parliament, will eliminate about 98
percent of all Canadian and EU tariff lines on the first day of
its implementation.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 2.5 percent this year
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar is
down 6.2 percent, and the U.S. dollar has added 1.5 percent.  The loonie will weaken C$1.04 by the end of the year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts.  “The economic landscape in the U.S and Canada is fraught
with uncertainty, and the same concerns about growth in the U.S.
have tainted the Canadian outlook,” said  Mark Chandler , head of
fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto. “Inflation data
continues to come in on the soft side, which gives the Bank of
Canada cover to be more dovish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  