-- Cardinals Shut Out Dodgers to Advance to 19th MLB World Series
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-19T04:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/cardinals-shut-out-dodgers-to-advance-to-19th-mlb-world-series.html
Rookie Michael Wacha pitched seven
scoreless innings as the  St. Louis Cardinals  advanced to  Major
League Baseball ’s  World Series  with a 9-0 victory against the
 Los Angeles Dodgers  in the National League Championship Series.  The Cardinals, the 2011 World Series champions, last night
won the best-of-seven series four games to two. The  Boston Red
Sox  can clinch the American League spot in the World Series with
a win today against the Detroit Tigers.  Wacha, 22, who was voted the series’ Most Valuable Player,
allowed two hits and struck out five before he was relieved by
Carlos Martinez, who pitched a perfect eighth inning with two
strikeouts. Trevor Rosenthal struck out one in the ninth.  “Every time they put up nine runs for me, it makes my job
easier,” Wacha (2-0) said in a televised interview. “You can’t
let the moment get too big for you.”  Wacha allowed five hits and struck out eight in 6 2/3
innings in the Cardinals’ 1-0 victory against the Dodgers in
Game 2 of the series.  “He’s a warrior, he’s a bulldog,” said St. Louis second
baseman Matt Carpenter.  Dodgers pitcher  Clayton Kershaw , who led the league during
the regular season with an earned run average of 1.83, gave up
seven runs on 10 hits in four innings.  “Clayton Kershaw is as good a pitcher as you’re going to
face,” said Carpenter, who scored on  Carlos Beltran ’s single in
the third inning and hit a sacrifice fly in the fifth to send
home Shane Robinson.  Beltran and Robinson each drove in two runs for the host
Cardinals, who had a four-run third inning and a five-run fifth
at Busch Stadium.  “Wacha has been great for us,” Beltran said in a
televised interview. “Wacha has been a big part of the success
of this team.”  Disappointed Mattingly  The Cardinals are seeking their 12th championship in 19
trips to the best-of-seven World Series, which begins Oct. 23 at
the home ballpark of the American League champion.  “I can’t even get my head around what went on here,” said
St. Louis manager Mike Matheny.  Dodgers manager  Don Mattingly  said the series was
disappointing.  “It’s probably not the time to think about ways you could
improve,” Mattingly said. “That’s for the winter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  