-- China Solar Says Three Directors Detained in Fraud Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-10-20T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/china-solar-energy-says-directors-detained-amid-fraud-probe.html
China Solar Energy Holdings Ltd. (155) ,
the solar panel maker that’s lost 93 percent of its market value
since 2007, said its chairman and two directors have been
detained by Chinese authorities on allegations of fraud.  Chairman Yeung Ngo, Yang Yuchun and non-executive director
Hao Guojun were arrested and have been held since Aug. 26, China
Solar Energy said in a  statement  to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange
on Oct. 18, citing its legal advisers. The company has been
unable to contact them since August and is assessing the impact
of the investigation on its financial performance, it said.  The disappearance of China Solar Energy’s directors and the
fraud probe underscore investor concern that the business
environment on the mainland is opaque and prone to corruption.
 Transparency International  last week ranked Chinese firms lowest
in a survey of public reporting practices in  emerging markets ,
while short-sellers have targeted companies including  Prince
Frog International Holdings Ltd. (1259)  and China Minzhong Food Corp.  “This is just another case of poor governance quality that
is characteristic of this market,”  David Webb , a former
exchange director who founded local governance watchdog Webb-site.com, said by telephone. “Why has it taken nearly two
months for the company to figure out they couldn’t contact two
of their directors and their chairman?”  China Solar Energy fell 11 percent to HK$0.18 on Aug. 16
before it asked for trading in the shares to be  halted  pending
the release of an announcement about recent movement in the
price. The company is valued at HK$277 million ($36 million),
down from HK$3.7 billion at its 2007 peak. The shares will
remain suspended, the company said in the Oct. 18 statement.  Solar Glut  The government in China, the world’s biggest maker of solar
panels, announced measures in June to boost domestic demand for
solar-generated electricity and provide easier financing to
manufacturers to help ease a glut that’s made the industry
unprofitable. The State Council also said it will encourage
mergers and acquisitions and curb blind expansion in the sector.  Yeung Ngo, whose age was given as 62 in the annual report
and accounts released July 30, joined the company in March 2011
and is the father of Yang Yuchun, according to the report.
Yeung’s stake in the company fell to 14.6 percent in August from
15.8 percent after the company raised about HK$20.2 million in a
 private placement , according to an Aug. 13 filing, which didn’t
name the purchasers of the shares.  Duties Suspended  Hao Guojun, whose age was given as 55, became a non-executive director in January 2013 and joined a unit named Dali
Stream Solar Energy in 2008 as assistant chief engineer,
according to his biography in the annual report.  The directors’ duties and functions have been suspended,
although that won’t affect daily operations,  China  Solar Energy
said in its statement. Three calls to the company’s offices in
Hong Kong outside normal business hours were not answered and an
e-mail was not returned.  China Solar Energy said in a Sept. 30 statement it had
appointed two new executive directors, Sun Yanfeng and Guo
Lijie, and an independent non-executive director, Zhang Jing.  Based on investigations into allegations made to the Hong
Kong stock exchange against the company, one subsidiary in
Changzhou had failed to pay a reported increase in its
registered capital with the local authority by the due date,
according to the statement.  The Dali Stream Solar unit, had failed to pay up its
registered capital of $49.5 million, according to the statement.
Its assets were frozen and documents were seized by the Dali
public security bureau as part of a probe into a suspected false
reporting of registered capital involving Yeung and Yang, the
company said.  Audit Report  Both units risk having their business licenses revoked,
according to the statement.  China Solar Energy received a clean audit from HLB Hodgson
Impey Cheng Ltd. on June 28. A phone call and e-mail to the
accounting firm outside of normal business weren’t immediately
returned.  “Why didn’t HLB in its audit discover that the registered
capital of its subsidiaries was not paid up, as the company now
admits?” Webb said. “They have to answer questions about
this.”  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  resigned as the company’s auditor
in February 2012 after taking into account the level of audit
fees and its available internal resources, according to a
company filing on Feb. 28, 2012, and HLB Hodgson Impey Cheng was
appointed the next day. The firm was paid HK$1.38 million for
audit services for the year ending March 31, according to the
company’s annual report and accounts.  No Profit  China Solar Energy posted a net loss of HK$137 million for
the year to March, compared with a loss of HK$247 million the
year earlier, according to its annual report. The company hasn’t
reported a net profit since at least 2004, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s administrative costs doubled to HK$102.3
million in the 12 months to March from HK$49.6 million the year
earlier, mainly due to an increase in consultancy fees,
according to a statement dated Aug. 7. China Solar Energy hired
22 consultants during the period, including Pierre Seligman, who
resigned as managing director of the company in January.
Seligman quit as executive director of  Viagold Capital Ltd. (VIA)  on
Oct. 7, according to a statement to the Australian stock
exchange.  Chinese Companies  In Transparency International’s report of 100
multinationals released Oct. 17, the 33 Chinese companies
surveyed averaged a score of 2 out of 10 points. Eight of the 10
lowest ranking companies on the list were Chinese, including
China National Chemical Corp. and China Shipbuilding Industry
Corp.  Short-seller Glaucus Research Group has targeted Chinese
companies this year, most recently Fujian province-based Prince
Frog, a seller of adult- and child-care products including
diapers. Trading in the shares was halted in Hong Kong on Oct.
16 as they plunged the most since listing in July 2011 after
Glaucus questioned the company’s sales.  The short-seller, which has an office in  Newport Beach ,
 California , also targeted Minzhong Food, based in Putian,  Fujian
province . The Singapore-listed stock lost half its market value
in less than two hours on Aug. 26 after Glaucus questioned the
vegetable processor’s accounts. PT Indofood Sukses Makmur
 offered  to buy the outstanding shares in the company it didn’t
already own the following month.  Stock Discount  PetroChina Co., the nation’s most valuable company, said in
August four senior managers had been removed amid an
investigation by authorities. China Mobile Communications Corp.,
the state-owned parent of the world’s largest phone company by
users, removed the head of its Guangdong unit who is under
investigation, the company said Aug. 20.  The MSCI China Index of stocks available to international
money managers is little changed this year, trailing a 17
percent rally by the MSCI All-Country World Index. The Chinese
gauge trades at 10 times reported earnings, a 41 percent
discount to MSCI’s global measure. In the past 20 years through
July, foreigners earned less than 1.5 percent a year investing
in Chinese stocks, a third of what they would have made owning
U.S. Treasury bills.  “Chinese companies have been seen as having relatively
weak corporate governance,” Lewis Wan, Hong Kong-based chief
investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., said by
phone. “This is the reason why valuations of Chinese stocks are
lower. The penalty on the mainland isn’t harsh enough to stop
executives from committing frauds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  