-- CN Train Carrying Crude Derails in Alberta, Sparking Fire
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-19T21:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/cn-rail-cars-carrying-oil-on-fire-after-derailment-in-alberta.html
A  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) 
train carrying crude oil and liquefied petroleum gas derailed
west of Edmonton early today, causing an explosion and fire.  One car containing LPG, or propane, exploded and set two
other cars leaking the flammable substance on fire, said Carson
Mills, a spokesman for Parkland County, in a telephone
interview. Thirteen cars derailed, he said.  Rail transport of crude is under heightened regulatory
scrutiny in Canada and the U.S. after a train carrying oil
derailed and exploded in Lac-Megantic,  Quebec , in July, killing
47. Companies face new rules that may raise costs, including a
Canadian directive that requires testing and labeling of crude
in rail cars.  Emergency responders evacuated 49 residents of the rural
community of Gainford and the county declared a state of
emergency for the area, after officials were notified of the
derailment at about 1 a.m. local time, said Parkland County
Mayor Rod Shaigec in a telephone interview.  “Given the tragic incident at Lac-Megantic earlier, it
certainly demonstrates the urgent need to review rail safety,”
Shaigec said, noting the “imminent threat” that more
explosions may occur at the site of the CN Rail derailment.
“We’re very fortunate that this did occur in a sparsely
populated area.”  The train derailed about 90 kilometers (56 miles) west of
Edmonton.  Headed West  Firefighters are letting the leaking propane burn off to
avoid the risk of a future fire, Shaigec said. Helicopters
provided by the Alberta government’s Environment and Sustainable
Resource Development department worked to extinguish a grass
fire that spread from the blaze, he said.  The public was kept from the site by the closing of a
stretch of highway near the rail line, Shaigec said. He spoke
today with numerous politicians from across the country,
including  Canada ’s Transport Minister Lisa Raitt, who offered
federal government support, he said. Royal Canadian Mounted
Police officers are on site.  The train was traveling westbound and carrying mixed
freight in 134 cars, Warren Chandler, a CN Rail spokesman, said
in a telephone interview. He couldn’t immediately identify the
starting point and destination of the train and the customer for
whom the railroad was transporting the fuels.  CN Rail had responders on site and there were no injuries,
he said.  “This kind of disaster will become the new normal unless
the federal government takes much more effective measures to
improve oil transportation safety,” Mike Hudema, climate and
energy campaigner with Greenpeace Canada, said in an e-mailed
statement, calling the incident Alberta’s third “major”
derailment in recent months.  The three cars that caught fire are the only ones that
leaked, Chandler said. Among the derailed cars, nine contained
LPG, a light hydrocarbon, and four contained oil.  Canada’s Transportation Safety Board sent investigators to
the site, Chris Krepski, a spokesman for the agency, said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  