-- Draghi Says Bank-Aid Rules Must Be Flexible on Forced Losses
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-10-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/draghi-says-eu-bank-aid-rules-must-be-flexible-on-forced-losses.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said banks should be able to access public aid
without wiping out junior bondholders if regulators decide a
lender needs more capital and isn’t on the brink of failure.  Draghi urged the European Union to make clear when it will
allow exceptions to state-aid rules that require private-sector
creditors to take losses before government backstops can step
in. He said public capital needs to be available -- without
wiping out subordinated debt holders -- if a bank’s holdings are
above regulatory minimums and also below what supervisors deem
necessary in a particular case.  “An improperly strict interpretation of the state-aid
rules may well destroy the very confidence in the euro-area
banks which we all intend to restore,” Draghi said in a July 30
letter to EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , which was
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The ECB president called for the
possibility of “precautionary recapitalizations” that would
dilute shareholders without forcing losses on junior
bondholders, and give banks temporary access to public money.  The ECB will be conducting comprehensive assessments of
bank balance sheets as it prepares to become the euro area’s
bank supervisor next year. The Frankfurt-based central bank has
said its reviews need to be tougher than previous rounds of
European stress tests in order to reassure investors that euro-region banks aren’t on the brink of another crisis.  Bank Losses  New EU state-aid rules that took effect in August require
shareholders and junior debt holders to share in the burden of
absorbing bank losses before public assistance steps in. The
rules are linked to all of the EU’s other efforts to define how
it will handle struggling banks, including several proposed EU
laws and rules on when lenders could have direct access to the
euro area’s 500-billion-euro ($684 billion ) firewall fund.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has resisted
efforts to put EU-wide backstops in place, instead calling for
banks to rely on private investors and national resources.
During Oct. 14-15 talks in Luxembourg, a rift emerged among
finance ministers between proponents of enhanced backstops and
those who believe existing options will suffice.  Draghi’s letter emphasized his view that public resources
will be necessary to shore up the euro-area banking system. At
an Oct. 2 press conference, he said it “astonishes” him that
investors have doubts about whether enough backstops will be in
place. In the July 30 letter, he stressed the importance of
putting mechanisms in place.  Public Backstops  “It is essential that member states commit credible public
backstops to ensure that resources are available in case private
sources of capital are insufficient in the face of capital
shortfalls,” Draghi said in the letter. “The absence of a
public commitment would undermine the credibility of the
exercise from the outset.”  Draghi urged the EU to clarify formally how and when it
will allow banks to tap state aid without wiping out junior
bondholders. The European Commission has been in talks with the
ECB, the European Banking Authority and national regulators,
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The revised guidelines also foresee exceptions, which
would be applicable for financial-stability reasons and on a
case-by-case basis,” Colombani said. He said the rules don’t
require senior bondholder losses and seek to limit use of
taxpayer funds by asking a bank, its capital holders and junior
creditors to “contribute to a maximum extent.”  Last Resort  Since June 2012, when EU leaders handed euro-area oversight
to the ECB as a way to break the bank-sovereign links that had
exacerbated the debt crisis, EU officials have sought to portray
public assistance as a last resort. Creditor countries like
 Germany  and the Netherlands have sought to make it harder for
banks to gain access to public money, particular from cross-border backstops.  “The Netherlands and Germany are on the same line. Only
under exceptional situations and under strict conditions,”
should countries be able to ask the European Stability Mechanism
for direct bank aid, Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem
told lawmakers in  The Hague  last week. He said the ECB’s
balance-sheet reviews and stress tests would probably take most
of 2014 to be completed.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said on Oct. 15
that the EU needs a resolution mechanism that is “as broad as
possible” so the EU doesn’t harm its banking sector.  ‘Two Kinds’  “We have to watch out not to create two kinds of
securities, two kinds of banks,” Frieden told reporters in
Luxembourg. He called for more discussion of how to step in when
a bank requires restructuring.  “The question is about what happens when a bank resolution
is needed, whether national or European, and we’re pleading for
a more European solution,” Frieden said.  Draghi’s July letter warned that the EU’s efforts to
strengthen its banks could have the opposite effect without
clearer access to public funds. Banks deemed healthy enough to
survive should try to raise capital from financial markets, and
they also should have avenues to tap public funds if they can’t
raise private capital quickly, he said.  Requiring junior bondholders to take losses, “as seems to
be implied by the revised state aid guidelines, could negatively
impact the subordinated  debt market , which would in the future
be wary of a ‘non-resolution’ probability of conversion,”
Draghi said.  An ECB spokesman confirmed Draghi’s letter, saying the
central-bank president sought to address how the EU would handle
cases where bank reviews found that a lender is solvent and also
in need of additional capital.  Martin Kotthaus, Schaeuble’s spokesman, declined to comment
yesterday. A spokesperson for Dijsselbloem did not have an
immediate comment yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  