-- Arsenal Defeats Norwich 4-1 as Manchester United Draws 1-1
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-10-19T18:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/liverpool-ties-2-2-at-newcastle-to-move-to-top-of-premier-league.html
Arsenal stayed atop English soccer’s
Premier League with a 4-1 home win over Norwich as defending
champion  Manchester United (MANU)  was forced to settle for a 1-1 home
draw after Southampton scored late.  Arsenal holds a two-point advantage over Chelsea, which
beat Cardiff 4-1 in London, and Liverpool, which drew 1-1 at
Newcastle. Manchester United is in eighth place, 8 points behind
the Gunners. Everton defeated Hull 2-1, Swansea dominated
Sunderland 4-0 and Stoke was held 0-0 at home by West Brom.
Manchester City won 3-1 at West Ham.  Jack Wilshere  opened the scoring for Arsenal in London, and
Mesut Ozil got two goals to go along with one from  Aaron Ramsey .
Jonny Howson scored for Norwich, which remains in the bottom
three teams in the league with the loss.  “A few weeks ago we lost our first home game here and it
was a difficult time but we responded well and since then we
have been consistent,” Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “I like the solidarity in the team,
of course we have quality, but it’s how much we maintain that
and sustain that, that will decide our future.”  Cardiff took the lead at Chelsea in the 10th minute when
Jordan Mutch took advantage of a David Luiz mistake before
referee Anthony Taylor allowed Samuel Eto’o to steal the ball
from Cardiff goalkeeper  David Marshall  in the 33rd minute and
set up Eden Hazard for the tying goal. Hazard also scored in the
82nd minute, with Eto’o and Oscar getting second-half goals.  United Draws  In Manchester, United went ahead with a Robin van Persie
goal in the 26th minute but couldn’t hold on as Adam Lallana
scored from an 89th-minute corner to tie the match for
Southampton.  “We had the opportunities to go 2-0 up,” United manager
David Moyes said. “They had been knocking on the door but I
thought we would see it out.”  Sergio Aguero  scored twice and David Silva got one in
Manchester City won 3-1 at West Ham for its first away victory
of the season. Ricardo Vaz Te had the hosts’s only goal.  “Winning the game was the most important thing for us,”
Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini said. “We played very
well, and the best player for West Ham was their goalkeeper.”  In Newcastle, Yohan Cabaye opened the scoring in the 23rd
minute with his right-footed shot from 30 yards away before
Liverpool’s  Steven Gerrard  tied the match with his 100th Premier
League goal for the club. Gerrard’s penalty came in the 42nd
minute following the dismissal of Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa for pulling
down  Luis Suarez .  The hosts regained the lead in the 56th minute after
substitute Paul Dummett scored his first goal for the team.
Liverpool tied in the 72nd minute when Suarez crossed to  Daniel Sturridge  to head in.  At Everton, Kevin Mirallas and  Steven Pienaar  scored in the
defeat of Hull, which got a goal from substitute Yannick Sagbo.  Sunderland, looking to win its first league match of the
season under new coach Gus Poyet, went down 4-0. Second-half own
goals from  Phil Bardsley  and  Steven Fletcher  hurt the visitors
in Swansea, which also got a goal from Jonathan de Guzman and a
penalty from Wilfried Bony.  “We have been doing well in first half of games but then
not in the second,” Poyet said. “It is not a nice welcome to
the Premier League but it is where we are and you have to take
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  