-- Javelin Files to Trade Interest-Rate Swaps, Spurring Sef Shift
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/javelin-files-to-trade-interest-rate-swaps-spurring-sef-shift.html
Javelin Capital Markets LLC  may
accelerate the Dodd-Frank Act’s migration of U.S. swaps trading
onto public markets by seeking permission to list and make
interest-rate swaps available on its new trading platform.  The New York-based swap-execution facility, or Sef, was the
first venue to seek such a Commodity Futures Trading Commission
decision. Agency approval would trigger a requirement that
hundreds of trillions of dollars of the same type of swaps be
conducted on exchanges and Sefs owned by Javelin and others, the
CFTC said after receiving the application yesterday.  The CFTC said it will review and seek public comment on
Javelin’s plan, which covers most of the interest-rate swaps
market. The review will take as long as 90 days, until Jan. 16,
the agency said.  “This is a natural next step for a derivatives marketplace
that already enjoys trade reporting and broad central
clearing,” Javelin Chief Executive Officer James Cawley said in
a telephone interview. The move “jump-starts trading on Sefs,”
he said.  The platform’s filing, called a determination, covers
 interest-rate swaps  in U.S. dollars, British sterling and euros
that last between one month and 51 years in duration.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulatory overhaul, seeks
to increase access and price competition in the swaps market by
having interest-rate, credit-default and other types of swaps
trade on new Sefs. Largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis and the U.S. rescue of American International
Group Inc.  Willing Traders  Javelin said in its filing that swap dealers registered at
the CFTC, which include Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , already regularly act as buyers and sellers in the
interest-rate swap market and would be willing traders on new
platforms.  “These products are some of the most widely used in the
swaps space,” Kevin McPartland, head of market structure and
research at Greenwich Associates, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Most institutions holding some form of debt use
these products to manage interest-rate risk.”  Javelin SEF LLC is a subsidiary of Javelin Capital Markets
LLC, a derivatives trading venue founded in 2009. Sefs owned by
 ICAP Plc. (IAP) ,  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , Tradeweb Markets LLC and Bloomberg
LP, parent of Bloomberg News, have received CFTC registration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  