-- Osborne to Decide RBS Split by November, Telegraph Says
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-10-19T11:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/osborne-to-decide-rbs-split-by-november-telegraph-says.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the U.K. government will decide by early to mid-November whether it should break up  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  and spin off its toxic assets into a “bad bank,” the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  Weighing the options for RBS is a “priority for the next
two or three weeks,” Osborne said in an interview with the
newspaper. “We are looking at the case for a bad bank, and if
not a bad bank, what is the alternative strategy that really
gets on top of the problems in that bank.”  The U.K. government in July hired Rothschild to help review
the case for splitting off RBS’s bad assets into a separate
legal entity, a proposal made by the Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards in a June report. It subsequently hired
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to value the bank’s assets. Osborne has ruled out
injecting more taxpayer money into the 81 percent government-owned lender or raising the state’s stake.  The U.K. government won’t sell equity in RBS until after
the next general election even as it prepares to sell shares in
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Osborne said, according to the
Telegraph. Lloyds, 39 percent state-owned, is better placed for
privatization than RBS, according to the June parliamentary
report.  “We are now looking actively at a retail offer for the
next tranche of Lloyds shares,” Osborne told the newspaper.
“We are not, at the moment, close to the stage of being able to
sell RBS shares.”  The newspaper said the government is examining three “bad
bank” models for RBS’s toxic assets -- one run by an
independent team within the company, one backed by the central
bank and one as a separate taxpayer-supported unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  