-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Losers Turned Winners, U.S. Stocks Surge
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-20T04:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/most-read-on-bloomberg-losers-turned-winners-u-s-stocks-surge.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1.  Wall Street  Hires Losers Turned Winners After College
Athletics  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Inside One Equity Partners are as
many as eight Olympians and even more of their world- or Olympic
gold medals, said managing partner Dick Cashin, who competed
internationally as a rower and now hires former college athletes
while recommending others do the same.  2. Stocks Surge as VIX, Treasury Bill Rates Slide on U.S. Debt
Deal  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks surged while the
benchmark gauge of options prices slid the most in two years as
the Senate crafted a deal to end the government shutdown and
raise the debt ceiling. Treasury bill rates dropped while energy
led commodities higher and the yen fell against all major peers.  3. Ex-RBS Trader in U.K. Currency Probe Said to Be JPMorgan’s
Usher  Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Usher, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s chief dealer in  London , wrote instant messages while he
was at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc that U.K. regulators are
scrutinizing as part of their investigation of alleged currency
manipulation, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  4. Senate Crafts Fiscal Deal Amid Signs Boehner Will Accept It  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- The bipartisan leaders of the  U.S.
Senate  reached an agreement to end the fiscal impasse and to
increase U.S. borrowing authority. The Senate and House plan to
vote on it later today, and the White House press secretary said
President  Barack Obama  supports the deal.  5. Treasury Bill Rates Jump, U.S. Stocks Fall as Debt Talks
Stall  Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Treasury bill rates surged to the
highest level since the securities were sold in April and U.S.
stocks snapped a four-day rally as lawmakers failed to reach an
agreement to extend the government’s borrowing limit less than
two days before the deadline. Oil fell and gold erased losses.  6. Citigroup Earnings Miss Estimates on Bond Trading, Mortgages  Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest
U.S. bank, reported a $3.23 billion profit that missed analysts’
estimates as bond trading slumped 26 percent and U.S. mortgage
revenue declined.  7. Barclays, Citigroup FX Trader Messages Said to Be Examined  Oct. 18 (Bloomberg) -- An instant-message group involving
senior traders at banks including Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc is being scrutinized by
regulators investigating potential manipulation of the foreign-exchange market, four people with knowledge of the probe said.  8. Deutsche Bank Swaps E-Mail Said No One Likes Being ‘Screwed’  Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- A Deutsche Bank AG employee said
clients don’t want to know how they were “screwed” in a 2007
swap deal at the center of a court fight over whether banks can
be sued for manipulation of benchmark  interest rates .  9. U.S. Stocks Climb While Yen, Gold Trim Early Gains on Debt
Talks  Oct. 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks rose, erasing early
losses, as Senate leaders in both parties said they are
optimistic about ending a partial government shutdown and
preventing the nation from breaching the debt ceiling in three
days. The yen and gold pared gains.  10. Congress Vote Ends Fiscal Impasse to Be Revisited in January  Oct. 17 (Bloomberg) -- After the partisan passions and
heated rhetoric, the disruptions of a government shutdown and
displays of dysfunction, Congress did what it could have done
weeks ago: voted to fund the government and lift the debt limit.  COLUMNS  1.  John Boehner  to  Tea Party : Shut Yourself Down:  Margaret
Carlson   Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- “Thank you, Mr. President. Signed,
John Boehner.”  Deep beneath the year-round tan, the Camel Ultra Lights and
the merlot, there beats a grateful heart. Somebody had to take
on the Tea Party that has turned Boehner’s tenure as House
speaker into a living hell.  2. Old Jewish Men Have Valuable Advice for Miley Cyrus  Oct. 17 (Bloomberg) -- The chanteuse Miley Cyrus, a subject
of much controversy these past several weeks, mainly owing to
her performance at the MTV “Video Music Awards” (among other
things, she mimicked masturbation with an oversized foam finger,
twerked, and, unforgivably, sexualized teddy bears), is unhappy,
despite her temporal success, with some of the advice she has
lately received.  3. Bolivian Farmers Made World Crave Quinoa: Jim Yong Kim  Oct. 14 (Bloomberg) -- On a recent trip to  Bolivia , I
traveled by helicopter with President  Evo Morales  to Santa Ana
de Chipaya, a settlement almost 13,000 feet (3,960 meters) above
 sea level  that is home to the last 3,800 speakers of the Chipaya
language. There, we played soccer with members of the community,
who then served us a lunch of lamb and quinoa, a grain-like crop
that people in and around Chipaya have grown for thousands of
years.  4. Threat to U.S. Prosperity Even Worse Than Congress: Clive
Crook  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- The good news from  Washington  is
that plans to extend the debt-ceiling farce into 2014 are moving
forward on a bipartisan basis. The chances that the U.S.
government may soon resume its functions temporarily and that
there’ll be no default on U.S. sovereign debt for as much as
several months appear to have improved.  5. Real Makes Apple, Android Videos Play Nice:  Rich Jaroslovsky   Oct. 17 (Bloomberg) -- There’s no reason you need to know
what a codec is. Unless you’ve tried to view or share video shot
on one type of device, say an Android phone, on another, like an
iPhone.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Drum-O’Neill Seeks College Athletes for Wall Street  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Carly Drum-O’Neill, founder of Drum
Associates’ unit devoted exclusively to current and former
college athletes, talks about the executive search firm’s
efforts to find accomplished athletes for entry-level positions
on Wall Street.  2. Audi’s R8 Coupe Still Rocking Roads in Its Middle Age  Oct. 17 (Bloomberg) -- The 2014 Audi R8 V-10 Plus coupe is
seen in a promotional video from Audi AG.  3. Crocodile Leather Requires Lots of Skill, Van As Says  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Stefan van As, owner of Le Croc
crocodile breeding farm and tannery, talks about the demand for
nile crocodile leather and the process of skinning, tanning and
caring for the animal skin.  4. Senate Leaders Reid, McConnell Discuss Fiscal Accord  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry
Reid , a Democrat from  Nevada , and Minority Leader  Mitch
McConnell , a Republican from  Kentucky , speak on the Senate floor
about a bipartisan agreement reached by Senate leaders today to
end the fiscal impasse and to increase U.S. borrowing authority.  5. Parisian Luxury Estates Draw Middle East, U.S. Buyers  Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Marie-Helene Lundgreen, director of
Daniel Feau’s international department Belles Demeures de
 France , talks about renewed demand from foreign buyers for
multimillion-euro properties in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  