-- SAC Trader Lia Forcina Said to Leave Hedge Fund for BlueCrest
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-19T10:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/sac-trader-lia-forcina-said-to-leave-hedge-fund-for-bluecrest.html
Lia Forcina, who managed more than
$700 million at SAC Capital Advisors LP, has left the hedge-fund
firm for BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter.  Forcina, 39, agreed to join BlueCrest this month, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because her move hasn’t
been publicly announced. At SAC, she was a portfolio manager
based in  London  who traded the stocks of financial companies,
the people said.  Traders have been leaving SAC’s London office this year,
with some of them joining rivals such as BlueCrest and
Millennium Management LLC, as the hedge-fund firm founded by
Steven Cohen fights charges of  insider trading . A grand jury
indicted SAC in July on allegations that the $14 billion firm
engaged in unprecedented illegal trading for more than a decade.  Contact information for Forcina couldn’t be located through
U.K. directory assistance. A person who answered the phone at
SAC’s London offices said Forcina left the firm earlier this
month. Spokesmen for SAC and BlueCrest declined to comment.  Forcina is at least the fifth portfolio manager to leave
SAC in the U.K., according to regulatory records and people
familiar with the matter. Others departures include Alidod Shirinbekov, who is also joining London-based BlueCrest, and
John Levavasseur, who joined New York-based Millennium.  BlueCrest’s Expansion  BlueCrest, a $35 billion hedge-fund firm that mainly trades
fixed-income, has expanded into equities this year and hired
people after assets under management more than doubled since the
end of 2009.  Michael Platt , a former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
proprietary trader, founded BlueCrest in 2000.  SAC, started by Cohen 21 years ago, increased 2014 bonuses
by 3.5 percentage points in an effort to retain employees, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last month. SAC
portfolio managers are typically paid an annual bonus of 15
percent to 25 percent of the profits they generate from their
investments.  SAC expects investor redemptions to reduce its assets to $9
billion by the start of 2014, almost all of which will be Cohen
and his employees’ personal wealth, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation. The firm is negotiating a settlement
of the insider-trading charges with U.S. prosecutors that would
require it to pay more than $1 billion in penalties and stop
managing money for external clients, the  New York  Times reported
Oct. 17, citing people briefed on the case.  At the time of the July 25 indictment, SAC said it never
encouraged, promoted or tolerated illegal trading.  Forcina joined SAC in 2011 after departing from London-based hedge-fund firm Fenician Capital Management LLP, according
to her registration with the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority.
She worked at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  from 2002 through 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  