-- Somalia Suicide Bombing Kills 14 at Restaurant
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   M o h a m e d   S h e i k h   N o r
-- 2013-10-19T16:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/somalia-s-prime-minister-condemns-suicide-bombing-at-restaurant.html
A suicide bomber killed 14 people
and injured more than 34 in an attack on a crowded restaurant in
central  Somalia  frequented by soldiers from the  African Union ’s
mission to the country.  Ten civilians were killed in today’s blast in the town of
Beledweyn, along with the bomber, and four others died later in
a hospital, Colonel Mohmud Ali said in a telephone interview.
Most of those injured were also civilians, he said. The Islamist
group al-Shabaab told reporters it carried out the blast to
target troops from neighboring Ethiopia and  Djibouti , calling
them invaders.  “I am deeply saddened by the death of innocent people in
Beledweyn,” Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon Saaid said in an
e-mailed statement. “Together we will work as hard as possible
to bring lasting peace to Somalia.”  Al-Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab said it was behind an attack on
a shopping mall in neighboring  Kenya  last month that left at
least 67 civilians and members of the security forces dead. Five
gunmen also died in the four-day siege in Nairobi.  Somali President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud called on Oct. 13
for more support for his military to help sustain gains made
against the militants as the African Union warned the group is
gaining strength again. Al-Shabaab is seeking to topple the
government and establish an Islamic state.  Somalia’s central administration in the capital, Mogadishu,
is trying to establish order following more than two decades of
civil war since the fall of Mohamed Siad Barre’s dictatorship in
1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Mohamed Sheikh Nor in Mogadishu at 
 msheikhnor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  