-- Spain on Right Track After Tackling Labor Laws, Gurria Says
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-10-20T00:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-19/spain-on-right-track-after-tackling-labor-laws-gurria-says.html
Spain’s economy is starting to see
results after the government slashed deficits and overhauled
labor laws, said  Angel Gurria , the head of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  The country’s 26 percent unemployment rate has “stopped
growing” as labor costs converge with productivity similar to
 Germany , Gurria said. He complimented Spain’s coalition
government for passing reforms while facing pressure from
protests.  “Spain is on the right track,” Gurria, Secretary General
of the Paris-based OECD, said in an interview today on the
sidelines of the Ibero-American summit in Panama. “It’s been
tough, but it’s a time of reckoning.”  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said in a Sept. 26 interview
that the Spanish economy is emerging from its two-year recession
and the government doesn’t plan additional austerity measures as
it’s confident it can meet this year’s deficit goal of 6.5
percent of gross domestic product.  The government has vowed to tighten rules on jobless
benefits and crack down on fraud. Speaking in  Panama  today,
Rajoy credited his government’s policies for helping Spain
“emerge from a grave economic crisis.”  The euro region’s fourth-biggest economy will expand 0.6
percent in 2014 after contracting an estimated 1.4 percent this
year, according to the median estimate in a survey by Bloomberg.  Spain expects European Union members to agree next month
that its banks don’t need further state aid as the euro region’s
fourth-largest economy starts to recover from a six-year slump.
Its 12-month borrowing costs fell this week to the lowest since
April 2010, when  Greece  requested its first bailout from the EU.  Rajoy was joined by Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
and 11 heads of state taking part in the final day of the annual
Ibero-American summit of leaders from Latin America, Portugal
and Spain. The presidents of Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina
didn’t attend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  