-- Manchester Utd. Beats Stoke in Premier League; Arsenal Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-26T18:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/arsenal-beats-crystal-palace-2-0-to-extend-premier-league-lead.html
Manchester United came from behind
to beat Stoke 3-2 in English soccer’s Premier League, as 10-man
Arsenal defeated Crystal Palace 2-0 to maintain its hold on
first place.  Goals from  Wayne Rooney  and  Javier Hernandez  in the final
12 minutes gave United the home win. Mikel Arteta, who also
received a red card, and Olivier Giroud scored as Arsenal stayed
two points ahead of Liverpool, which beat West Brom 4-1.  Southampton beat Fulham 2-0, Everton won 2-0 at Aston Villa
and Norwich and Cardiff drew 0-0.  Manchester United needed two late goals to beat Stoke for
the 10th straight time at Old Trafford.  Peter Crouch put Stoke in front after four minutes. After
 Robin van Persie  drew United even in the 43rd minute, Marko
Arnautovic gave Stoke the lead again just before halftime.  Rooney tied the game in the 78th minute by heading in a van
Persie corner kick and Hernandez won the match two minutes later
with another header.  United remains in eighth place with 14 points, eight fewer
than Arsenal.  Arsenal’s away win extended its unbeaten run in the league
to eight since a season-opening loss to Aston Villa. The Gunners
didn’t take the lead until just after halftime with Arteta’s
penalty kick.  Arteta was sent off in the 65th minute after referee Chris
Foy ruled he was the last man back as he fouled Marouane
Chamakh. Gunners goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny then made a pair
of one-handed saves before Giroud’s header clinched the win with
two minutes remaining.  Suarez Hat-trick  Crystal Palace, which lost its sixth straight match, was
playing for the first time since manager  Ian Holloway  left the
club three days ago.  Luis Suarez  scored three goals as Liverpool stayed two
points behind Arsenal by beating West Brom at home.  Suarez scored twice in the opening 17 minutes at Anfield,
then completed his hat trick with a header in the 55th minute.
After West Brom’s James Morrison scored with a penalty kick,
Liverpool’s  Daniel Sturridge  added his league-leading eighth
goal.  Rickie Lambert and Jay Rodriguez had the goals as
Southampton moved into third place with its home win over
Fulham.  Romelu Lukaku and  Leon Osman  scored in the second half as
Everton won for the fourth time in five games. Toffees
goalkeeper Tim Howard saved Christian Benteke’s penalty shot in
the first half.  Norwich had 30 shot attempts though couldn’t put the ball
past Cardiff goalkeeper  David Marshall  in the goalless draw
between struggling teams. Norwich has won once in five league
games, while Cardiff has just one victory in its past eight
matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 