-- Asian Stocks Post Weekly Decline on China Bank Rates, Earnings
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-10-26T00:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/asian-stocks-post-weekly-decline-on-china-bank-rates-earnings.html
Asian  stocks  posted the biggest
weekly decline since August after forecasts from Canon Inc. to
 Japan  Exchange Group Inc. disappointed investors and money-market rates in China surged.  Japan Exchange sank 5.8 percent in  Tokyo  this week after
the main bourse operator in the world’s second-largest equity
market failed to boost full-year profit guidance as analysts had
expected. Canon retreated 1.9 percent as the world’s largest
camera maker trimmed its earnings forecast.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  dropped 5.4 percent in Hong Kong
as Asia’s biggest lender by market value paced a fall among
financial shares.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 1.5 percent to 141.31 this
week after climbing to a five-month high on Oct. 22 amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  would delay tapering stimulus.
The slide pulled its earnings multiple down to 13.6 times
estimated profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are a lot of risks,” Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based
head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages $131 billion, said by phone. “Only 50 percent of
companies are beating forecasts on revenues. There’s also been a
tightening in Chinese money markets and when you get news like
this, markets are going to be more volatile.”  Of 99 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that have
reported quarterly results this  earnings season  and for which
Bloomberg compiles estimates, 54 posted profit that missed
expectations, while 56 missed sales estimates, the data show.  Topix Declines  Japan’s  Topix index  fell 2.3 percent this week, leaving it
still 37 percent higher this year, the largest rally among 24
developed equity markets tracked by Bloomberg, amid optimism
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies and unprecedented monetary
easing from the  Bank of Japan  will lead the country out of
deflation. Consumer prices climbed from a year earlier in
September, a fourth monthly gain, data showed.  South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 0.9 percent even after
data showed the nation’s economy expanded more than forecast
last quarter. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  retreated 1.1 percent. Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 2.8 percent, the biggest weekly
retreat since August. China’s Shanghai Composite posted a second
week of declines, falling 2.8 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index gained 0.4 percent.
Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  rose 1.2 percent, a third week of
gains. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index, which reached a record high
this week, advanced 2.2 percent.  Canon, LG Retreat  Canon declined 1.9 percent this week to 3,080 yen yesterday
in Tokyo. Japan Exchange lost 5.8 percent to 2,156 yen.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  retreated 3.4 percent to 67,700 won
after its third-quarter operating profit and sales missed
estimates. Great Wall Motor Co. sank 5.1 percent in  Hong Kong 
after its third-quarter profit disappointed investors.  Hitachi Ltd., a maker of electronic equipment and
machinery, bucked the trend, jumping 5 percent this week after
preliminary first-half results beat forecasts.  Hong Kong banks retreated as China’s  money-market rate 
posted the biggest weekly jump since a cash squeeze in June
after the central bank refrained from injecting funds through
open-market operations. ICBC sank 5 percent and Bank of China
Ltd. lost 3.9 percent.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  slumped 9.4 percent after Australia’s
biggest carrier said last week it expects the lowest yields in
more than a decade for passenger flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  