-- Bristol-Myers Rheumatoid Arthritis Drug Works in Mid-Stage Trial
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-26T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/bristol-myers-rheumatoid-arthritis-drug-works-in-mid-stage-trial.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s
experimental rheumatoid arthritis drug reduced symptoms of the
disease and was about as effective as a current standard
treatment sold by  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , a study found.  In a trial of 418 patients, 78 percent of those who took
Bristol-Myers’s clazakizumab with methotrexate reduced their
symptoms by at least 20 percent, the New York-based company said
today in a statement. That was twice the rate of patients who
took only methotrexate, a generic treatment for the disease. Of
patients taking methotrexate and Humira, AbbVie’s injectable
drug that  sold  $9.27 billion last year, 76 percent had symptoms
fall by at least 20 percent.  Bristol-Myers’s  sales  are returning to growth after patent
expirations shrank revenue in the past five quarters, led by the
loss of marketing exclusivity for the anti-stroke pill Plavix.
New products, led by the company’s cancer and hepatitis C
franchises, are emerging and may boost sales further.  “It’s encouraging, especially since they had a comparator
arm there with Humira plus methotrexate,” said Grant Louie, a
rheumatologist and professor of medicine at  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine . “It does appear to be
comparable.”  The company is deciding whether to move the drug into the
final of three stages of clinical trials usually required for
approval before applying for marketing clearance, said Pushkal
Garg, a Bristol-Myers’s head of immunoscience development.  Development Path  “We’re very excited about the results here, and we’re
mapping out the next phases of the development plan,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Rheumatoid arthritis causes inflammation of the joints,
often in the hands and feet. It is thought to be caused by
problems with the immune system, according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. About  1.5 million
people  in the U.S. have it, according to the Arthritis
Foundation.  Clazakizumab’s biggest difference may be in getting a
portion of patients in remission from the disease, or reducing
its symptoms severely, Garg said.  “Where we really see the unmet need for clazakizumab, is
you have 70 percent or more of patients who don’t get into
remission,” he said. “We really want to try and get patients
into remission.”  Symptoms Reduced  The drug cut symptoms of the disease by 70 percent for 27
percent to 38 percent of patients in the study compared with 19
percent on Humira. Measures of remission were also greater on
clazakizumab than on Humira, according to the study.  The data were released today as part of the American
College of Rheumatology annual meeting in  San Diego .  Future trials will need to show the drug’s side effects are
manageable, especially since doctors are already familiar with
treatments on the market. Patients in the study released today
had pain at the injection sites at a higher rate than those
taking Humira, and the drug also raised cholesterol levels and
liver enzymes that could signal toxicity.  “That could raise concerns for the patient and the
regulatory agency,” Louie said. “Often in the real world,
patients say, ‘To heck with it,’ and discontinue medication
instead of dealing with it.”  Bristol-Myers hasn’t touted clazakizumab much to  investors ,
with executives focusing on the experimental drugs for cancer
and hepatitis. If successful in final stage trials, it would
compete with the multibillion-dollar drugs that currently
dominate for rheumatoid arthritis, Humira and Enbrel, which is
sold by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   Drug Deals  Bristol-Myers bought the drug in 2009 from closely held
Alder Biopharmaceuticals Inc. The deal gave Alder an initial
cash payment of $85 million, and as much as $764 million in
milestone payments and the potential for more than $200 million
in payments and royalties if the drug gets to market.  Rheumatoid arthritis patients typically start treatment
with methotrexate, a cheaply available generic drug. If
methotrexate doesn’t work or becomes less effective, doctors can
add a therapy such as like Humira or Enbrel. There’s no cure for
the chronic disease.  Clazakizumab works through a pathway called IL-6, helping
to block the inflammatory effects of rheumatoid arthritis.
Basel,  Switzerland-based Roche Holding AG  has a related drug,
Actemra, which sold $898 million last year. AbbVie is developing
a drug that uses the IL-6 path, ALX-0061, which it licensed from
Ablynx last month in a deal worth as much as $840 million.  The study didn’t offer data on another measure of disease
control, called radiographic progression, that uses imaging to
measure the breakdown in joints, Louie said. That may be an
important measure for regulators when the decide whether to
approve a drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  