-- Canada Dollar Falls Most in 4 Months on Rate-Bias Tilt, Oil Drop
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/canada-dollar-falls-most-in-4-months-on-rate-bias-tilt-oil-drop.html
The Canadian dollar fell the most
since June after the Bank of  Canada  abandoned a leaning toward
higher rates and crude oil dropped below $100 a barrel for the
first time since July.  The currency weakened versus the majority of its 16 most-traded peers for a fourth week as a more accommodative policy by
the Bank of Canada announced Oct. 23 followed a Sept. 18
decision by the Federal Reserve to sustain the pace of bond
purchases to engineer a stronger economic recovery. Canada’s
economy may have expanded 1.7 percent in August from a year
earlier, according to the median in the Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Oct. 31 Statistics Canada report.  “There’s two factors at work, the Bank of Canada and
industrial commodity prices,” Greg Anderson, head of global
foreign exchange strategy at Bank of Montreal, said by phone
from New York. “We haven’t seen oil prices this low in a long
time.”  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, added 1.6 percent this week to
C$1.0448 per U.S. dollar in Toronto. It reached C$1.0461, the
weakest level since Sept. 6. One loonie buys 95.71 U.S. cents.  BMO’s three-month forecast is for the currency to weaken to
C$1.06, Anderson said.  Bond Rally  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  rose, pushing
the yield down 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage points, to
2.42 percent, the lowest level since July 23. The 1.5 percent
security maturing in June 2023 added 91 cents to C$92.19.  The Bank of Canada will announce additional details on Oct.
31 for a five-year note sale scheduled for Nov. 6.  Crude oil futures fell 2.9 percent to $97.92 a barrel in
New York, while Canadian heavy crude ended the week 10.2 percent
lower at $64.95 a barrel, the biggest loss since December 2012.
The discount faced by benchmark crude Western Canada Select, to
West Texas Intermediate, ended the week at $33 per barrel,
almost the biggest gap in three weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The environment leaves the Canadian dollar exposed,”  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Hong Kong, said in a research report. “Oil market dynamics
remain unsupportive and the risks for the currency on this front
are skewed to the downside.”  Official Forecasts  The Bank of Canada pared its economic growth forecast for
this year to 1.6 percent from 1.8 percent. The central bank also
said inflation will remain less than its 2 percent target until
the end of 2015, two quarters longer than forecast in July, with
the risks of further weakness taking on “increasing importance.”  “We’ll have to take a look at key inflation numbers as
well as monthly growth next week,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst
in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a phone interview. “If we see renewed
fragility in those numbers they would justify the Bank of
Canada’s more neutral stance and spur talk the next move could
be a rate cut.”  The BOC decision to adopt a neutral bias and relinquish
calls for tighter policy will delay the next rate rise by three
months, according to 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
conducted Oct. 23-24. The median estimate targets a rate rise in
the first quarter of 2015, compared with a consensus for fourth
quarter in an Oct. 4-9 survey.  Hedge funds and other large speculators  reduced  bets the
Canadian dollar will fall against its U.S. peer in the week
ended Oct. 1, according to figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. The report was
delayed by the 16-day partial shutdown of the U.S. government.  The difference in the number of wagers by on a decline in
the loonie versus those on a gain -- so-called net shorts --was
955, the least since February and compared with 5,675 a week
earlier.  The currency will strengthen to C$1.04 by the end of the
year, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  