-- Chinese Reporter Says on State TV He Filed Fake Reports for Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-26T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/chinese-reporter-says-on-state-tv-he-filed-fake-reports-for-cash.html
A Chinese journalist detained by
police from Hunan province for allegedly defaming a state-owned
company said he accepted payments in exchange for releasing
fabricated reports,  China Central Television  said.  In footage broadcast as part of a nine-minute report aired
yesterday, Chen Yongzhou was heard to say in an interview with
two uniformed police officers that the information he released
was “absolutely not objective.” Handcuffed and with his head
shaved, the reporter for the Xinkuaibao newspaper said, “I’m
willing to admit to the crime and repent.”  The report by state-run CCTV and Chen’s televised statement
followed two front-page appeals last week by the Guangzhou-based
Xinkuaibao, or New Express, for police in the central city of
Changsha to release the 27-year-old reporter, who was detained
Oct. 18. His arrest has drawn attention to the rights of
journalists in China and follows a ruling by the country’s
Supreme Court last month that people who post defamatory
comments online could face as much as three years in jail.  “No matter he’s guilty or not, there are serious issues
with the procedures here,” Abe Yang, a lawyer with Dacheng Law
Offices in Shenzhen, said in a telephone interview, referring to
the airing of the program and Chen’s statement. “Even if the
police believe they have enough evidence, it’s up to the court
to decide whether he’s truly guilty.”  Shares Drop  In an English-language report yesterday, the official
Xinhua News Agency quoted police as saying Chen wanted to
apologize to  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co .,
stock investors and his family and warn his peers to “learn a
lesson from myself.”  Chen wrote stories questioning the finances of Zoomlion, a
construction-machinery maker based in Changsha, the capital of
Hunan province. Its  shares  fell in Hong Kong trading last week
after reports of the journalist’s arrest brought renewed
attention to the allegations. The stock rebounded 1.8 percent on
Oct. 25 after plunging more than 9 percent in the previous two-day period.  Zoomlion in February and May denied allegations by the
paper that it falsified sales. On May 28, the company said an
article accusing it of improperly accounting for sales was
“distorted” and “misleading.”  The Xinkuaibao hasn’t responded to the CCTV report on its
website or microblog.  Soliciting Prostitutes  Chen is the latest subject of a police investigation to be
shown on state television saying he committed wrongdoing.
American-Chinese venture capitalist and celebrity blogger
Charles Xue, who was detained in August on charges of soliciting
prostitutes, appeared on television the following month and said
the charges were true. Xue, who wrote on politically sensitive
topics to his 12 million followers, also said he behaved
irresponsibly in forwarding comments to his followers.  In July, Liang Hong, vice president and operations manager
in  China  for London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc, said in
questioning shown on television that he used a travel agency to
bribe officials and hospitals. The company is part of a probe by
Chinese authorities into corruption in the pharmaceutical
industry.  In its broadcast yesterday, CCTV aired footage of Chen
dressed in a detention-center vest over a check shirt. “These
articles were not written by me,” Chen was heard telling the
officers. “After they provided me with original drafts, I redid
them, and then took to have them published.”  Wealth, Fame  Chen was motivated by wealth and fame, CCTV said in its
report, citing the police. He was asked by other people, who
weren’t named in the report, to release more than 10 pre-written
articles under his byline which “negatively affected” Zoomlion,
in exchange for hundreds of thousands of  yuan  of payments,
according to CCTV. He also told the investigators he was paid
500,000 yuan ($82,000) for notifying regulators of the company’s
practices, CCTV said, citing the police.  The stories alleged Zoomlion was involved with “losses”
of state assets, irregular revenues and forging sales and
financial information, according to the CCTV report. The
government of Hunan owned 16.2 percent of Zoomlion at the end of
2012, according to the company’s annual report.  ‘Serious Impact’  Police in Changsha received a complaint from the company on
Sept. 9, set up the case on Sept. 16, and arrested Chen in
Guangzhou on Oct. 18 after “possessing a large amount of
evidence,” CCTV said in its report. His stories circulated
widely on the Internet and created a “serious impact on
society,” according to the police, it said.  Zoomlion filed a complaint against Chen with local police
earlier this month, according to a media official who asked not
to be identified because of the company’s rules, Bloomberg News
reported on Oct. 23.  Xinhua said in its  report  that Chen was detained “on
suspicion of damaging business reputation.” He has worked at
the Xinkuaibao as a reporter since graduating in 2009, it said.  CCTV said Chen was “criminally detained” in a Changsha
jail. He was taken by two guards to face questioning by police
investigators before signing a written statement, it said. A
clip of the room showed a slogan written in blue on a white wall
stating “extorting confessions is strictly forbidden” and an
electronic clock showed a time of 12:36 on Oct. 25.  Propaganda Orders  Xinkuaibao last week made two front-page  appeals  for Chen’s
release. The issue should be handled according to the law and
reporters should not be first detained and then sentenced, the
paper said in its second article on Oct. 24. The paper’s website
hasn’t been updated since that date.  China’s media are mostly state owned and regularly receive
instructions from propaganda authorities on what to cover,
making it unusual for newspapers to make a public stand.  Another journalist at the Xinkuaibao, Liu Hu, was arrested
Sept. 30 after posting allegations of wrongdoing by government
officials online. His lawyer Zhou Ze said on Oct. 10 he faced a
charge of defamation and had been in detention since Aug.24.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  