-- Czechs Face Impasse as Social Democrats Look for Partners
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-10-27T13:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/czechs-vote-as-social-democrats-vow-spending-after-slump-1-.html
The Social Democrats, the winners of
the  Czech Republic ’s snap election, reached out to parties with
opposing policy goals after an unexpectedly close race set the
course for protracted government talks.  The  Social Democrats  garnered 20.5 percent support with all
votes  counted , a record-low tally for an election winner, the
Statistics Office said yesterday.  ANO , a pro-business party
founded by Slovak-born billionaire Andrej Babis, had 18.7
percent. The Communists were third with 14.9 percent.  Czech voters punished parties tainted by corruption
scandals as they joined an anti-austerity wave that has brought
down leaders during  Europe ’s debt crisis. Having failed to
secure a majority with the Communists, the top vote getter’s
natural ally on economic policies, the Social Democrats need an
agreement with parties opposed to some of their priorities
including tax increases and debt limits.  “Some form of cooperation with ANO and the Christian
Democrats is where the  Social Democrats  should rationally focus
their talks,” Bohuslav Sobotka, the 42-year-old Social Democrat
leader and a former finance minister, said on the Prima
television channel today.  The Social Democrats, the largest opposition party during
the past seven years, won 50 mandates in the 200-seat
parliament, followed by ANO with 47 and the  Communists  with 33,
according to the Statistics Office. The Christian Democrats won
14 mandates.  Parliamentary Discord  With three other parties elected to parliament, the
fragmented legislature threatens to prolong political gridlock
that followed the fall of former Prime Minister Petr Necas in a
spying and graft scandal in June.  The Social Democrats also showed signs of a potential
internal rift, when Michal Hasek, the party’s deputy chairman,
questioned Sobotka’s standing after the disappointing result.  “If I was the Social Democrat leader and the party got
20.5 percent in elections, I would resign from my post,” Hasek
said in an interview today with the  news agency  CTK.  President Milos Zeman now has the right to name a leader to
try to form a cabinet. If the first pick fails to win a
confidence vote, Zeman will have another attempt, with the head
of parliament making the third selection.  Party Talks  Zeman won’t name the new premier before parliament meets
for an inaugural session in the last week of November, the first
directly elected Czech president said today. Government talks
may drag on until next year, he said.  “My estimate is that it will take two to three months,”
Zeman told the public broadcaster Czech Television.  In June, Zeman roiled political parties by snubbing
lawmakers and picking non-partisan Jiri Rusnok as the technocrat
prime minister. While Rusnok’s cabinet failed in a confidence
vote, it’s staying in power in a caretaker role until a new
administration is formed after the elections.  The Social Democrats plan to raise taxes on top earners and
businesses including banks, utilities and telecommunication
companies to finance spending increases on pensioners and
infrastructure. The party is targeting a budget  deficit  of less
than 3 percent of economic output.  Conflicting Goals  While the program is at odds with ANO’s platform, which
included pledges against tax increases, the party will consider
“tolerating” a minority Social-Democrat government if there is
enough policy overlap, said Martin Stropnicky, an actor-turned-diplomat who was elected a deputy for ANO.  The  Christian Democrats  campaigned for the introduction of
constitutional limits to curtail state debt, a proposal rejected
by the Social Democrats in the previous election term.  Deficit reductions in the past three years helped secure
the highest  credit rating  among the EU’s post-communist members
at Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , on par with
 Estonia , which adopted the euro in 2011.  The Czech Republic is preparing to install its eighth
premier in a decade, more than  Italy  or any other EU country in
the period.  Investors have ignored the political track record as the
Czech  economy  doubled in size from 2003 to $196 billion,
according to World Bank data. The  yield  on the country’s 10-year
government bond is the lowest in emerging Europe and has
averaged 3.9 percent over the past decade, compared with 5.6
percent for  Poland  and 3.5 percent for higher-rated  France. (GFRN10)   Apart from the austerity fatigue, 94 percent of Czechs see
corruption as widespread throughout the government, according to
a Gallup survey published on Oct. 18. The elected parties also
include a niche group called Dawn, which had campaigned for
stricter immigration rules.  “Given there are few, if any, ‘natural’ allies among the
parties, the end result will probably be a prolonged period of
horse-trading,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at
Morgan Stanley, said in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  