-- Detroit Emergency Manager Denies Taking Job to Force Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/detroit-emergency-manager-denies-taking-job-to-force-bankruptcy.html
Kevyn Orr told a federal judge he
didn’t agree to become Detroit’s emergency manager as part of a
plan to force the city into bankruptcy, denying one prong of an
attack by union and retired city workers at a trial this week.  Orr, a former corporate litigator and Democratic political
appointee, agreed to run the city at the request of  Michigan ’s
Republican Governor Rick Snyder, who is scheduled to testify
Oct. 28 when the trial resumes in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Detroit.  Orr told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes yesterday that
agreed to take the job after his wife and a senior partner at
his law firm told him it was a “call to action.”  Lawyers for city unions and retired workers said at the
start of the trial on Oct. 23 that Orr’s former law firm, Jones
Day, plotted with state officials to put the city into
bankruptcy as a way to cut pension and health-care benefits for
retirees. They portrayed the filing as a foregone conclusion,
claiming that as early as March 2012 Jones Day and state
officials discussed putting the city into bankruptcy.  To remain under court protection, where the city will be
shielded from lawsuits and other actions that might disrupt the
restructuring effort, it must meet tests laid out in Chapter 9
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  Those include requirements that the city show it’s
insolvent, that it’s entitled under state law to file for
bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate with creditors or was
unable to do so, and that it intends to file a plan to adjust
its debts.  Clinton Appointee  Orr began his testimony describing his career history as a
bankruptcy lawyer and as a political appointee during President
Bill Clinton’s administration, where he served with the Justice
Department and the Resolution Trust Corp.  Orr was a senior member of the Jones Day firm when he was
asked by state officials to be the city’s emergency manager. Orr
said he initially resisted the idea.  His former law firm was later hired as the city’s
bankruptcy counsel. He said there was no connection between his
hiring and the selection of Jones Day.  Orr is scheduled to continue his testimony Oct. 28, when he
may face hostile questioning from lawyers for unions and
retirees before Snyder testifies. Responding yesterday to a
question from Jones Day attorney Greg Shumaker, Orr said he
wasn’t appointed with an understanding that he was required to
file the biggest municipal bankruptcy.  Before Orr took the stand, the city’s lead financial
adviser, investment banker Kenneth Buckfire, told the judge that
 Detroit ’s proposal to cut payments to bondholders and pensioners
by the same amount differs from previous attempts by distressed
cities to restructure.  Same Treatment  Buckfire was the third of five witnesses the city said it
will call during the trial.  “It was fair because it treated our unsecured creditors
exactly the same,” Buckfire said. He was responding to a
question from an attorney for retirees challenging a proposal to
subject pensioners to the same cuts as unsecured bondholders.  Other cities “have tended to treat one group of creditors
more favorably than others,” Buckfire said. “We decided the
city should be impartial in terms of how we would treat
creditors.”  The city called Buckfire and two other financial
consultants as witnesses to help prove that it belongs in
bankruptcy.  After Buckfire testified, Police Chief James Craig told
Rhodes that the city solves about 11 percent of homicide cases.
The city had about 384 homicides in 2012, making it the second-most violent city in the U.S., according to FBI statistics.  ‘Deplorable Conditions’  In describing the department, Craig cited a consultant’s
report that concluded: “Everything is broken. Deplorable
conditions. Crime is extremely high. Morale is low. Absence of
leadership.”  Craig, who receives a pension after retiring from his job
as Los Angeles police officer, said he was concerned that
cutting pensions in Detroit would make it hard to retain police
officers.  Buckfire, the co-president of  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) ’s
Miller Buckfire & Co., said Oct. 24 that a 2009 deal with swaps
investors threatened the city’s best source of cash in the
months before it filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy.  That deal gave the swaps investors power to lock up much of
the $180 million a year that Detroit gets from taxes on its
casinos, Buckfire testified. That put added pressure on the
city, which had only a $7 million cushion on a budget of more
than $1 billion, he said.  Bondholders’ Assumption  Buckfire also testified that bondholders demanded full
repayment during negotiations designed to avert a bankruptcy,
relying on an assumption that general obligation bonds were safe
because any municipality that issued them was required to raise
taxes to repay the debt.  In its June proposal to creditors, the city didn’t accept
the claims by either pension creditors or general obligation
bondholders that each had a special status under Michigan law
and should be paid in full, Buckfire said in court.  Under that restructuring proposal, made before the city
filed bankruptcy in July, Orr said he would pay all unsecured
debt holders, including retirees and general obligation
bondholders, pennies on the dollar.  Buckfire was questioned by lawyers for unions and retirees
trying to get the bankruptcy case thrown out. Buckfire, who grew
up in the suburbs of Detroit, said he has led the city’s
financial restructuring team since January.  He said he has followed Detroit’s financial troubles since
it was downgraded by bond-rating firms in 2009. Last year, the
state hired him to do a 60-day review of Detroit’s finances. The
city later agreed to hire Miller Buckfire after the state
required local officials to bring on a financial adviser as a
requirement to get more aid.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at  schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  