-- Dollar Drops on Bets Fed to Delay Slowing Stimulus; Aussie Falls
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/dollar-drops-on-bets-fed-to-delay-slowing-stimulus-aussie-falls.html
The dollar had its first back-to-back weekly losses against the euro in a month as weaker-than-forecast economic data added to bets the  Federal Reserve  will
put off slowing stimulus to help the U.S. economy strengthen.  The greenback touched a two-year low against the euro as
U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast and  consumer
confidence  sagged. Federal Open Market Committee policy makers
meet next week. Currencies of commodities-exporting countries
including  New Zealand  and  Australia  slid as risk appetite ebbed
and bets  China ’s central bank may tighten policy damped growth
prospects. The yen gained for a second week versus the dollar.  “The greenback is likely to remain downbeat next week in
the run-up to the FOMC,” Nordine Naam, an  interest-rate 
strategist at Natixis in Paris, said yesterday via e-mail. “The
dollar extended its downward correction in reaction to the
disappointing September employment data.”  The U.S. currency depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.3802 per
euro this week in  New York  and touched $1.3832 yesterday, the
weakest level since November 2011. The dollar declined 0.3
percent to 97.42 yen. Europe’s 17-nation shared currency gained
0.5 percent to 134.46 yen in a third weekly advance. It touched
135.51 yen on Oct. 22, the highest since November 2009.  A gauge of price swings among Group of Seven nations’
currencies fell for an  eighth  week, the longest streak since
2005. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7 Volatility Index declined to as
low as 7.49 percent on Oct. 24, the least since Dec. 21. The
2013 average is 9.4 percent.  Winners, Losers  Sweden’s krona and the Swiss franc were the biggest winners
among the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg, gaining 1.6 percent and 1 percent. The dollars of New
Zealand,  Canada  and Australia were the biggest losers, dropping
2.6 percent, 1.6 percent and 1 percent.  The Aussie and New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi,
declined for the first week in almost a month as data showed
 home prices  in China’s four major cities rose the most since
January 2011, adding to concern  property-market  bubbles are
forming.  The People’s Bank of China, which last week refrained from
adding funds to markets, may lean toward policy tightening
should inflation accelerate, Song Guoqing, a central-bank
academic adviser, said Oct. 20.  ‘Peaked Out’  “Aussie-dollar is increasingly looking like it’s peaked
out for the time being,”  Richard Franulovich , the chief
currency strategist for the northern hemisphere at Westpac
Banking Corp. in New York, said in a phone interview on Oct. 23.
“The risk is that Chinese authorities once again try to clamp
down on the property market. That’s bad news for commodities
prices and bad news for Australia and the currency.”  Australia’s dollar weakened to 95.84 U.S. cents, and the
kiwi dropped to 82.80 cents.  Commodities slid, with the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of
raw materials sinking 2.2 percent, the most since June.  The euro has climbed to its strongest level on a trade-weighted basis since August 2011, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s EUR Trade-Weighted Index.  The shared currency’s strength “is now significant enough
to potentially impact the ECB’s outlook for inflation, and it
may comment on the euro in this context,”  Jens Nordvig ,
managing director of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
Japan’s biggest brokerage, wrote in a note, referring to the
 European Central Bank . “An actual policy response -- beyond
verbiage -- seems unlikely in the near-term.”  Nomura recommended investors bet on the euro appreciating
against the yen. The ECB, which next meets on Nov. 7, has kept
its benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent since May.  ‘Positive Euro’  The “market is turning quite positive euro,” Masafumi Takada, a director at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said Oct. 24.
The European currency is gaining on “the back of U.S. downgrade
fear, a weaker U.S. number, Fed tapering postponed.”  The euro may have gained too much, too fast against the
greenback, a technical indicator signaled yesterday for a fourth
straight day, the longest stretch since September 2012. The
European currency’s 14-day relative-strength index was at 74,
above the 70 level some traders see as a sign a drop may be
imminent.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index  fell to an eight-month low
on Oct. 22 after data showed employers added 148,000 workers in
September. That trailed the forecast for 180,000 and indicated
the  U.S. economy  had little momentum leading up to the 16-day
partial shutdown of the federal government this month by a
deadlock in Congress. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final U.S. consumer sentiment index for October decreased to
73.2, the lowest in 10 months, from 77.5 the prior month, data
showed yesterday.  ‘Set Tone’  The labor number “was definitely the main story that set
the tone for the week and underpins what we’ve seen in the
market,” Brad Bechtel, managing director at Faros Trading LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  The Fed unexpectedly refrained at its meeting last month
from slowing the pace of its asset purchases, saying it wanted
more evidence of an economic recovery.  The central bank will delay tapering its $85 billion of
monthly bond buying until its March 18-19 meeting, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Oct. 17-18. A poll last
month forecast the first reduction would be in December.  “While the Fed’s on hold and still pumping liquidity in,
the dollar’s going to be soft against everything,” Jeremy Hale,
head of macro strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said Oct.
24. “There’s a feeling that the debacle in Congress damaged the
economy a little bit.”  The central bank buys Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities to push down long-term yields and spur growth, a move
that tends to debase the greenback. The Fed meets on Oct. 29-30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  