-- Texas Asks U.S. Judge to Dismiss Photo ID Voter Lawsuit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-10-26T15:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/texas-asks-u-s-judge-to-dismiss-photo-id-voter-lawsuit.html
A federal judge should dismiss legal
challenges to a  Texas  law requiring voters to show photo
identification because the rule isn’t discriminatory and Texas
has the right to set its own voter qualifications, state
attorneys said in a court filing.  Texas also contends that the activist groups and elected
officials suing to block implementation of the new law have no
legal standing to challenge the rule. Only individual voters can
sue to protect their own rights, the state said in a filing
yesterday in federal court in Corpus Christi.  “Constitutional rights are an individual’s own to
assert,” the state said. “The statutory language does not
accommodate lawsuits brought by plaintiffs who seek to vindicate
the constitutional rights of third parties.”  Minority-rights groups and the U.S. Justice Department
claim black and Hispanic voters “disproportionately lack” the
photo ID required of all voters under a law signed this year by
Republican Governor  Rick Perry . Residents must show one of six
types of state-issued photo identification in order to vote in
person.  “Texas has filed a motion to dismiss every election
lawsuit we’ve ever filed, and they’ve all been dismissed,” said
Luis Roberto Vera Jr., national general counsel for the League
of Latin American Citizens, in a telephone interview.  All Races  Texas, which recently cut to $3 the cost of a birth
certificate that can be used to get a free voter ID card, claims
it isn’t more burdensome for residents to get the cards than it
is to for them to get to the polls, “because minorities
disproportionately lack access to motor vehicles.”  “The states also hold a constitutionally protected
prerogative to establish the qualifications for voting in state
and federal elections,” so long as the measures apply to all
races, Texas’s lawyers said in the filing.  “The Texas Legislature’s eagerness to pass” the new
measure “reflects the fact that voter-identification laws are
politically popular; it is not evidence of racism,” they said.  The case is Veasey v. Perry, 2:13-cv-00193, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas ( Corpus Christi ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  