-- Hindustan Unilever Net Beats Estimates as Soap, Cream Sales Rise
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-10-26T13:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/hindustan-unilever-net-beats-estimates-as-soap-cream-sales-rise.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company,
reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
sales of its soaps and skin care creams climbed.  Net income rose 13 percent to 9.1 billion rupees ($148
million) in the three months ended September from 8.1 billion
rupees a year earlier, the Mumbai-based company said in a
statement today. Profit exceeded the 8.6 billion-rupee  median  of
34 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Better-than-expected performance at the maker of Dove soap
and Ponds anti-aging cream, could suggest that consumer
sentiment across the country is picking up, Naveen Vyas,
Kolkata-based analyst at Microsec Capital Ltd., said in an
interview before the earnings.  India ’s exports have picked up
and  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan said this
month economic growth will accelerate from last quarter’s pace.  “There could be a mild thawing in consumer sentiment,”
Vyas said. “Sales of some premium goods may have been better
than expected.”  Hindustan  Unilever (ULVR)  fell 2.6 percent to 593.95 rupees in
Mumbai trading yesterday. The stock has gained 13 percent this
year, compared with a 16 percent climb in the 11-company S&P BSE
FMCG Index of the nation’s biggest consumer goods companies.  Sales volume at the company grew five percent,  compared 
with 7 percent in the same period last year. That metric
reflects sales growth excluding price changes.  Sales Climb  Parent Unilever this week reported the slowest quarterly
sales growth in four years as demand for its soaps and spreads
slowed in  emerging markets  and failed to pick up in  North
America  and Europe amid higher levels of competiton.  The food price inflation in India and the decline in
emerging market currencies affected Unilever and “we’re
obviously working our way through that,” Chief Executive
Officer Paul Polman said in a Oct. 24 conference call.  Sales at Hindustan Unilever, a unit of Unilever based in
 London  and Rotterdam, climbed 9.6 percent to 67.5 billion rupees
in the second quarter. That compared with the 67.3 billion-rupee
 median  of analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  