-- Mongolia Closer to Ending Dispute With Rio Tinto on Copper Mine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-10-26T10:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/mongolia-closer-to-ending-dispute-with-rio-tinto-on-copper-mine.html
Mongolia and  Rio Tinto  Group have
resolved some of the disputes that have stalled the expansion of
their $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper mine, a Mongolian board
member of the venture said.  “Within the last 10 days we could resolve certain issues;
we have reduced the state of urgency,” Davaadorj Ganbold, one
of three Mongolian nationals on the Oyu Tolgoi LLC board, said
in an interview in Ulaanbaatar, adding that some points remain
to be agreed on.  “Issues related to cost overrun, the feasibility study and
project financing are large and broad issues that cannot be
resolved in four or five days,” said Ganbold, a board member
since September and also executive director at Erdenes Oyu
Tolgoi LLC, the company that holds the government’s 34 percent
stake in the project.  Rio in July delayed work on the expansion, which is
expected to cost about $5.1 billion, until wrangles with the
government on funding and other issues are resolved. While open-pit work continues, the dispute has led to the suspension of
underground construction and the layoff of about 1,700 workers.  The saga has taken its toll on  Turquoise Hill (TRQ)  shares, which
have fallen 34 percent in Toronto over the year to date. It has
also hurt Mongolia by weakening investor confidence and delaying
other projects.  Foreign Direct Investment  fell 47 percent over
the first eight months of the year.  Dispute Points  London-based Rio, the world’s second-biggest mining company
by market value, manages the venture through its 51 percent
stake in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd., which owns 66 percent of
the mine. Oyu Tolgoi, located 80 kilometers (50 miles) north of
the Chinese border, is forecast to account for about a third of
Mongolia’s economy when in full operation.  Mongolia had listed 30 points of dispute with its partner
over the mine. Chief among these have been criticism of cost
overruns on the open-pit operation and objections to the mine
being used as collateral for the financing of the underground
portion.  Facing down problems in a project of this size is
inevitable, Ganbold said. Oyu Tolgoi wouldn’t  be the first big
project to experience delays or ownership tiffs, he said.  “The construction of the Panama Canal took 100 years,”
said Ganbold, who holds a Ph.D.in economics from Moscow State
University. “How many companies were bankrupted? How many
people died? How many financial collapses occurred? But finally
the project was completed.”  Seeking Guarantees  On Oct. 1, Mongolian board members said the number of
outstanding issues was down to 15 following discussions with Rio
in  London , conceding that some Oyu Tolgoi assets could be used
as collateral.  Mongolia has also sought guarantees that the mine expansion
won’t be subject to cost overruns, a reset of Rio’s management
fees to be based on revenues earned rather than money spent, and
a pledge that all money raised against Oyu Tolgoi assets be
spent within the country.  “No one wanted to see any cost overrun or project delay,”
Ganbold said. “No one wanted to see any decreasing of the
profits and benefits. But life is life and that is why we have
to solve these issues.”  Issues related to water use, transportation of the
concentrate, exports to  China  and company management are closer
to resolution, said Ganbold.  “Both sides are being very tolerant and cooperative
towards each other,” said Ganbold, who was deputy prime
minister from 1990 to 1992. “Solving one thing may bring some
movement or success in other items.”  Financing Package  Resolving the terms of the $4 billion project financing
package remains the biggest hurdle as development of the second
phase of the mine relies on another influx of cash. The deadline
to approve the financing comes due on Dec. 12.  Ganbold declined to comment on the deadline, saying that
details of the financing are in the hands of the investors.  The second phase of the mine includes extensive underground
tunneling needed to reach the richest parts of the ore body. The
open pit section currently in operation will only yield about 20
percent of the mine’s overall wealth.  Commercial production at the mine started in July although
Chinese customs delayed deliveries to customers for over three
months before releasing the first batch of concentrate from a
bonded warehouse in China earlier this week.  “The concentrate started to go last week, so the first
official, touchable, visible  cash flow  has started to go to this
joint venture company. That is big progress,” said Ganbold,
adding that so far Mongolia has received over $1 billion from
the mine in the form of taxes and other payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  