-- U.K. Braces for Hurricane Winds in Worst Storm Since 2008
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-26T13:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/u-k-braces-for-hurricane-force-winds-in-worst-storm-since-2008.html
Southern  England  and  Wales  are
preparing for  winds of 60 to 80 miles per hour  late tomorrow
that may damage buildings and cause widespread disruption.  Wind strength may be similar to storms last seen in 2007
and 2008, the U.K.’s Met Office said on its website, issuing an
 amber alert , the middle category of a three-stage warning system
that asks people to be prepared. The winds may last from late
tomorrow through the morning of Oct. 28, according to the Met
office’s last update at 4 a.m. today.  “Winds of this strength could bring down trees or cause
structural damage, potentially causing transport disruption or
power cuts,” the Met office said. It also warned that heavy
rain may increase the risk of flooding.  The gusts may lead to shutdowns at turbines including those
at the  London Array , the world’s biggest offshore wind-power
site, which automatically halt when wind speeds exceed 56 mph.  Gusts around the  London  Array are forecast at about 130
kilometers per hour (81 mph), Barrie Englishby, a production
manager at the project in the sea east of London, said yesterday
in an e-mail. Structurally, the turbines and offshore sub-stations are designed to withstand conditions “far in excess”
of those forecast, he said.  Falling Trees  The London Array is owned by EON SE, Dong Energy A/S and
Masdar Abu Dhabi Future Energy Co. It has 175  Siemens AG (SIE) 
turbines with a total capacity of 630 megawatts, enough to power
almost half a million U.K. homes, according to its  website .  South West Trains, a London commuter train operator, said
maintenance teams would visit sites across its network to
prepare for the storm.  “The risk of falling trees as well as damage to buildings
and equipment is high,” the company said in  a statement  on its
website. “These conditions present risks to the railway from
localized flooding, fallen trees and debris on the tracks.”  London residents should clear their gardens of furniture
and stay inside if possible, the  London Fire Brigade  said on its
 website .  “London could be hard hit by the severe weather, so we’re
reminding people to be extra careful,” Steve Hamm, the
brigade’s head of operational resilience, said in the statement.  Wind Power  Wind power generation will peak at 5,501 megawatts on Oct.
27 and 4,214 megawatts on Oct. 28, up from a maximum of 3,667
megawatts yesterday, according to Bloomberg’s wind supply model.
It rose to a  record  5,773 megawatts on Sept. 15, according to
 National Grid Plc (NG/)  data.  While the storm is most likely to cut across southern
England, there is a moderate probability that it will track
across the midlands and the north of England and a low
probability it will miss the English mainland to the south, the
Met Office said this week.  Sustained winds of 74-95 mph constitute a Category 1
hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  U.K. farm income dropped 14 percent last year as the
second-wettest weather on record reduced harvests and costs
climbed, according to government data. Summer 2013 was the
driest since 2006 and the 16th driest since 1910, Met Office
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  