-- UN Syria Aid Blocked by Assad Regime, Opposition Disarray
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-26/un-syria-aid-blocked-by-assad-regime-opposition-disarray.html
Syrians are dying “silently” as
 United Nations  aid organizations face a regime unwilling to lift
bureaucratic impediments and a fractured opposition unable to
ensure security for access routes, the world body’s top
humanitarian assistance official said.  President Bashar al-Assad’s government hasn’t agreed on
providing more visas for international aid workers, streamlining
customs procedures and taking steps to improve border security,
 Valerie Amos , under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs
and emergency relief, told the UN Security Council yesterday.  At the same time, infighting among about 2,000 rival armed
groups within the Syrian opposition is on the rise, challenging
the UN’s ability to navigate the rebels’ command and control
structures, she said.  Amos expressed her “deep disappointment” in the UN
Security Council for failing to pressure the warring parties in
the 2 1/2-year civil war that has killed more than 100,000
people to ensure more help reaches millions of Syrians. There is
“little change to report” since the council’s statement three
weeks ago urging authorities to immediately facilitate expanded
aid operations, Amos said.  The  Security Council  unanimously agreed on a nonbinding
presidential statement on Oct. 2 calling for increased aid
access to build on a diplomatic breakthrough reached days
earlier on eliminating  Syria ’s chemical weapons.  Deepening Crisis  “The progress we had hoped to see on the ground as as a
result of that statement has not happened,” Amos told reporters
after briefing the 15-member council in  New York . “What we are
seeing is a deepening of the crisis, more and more people
affected.”  Amos called on the council to “exert influence and take
the necessary action to stop this brutality and violence.” The
strongest Security Council move would be to adopt a binding
resolution. A French bid last year for such action was blocked
by  Russia , an Assad ally.  During the closed portion of her briefing, Amos set out
“very specific areas” for which she wanted more support from
the Security Council, U.K. envoy to the UN Mark Lyall Grant told
reporters afterward. He said members will discuss other
practical steps to assist Amos’s efforts before considering
stronger measures, such as a resolution.  The latest UN figures show 6.8 million of the country’s
21.4 million population in need of humanitarian aid. There are
4.25 million people displaced within Syria and 2.2 million
refugees who have flooded into neighboring Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq
and Jordan and North Africa.  Polio Threatens  The UN has been unable to provide assistance to about 2.5
million people trapped in “hard-to-reach and besieged areas,”
Amos said in her statement to the council.  She said the opposition’s siege of Aleppo in Syria’s
northwest, the government’s siege of Damascus suburbs and
fighting in Hama and Deraa illustrate the security challenges in
delivering aid.  The country may be on the brink of its first polio outbreak
in 14 years, while what little remains of the civilian
infrastructure crumbles under indiscriminate attacks on
thousands of schools, hospitals,  power plants  and water
facilities, Amos said.  Kidnappings of aid workers and hijackings of aid convoys
are becoming more frequent, making it difficult for the UN to
find drivers willing to drive convoys, she said.  Humanitarian efforts in Syria are underfunded, with 54
percent of the $1.4 billion sought for this year raised for
assistance inside the country, Amos said. With winter
approaching, $1.8 million is needed before it gets “too late to
procure and deliver” supplies, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  