-- 
‘Transformers’ Is Top Film Again With $47.1 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-07-11T22:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/-transformers-sequel-is-weekend-s-top-movie-for-2nd-week-with-47-million.html
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon”
was the top-grossing film at U.S. and Canadian theaters for a
second weekend, taking in $47.1 million for  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s
 Paramount Pictures .  “Horrible Bosses,” the R-rated comedy from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., was second in its debut with $28.3 million
in receipts, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in
an e-mailed statement.  “Dark of the Moon” is the third movie in a series that
has generated about $2.2 billion in worldwide ticket sales,
according to Box Office Mojo. Paramount Chief Executive Officer
Brad Grey has sought to boost profit by focusing on franchises,
including “Transformers” and “ Star Trek .” The studio ranked
first in 2011 ticket sales with $1.14 billion as of July 10.  “Dark of the Moon” is “the kind of film that’s made to
make most of its business in the first two weeks,” said Gitesh Pandya, editor of Boxofficeguru. “‘ Harry Potter ’ will take away
both audiences and 3-D screens” when it opens this week.  The film is based on the  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  toys, and has taken in
$261.1 million in the U.S. and  Canada  since it was released on
June 29. The movie cost $195 million to make, according to Box
Office Mojo.  The plot involves the evil Decepticon robots renewing their
war against the benevolent Autobots and their human allies.  Shia LaBeouf  returns as Sam Witwicky, a young man befriended by the
Autobots. English model Rosie Huntington-Whiteley replaced Megan Fox, co-star in the first two films, as Sam’s love interest.  ‘Horrible Bosses’  In “Horrible Bosses,” three men plot revenge on their
abusive employers. The comedy stars  Jennifer Aniston , Colin Farrell,  Jason Bateman  and  Kevin Spacey . The movie was expected
to take in $25 million, the forecast of Box Office Media LLC’s
Boxoffice.com.  The film is the second raunchy comedy to perform well for
 Warner Bros ., following “The Hangover Part II,” which was made
for about $80 million. It has collected $561.2 million worldwide
since its May 26 debut, according to Box Office Mojo.  “The summer of super heroes has turned into the summer of
R-rated comedies, between ‘Horrible Bosses,’ ‘The Hangover II’
and ‘Bridesmaids,’” said  Jeff Bock , a senior analyst at
Exhibitor Relations in Los Angeles.  “When you see a big film hit, no matter what the genre is,
studios jump on that trend right away,” he said. “When studios
saw how ‘Hangover I’ did a few years ago,” they all started
developing comedy projects.  ‘Zookeeper’  Another new film, the  Sony Corp. (6758)  comedy “Zookeeper,” took
in $20.1 million in its first weekend, finishing third. The
movie stars  Kevin James  as a lonely zookeeper who gets dating
advice from talking animals. The film was expected to generate
$23 million in its opening weekend, according to Boxoffice.com.  “Cars 2,” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar, fell to fourth
from second with sales of $15.2 million. In the film, racer
Lightning McQueen and tow truck Mater travel overseas so that
McQueen can compete in the World Grand Prix auto race.  Owen Wilson  and Larry the Cable Guy (Daniel Lawrence Whitney) provide
the voices of McQueen and Mater.  The film, a sequel to the 2006 hit, produced $148.8 million
in the U.S. and Canada since its June 24 release.  “Bad Teacher,” featuring  Cameron Diaz  as a foul-mouthed
educator, dropped to fifth from third with $8.9 million in sales
for Sony.  Justin Timberlake , Jason Segel and Lucy Punch co-star.  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 21 percent to $145.7
million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic box-
office sales this year have declined 8.6 percent, while
attendance is down 10 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
8-10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  