-- 
Aegis, BSkyB, Northumbrian Water: U.K., Irish Equity Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 
2011-07-11T06:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/aegis-standard-chartered-xstrata-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  The FTSE 100 Index fell 63.97 points, or 1.1 percent, to
5,990.58. The FTSE All-Share Index dropped 1 percent to
3,122.43, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.8 percent to
2,943.53.  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  : U.K. private equity firm Doughty
Hanson & Co. is seeking to buy Synovate, a market-research unit
of Aegis, for about 600 million pounds ($962 million), the
Sunday Telegraph reported, citing Anthony Gahan, Doughty’s
corporate finance adviser from Wyvern Partners. The stock fell
1.3 percent to 158.2 pence.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  : Anglo American said coal-
mining jobs are under threat after  Australia ’s government
unveiled the country’s first levy on greenhouse-gas emissions.
The shares dropped 1.7 percent to 3,128 pence.  Bank of Ireland Plc (BKIR LN): Ireland’s largest bank said
it plans to raise 1.91 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in a share
sale, as the nation’s largest lender seeks to raise capital and
avoid state control. The stock rose 0.9 percent to 11.6 euro
cents.  BP Plc (BP/)  : The London-based oil producer said the
U.S. Gulf Coast economy has improved so much that most payments
for projected damage caused by its spill should stop. The shares
declined 0.9 percent to 458.5 pence.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  : U.K. Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  will ask regulators for additional advice
on  News Corp .’s proposed takeover of BSkyB in light of the News
of the World phone-hacking scandal, a person familiar with the
situation said.  News Corp. will have to pay a 38.5 million-pound breakup
fee to BSkyB if the media group fails to go ahead with plans to
bid for the broadcaster, the Independent on Sunday reported,
citing unnamed bankers and investors. The stock slumped 7.6
percent to 750 pence.  Centrica Plc (CNA)  : The U.K.’s biggest energy supplier
became the second utility to announce higher domestic gas and
electricity prices from August because of higher wholesale
costs. The stock was unchanged at 327.5 pence.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  : The U.K.’s biggest drugmaker
won U.S. regulatory approval of a vaccine to prevent tetanus,
diphtheria and whooping cough in those ages 65 and older, the
Food and Drug Administration said. The shares gained 0.7 percent
to 1,375.5 pence.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG LN):
British Airways pension-plan trustees face increasing pressure
to reverse a decision that will reduce payments, the Sunday
Telegraph reported, citing two trustees who resigned over the
matter. The stock fell 2.4 percent to 244 pence.  International Power Plc (IPR)  : The U.K. utility
controlled by GDF Suez SA said relief the Australian government
has offered electricity-generating companies from the new carbon
tax have an impact on its Australian operations and employees,
but are not expected to be material to the entire group. The
stock fell 2.8 percent to 301.3 pence.  Michael Page Plc (MPI LN): The recruiter said gross profit
increased 32 percent in the second quarter, and full-year
earnings will be broadly in line with its forecasts. The stock
rose 0.3 percent to 533.5 pence.  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  : The U.K. water
company received an offer of about 2.4 billion pounds, or 465
pence a share, from Li Ka-shing’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd. The stock fell less than 0.1 percent to 426.3
pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  : Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. is considering a bid for RBS Aviation
Capital, the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aircraft-
financing division, the Sunday Times reported, citing  Guy Hands .  Separately, RBS asked a U.K. judge to limit the amount of
e-mails it must turn over as it seeks to halt Highland Capital
Management LP’s $100 million U.S. lawsuit over a failed bond
transaction. The shares retreated 2.6 percent to 37.21 pence.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  :  Europe ’s largest oil
company will receive help to win final approval for its A$12
billion ($12.9 billion) liquefied natural gas project off
Western Australia, the Australian government said. The stock
declined 1.4 percent to 2,257 pence.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  : The lender’s Korean unit
may temporarily shutter some branches as a strike by employees
heads toward a third week, the worst labor dispute involving
foreign banks in  South Korea  in more than five years. The stock
retreated 1.6 percent to 1,627.5 pence.  Vallares Plc (VLRS LN): The investment vehicle led by BP
Plc’s former Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward is in talks to
buy Genel Enerji AS, the Sunday Times reported. The shares fell
0.5 percent to 1,015 pence.  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW LN): The retailer
may bid for some individual stores from Iceland Foods Ltd., the
U.K.-based frozen-food chain, the Financial Times reported,
citing Chief Executive Officer Dalton Philips. The stock fell
0.3 percent to 299.9 pence.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  : The mining company with operations in
19 countries said it’s assessing the impact of the Australian
government’s tax on  carbon emissions . The shares dropped 2.8
percent to 1,377 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  