-- 
Asia Doubles Solar Silicon Factories, Pursuing Gain in Slump

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/asia-doubles-silicon-factories-pursues-gain-through-glut-as-prices-dive.html
Asia ’s largest makers of silicon for
solar panels are almost doubling their factory size this year
just as surplus production sends prices tumbling for the main
raw material for the $35 billion industry.  Korea ’s OCI Co. and  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  of China
said they’ll increase capacity to a combined 88,000 metric tons
a year from 48,000 tons. Global demand for the material, known
as polysilicon, is growing at less than a third of that rate,
and spot prices fell 32 percent in the second quarter, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance estimated.  Asians are deploying equipment to refine silicon crystals
more quickly than Western competitors. They anticipate gaining
share from the world’s largest suppliers, Hemlock Semiconductor
Corp. of the U.S. and  Germany ’s  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , as customers
increasingly demand lower prices for the key material used in
panels to convert sunlight into electricity.  “They want to grow ahead of the competitors to win in the
long term,” said Chris Park, a Hong Kong-based senior analyst
of Moody’s Investors Service. If they have enough liquidity,
they should perform well in coping with a price slump, he said.  The situation mirrors the Asian investment boom and price
slashing of the last few years among their customers, which make
solar cells and panels. That resulted in Chinese companies, led
by JA Solar Holdings Co., capturing more than half the global
photovoltaic panel market for the first time in 2010.  Shares Tumble  Several European suppliers were pushed aside. In Germany,
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  shares lost 80 percent through June 30 from their
record in November 2007.  China will boost its market share in the polysilicon market
to about 42 percent of production capacity this year from 39
percent in 2010, New Energy Finance estimated.  Solar-grade silicon fell to $53.40 a kilogram ($24.27 a
pound) in June, the lowest in more than six years, from $78.90
in March, according to the London-based research company. The
material, which cost as much as $450 a kilogram in mid-2008, may
sell for $40 to $50 for the rest of 2011, said Jenny Chase, New
Energy Finance’s chief solar analyst.  Wacker isn’t concerned about a glut or short-term price
plunges “because we sell mostly with long-term contracts,”
said Christof Backmair, a company spokesman in Munich. He said
almost all output to 2015 has been sold. “We don´t have idle
capacity and are doing our utmost to avoid it.”  OCI, GCL-Poly  A spokesman at Seoul-based OCI, who asked not to be named,
said the company is on schedule to expand the capacity,
regardless of fluctuating prices. Wang Manjian, a GCL-Poly
spokesman in  Hong Kong , declined to comment. Hemlock officials
couldn’t be reached for comment.  “In the long run, larger scale will help us reduce
production costs and gain market share,” said Kevin He,
investor relations manager of  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ) , China’s
fourth-largest polysilicon producer. “All the companies will be
affected when margins are squeezed.”  China’s Daqo, based in Wanzhou, Chongqing, is capable of
making 4,300 metric tons of polysilicon a year. In March, it
started building a 3,000-metric ton plant in Shihezi, Xinjiang,
to boost output as much as 70 percent.  That contrasts with the average 19 percent capacity
expansion under way this year at the world’s four biggest non-
Asian suppliers, which are Hemlock, Wacker,  MEMC Electronic
Materials Inc. (WFR)  of the U.S. and  Norway ’s Renewable Energy Corp.,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Crashing Prices’  As a group, polysilicon suppliers have overshot their
market, said Chase of New Energy Finance.  “This is oversupply, although with crashing prices we will
probably see more sold than most analysts expect,” said Chase,
who forecast 176,000 tons produced this year, up 34 percent.  Besides the economies of scale, Daqo’s production costs
will decline by as much as a quarter to $24 per kilogram by
adding the Shihezi factory as the company can enjoy cheaper
electricity in Xinjiang, where the region has abundant coal, He
said. A competitive cost structure is important in an industry
that consumes more energy than steel, Daqo’s He said.  “This is a period to deplete inventories,” He of Daqo
said. “We can still make profit as the spot price falls to
about $50 per kilogram.”  Price declines came faster than expected as European
governments cut solar-power incentives, crushing orders for
solar panels and its raw materials, said Charles Yonts, a Hong
Kong-based analyst in CLSA Ltd.  ‘Strong Demand Pickup’  “The situation is starting to improve, and I expect a
strong demand pickup in both  Europe  and the U.S., followed by
Japan and  China , in the second half of the year,” Yonts said.  Asian polysilicon makers will “replicate the success of
Chinese solar-panel makers that supply a majority of the global
market,” Chang Yu, project manager of Chinese Renewable Energy
Industries Association, said. “They have a better financing
environment and access to land” than Western incumbents
including Hemlock and Wacker, Chang said.  Golden Concord Group Ltd., the parent of GCL-Poly, last
month secured five-year loans from state-run China Development
Bank Corp. to ensure the unit will innovate technology, improve
production capacity and reduce production costs.  Hong Kong-based GCL-Poly in May agreed to borrow 10 billion
yuan ($1.5 billion) from the Bank of Jiangsu Co. That’s almost
three times the 386 million euros in long-term bank debt on the
books of Wacker, Europe’s biggest producer, at Dec. 31.  GCL-Poly is waiting for a suitable time to sell senior
notes, spokesman Wang Manjian said on June 14. The company aims
to achieve 46,000 metric tons of polysilicon capacity by the end
of this year, exceeding Wacker’s 42,000 target.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  