-- 
Atlantis Docks With Space Station

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-07-10T19:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/atlantis-docks-with-space-station.html
The space shuttle  Atlantis  docked
with the International Space Station today, marking the final
time that the U.S. spacecraft will arrive at the orbiting
outpost.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration crew, led
by Commander Chris Ferguson, opened the hatches at 12:47 p.m.
New York time. The arrival marks the 12th time Atlantis has
arrived at the station, and the 46th by a U.S. shuttle.  NASA’s shuttle program began with the launch of Columbia in
April 1981, and has encompassed 133 missions prior to this one,
including trips to the Hubble space telescope. The agency has
been directed from now on to focus on developing rocket systems
that may take humans into deep space, while relying on private
companies to build spacecraft to ferry astronauts -- and
potentially, tourists -- to the  space station .  With this last trip, Atlantis is transporting the Raffaello
logistics module which will deliver supplies and spare parts to
the space station, as well as carry a system to test if existing
spacecraft can be refueled robotically. The mission is set to
last 13 days.  The orbiter, which launched two days ago from  Kennedy Space
Center  in  Cape Canaveral , Florida, first flew in October 1985 on
a classified mission for the Department of Defense. It pioneered
the agency’s flights to the Russian space station Mir, and, in
1989, was the first shuttle to launch a planetary probe, sending
the Magellan spacecraft to Venus.  NASA has lost two shuttles in the program’s 30-year
history. The Challenger exploded shortly after liftoff in
January 1986, and the shuttle Columbia disintegrated upon re-
entry into Earth’s atmosphere in February 2002.  For Related News and Information:
Search on  NASA  and space shuttle:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  