-- 
Provencal Restaurant Has Charm, Lavender Sorbet: London Dining

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-07-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/lawyers-feast-on-provencal-beef-lavender-sorbet-at-cigalon-london-dining.html
There are big beasts in the  London 
restaurant business and then there’s Pascal Aussignac, a quietly
spoken Frenchman who has plenty to shout about.  Aussignac and his business partner Vincent Labeyrie have
brought an authentic taste of regional cooking to London with
establishments such as Club Gascon and Comptoir Gascon.  His latest venture is a Provencal restaurant called Cigalon
in a former auction house on Chancery Lane. It’s as discreet and
charming as Aussignac, a native of Toulouse, who trained with
Guy Savoy, Gerard Vie and other masters before opening his first
London restaurant in Smithfield in 1998.  (The name Cigalon is from the 1935 Marcel Pagnol film about
a chef who opens a restaurant in a village in Provence, only to
find the locals all prefer the simple fare of a former laundry
woman who opens a place next door. The rivalry is bitter until
they agree to  marry .)  Cigalon is bright and airy, with a glass ceiling filtering
daylight onto reed fencing and colorful banquettes. The menu is
as friendly as the staff: simple and unaffected. The prices are
at a level to encourage you to linger.  The set lunch -- at 19.50 pounds ($31.11) for two courses
and 24.50 for three -- is a bargain, the flavors and quality of
the ingredients uncluttered by excessive intervention in the
kitchen. The sea-bass tartare with seaweed and fennel, followed
by cep-mushroom and green-asparagus pizzetta that I enjoyed
twice recently is as good as it gets.  Soft Chocolate  The desserts are similarly enticing, whether you choose
bay-leaf creme brulee or soft chocolate cake, chocolate-and-
caramel mousse, blackberry-and-lavender sorbet. There’s a range
of unusual sorbets and I’ve happily tried most of them.  The a la carte menu includes Camargue beef cannelloni and a
lamb tripe and trotter stew.  The wine list focuses on Provence and Corsica, which means
there are plenty of unfamiliar options and, again, the prices
are such that it’s easy to be brave and experimental.  The open kitchen is at one end of the room and it’s quiet
as a library as the chefs go about the serious business of
preparing your food. Cigalon’s home on Chancery Lane is deep in
lawyer territory and the lunchtime diners are smartly dressed
and keenly engaged in their conversations.  If you’re feeling a little more flamboyant, there’s a bar
downstairs with a separate entrance. Here the menu is overseen
by Julien Carlon (former head chef of Comptoir Gascon) and the
atmosphere is more casual. There’s a daily menu. Small plates
such as lamb-and-rosemary skewer, cured ham from Mont Ventoux
and Corsican sausage and lentils are priced less than 5 pounds.  Indoor Boules  Baranis, as the bar is called, also boasts the U.K.’s only
indoor petanque court for fans of this form of boules.  I prefer to go for a drink around the corner at  28-50 , an
excellent wine bar with food by  Paul Walsh , who joined from
 Gordon Ramsay  and is working wonders in a small kitchen. This
venue, brought to you by the team behind Texture, celebrated its
first anniversary this month and is going strong.  If you really want to make a night of it in this part of
London, Aussignac is about to introduce a burger menu at
Comptoir Gascon, including the Foie Gras and Summer Truffle
Burger that won the best-dish award at this year’s Taste of
London event in Regent’s Park.  Cigalon is at 115 Chancery Lane, London, WC2A 1PP.
Information: +44-20-7242-8373;  http://www.cigalon.co.uk/ .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Most mains are below 20 pounds.  Sound level? Quiet: 70 decibels.  Inside tip? Head downstairs for an aperitif.  Special feature? Boules in the bar.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 