-- 
German Stocks Slide on Sovereign-Debt Crisis Concern; Bayer, Allianz Fall

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-11T16:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/bayer-deutsche-bank-porsche-qiagen-rwe-german-equity.html
German stocks plunged, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slumping the most since March, as investors
speculated that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread to
Italy and as China’s inflation surged to a three-year high.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  lost 2.3 percent after the  European Patent Office 
revoked the drugmaker’s formulation patent for the Yasmin group
of contraceptives.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  fell to a seven-week
low as UBS AG downgraded the stock and the airline said its
passenger load factor fell last month.  Allianz SE (ALV)  led a sell-off
in European insurance companies, retreating 3.6 percent.  The DAX Index slid 2.3 percent to 7,230.25 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in  Frankfurt , its biggest drop in 3 1/2 months. The index
declined 0.2 percent last week as concern mounted that the
region’s debt crisis would spread and a report showed that U.S.
employers added fewer workers in June than forecast, fueling
speculation the country’s economic recovery is slowing. The
broader HDAX Index retreated 2.3 percent today.  “With  Italy , the European debt crisis would reach a new
level,” said Ansgar Krekeler, a sales analyst at WGZ Bank AG in
Dusseldorf. “We are trying to resolve a debt crisis by issuing
more debt, which is like trying to extinguish a fire with gas.”  European Union President Herman van Rompuy and European
Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  held talks with
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and European Economic
Commissioner Olli Rehn before today’s monthly meeting of euro-
area finance ministers in Brussels.  Euro Bailout Fund  Euro-region members may have to double the bailout fund to
1.5 trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover a crisis in Italy,
the ECB said, according to German newspaper Die Welt, citing
unidentified “high-ranking” people at central banks.  Germany ’s
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  dismissed the report as
“the usual rumors.”  Italian bond yields increased for a sixth day to 5.683
percent, expanding the spread over German debt to more than 300
basis points.  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  all had to ask for
aid after their 10-year yields rose above 7 percent.  China ’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in three
years, highlighting the challenge for policy makers of
sustaining growth while taming prices. The  consumer price index 
increased 6.4 percent in June, the National Bureau of Statistics
said on July 9, exceeding the 6.2 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Bayer, Germany’s biggest drugmaker, fell 2.3 percent to
56.09 euros as an appeals court of the European Patent Office
overturned an earlier ruling that favored Bayer, opening up the
market for other drugmakers to sell generic copies of the Yasmin
family of contraceptives in Europe.  Lufthansa, Allianz Decline  Lufthansa slid 3.4 percent to 14.60 euros as Europe’s
biggest airline by sales was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at
UBS, which said it sees “insufficient share-price upside”
following a rally by the shares.  The shares extended their losses after Lufthansa said
passenger load factor for its main brand fell 2.4 points to 81
percent in June.  Allianz, Europe’s biggest insurer by market value, tumbled
3.6 percent to 101.80 euros as insurance companies posted the
worst performance among 19 industry groups in the benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Munich Re , the world’s largest
reinsurer, declined 3.6 percent to 101.80 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s biggest
banks, lost 3.4 percent to 38.50 euros and 8.6 percent to 2.71
euros, respectively. Banking shares were among the worst
performers in the Stoxx 600 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  