-- 
Boehner Retreats From $4 Trillion Deficit Accord

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-07-10T16:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/boehner-to-pursue-smaller-deficit-accord.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
will pursue a smaller deficit reduction accord than the one that
President  Barack Obama  is seeking because the White House won’t
approve a bigger deal without tax increases.  “I believe the best approach may be to focus on producing
a smaller measure,” Boehner said in a statement yesterday
before a meeting the president is scheduled to hold with
congressional leaders, including Boehner, at 6 p.m. Washington
time at the White House today.  “To back off now will not only fail to solve our fiscal
challenge, it will confirm the cynicism people have about
politics in Washington,” White House communications director
 Dan Pfeiffer  said less than an hour after Boehner’s statement.
Pfeiffer said that the president believes that any deal must be
premised on a “balanced approach that asks the very wealthiest
and special interests to pay their fair share.”  Obama and congressional leaders are seeking a deficit-
slashing deal to pave the way for a vote in Congress to increase
the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, a move the Treasury
Department says is needed by Aug. 2 to avert a default on the
nation’s financial obligations.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today the Obama
administration wants the most comprehensive deficit-cutting deal
possible and reiterated that failing to raise the debt limit
could have “catastrophic” consequences for the economy.  ‘Largest Deal’  “We have to find a way to pass an agreement, but the
president is going to keep working toward the largest deal we
can do, because that’s the right thing for the country,”
Geithner said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  “Despite good-faith efforts to find common ground, the
White House will not pursue a bigger debt reduction agreement
without tax hikes,” Boehner said in the statement after
speaking by telephone with the president.  “This is a real disappointment,” Maya MacGuineas,
president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget in
 Washington , said in a statement yesterday.  “Markets will not be persuaded by a ‘mini-deal’ that
fails to address the most problematic parts of the budget and
falls short of the needed $4 trillion, for long,” she said.
“We should not be lulled into thinking that an election will
make the necessary tough choices any easier -- more likely the
hardest issues will only become more politicized.”  Through Election  Behind closed doors in his Cabinet Room July 7, Obama told
the lawmakers he won’t sign any agreement that fails to raise
the debt limit through the 2012 election, said a congressional
aide familiar with the negotiations who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Boehner told the president yesterday that he wants to
pursue a deal along the lines being discussed by the working
group led by Vice President  Joe Biden .  Obama spent the weekend at Camp David, the presidential
retreat in nearby Maryland, and will return today for further
debt talks with congressional leaders.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today on “Fox News Sunday” that he also
favors “the biggest deal possible. We’re just not going to
raise taxes in the middle of this horrible situation.”  The Labor Department reported July 8 that the  unemployment
rate  in June unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent, the highest
this year. Employers added 18,000 jobs, the weakest growth since
September 2010. Payroll growth for May also was revised
downward, to 25,000.  Reid Disappointed  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
in a statement that he is “disappointed that Republicans are
unable to work with us to take a historic step forward.”  “We asked Republicans to consider a balanced approach that
would have required shared sacrifice, but they would not,” Reid
said in the statement. Still, he expressed confidence that a
deal can eventually be reached to raise the debt ceiling and
avert an “economic catastrophe.”  Democrats made clear that Boehner’s decision also takes
major changes to entitlements like Medicare off the table.  “This decision to reject the president’s offer means as
much as a trillion-dollar gulf remains between the two sides on
a debt-limit deal, and Republicans should be put on notice that
no matter how hard they try, their plan to end Medicare as we
know it will never fill in that gap,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  in a statement.  Stumbling Blocks  According to a Republican familiar with the discussions,
taxes and entitlement issues were stumbling blocks in the
negotiations. Boehner said any deal must result in spending
changes and cuts that are larger than the amount of an increased
debt limit.  The president has invited congressional leaders --including
Boehner to talks at the White House today to try and make
progress toward a deal. House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California , Reid and McConnell will all be at the White House
meeting.  During today’s session, Obama will try to break a partisan
impasse over whether to include cuts in entitlement programs and
tax increases in a deal.  Representative Chris  Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said Democrats “never
said we will hold the  United States ’ full faith and credit
hostage in the discussions.”  Influence on Economy  “We need to move forward,” Van Hollen said today on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “If you don’t lift the
debt ceiling, every economist out there said the economy will
tank.”  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , the House
Republican point man in bipartisan debt talks led by Biden,
thinks the group had identified between $2 trillion and $2.5
trillion in spending cuts. That could serve as “the framework
for an agreement,” said his spokesman Brad Dayspring. Cantor
abandoned earlier negotiations over the tax-increase issue.  According to an analysis by the nonpartisan Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget in Washington, there are areas of
overlap in debt-reduction plans proposed by House Republicans
and the White House, meaning they are likely to be included in
any smaller-scale debt deal.  These include: eliminating some interest subsidies on
 student loans , which could save $20 billion to $65 billion over
10 years; changing the way the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp.
collects fees, to save $5 billion to $10 billion; selling excess
federal property for $10 billion to $15 billion; and reducing
health-care fraud and overpayments, at $10 billion to $35
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  