-- 
Boehner to Pursue Smaller Deficit Accord

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-07-10T02:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/boehner-will-pursue-smaller-deficit-reduction-accord.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
will pursue a smaller deficit reduction accord than the one that
President  Barack Obama  is seeking because the White House won’t
approve a bigger deal without tax increases.  “I believe the best approach may be to focus on producing
a smaller measure,” Boehner said in a statement released by his
office tonight.  “To back off now will not only fail to solve our fiscal
challenge, it will confirm the cynicism people have about
politics in Washington,” White House communications director
 Dan Pfeiffer  said less than an hour after Boehner’s statement.
The president believes that any deal must be premised on a
“balanced approach that asks the very wealthiest and special
interests to pay their fair share.”  Obama and congressional leaders are seeking a deficit-
slashing deal to pave the way for a vote in Congress to increase
the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, a move the Treasury
Department says is needed by Aug. 2 to avert a default on the
nation’s financial obligations.  “Despite good-faith efforts to find common ground, the
White House will not pursue a bigger debt reduction agreement
without tax hikes,” Boehner said in the statement after
speaking by telephone with the president the day before Obama
and congressional leaders are scheduled to meet at the White
House.  ‘Real Disappointment’  “This is a real disappointment,” Maya MacGuineas,
president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget in
 Washington , said in a statement. “Markets will not be persuaded
by a ‘mini-deal’ that fails to address the most problematic
parts of the budget and falls short of the needed $4 trillion,
for long,” she said. “We should not be lulled into thinking
that an election will make the necessary tough choices any
easier -- more likely the hardest issues will only become more
politicized.”  Behind closed doors in his Cabinet Room July 7, Obama told
the lawmakers he won’t sign any agreement that fails to raise
the debt limit through the 2012 election, said a congressional
aide familiar with the negotiations who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Boehner told the president tonight that he wants to pursue
a smaller deal along the lines of the working group led by Vice
President  Joe Biden .  Debt Talks  Obama spent the weekend at Camp David, the presidential
retreat in nearby Maryland, and will return tomorrow for further
debt talks with congressional leaders.  Don Stewart , communications director for Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said McConnell,
like Boehner, has “consistently said that we should cut
Washington spending without raising taxes on job creators,
particularly in the middle of a jobs crisis.”  The Labor Department reported yesterday that the
 unemployment rate  in June unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent,
the highest this year. Employers added 18,000 jobs, the weakest
growth since September 2010. Payroll growth for May also was
revised downward, to 25,000.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
in a statement that he is “disappointed that Republicans are
unable to work with us to take a historic step forward.”  Balanced Approach  “We asked Republicans to consider a balanced approach that
would have required shared sacrifice, but they would not,” Reid
said in the statement. Still, he expressed confidence that a
deal can eventually be reached to raise the debt ceiling and
avert an “economic catastrophe.”  Democrats made clear that Boehner’s decision also takes
major changes to entitlements like Medicare off the table.  “This decision to reject the president’s offer means as
much as a trillion-dollar gulf remains between the two sides on
a debt limit deal, and Republicans should be put on notice that
no matter how hard they try, their plan to end Medicare as we
know it will never fill in that gap,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  in a statement.  Representative Chris  Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, also issued a statement
in response to Boehner.  “It’s disappointing that the Republican fixation with
protecting tax breaks for corporate special interests and the
very wealthy prevented them from agreeing to a balanced and
broad deficit reduction plan to help our economy and our
country,” Van Hollen said.  Stumbling Blocks  According to a Republican familiar with the discussions,
taxes and entitlement issues were stumbling blocks in the
negotiations. Boehner said any deal must result in spending
changes and cuts that are larger than the amount of an increased
debt limit.  The president has invited congressional leaders --
including Boehner to talks at the White House tomorrow. House
Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , Reid and McConnell
will all be at the White House meeting.  During that session, he will try to break a partisan
impasse over whether to include cuts in entitlement programs and
tax increases in a deficit-slashing deal to pave the way for a
vote limit.  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , the House
Republican point man in bipartisan debt talks led by Biden,
thinks the group had identified between $2 trillion and $2.5
trillion in spending cuts. That could serve as “the framework
for an agreement,” said his spokesman Brad Dayspring. Cantor
abandoned earlier negotiations over the tax-increase issue.  Smaller Cuts  According to an analysis by the nonpartisan Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget in Washington, there are areas of
overlap in debt-reduction plans proposed by  House Republicans 
and the White House, meaning they are likely to be included in
any smaller-scale debt deal.  These include: eliminating some interest subsidies on
 student loans , which could save $20 billion to $65 billion over
10 years; changing the way the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp.
collects fees, to save $5 billion to $10 billion; selling excess
federal property for $10 billion to $15 billion; and reducing
health-care fraud and overpayments, at $10 billion to $35
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  