-- 
Buenos Aires Mayor Macri Heads to Runoff Against Filmus in Re-Election Bid

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-11T16:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/buenos-aires-mayor-macri-set-to-win-re-election-in-voting-today.html
Buenos Aires  mayor Mauricio Macri
will face a runoff against President Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner’s candidate in a bid to govern  Argentina ’s capital
after just missing the 50 percent threshold in voting yesterday.  Macri had 47.1 percent support compared with 27.8 percent
for Senator Daniel Filmus of Fernandez’s Victory Front alliance,
the city’s electoral commission reported today. Filmmaker
Fernando Solanas had about 13 percent.  Macri, 52, vowed to focus on poverty in his second term
during a speech to supporters last night while Filmus’s allies
said his performance in getting into the runoff bodes well for
Fernandez in October’s national elections. The July 31 runoff
between the two men will be a rematch of the 2007 election,
which Macri won with 61 percent of the vote.  “We are really pleased at the campaign Filmus has run,”
Argentine Economy Minister Amado Boudou, Fernandez’s running
mate, told reporters last night. “We have raised the base of
support from where we were in 2007.”  During his four years in office, Macri, the former
president of the  Club Atletico Boca Juniors  soccer club and son
of a construction tycoon, retained support among the capital’s
2.5 million voters by funding flood prevention works, creating a
city police force, and building 65 kilometers (40 miles) of bike
paths.  Go-Getter  “People see him as a go-getter, an achiever,” pollster
Jorge Giacobbe said in a telephone interview before the
election.  Macri will probably defeat Filmus, a 56-year-old former
education minister, by taking about 60 percent of votes in a
runoff, said Mariel Fornoni, director of polling company
Management & Fit. The mayor spoke to supporters last night
without directly addressing the runoff or his opponent.  “We all love this wonderful country in which we live, but
we want this love to be turned into concrete action,” Macri
said. “Poverty is a concrete problem that affects millions and
we have to work together to find a solution.”  A defeat for the Victory Front in the nation’s capital
won’t hurt Fernandez’s chances of winning another term in the
Oct. 23 election, Fornoni said.  “Even though Fernandez is very popular, has a high
approval rating for her government and is leading in the
presidential polls, she hasn’t been able to pass that on to her
candidates,” Fornoni said in a July 5 telephone interview.
“Macri has an almost 50 percent approval rating because people
value what he has done over the past four years.”  Presidential Poll  Fernandez, 58, has 49.8 percent support among eligible
voters while Ricardo Alfonsin of the Radical Civic Union party
has 10.5 percent, according to a June 22-24 poll by Buenos
Aires-based CEOP Opinion Publica. The survey of 1,426 people has
a margin of error of 2.6 percentage points.  Under Argentine law, a presidential candidate can win the
election and avoid a runoff by receiving more than 45 percent of
the vote, or 40 percent and a 10 percentage-point lead over the
nearest competitor. A runoff, if needed, will take place Nov.
20.  Macri ruled himself out as a presidential candidate on May
7, when he announced he would seek re-election as mayor. Macri’s
PRO party hasn’t said whom it will support in the national vote.  Support for Fernandez has been cemented by the agriculture-
based economy’s performance under her stewardship and during the
2003-2007 term of her late husband and predecessor,  Nestor
Kirchner , said Guillermo Schamis, a political analyst at CEOP.  South America ’s second-biggest economy is heading for a
ninth straight year of economic growth and will expand 6.7
percent this year, according to the median estimate of eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The jobless rate fell to 7.4
percent in the first quarter from 8.3 percent in the same period
of 2010.  “Argentine society has a tacit accord to maintain the
status-quo and leave changes for another time,” Giacobbe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  