-- 
China Trade Surplus Climbs to Seven-Month High as Import Growth Moderates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-10T05:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/china-s-june-trade-surplus-reaches-22-27-billion-customs-bureau-says.html
China ’s trade surplus widened more
than forecast to $22.3 billion in June, the highest level in
seven months, as imports grew at the slowest pace since 2009.  The gap exceeded all the 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists, with the median projection at $14.2
billion. The surplus was $13.1 billion the previous month and
$20 billion a year earlier. The  customs bureau  released the data
in an online webcast today.  The surplus adds to the cash flooding the economy and
complicates Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s efforts to cool the fastest
inflation in three years. Policy makers are seeking to rein in
price gains that are stoking social discontent without choking
off growth that’s already showing signs of slowing.  “We don’t think the PBOC will halt monetary tightening
soon,” said Liu Li-Gang, head of Greater China economic
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Corp. in Hong Kong.
The central bank will increase bill sales to soak up the extra
liquidity from the trade surplus and prevent it from boosting
 money supply , he said.  The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  five
times since mid-October, the latest on July 5, and increased
banks’  reserve requirements  nine times since November to a
record level to rein in liquidity. Consumer prices climbed 6.4
percent last month, the most in three years.  Growth Slowing  Liu said the central bank may need to raise reserve
requirements further in the second half if trade surpluses are
“persistently large” and will also need to increase benchmark
rates as returns on savings are still below inflation.  A report on July 13 will show China’s gross domestic
product advanced 9.3 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, down from 9.7 percent in the first quarter, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  China’s trade surplus last month was the biggest this year
and the widest June gap since 2007.  Exports climbed 17.9 percent, the least since December
after excluding seasonal distortions from the Chinese New Year
holiday, to a record $162 billion. Imports jumped 19.3 percent
to $139.7 billion, the customs bureau said, the weakest
expansion since gains resumed in November 2009 after a year-long
decline.  Yuan Pressure  Analysts’ median forecasts were for an 18.6 percent gain in
overseas shipments and a 25.3 percent increase in imports.  “The still-large trade surplus may add to yuan
appreciation pressure in the short term, but faster gains may
hurt export growth, which has been on track to slow down,”  Shen Minggao , an economist with Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone
interview. Slower import gains indicate the economy is cooling
“but a hard landing is almost impossible, policies won’t be
significantly relaxed in the second half,” he said.  Shen estimates the yuan will appreciate around 4 percent
this year. U.S. officials and lawmakers from Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  to New York Senator  Charles Schumer  have
sought bigger gains in the yuan to help curb the bilateral  trade
gap .  China, the world’s biggest consumer of energy, iron ore and
soybeans, has seen its import bill surge over the past year as
commodity costs climbed.  Higher global prices are increasing inflationary pressure
in China, and led to a 14.7 percent increase in the overall
price of imported commodities in the first half, Zhao Fudi, a
customs bureau spokesman, said in an online broadcast today.  Import Tariffs  Import growth in June was held back by a 12 percent drop in
net crude oil shipments, the first year-on-year decline since
December, customs data show. At the same time, the average cost
of crude imports in June was $110 a barrel last month compared
with $77 a year earlier, the data show.  The government is cutting duties to help ease the impact on
imported inflation from surging commodity prices. The  finance
ministry  said June 24 it would remove import tariffs on diesel
and jet fuel and cut levies on gasoline,  fuel oil , zinc and some
blended cotton fabrics effective July 1.  Higher costs are crimping profit at oil refiners and
steelmakers. Angang Steel Co. said July 8 its first-half net
income may have dropped 92 percent because of the
“significant” increase in the price of raw materials and fuel
which “substantially exceeded” the increase in selling prices.  “China has to use currency gains to curb imported
inflation,” Edmond Law, deputy head of foreign exchange at BWC
Capital Markets in  Hong Kong , said before today’s data. “Policy
makers aren’t left with many monetary tools after the recent
interest-rate hike.”  Sluggish Recovery  The yuan closed at 6.4650 per dollar in  Shanghai  on July 8.
The currency touched 6.4599 on July 4, the strongest level since
the country unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. Non-deliverable forwards indicate a gain of about
1.3 percent against the dollar in the next 12 months.  Exports to the European Union and U.S., the two biggest
trading partners, rose 16.9 percent in the first half, compared
with overall export growth of 24 percent, Zheng Yuesheng, head
of the customs bureau’s statistics department, said today. “The
weak economic situation in main export markets has posed serious
challenges to China’s efforts to maintain stable export
growth.”  The U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed in June and
employers added the fewest workers in nine months, a government
report showed on July 8, posing a threat to  consumer spending  in
the world’s biggest economy. The  European Central Bank  raised
its benchmark interest rate on July 7 even as euro zone
countries grapple with a worsening sovereign debt crisis.  Losing Competitiveness  China’s competitive advantage is also being tested by
higher labor costs and yuan appreciation, Zheng from the customs
bureau said today.  Companies including Nike Inc. are switching production to
Asian countries where wages are lower, contributing to the
moderation in export growth.  Vietnam  surpassed China last year
to become the biggest supplier of footwear to the world’s
largest sportswear company, according to its annual report.  China’s trade surplus in the first six months of the year
dropped 18 percent from a year earlier to $44.9 billion, the
bureau said today, the lowest in seven years.  The excess, which has fallen from a record $295 billion in
2008, may drop further to about $150 billion this year as
slowing global demand affects exports, according to  Wang Tao , a
UBS AG economist.  --Victoria Ruan,  John Liu , Lily Lou, Zheng Lifei. With
assistance Chua Baizhen in Beijing and Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery,  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  