-- 
China May Expand Least Since 2009 as Wen Faces Limited Scope for Response

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T10:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/china-growth-may-slow-as-wen-faces-limited-scope-for-response.html
China ’s economy probably grew the
least in almost two years last quarter, contributing to a global
weakening that Premier  Wen Jiabao  confronts with more limited
scope for policy response than during the 2008 world recession.  The government is forecast to report July 13 gross domestic
product rose 9.3 percent from a year before, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, down from 9.7 percent the
previous quarter. With data two days ago showing consumer prices
climbed the most in three years in June, any easing in the
central bank’s monetary stance risks escalating price pressures.  China’s slowdown was underscored by the weakest import gain
since 2009 in June, limiting the chance for the U.S. and  Europe 
to export their way out of their own domestic challenges. A 58
percent jump in bank credit in 2009-2010 and concern that local
governments may default on loans leaves Wen with less room to
unleash the scale of stimulus that aided the world in 2008.  “Any significant policy loosening or introduction of
another big stimulus right now would run the risk of plunging
the Chinese economy into a real hard landing, with inflation
running out of control and government debt and bad loans piling
up,” said  Lu Zhengwei , Shanghai-based chief economist at
Industrial Bank Co., who was rated China’s best analyst in 2010
by China Business News newspaper. “Softer growth is more
sustainable” and will help contain inflation, he also said.  Wen on Tour  Wen has toured farms, factories and low-income housing
projects in two northern provinces this month to highlight the
government’s commitment to fighting inflation and boosting
supplies of cheap homes.  The direction of macroeconomic policy won’t change and
stabilizing prices remains the top economic priority, Wen said
during a visit to Shaanxi province on July 9 and 10, according
to comments posted on the government’s  website  today. He also
called for more support for pig production to make pork prices
“more reasonable.”  Stock investors have in recent weeks signaled optimism that
China will achieve a so-called soft landing where the expansion
slows without causing corporate earnings and employment to
tumble. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has advanced for
three straight weeks, the longest streak since February. It
closed up 0.2 percent at 2,802.69 today.  China’s slowing coincides with a deteriorating U.S. job
market and concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may engulf
 Italy . A U.S. government report July 8 showed the jobless rate
rose to 9.2 percent in June. Payrolls increased by 18,000 -- a
fraction of the pace needed to incorporate new entrants to the
 labor force , let alone recoup millions of jobs lost since 2007.  Credit Boom  China led the global recovery after the U.S. mortgage
market’s collapse caused the world’s deepest postwar recession.
The government announced a $586 billion fiscal stimulus and
encouraged a credit boom that saw outstanding loans surge to 48
trillion yuan ($7.4 trillion) by the end of 2010. Inflation has
been one consequence of the response, with consumer prices
climbing 6.4 percent in June from a year before, according to a
government report on July 9.  Prices have also been fueled by shortages of food due to
adverse weather conditions and a slump in hog supplies, a trend
that’s contributed to rising social unrest across China. Pork
prices jumped 57 percent in June from a year earlier, the
government said last week, accounting for one-fifth of the
month’s inflation rate.  The People’s Bank of China’s latest effort to contain
prices came July 6, with the fifth interest-rate increase since
October. The central bank has also boosted banks’ reserve
requirements nine times since November to a record level.  Premature Loosening  Officials may also need to step up sales of bills to mop up
liquidity sloshing into the economy from a widening trade
surplus. Exports exceeded imports by $22.3 billion in June, the
customs bureau reported yesterday.  “A premature loosening of monetary tightening will leave
inflation expectations unanchored,” said Chang Jian, a Hong
Kong-based economist at  Barclays Capital . “We think one more
interest-rate increase should be delivered” by the end of
September, Chang said.  The  trade gap  was the biggest in seven months, led by a
slowing in import gains to a 19 percent year-on-year pace.
Exports also moderated, to an 18 percent advance, with U.S. and
European demand a drag on growth, the customs bureau said
yesterday.  Profits Crimped  The world’s second-biggest oil importer saw net inward
shipments of crude drop to an eight-month low in June amid
refinery maintenance and slowing energy demand. Copper imports
fell 15 percent by tonnage last month from a year earlier, while
rising 10 percent from May as traders restocked.  Higher costs are crimping profit at oil refiners and
steelmakers. Angang Steel Co. said July 8 its first-half net
income may have dropped 92 percent because of the
“significant” increase in the price of raw materials and fuel,
which “substantially exceeded” the increase in selling prices.  China’s leaders have pledged targeted fiscal measures this
year, including a record low-cost housing program and efforts to
address both water shortages and flooding. President  Hu Jintao 
said last week that water infrastructure will be prioritized to
enhance the security of grain supplies, state news agency Xinhua
reported July 9.  Fiscal revenue growth will slow in the second half after
the government raised the threshold for the individual income
tax by 75 percent, adjusted some levies and boosted tax breaks
for smaller companies, Finance Minister Xie Xuren said in a
posting on the ministry’s website July 9.  Fiscal Maneuvering  A broader fiscal initiative might worsen the risk of an
escalation in non-performing loans among local governments,
which helped to implement the stimulus of 2009-2010.  “The room for further fiscal maneuvering is much more
limited now,” said Kevin Lai, an economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets in  Hong Kong . “They are genuinely concerned about the
local government borrowings.”  Banks’ overall bad-debt ratios may soar as high as 18
percent under a “stress-case” scenario, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report last week. The company said it was
concerned banks were relying on the notion that the government
would step in to help resolve their potential bad debt problems.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore . Editors: Chris Anstey, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net  or
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  