-- 
China Doctors Earning $300 a Month Flock to Drug Companies

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-10T23:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/china-doctors-earning-300-a-month-flock-to-drug-companies-tripling-wages.html
Mao Mengjia gave up a career as a
doctor in China because he could make more money selling
medicine than prescribing it.  Mao, 26, tripled his income after quitting his job at a
hospital in northeastern China to work as a medical sales 
representative in 2009. As many as 14,000 physicians like Mao
will join foreign pharmaceutical companies over the next five
years, according to  Aon Corp. (AON) ’s Shanghai-based human resources
advisory firm.  The new recruits will sell medicines made by companies from
New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to Paris-based Sanofi in the world’s
fastest-growing major drugs market. Their career-switch is
curbing the supply of doctors that China’s government wants in
rural and regional areas, where inadequate medical care is
hampering efforts to cut infant mortality and prevent diabetes.  “The pay for new doctors is low, which makes it hard to
survive,” said Mao, who was one of 30 to graduate in 2005 from
the medical college he attended in Dalian, 460 kilometers (286
miles) east of Beijing. Nine of his classmates have jobs in
pharmaceutical sales, he said.  A newly qualified doctor makes about 2,000-3,000 yuan
($309-464) a month, while a one-bedroom apartment in Dalian, a
city of 6 million people, goes for 2,000-2,500 yuan, Mao said.
Typically three or four newly qualified doctors will rent a flat
together to defray their costs, he said.  Fewer Doctors  The U.S. has one public health professional for every 635
people. The rate in China is  one per 7,000 , according to Kun
Chen, a doctor at Zhejiang University’s school of public health.
Moreover, medical demands are surging. The country has 92.4
million adults with Type-2 diabetes and more than half are
undiagnosed, a 2010 study showed.  “There is a great lack of doctors at the most primary
levels like county and small-city hospitals, and that’s also
where it’s hardest to find them,” said Shi Yingkang, dean of
the West China Medical School at Sichuan University in Chengdu,
and vice president of the Chinese Medical Doctor Association.  After graduation, half of his students spurn local
hospitals for better-paying jobs overseas or in drug sales, Shi
said. Pay for local rookie doctors starts at 2,000 yuan a month,
while medical representatives may get two to three times more,
he said.  “To them, the pay does not match the effort put in,” said
Shi, who also works as a heart surgeon at the West China
Hospital in Sichuan province. His father and grandfather were
both doctors, as is his daughter.  China’s health officials are trying to encourage more
 doctors  like the Shis, offering incentives such as free training
to entice as many as 300,000 general practitioners in clinics
and hospitals in villages and small towns over the next decade.  Incentive Money  Hebei province , which skirts Beijing, is offering 1,000
graduates a 2,000 yuan relocation fee and priority placement at
major hospitals for those willing to work for two years in a
village. Of the province’s 50,000 villages, 6,000 lack a
qualified doctor, the official People’s Daily newspaper reported
on May 29.  China’s policy-setting State Council, in a session chaired
by Premier  Wen Jiabao , announced on June 22 a plan to improve
medical care by raising education standards for general
practitioners. It also proposes to have two or three better-
qualified doctors for every 10,000 residents by 2012.  That comes on top of a three-year plan to invest 850
billion yuan ($131 billion) narrowing  discrepancies  in access to
medical care and providing more than 90 percent of China’s
people with basic health insurance. The plan is also spurring
demand for medicines and people trained to sell them.
     Sanofi runs classes for its medical representatives from a
center in the 20-story BenBen tower in downtown  Shanghai  which
it calls the Sanofi-Aventis University.  ‘Love to Be Trained’  “We brand it as a university, and it does work when we go
to campuses and do mass recruitments,” said Freddie Chow,
Sanofi’s vice president of human resources in China. “Chinese
people love to be trained. The hunger for knowledge acquisition
is very high.”  Foreign drugmakers like Sanofi and their local affiliates
will hire at least 35,000 sales staff by the end of 2014, Aon
Hewitt China estimates, based on a survey of 24 companies. The
same employers had 33,000 on staff at the end of 2010. About 30
to 40 percent of people recruited for sales jobs will have a
medical degree, said Jarroad Zhang, a consulting director with
Aon Hewitt in Shanghai.  ‘Extremely Rare’  “In most other countries, it’s extremely rare to get fully
trained doctors as medical representatives,” said Chris Lee,
managing director of Bayer Healthcare China, a Beijing-based arm
of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Germany ’s largest drugmaker. Doctors -- followed by
pharmacists and nurses -- are sought after by drugmakers in
China for their medical knowledge, he said.  Lee has already met his 2011 target for hiring 1,000 sales
representatives and says he may recruit a similar number next
year. China will overtake the U.S. as Bayer’s largest
pharmaceuticals market in the next seven to eight years, he says.  “There’s an understanding within the company that we will
need to hire to meet that goal,” said Lee, who began his career
in drug sales with Merck & Co. in  New Jersey .  Pharmaceutical sales grew an average of 24 percent a year
in  China  from 2006 to 2010 and will expand at a 19 to 22 percent
annual clip over the next five years, according to the IMS
Institute for Healthcare Informatics. The market will probably
be worth $115 billion by 2015, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based
researcher said in a  report  in May.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  