-- 
China June Soy Imports Fall as Crushers Postpone Shipments

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-10T11:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/china-june-soy-imports-fall-as-crushers-postpone-shipments-1-.html
Soybean imports by  China , the
world’s biggest buyer, fell in June from May after processors
delayed some shipments because of lower profit margins.  Inbound shipments were 4.3 million metric tons last month,
the customs office said today in a statement on its website.
That compared with 4.6 million tons of shipments in May, and is
a 31 percent plunge from June 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  China’s imports of soybeans have slowed this year as a
reduction in hog inventory led to a decline in feed demand,
forcing crushing plants to reduce operations. The slowdown in
shipments to China has helped drive a 3.9 percent decline in
price of the commodity traded in  Chicago  this year.  “This confirms the market’s belief that still more
shipments have been delayed possibly until next year,” Chen Baomin, a manager at Jilin Grain Group Co., said by phone from
Dalian. “The market was expecting a slight gain, so this may
help ease the supply pressure a bit,” he said.  Soybeans for November delivery last closed at $13.4625 a
bushel. The most-active futures still gained 41 percent on
concerns that the growth in world food demand is outstripping
production gains.  Inventory at China’s major ports is still about 6.5 million
tons, near the record 7 million tons, Chen said. The country is
forecast to import 54 million tons of the oilseed in the year
through Sept. 30, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  China’s soybean inbound shipments in July may be about 4.8
million tons, the Ministry of Commerce said June 28.  --William Bi. Editors: Neil Western,  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  