-- 
McIlroy Shouldn’t Be Anointed as Golf’s ‘Crown Prince’ Yet, Nicklaus Says

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-11T00:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/mcilroy-shouldn-t-yet-be-anointed-as-crown-prince-jack-nicklaus-says.html
Rory McIlroy will win multiple major
titles, although he shouldn’t yet be anointed as the “crown
prince” of golf,  Jack Nicklaus  said.  McIlroy, 22, goes into this week’s British Open at Royal
St. George’s Golf Club in Sandwich on  England ’s Kent coast
seeking back-to-back majors after his victory in last month’s
U.S. Open. McIlroy is the 7-1 favorite at U.K. bookmaker William
Hill Plc to win.  “Rory will add a lot of majors,” Nicklaus, who won a
record 18 major golf tournaments, told BBC Radio Five Live’s
Sportsweek program yesterday. “He’s a talented young man we’re
going to see on the scene for a long time.”  World No. 2 Lee Westwood is next in the British Open
betting at 10-1. He’s followed by fellow Englishman Luke Donald,
the world No. 1 who yesterday won the Scottish Open, at 12-1.
The shortest-priced American at 33-1 is  Steve Stricker , who won
yesterday’s John Deere Classic for the third straight year to
secure his 11th victory on the U.S. PGA Tour, followed by
countrymen  Nick Watney  at 35-1 and Phil Mickelson at 40-1.  In April, McIlroy went into the last round of the  Masters
Tournament  with a four-shot lead, only to finish in a tie for
15th place after a final-round 80. Last year, the Northern
Irishman began the British Open at  St. Andrews , Scotland, with a
63 to lead by three shots. He followed with an 80 before
recovering to finish third and also tied for third at the U.S.
PGA Championship the following month.  “He has won one major. When he starts to win two, three or
four, then you can say he’s the guy we’ve got to watch, period.
But until that time comes, he’s one of a group of talented
players that have got an opportunity to win,” Nicklaus said.
“Don’t anoint him as the crown prince yet.”  Time Off  McIlroy last week defended his decision not to play
competitive golf between his record-setting  U.S. Open  victory
and the British Open, which takes place July 14-17.  He decided on the break after the fanfare of his eight-shot
victory at Congressional Golf Club in Bethesda,  Maryland , where
he set 12 tournament records.  “Because of what happened at Congressional and the way it
became such a big deal, I wanted to get everything out of the
way and sorted out so that when I did start playing again I
could just concentrate on golf,” McIlroy said on his website.  Former European Ryder Cup captain  Colin Montgomerie , who
failed to secure a place at the British Open for the first time
since 1989, was among those who questioned McIlroy’s strategy.  Three-time British Open winner  Tiger Woods , who isn’t
playing this year because of injury, said it was “cool to see”
McIlroy become the youngest major champion since Woods in 1997.  McIlroy’s margin of victory was the biggest at the U.S.
Open since Woods’s record 15-shot win at Pebble Beach Golf Links
in  California  in 2000.  “That was seriously good playing,” Woods said in June.
“He had softer conditions and he was able to go low and was
able to continue pushing it. That’s what’s fun -- when you have
a lead and keep building it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  