-- 
Consob to Meet Today, May Restrict Italian Naked Short-Selling

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-07-10T16:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/consob-may-restrict-naked-short-selling-in-italy-at-meeting-sunday-night.html
Italy ’s financial-market watchdog,
 Consob , will meet tonight to discuss possible restrictions of
“naked” short selling aimed at increasing market transparency, a
spokesman for the regulator said.  Commissioners will assess the situation before markets open
Monday, said a Consob spokesman, who declined to be named in
line with the regulator’s policy. Commissioners may decide to
restrict “naked” short-selling in line with similar decisions
taken in other European countries, he said.  Restrictions may include an obligation for operators using
naked-short selling to notify Consob, he said.  The Consob meeting occurs after shares of Italy’s biggest
banks fell to the lowest in more than two years on July 8, and
government bonds dropped, driving 10-year yields to a nine-year
high.  Short selling involves the sale of securities borrowed from
the owner, and generates profit when the trader repurchases them
at a lower price and returns them to the owner. The amount of
shorting is limited by the willingness of owners to lend. In a
naked short sale, the trader doesn’t first borrow the
securities, subverting that limit.  On July 5, European lawmakers voted in favor of a ban on
short selling of  government bonds  in the EU unless traders have
at least “located and reserved” in advance the securities they
intend to sell. The European Union Parliament in Strasbourg,
 France , also called for restrictions on traders’ use of credit-
default swaps to profit from defaults on sovereign debt they
don’t own.  The European Securities and Markets Authority, which co-
ordinates the work of national regulators in the 27-nation EU,
should be given emergency powers to temporarily ban short
selling or trades in CDS on sovereign debt in the EU, the
Parliament said.  Politicians including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have claimed that naked short-
selling and credit-default swaps worsened the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis, and have called for EU curbs.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, said
last year such trades may lead to “disorderly markets and
systemic risks.” Finance ministers from the 27-nation region
agreed in May that traders should be allowed to short sell
government bonds and stocks if they have a “reasonable
expectation” that they can obtain the underlying securities.
They also rejected calls from  Germany  for a ban on sovereign
CDS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  