-- 
Italy Moves to Curb Short Selling After Contagion Concerns Slam Markets

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-07-11T08:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/consob-may-ban-restrict-naked-short-selling-at-meeting-sunday-night.html
Italy ’s market regulator moved to
curb short selling after the country’s benchmark stock index
fell the most in almost five months and bonds tumbled on
investor concern the nation may be the next crisis victim.  Consob ordered yesterday that short sellers must reveal
their positions when they reach 0.2 percent or more of a
company’s capital and then make new filings for each additional
0.1 percent. The measure takes effect today and runs through
Sept. 9. The FTSE Italia All-Share Financials Index fell 0.8
percent as of 9:50 a.m. to the lowest in at least two years.  Europe ’s finance ministers are meeting in Brussels today to
seek ways to shore up  Greece  and defend the region’s other
heavily indebted nations. The premium investors demand to hold
Italy’s debt over German bunds hit a euro-era high of 267 basis
points today.  “Italy cannot afford to pay the interest rates it’s paying
right now,”  Andrew Bosomworth , a  fund manager  at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today. “Its debt is unsustainable if we project into
the future these sorts of interest rates levels, so we do need
something to change -- be that a policy response, be that a
change in attitudes in the markets.”  Slow Growth  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service said in the
past two months that they may cut the country’s credit rating
because slow economic growth will make it tough to curb debt.  Consob’s commissioners held an emergency meeting yesterday
after the country’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  plunged 3.5 percent
on July 8, led by a decline in  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and other shares of
banks, which are the among the largest holders of Italy’s debt.
The regulator’s ruling follows similar action taken in other
European countries, including Germany, Rome-based Consob said.  UniCredit, the country’s largest bank, today fell as much
as 3.7 percent before reversing the loss to a 0.9 percent gain
as of 9:55 a.m.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second-biggest lender,
dropped 1.9 percent. Both hit lows not seen since the period
when markets were emerging from the crisis spawned by the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Were Italy to undergo a sovereign and debt downgrade,
earnings in the banking sector could be more heavily impacted
than the market is currently discounting,” HSBC Holdings Plc
analysts including Carlo Digrandi wrote in a note today.  Blaming ‘Speculators’  Italian politicians including Paolo Bonaiuti, an aide to
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , blamed the market slide on
“speculators” and pledged action to rein in investors
perceived to be attacking Italy. Bonaiuti said Italy would be
united “in blocking the effort of speculators.”  On July 5, European lawmakers voted in favor of a ban on
short selling of  government bonds  in the EU unless traders have
at least “located and reserved” in advance the securities they
intend to sell. The European Union Parliament also called for
restrictions on traders’ use of credit-default swaps to profit
from defaults on sovereign debt they don’t own.  Short selling involves the sale of securities borrowed from
the owner, and generates profit when the trader repurchases them
at a lower price and returns them to the owner. The amount of
shorting is limited by the willingness of owners to lend.  Merkel, Sarkozy  The European Securities and Markets Authority, which co-
ordinates the work of national regulators in the 27-nation EU,
should be given emergency powers to temporarily ban short
selling or trades in CDS on sovereign debt in the EU, the
Parliament said.  Politicians including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy have claimed that naked short-
selling and credit-default swaps worsened the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis, and have called for EU curbs.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, said
last year such trades may lead to “disorderly markets and
systemic risks.” Finance ministers from the 27-nation region
agreed in May that traders should be allowed to short sell
government bonds and stocks if they have a “reasonable
expectation” that they can obtain the underlying securities.
They also rejected calls from  Germany  for a ban on sovereign
CDS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  