-- 
Israel-Greece Ties Keeps Flotilla Anchored

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-07-10T20:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/deepening-israel-greece-ties-keeps-gaza-bound-flotilla-anchored.html
Greece ’s move to prevent a flotilla
from departing its ports and challenging  Israel ’s blockade of
the  Gaza Strip  highlights the deepening ties between the once
antagonistic countries.  After a previous attempt ended in violence last year, pro-
Palestinian activists planned a second, bigger convoy this month
to undermine the blockade of Hamas-ruled Gaza by delivering aid
without permission. The effort fizzled as Greece stopped seven
ships from sailing, saying they lack proper safety equipment.  Greece only established full diplomatic relations with
Israel in 1990, one of the last European states to do so. Its
strengthening rapport with Israel, spurred in recent years by
the Jewish state’s worsening relationship with Turkey, has led
to increased military cooperation and the prospect of greater
economic integration, including natural gas sales.  “The relationship with Israel is multidimensional; it’s
economics, tourism, military exercises, and part of the equation
is natural gas,” said Aristotle Tziampiris, associate professor
of international relations at Greece’s  University of Piraeus .
“It was the deterioration of the relationship between  Turkey 
and Israel that provided an opening.”  The impediments thrown up by Greece may have averted a
repeat of last year’s confrontation at sea, when Israeli naval
commandos dropped from helicopters onto the deck of one ship in
a six-vessel convoy. Israel says people on board shot first and
attacked with iron bars, an allegation the passengers denied.
Nine Turks were killed.  Greece instead offered to send the aid “through existing
channels, as requested by the UN Secretary General,” according
to a July 3 statement from the Foreign Ministry.  Foe to Friend  Israel says it won’t allow the vessels to reach Gaza,
citing concerns over arms smuggling. The activists say the
blockade is illegal and causes hardship for Gaza’s population.  Ties between Greek and Israel have been slow to develop.
The relationship was especially acrimonious during the 1980s,
when then-prime minister Andreas Papandreou was a strong
supporter of the Palestinian Liberation Organization and a vocal
critic of Israeli policies.  His son  George Papandreou , the current Greek prime
minister, has taken a different approach. In July 2010 he became
the first Greek premier to visit Jerusalem in decades. The next
month he hosted Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on an
unprecedented visit to  Athens .  Netanyahu, 61, singled out “my friend” Papandreou, 59, in
a July 1 speech praising U.S. and European leaders for opposing
the flotilla.  Leviathan Field  The biggest potential for economic cooperation lies with
Israel’s natural gas discoveries, especially the Leviathan field
that lies close to Cyprus and holds an estimated 16 trillion
cubic feet. Israel and Greece have discussed exporting the gas
either through an undersea pipeline to the Greek mainland or via
a liquefied natural gas conversion plant to be built in Cyprus.  “Greece could very much become a hub for Israeli gas
exports from the Leviathan field to  Europe  at a time when Europe
is seeking to diversify away from its reliance on Russian gas,”
said John Sitilides, chairman of the board of advisers for the
Southeast Europe Project of the Woodrow Wilson Center, a
Washington-based research institute. “This is a relationship
that makes sense.”  Important for both countries are the reciprocal military
advantages the Israel-Greece relationship provides, says Alon Liel, former director-general of the Israeli Foreign Ministry.
He cited as one such benefit media  reports  of Israeli
willingness to accept deferred payments for weapons from its
government-controlled arms industry to Greece.  Military Drills  Greece in turn is providing Israel with airspace, land and
sea territory to conduct large-scale military exercises,
replacing what had formerly been Turkey’s role. Greece and
Israel have conducted at least two joint military exercises in
the past year, including a just-concluded two-week aerial drill.  Israeli officials also see an opportunity to increase
trade.  Shipments  between the countries were $412.8 million last
year. Trade so far this year was $179.1 million, up from $153.6
million in the January-May of 2010, according to the Israeli
statistics bureau.  “There is the potential to increase trade, certainly from
the Israeli side, in water technology, alternative energy,
health care and  homeland security ,’ said Dan Catarivas, director
of the international department of the Israel Manufacturers
Association, which on July 12 is hosting Greek President Karolos Papoulias at a trade promotion event in  Tel Aviv .  Turkey Ties Totter  Among the Israeli companies doing business in Greece are
Teva Pharmaceuticals Inc., the world’s largest generic drugs
company, and agrochemicals maker  Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. (MAIN)   One of the beneficiaries of Israeli business may be the
Greek  tourism industry , with the country increasingly popular as
the preferred Aegean resort in place of Turkey. The number of
Israeli tourists in Greece increased 139 percent in 2010 to
197,159, according to the Hellenic Statistical Authority.  As ties with Greece strengthen, some of Israel’s links to
Turkey are fraying. In the first five months of this year, the
number of Israelis traveling to Turkey fell 60 percent,  Hurriyet
said  last month.  Israeli and Turkish officials will meet later this month to
continue discussions on the Mavi Marmara incident and how to
repair the relationship between the countries, an Israeli
government official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to comment on-record.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told his
parliament on July 8 he insists Israel formally apologize for
the incident and pay compensation to the victims’ families if it
wants to renormalize the relationship. Israeli Foreign Minister
Avigdor Liberman told  Army Radio  on July 10 that Erdogan’s
statement shows he is “not serious” about renewing ties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  