-- 
Panetta Lands in Iraq to Discuss Attacks, Exit

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-10T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/defense-chief-panetta-lands-in-iraq-to-discuss-attacks-exit-1-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
will press Iraqi leaders today for action against militants
using Iranian-supplied weapons in attacks on American forces.  “I would like for Iraq to exert more of an effort to go
after those extremists that are making use of these weapons,”
Panetta said. “I don’t want to go into particulars, but I do
want to make clear that we have the authority to defend our
people.”  Fifteen American soldiers were killed in Iraq in June, the
biggest one-month loss of life in two years, Panetta told
reporters traveling with him on his first visit to the war zones
since being sworn in as defense secretary on July 1. He arrived
in Baghdad yesterday after two days in Afghanistan.  In  Iraq , Panetta has said he will urge leaders to reach a
long-delayed decision on whether to request the U.S. keep some
of its almost 50,000 troops remaining in the country beyond a
scheduled withdrawal date of Dec. 31. The government also has
failed to agree on a power-sharing deal to install ministers of
defense and interior almost a year after elections.  Obama administration officials have said they’d welcome a
request to keep some forces in Iraq, and Panetta said they would
“seriously consider” a proposal.  “We’re in the process of drawing down,” Panetta said.
“I’ll encourage them to make a decision so we’ll know where
we’re going.”  Iraqi Officials  Panetta is scheduled to meet with Prime Minister Nuri al- Maliki and President Jalal Talabani. The Washington Post
reported that Talabani said two days ago he would give political
leaders two more weeks to discuss an extension before
reconvening.  Panetta flew to Baghdad at the end of a second day in
 Afghanistan , where he met with President  Hamid Karzai  and the
defense and interior ministers in Kabul and then visited a U.S.
Marine base and field hospital in the southern province of
Helmand. He met with many of the same officials and with troops
in both Iraq and Afghanistan in the post he left less than two
weeks ago, director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  The U.S. and its coalition allies in Afghanistan have
poured additional troops and reconstruction funding into Helmand
in the past two years to try to win support away from the
Taliban and end opium poppy cultivation that helps fund the
insurgency.  Afghan Forces  Lashkar Gah, Helmand’s capital, is among seven areas where
the coalition will turn over lead responsibility for security to
Afghan forces this month. It will be the first part of a
transition to full Afghan security control at the end of 2014.  The transition hinges on training and developing the Afghan
National Army and the National Police to take over.  The commanders and their Afghan counterparts took the
defense secretary, who worked as an Army intelligence officer
during the Vietnam War era, on a tour of training areas,
including a field used to hone Afghan route clearance teams.  They demonstrated a 10- to 15-foot-long bamboo pole tipped
with a scythe normally used in Afghanistan to cut wheat. An
American explosives detection technician invented the device to
help detect roadside bombs, said Colonel David Furness,
commanding officer of Regimental Combat Team One from Camp
Pendleton,  California .  The so-called “Holly stick,” named after the inventor,
allows a soldier to probe the earth at a safe distance, Furness
said. Soft soil indicates a possible bomb, he said.  The Afghans’ biggest gap at this point is leadership skills
and logistics expertise to keep their forces properly supplied,
according to Panetta and base commanders.  “Right now, the ANA and ANP are good enough to beat the
Taliban, and they do so on a daily basis,” Furness said. “A
lot of times they’ll solve problems their way, and it kind of
mystifies you. But they end up solving them, and that’s what we
have to let them do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Baghdad  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  