-- 
Egypt’s June Inflation Slows as Food Price Increases Ease

-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-07-10T13:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/egypt-s-june-inflation-slows-as-food-price-increases-ease-2-.html
Egypt’s inflation rate declined in
June as food prices, one of the causes of the unrest that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak , rose at a slower pace.  The inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the gauge that
the central bank monitors, fell to 11.8 percent from 11.9
percent in May, the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and
Statistics said on its website today. Food and beverage prices,
the biggest component in the  consumer price index , rose 19
percent, compared with 19.8 percent a month earlier.  “June is a time of school exams and usually there isn’t
much spending,”  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at Cairo-based
investment bank CI Capital Holding, said before the figures were
published. She correctly forecast today’s inflation rate.  Eighteen days of protests in Egypt, sparked by falling
living standards and high unemployment as well as a lack of
democratic rights, led to the ouster of Mubarak on Feb. 11.
Economic growth may slow to 1 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  has said, as the turmoil hurts
revenue from tourism and industrial output.  Core inflation , which excludes the prices of fruits and
vegetables as well as regulated prices, accelerated to 8.94
percent in June from 8.81 percent in the previous month, the
central bank said in a statement on its website.  The central bank on June 9 left its overnight deposit rate
unchanged at 8.25 percent, the lowest level in more than four
years, and the overnight lending rate at 9.75 percent to support
economic growth. The Monetary Policy Committee last raised the
benchmark interest rate in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 