-- 
Egypt Prevails Over Banks as Borrowing Costs Drop: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-11T16:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/egypt-prevailing-over-banks-as-auction-borrowing-costs-drop-arab-credit.html
Egypt’s falling borrowing costs show
the government may have won a showdown with creditors by cutting
its budget deficit target and canceling a debt sale after yields
hit a three-year high.  Yields on treasury bills fell yesterday for the third
straight auction after the central bank called off the first
sale in the fiscal year that started July 1 when investors
demanded higher returns. The average yield on 3.5 billion
Egyptian pounds ($588 million) of nine-month notes dropped 21
basis points from last week’s auction, the most since October,
to 12.681 percent, according to  Finance Ministry  data.  Finance Minister  Samir Radwan ’s decision to lower the
budget deficit target by about 2.5 percentage points to 8.6
percent of economic output reduces the need for him to go to
local markets for financing, helping to lower yields, economists
at investment banks EFG-Hermes Holding SAE and CI Capital
Holding say.  “The market has a lot of liquidity and the central bank
sent a clear message that banks have to accept lower yields,”
said Mohamed Kotb, Cairo-based regional asset management
director at Naeem Financial Investments. “The banks don’t want
to lose such a valuable investment opportunity, so they are
forced to comply.”  In its previous sale on July 7, the bank raised the full
amount of one-year notes for the first time since April and
yields fell 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 12.9
percent. The yield had jumped 254 basis points to about 13
percent, the highest since 2008, after an uprising ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  Less Upward Pressure  Foreign investors dumped 34.7 billion pounds of Egyptian
treasury bills in the first four months the year, according to
the central bank, prompting local lenders to ask for higher
yields. That forced the government to freeze bond sales,
shifting its focus to short-term borrowing as the central bank,
which runs the auctions on behalf of the Finance Ministry,
struggled to meet its fund-raising targets.  “As the year progresses and the foreign money starts
coming in” yields will come down, Richard Fox, the London-based
head of  Middle East  and Africa Sovereigns at  Fitch Ratings , said
in a conference call on July 6. “There may not be huge downward
pressure, but at least the upward pressure should dissipate.”  The rating company cut  Egypt ’s credit rating one level, to
BB, on Feb. 3, leaving it two levels below investment grade.  Pound Support  Egypt’s three-month and six-month securities were rated
“buy” in a new coverage today by Gabriel Sterne, a London-
based senior economist at Exotix Ltd. He also rated as “buy”
Egypt’s 8.75 percent pound-denominated eurobond maturing in July
2012. At yesterday’s auction, the bank raised 2 billion pounds
in 91-day treasury bills at an average yield of 11.93 percent,
16 basis points lower than the last auction of the same
maturity.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond
maturing in April 2020 declined two basis points in the past
week to 5.69 percent, according to Bloomberg prices. The yield
peaked at 7.07 percent on Jan. 31 at the height of the anti-
Mubarak protests that ended his three-decade rule. The pound
gained 2 piasters to 5.95 to the dollar in the same period.  Egypt’s economy probably expanded 2.6 percent in the fiscal
year that ended last month, according to the  Finance Ministry ,
compared with about 5 percent in the previous 12 months.  The government, which turned down a $3 billion loan from
the  International Monetary Fund , kept its target for economic
growth this year of 3.2 percent even after cutting the deficit
target through lowering spending on energy subsidies and
investment.  ‘Growth Engines’  The target may be ambitious, said John Sfakianakis, the
Riyadh-based chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi. He
forecasts the economy will expand 2.5 percent.  “The growth engines will recover, but at a slower pace
than what a lot of people are expecting,” he said, citing
tourism and manufacturing.  Reducing spending and keeping the growth target unchanged
reflects a government bet on inflows from oil-rich governments
and investors in the  Persian Gulf , said  Mona Mansour , co-head of
research at CI Capital, a Cairo-based investment bank.  Saudi Arabia  has promised Egypt $4 billion in aid, while
the  United Arab Emirates  last week pledged $3 billion for
Egypt’s small and medium enterprises, and housing projects.  The cost of protection against Egypt’s default climbed 26
basis points in the past three weeks, reaching 328 today,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts rose before a mass
rally in central Cairo last weekend where protesters demanded
speedier trials of former officials and policemen accused of
killing civilians.  Foreign Investors  Credit default swaps for Bahrain, which saw anti-government
protests in February and March, are at 233 basis points,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Egyptian debt
surged 22 basis points in the past week to 307 according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global Emerging-Market Index. Middle
Eastern debt yields are on average 348 basis points more than
Treasuries, the data show.  Unrest ahead of parliamentary elections in September may
also prompt banks to ask for more yields.  “Political risk is deemed to be very high with new
protests over this weekend in Cairo and uncertainties about how
a new government will tackle all these macroeconomic
challenges,” said Sergey Dergachev, senior portfolio manager at
Frankfurt-based Union Investment Privatfonds, who oversees $8.5
billion in emerging-market debt. “We have not yet started to
buy Egyptian treasury bills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 