-- 
Electrolux Agrees to Acquire Olympic Group to Expand in Egypt

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-10T17:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/electrolux-agrees-to-acquire-olympic-group-to-expand-in-egypt.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  agreed to buy a
controlling stake in Olympic Group Financial Investment Company
SAE in a deal that values the company at $410 million as the
world’s second-largest appliance maker plans to expand in Egypt.  Electrolux will buy a 52 percent stake from Paradise
Capital and offered to acquire the remaining shares of the
Cairo-based company for 40.6 Egyptian pounds apiece, according
to a statement published by Stockholm-based Elextrolux today.
The offer for the remaining shares is 13 percent more than
Olympic’s 35.84-pound closing share price as of July 7.  Electrolux, which had agreed in October to buy the stake
from Paradise, suspended the acquisition on Feb. 2 after the
start of anti-government demonstrations in the  Egypt . The
Swedish company resumed talks after  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime had
been toppled, Olympic said March 23.  Electrolux Chief Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said on
June 13 the company was still seeking to close the Olympic deal.  “We still feel very good about them as a company, as a
strategy and as a business,” McLoughlin said at the time.  Under the terms of the deal, Electrolux will sell Olympic’s
stakes in Namaa and B-Tech to Paradise Capital for about 450
million Egyptian pounds ($75.6 million), which means the
transaction values Olympic at 2.45 billion Egyptian pounds,
according to today’s statement.  Olympic has net debt including minority interests of about
740 million Egyptian pounds, which will also be included in the
deal, Electrolux said. The company expects to complete the offer
at the end of this month or in the beginning of August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  