-- 
Euro Tumbles to 7-Week Low Versus Dollar on Raised European Debt Concern

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-11T21:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/euro-falls-to-two-week-low-on-concern-region-s-debt-crisis-is-worsening.html
The euro tumbled to a seven-week low
against the dollar and slid versus the yen as rising Italian
bond yields stoked concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis in
deepening.  The euro traded near a record low against the Swiss franc
as euro-area finance ministers vowed fresh steps to ensure debt
sustainability for  Greece , including enhancements to the main
bailout fund. The yen rose against most its major counterparts
and jumped to an almost three-week high against the dollar.
 Norway ’s krone and  Canada ’s currency declined as crude oil fell.  “The euro crisis had originally been a key reason why
people were gunning for a weaker euro in the first half to begin
with, but it has taken that much longer to play out,” said
 David Mann , regional head of research for the Americas at
Standard Chartered Plc in New York. “It’s going to become
something that will play an increasing role in the second
half.”  The 17-nation euro depreciated 1.7 percent to $1.4032 at
5:01 p.m. in  New York , touching the lowest level since May 23.
It slid 2.1 percent against the yen, to 112.61, and touched
112.35 yen, the least since March 18. The dollar weakened as
much as 0.5 percent to 80.26 yen, after touching the lowest
since June 22.  Euro-Area Meeting  The euro weakened 1.8 percent against the Swiss franc to
1.1724 as investors sought the safest European assets as euro-
area finance ministers meet today.  In a statement in Brussels, the ministers said they “stand
ready to adopt further measures that will improve the euro
area’s systemic capacity to resist contagion risk, including
enhancing the flexibility and scope of the European Financial
Stability Facility, lengthening the maturities of the loans and
lowering the  interest rates .”  European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi assured investors earlier that Greece and  Italy  are able
to repay their public debts.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose as much as 31 basis
points to 5.58 percent, driving the premium over German bunds to
a euro-lifetime record of 283 basis points. The difference in
yield, or spread, between Spanish and German 10-year securities
also reached the highest in the euro era, widening to 323 basis
points.  The seven-day relative strength index for the euro versus
the dollar fell to 25.2, the lowest since May 13. Figures below
30 indicate a currency may have depreciated too quickly and may
be poised for a reversal.  Dollar Strength  The dollar rose against all its major counterparts,
excluding the franc and the yen as stocks and commodities
slumped.  The best currency forecasters say the dollar’s more than 12
percent slide during the past year is coming to an end as
 Europe ’s deepening debt crisis discourages bets against the
world’s reserve currency.  Led by Schneider Foreign Exchange Ltd., the five most-
accurate firms during the six quarters through June 30 as
measured by Bloomberg see the dollar trading at $1.42 per euro
on average by year-end, compared with $1.43 on July 8. Against
the yen, they predict the greenback will rise to 83 from 80.64.  “Everyone is aware inside and outside of the euro area
that these countries cannot bail themselves out of these debt
burdens,” said Schneider’s Gallo in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Betty Liu on “In the Loop.” “The bottom line
is there is no way to ring fence this entirely the losses are
going to have be swallowed.”  Stocks, Commodities  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.8 percent and the
MSCI World Index declined 2.1 percent. The S&P GSCI index of raw
materials slipped 0.7 percent.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six trading partners,
advanced 1.1 percent to 76.001. Movements in the gauge are
weighted 57.6 percent to the euro.  The Norwegian krone slid 2.1 percent to 5.5247 per dollar,
after data showed Norway’s underlying inflation rate was 0.7
percent in June.  Canada’s dollar fell 0.6 percent to 96.85 cents per  U.S.
dollar , from 96.27. Crude for August delivery in New York fell
as much as 2.1 percent to $94.14 a barrel.  China’s Yuan  The Australian dollar declined 0.9 percent to $1.0654 on
speculation China, its largest trading partner, will increase
efforts to tame inflation even as growth cools.  “The China thing is always there in the background,” said
Tom Levinson, a foreign-exchange strategist at ING Bank NV in
 London . “Are they going to have to raise rates to such an
extent that growth is choked off? Certainly at the margin it’s
there and it’s negative for  Australia  and perhaps slightly
broader as well.”  Chinese consumer prices increased 6.4 percent in June from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on July
9, exceeding the 6.2 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The government will say on July 13 that
gross domestic product expanded 9.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year before, according to a separate survey, down
from 9.7 percent the previous quarter.  The  reference rate  for  China ’s yuan was little changed at
6.4671.  Three chief executive officers of Chinese banks said in
interviews in  Hong Kong  on July 6, they want a stronger and more
freely convertible yuan to support their global expansion. They
join Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  as unlikely allies
in his push for China to let its currency rise faster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  