-- 
Mexichem Debt Beating Dow Amid Bond-Free Expansion Program: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-07-11T21:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/mexichem-debt-beating-dow-amid-bond-free-expansion-program-mexico-credit.html
Mexican chemical producer Mexichem
SAB’s plan to fund its expansion with cash and a credit line
instead of selling bonds is helping the company outperform peers
from Dow Chemical Co. to Braskem SA in the  debt market .  Yields on Mexichem’s dollar bonds due 2019 fell 23 basis
points, or 0.23 percentage point, in the past month to 5.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
yield on debt sold by global chemical producers rose 2 basis
points during the same period, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Mexican companies’ borrowing costs rose 11 basis
points in the past month.  Mexichem, which has made more than 15 acquisitions since
2007, plans to spend as much as $3 billion to expand in  Europe ,
the U.S. and  India  in the next five years. The company’s annual
profit more than tripled in the past five years amid growing
demand in the U.S. and  developing countries  for building
supplies such as plastic pipes. Mexichem won’t sell bonds this
year to fund its expansion, Chief Executive Officer Rafael Davalos said on June 1 in an interview.  “This is a no-brainer for U.S. investors,”  Alonso Madero ,
who helps oversee $5.5 billion of debt at Corp. Actinver SAB,
said in a telephone interview. “They have a well-defined and
disciplined plan for expansion that doesn’t place their credit
rating or quality at risk. Their  cash flow  is enough for the
expansion.”  Mexichem,  Latin America ’s largest plastic-pipe maker, is
rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, one level below
investment grade. The company’s bonds yield 214 basis points
more than similar-maturity Mexican government notes rated three
levels higher, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Surging Sales  Yields on bonds due in 2020 sold by Braskem, the  Sao Paulo ,
Brazil-based petrochemicals maker, rose 4 basis points in the
past month to 5.65 percent. Notes due in 2019 issued by Dow
Chemical, the world’s second-biggest chemical maker, yield 4.03
percent, up two basis points since June 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexichem’s sales totaled 24.4 billion pesos ($2.01 billion)
in the first six months of the year, up 51 percent from the same
period in 2010. The company’s acquisitions include the $350
million purchase of Ineos Fluor from Ineos Group Holdings on
March 2010, which made it the largest producer of the
refrigerant component calcium fluoride. It’s also expanding
operations in  Japan  and  South Korea  to tap into growing demand
for chemicals used in refrigerants, lubricants and propellants.  The company said on July 8 it may use proceeds from a $750
million line of credit to finance growth.  ‘Attractive’  Mexichem is using a  credit line  instead of a bond sale
because of the “flexibility” it provides, spokesman Enrique Ortega said in a telephone interview from the company’s
headquarters in Tlalnepantla, Mexico. “It can be ready whenever
we need it without costing the company if it’s not in use.”  Mexichem’s bond rally is helping the company negotiate an
“attractive” rate on the credit line, Ortega said.  The company lowered its total debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, debt and amortization, or Ebitda, to 2.02 times
in the first quarter from 2.11 times a year earlier, according
to Bloomberg data.  “They told people they were going to expand and they told
people that after borrowing they would deleverage,” Mark Christensen, who helps manage $500 million in emerging-market
debt, including Mexichem bonds, as a portfolio manager at
Doubleline Capital LP in  Los Angeles . “This is one of the names
we like and one of the names we have been hoping would come and
issue again.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened nine basis point
to 144, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose six basis points today to 114, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso dropped 1.2 percent to 11.7618 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February were unchanged at 5.01 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank to raise the rate that month.
Policy makers held the lending rate at a record low 4.5 percent
on July 8, the only major Latin American country to keep
borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  U.S. Growth  A slowdown in the  U.S. economy  and concern that new
acquisitions could drive up Mexichem’s debt levels may hurt the
bonds, said Araceli Espinosa, a corporate debt analyst at  Scotia
Capital  in  Mexico  City. About 33 percent of Mexichem’s sales
come from  North America .  U.S. businesses expanded payrolls by 18,000 in June, below
the median forecast for a gain of 105,000 in a Bloomberg survey,
and the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent, marking the third
consecutive monthly increase.  “Any slowdown in the U.S. is going to impact them,”
Espinosa said in a telephone interview. “Right now they are
taking advantage of all the cash coming. If they keep on buying
companies, they risk taking on more debt and reaching debt
levels that may seem risky to bondholders.”  Mexichem agreed on June 28 to create a $556 million
petrochemical company in a joint venture with  Petroleos
Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil producer, to increase output
of vinyl chloride monomer, a product needed to create plastic
pipes, packaging and coatings. The company, which is controlled
by former banker Antonio del Valle Ruiz, is seeking to reduce
its dependence on third-party vinyl chloride producers such as
Dow Chemical and Occidental Petroleum Corp.  Del Valle Ruiz did not respond to a phone message left at
his office after normal business hours on June 8.  “The company has reaped the benefits of its success,”
said Doubleline’s Christensen. “It seems they have been fairly
successful in doing what they said they would do.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Andres R. Martinez in
Mexico City at   amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  