-- 
Fed Data Cruncher Finding No New Normal Unemployment Nationwide

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-07-10T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/fed-data-cruncher-finds-no-new-normal-unemployment-with-nationwide-figures.html
Mary Daly holds up two charts
containing 33 bars that all point down. They show eight
industries getting hit equally hard after the 18-month recession
ended in June 2009, suggesting that much of the past two years’
high unemployment is broad-based and should dissipate as the
economy improves.  Daly is among researchers throughout the  Federal Reserve 
system -- from San Francisco to Philadelphia and the board in
Washington -- who are scouring data, examining models and
gleaning anecdotes to determine why the jobless rate has
remained stuck around 9 percent or more since April 2009. Most
are reaching the conclusion that any long-term, structural
shifts in the labor market aren’t significant enough to keep the
U.S. from returning to a pre-crisis unemployment level of 5
percent to 6 percent by about 2016.  “If we were mis-measuring the natural rate of
unemployment, I would expect to see rapid wage growth in some
sectors offset by wage declines in others,” said Daly, 48, who
heads the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco’s applied
microeconomic research department. “I don’t see that. I see
pretty uniform patterns across all sectors.”  This means Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues
should be able to bring down unemployment by continuing to keep
 interest rates  near zero, eventually stimulating demand and
encouraging businesses to start hiring again, said Sung Won Sohn, former chief economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . and now an
economics professor at  California  State University-Channel
Islands. The risk is they will leave record stimulus in place
too long, sparking a rising price spiral.  ‘Flood of Liquidity’  “The research going on in the Federal Reserve is very
important and critical in charting the future course of monetary
policy, given the historically high jobless rate,” Sohn said.
If the cause is primarily structural, then the Fed “will have
simply created more future inflation because of a flood of
liquidity it has created.”  The U.S. has recovered only 1.8 million of the more than
8.7 million jobs lost since January 2008, according to Labor
Department figures, as companies such as  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  still shed workers. A report Friday showed
the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent in June, the highest
this year, from 9.1 percent in May.  When asked during a June 22 press conference if there’s a
“structural issue” with unemployment, Bernanke said Fed
officials “expect to see healthier job-creation numbers” and
“payroll numbers improving relatively soon.” The U.S. is
“still some years away from full employment in the sense of 5.5
percent, say,” he added.  Fewer Workers Quitting  Daly’s charts show that the number of hires per vacancy
across all eight industries -- trade, transportation and
utilities; construction; manufacturing; government; leisure and
hospitality; education and health services; professional and
business services; and others -- is “well below” where it
should be compared with the period from December 2000 through
December 2007, when the last expansion ended. Meanwhile, wage
growth is decelerating and fewer workers are quitting, she said.  Researchers Raven Molloy and Christopher Smith of the Fed
board in  Washington  and economist Abigail Wozniak at the
University of Notre Dame in  Indiana  found no evidence that
homeowners in states with the biggest declines in housing values
had a harder time relocating than renters. Their work indicates
that the inability to move from properties with negative equity
isn’t contributing to a rise in structural unemployment.  Jobless College Graduates  Another telling indicator is joblessness among recent
college graduates between the ages of 20 and 24, according to
Daniel Aaronson, director of microeconomic research for the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. The rate climbed to 14.5
percent in June from 8 percent four years ago, as the national
rate rose to 9.2 percent from 4.6 percent. The similarity points
to cyclical causes because young people should be more able to
relocate or switch industries to find work, said Aaronson, 43.  Nobel laureates  Edmund Phelps  and A. Michael Spence, along
with Wall Street economists Drew Matus and Troy Davig, disagree
with the Fed researchers, saying they aren’t paying enough
attention to changes in the  labor force  that monetary policy
can’t fix. Matus, a senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , noted that 44.4 percent of the people
who were unemployed in June have been out of work for 27 weeks
or more; in 2001, the share was as low as 10 percent.  “There’s some risk that they don’t get it right,” said
Phelps, who helped pioneer the concept of a natural rate for
unemployment in the 1960s. “But there’s some risk they don’t
get it at all. For one thing, the Fed underestimates the
strength of structural forces pulling the economy back to a new
normal, so there is greater risk of building up too much
liquidity and unleashing an accidental burst of inflation.”  Spurring Higher Prices  The further the Fed estimates unemployment can fall without
spurring higher prices, the greater the risk policy makers will
maintain record stimulus and spark 1970s-style price increases,
said Davig, a senior economist at  Barclays Capital  in  New York 
and former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.  Rising inflation expectations, as measured by the five-
year, five-year-forward break-even rate, would prompt some
investors to sell long-term Treasuries, buy Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities and push the rate even higher, he said,
adding that “it’s not in our forecast, but it’s something we
see on the table.” Barclays, on average, has the largest market
share of TIPS trading by volume.  Rising Treasury Yields  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, which are a benchmark for
everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds, have climbed
to 3.03 percent on July 8 from 2.86 percent on June 24. The
Fed’s five-year forward break-even inflation rate has risen to
3.04 percent on July 6 from 2.77 percent on June 15.  The impact of structural changes on the natural rate of
unemployment, or level needed to keep inflation from igniting,
is key to determining how effective Fed policy can be. The
higher the rate -- also known as the non-accelerating inflation
rate of unemployment or NAIRU -- the less policy makers can do
to stimulate the economy without stoking higher prices, and the
more crucial it is for the U.S. to take other steps, such as
retraining workers.  The lower the natural rate, the stronger the argument that
the central bank still has room to encourage growth and boost
job creation. Fed officials put the natural rate at 5 percent to
6 percent, which they expect to see in the next five or six
years, based on forecasts released June 22.  Declining Innovation  Phelps, 77, who teaches at  Columbia University  in New York
and won the Nobel Prize for economics in 2006, estimates the
natural rate has climbed to about 7 percent from 5.5 percent
since the mid-1990s. He says the labor force will shrink with
the exodus of retiring baby boomers and innovation is declining,
lowering productivity growth.  Shigeru Fujita, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia, also sees significant structural forces at
work, pointing to labor’s declining share of the economy since
the early 1980s, measured by workers’ compensation as a
percentage of gross domestic product.  The economy now is following a path similar to the jobless
recoveries after economic slumps ended in 1991 and 2001, “even
though the Great Recession was very different,” said Fujita,
40, who joined the bank in 2004. “There are many things that
traditional economic models can’t explain, one of which is
jobless recoveries.”  Other economists say high unemployment is largely the
result of inadequate demand in the economy, including Princeton
University professor Paul Krugman, another Nobel laureate, and
Robert E. Hall, head of the National Bureau of Economic Research
committee that dates the start and end of recessions.  ‘Highly Adaptive’  “The Fed is highly adaptive: It pays close attention to
actual and forecasted inflation,” said Hall, who teaches at
 Stanford University  in California. Actual inflation is likely to
remain stable “even if the economy heats up again.”  The availability of extended  unemployment benefits  may have
increased joblessness by as much as 0.8 percentage point and
should have only a transitory effect as they expire and economic
conditions improve, according to a  January paper  by Daly and  San
Francisco  Fed researchers Bart Hobijn and Robert Valletta. Daly
puts the natural rate at 6.25 percent and predicts it will fall
to as low as 5.5 percent in five or more years.  “We concluded in January that the severity of the
recession did increase the natural rate of unemployment,” she
said in an interview from her office at the bank.  “But part of
that increase is temporary and will go away as the economy
recovers. Nothing in the data that has come out since then
suggests our views should change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  