-- 
Ferrari’s Alonso Wins British Grand Prix After Red Bull’s Pit-Stop Blunder

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-11T00:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/ferrari-s-alonso-wins-british-grand-prix-at-silverstone-vettel-is-second.html
Fernando Alonso  won the British
Grand Prix to give Ferrari its first victory in a Formula One
season dominated by Red Bull. Sebastian Vettel stretched his
lead in the standings, even after a pit-stop blunder.  Alonso finished 16.5 seconds ahead of Vettel, who fended
off Red Bull teammate  Mark Webber  in yesterday’s 52-lap race at
Silverstone,  England . McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  finished fourth
ahead of  Felipe Massa  in the other Ferrari.  “When we were struggling at the start of the season, we
did not get downhearted, but instead we reacted: now we have
reaped the rewards,” Alonso told reporters. “The Red Bull is
still the strongest car, but the improvements we are introducing
are working.”  Alonso’s 27th career victory lifted the two-time series
champion up to third from fifth in the drivers’ standings
through nine of 19 races. It was Ferrari’s first win in 11
events, the last being Alonso’s in  South Korea  in October.  Vettel, who’d won six of the eight previous races, leads
the standings with 204 points. Webber has 124, Alonso 112 and
Hamilton and Button have 109. Red Bull leads the constructors’
standings on 328 points, with McLaren on 218 and Ferrari on 164.  The 92-point gap to Vettel makes a third title a distant
prospect, Alonso said. The next race is the July 24 German Grand
Prix.  “The gap is a lot, so obviously the championship is not in
our calculations at the moment, not in our hands,” Alonso said.  Ignored Orders  Webber battled to overtake Vettel in the closing moments of
yesterday’s race and later he said he ignored team orders to
hold his position. The pair crashed into each other at last
year’s Turkish Grand Prix.  McLaren’s Hamilton worked his way up the field after
qualifying in 10th spot, though his chances of a podium finish
were hurt when he was forced to conserve fuel toward the end.  “You have to lift and coast, which means the brake
temperatures drop,” Hamilton said. “So I had no brakes, and
that’s why I kept locking up. That allowed Mark to slip ahead of
me.”  Home favorite Hamilton, the 2008 champion, has had a
frustrating season, unhappy at his car’s lack of competitiveness
against the Red Bulls and receiving criticism for his driving
style after crashing into rivals.  Two days ago he blamed his qualifying position on tire
strategy errors by his team. Hamilton lined up on the grid
behind Scottish rookie Paul di Resta of Force  India , who started
in sixth.  Last year’s winner Webber was in pole position yesterday,
alongside Vettel. Alonso and Massa were third and fourth, with
McLaren’s  Jenson Button  fifth.  Vettel Took Lead  From the start, Vettel took the lead from Webber as the
drivers adapted to a partially wet track that quickly began to
dry out. The evolving conditions led to early tire changes.  Hamilton surged through the field to third, his maneuvers
including overhauling Alonso on the inside into Copse corner.  Vettel was hit by the pit-stop glitch when the team
couldn’t re-attach a wheel. The delay dropped him to third
behind Alonso -- who’d pitted at the same time -- and Hamilton.
Another pit-stop blunder put 2009 series champion Button out of
the race when his right front wheel wasn’t put on properly.  “You cannot get it right all the time and you have to
accept Ferrari beat us fair and square,” Vettel said.  With Hamilton’s progress slowed, Webber took third spot
behind Alonso and Vettel. The Australian then pressed his
teammate for second place and before the end of the race Red
Bull told its drivers to keep position.  Webber had said “not bad for a No. 2 driver” when winning
last year’s race at Silverstone. He told reporters he was “not
fine” with being told to stay behind Vettel.  “If Fernando had retired on the last lap then we would
have been fighting for victory,” Webber said. “I was fighting
until the end. I ignored the team because I wanted to try and
get another place. Seb was doing his best, I was doing my
best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  