-- 
Foreign Companies Seen Targeting Australia, Seeking to Secure Food Supply

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-07-11T05:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/foreign-companies-seen-targeting-australia-seeking-to-secure-food-supply.html
Overseas buyers may boost investment
in agriculture assets in  Australia , the fourth-biggest shipper
of wheat, as they seek to secure supply to meet surging food
demand, said Queensland Sugar Ltd. Chairman Alan Winney.  “We now face a realistic prospect that Australian
agribusiness may in the near future be run from boardrooms in
 Singapore ,  New York  and  Shanghai ,” Winney wrote in a report for
the  Australian Farm Institute .  China ’s Cofco Ltd. said last week it won control of Tully
Sugar Ltd., adding to the company’s supply of the sweetener from
Australia, the world’s third-largest shipper. Rising incomes and
economic growth in emerging markets including China and  India 
are fueling demand for farm products and helping drive food
prices higher. Companies may also look to acquire Australian
grain assets to ensure supply, according to the report.  “They can throw a lot of capital at these businesses,”
said  Belinda Moore , a Brisbane-based analyst with Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. Companies may invest in Australian firms as
they seek food security and diversification of risk, she said.  Twelve of 23 licensed wheat exporters are Australian-owned,
while 60 percent of the grain storage companies are owned by
foreign interests, according to the report. Australia’s biggest
wheat exporter is Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc., which operates
as Cargill and AWB, Winney said.  Overseas Investment  “In two years it is likely that the majority of Australian
wheat will be exported by international companies,” said Winney,
who is also chairman of grain-marketing company  Emerald Group
Australia Pty , which is 50 percent-owned by Japanese trading
company  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  “It is debatable if there will be a
surviving Australian-owned storage business,” he said.  Australia said in November it will study the level of
overseas investment in its farms amid concern over foreign
ownership and food security. The Australian Bureau of Statistics
will survey 171,000 agricultural businesses this year, according
to Assistant Treasurer Bill Shorten.  Opposition leader Tony Abbott said  last month  he will
establish a working group to investigate tightening rules
governing the sale of Australian agricultural land and
agribusinesses to foreigners.  “A lot of our companies are going and I suspect there will
be continued foreign investment in Australia, given the sense
that we’re the food bowl into  Asia ,” Moore said.  Rising Food Costs  World food output will have to soar 70 percent by 2050 as
the global population climbs to 9.2 billion from an estimated
6.9 billion in 2010, the United Nations estimates. The price of
staple foods including corn will more than double in two decades
without action, Oxfam International said in May.  Monthly food prices tracked by the UN have surged 10 times
in the past 12 months and this month stayed near a record
reached in February, on higher sugar, dairy and rice prices. The
 World Bank  estimates higher food spending have pushed 44 million
more people into poverty.  “Nations in the southern hemisphere will increasingly need
to supply the food imports of the northern hemisphere,” Winney
said. “Future food demand will be driven by growth in Asia.”  Growth in agricultural output will slow to 1.7 percent a
year through 2020, compared with 2.6 percent in the previous
decade, FAO and the Paris-based  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  said in a report last month.  Bright Food  “Food and energy security are driving 25-year forward
planning in some nations,” Winney said. “Some governments are
building strategic food reserves as a counter against food
inflation and sovereign funds are investing in productive land
at lower returns in order to guarantee supply lines.”  Bright Food Group Co., based in Shanghai, bid last year for
 CSR Ltd. (CSR) ’s sugar division to meet rising demand for the
sweetener in China. Bright’s offer was topped by a A$1.75
billion ($1.89 billion) rival approach from  Wilmar International
Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s biggest palm-oil processor by sales.  In 2009  Viterra Inc. (VT) , based in Regina, Saskatchewan
purchased ABB Grain Ltd., Australia’s biggest barley exporter.  “Asia is seeking out food and energy resources to support
this phenomenal growth now and the preferred agribusiness
investment locations are Australia,  South America  and sub-
Saharan  Africa ,” Winney said in the report.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  