-- 
Geithner Wants Biggest Budget-Deficit Cut Possible Now, No Short-Term Deal

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-10T15:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/geithner-wants-biggest-budget-deficit-cut-possible-now-no-short-term-deal.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the Obama administration wants the most
comprehensive deficit-cutting deal possible and reiterated that
failing to raise the debt limit could have “catastrophic”
consequences.  “We have to find a way to pass an agreement, but the
president is going to keep working toward the largest deal we
can do, because that’s the right thing for the country,”
Geithner said today on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  Obama and congressional leaders are seeking a deficit-
slashing deal to pave the way for a vote in Congress to increase
the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, a move the Treasury
Department says is needed by Aug. 2 to avert a default on the
nation’s financial obligations.  Geithner said Congress has no alternative to raising the
debt limit and there are no “constitutional” delays available.
A default resulting from failure to raise the ceiling could do
“catastrophic” damage to the  U.S. economy , he said.  Some Democrats in Congress have discussed the idea of
claiming presidential authority to continue borrowing without
congressional approval based on an interpretation of the
Constitution’s 14th Amendment.  Boehner’s Proposal  House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday he will pursue a
smaller deficit reduction accord than the one that President
 Barack Obama  is seeking because the White House won’t approve a
bigger deal without tax increases.  Boehner told the president yesterday that he wants to
pursue a deal along the lines of that being discussed by the
working group led by Vice President  Joe Biden .  Obama was spending the weekend at Camp David, the
presidential retreat in  Maryland , and will return today for
further debt talks with congressional leaders.  Geithner, in a separate appearance on the CBS program
“Face the Nation,” said the outlines of a deal must be
completed in the next two weeks to make the Aug. 2 deadline. The
Obama administration won’t accept a deal that puts the
“burden” on the middle class and elderly, he said.  An agreement without any “tax reforms, without revenues”
would force “terribly deep cuts in benefits to Medicare
beneficiaries,” Geithner said. The House Republicans’ budget
proposal, “when fully phased in,” would increase the average
cost to Medicare beneficiaries by $6,500 a year, he said.  ‘Balanced’ Approach  “That’s like a $6,500 tax increase on elderly Americans,”
Geithner said. “So the only way to do this is in a balanced
way.”  Geithner reiterated that he will remain Treasury secretary
for the “foreseeable” future, without being more specific.
Geithner has signaled to White House officials that he’s
considering leaving after a debt-limit deal is reached,
Bloomberg News reported June 30, citing three people familiar
with the matter.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said on “Fox News Sunday” that he also favors
“the biggest deal possible. We’re just not going to raise taxes
in the middle of this horrible situation.”  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, said
Geithner has “been irresponsible” in his comments on the
impact of failing to raise the debt limit. Any deal should
include a pledge to let states vote on a constitutional
amendment requiring the federal government to balance its budget
each year, DeMint said on “Fox News Sunday.”  White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley, speaking on ABC’s
“This Week” program, said “there’s no question in my mind”
that congressional leaders “will not allow the first default in
the history of the country to occur.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 