-- 
Gillard Sets A$23 Carbon Tax to Reduce Australia’s Fossil Fuel Dependence

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-07-10T06:51:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/gillard-unveils-australia-carbon-tax-to-cut-coal.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
unveiled Australia’s first tax on greenhouse gas emissions from
July 2012 to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and encourage
renewable energy in the world’s biggest-coal exporting country.  Australia expects to raise some A$27.8 billion ($30
billion) in three years by making polluters pay an initial
charge of A$23 ($24.74) a ton of carbon dioxide, then lifting
the price by 2.5 percent a year, plus inflation, Gillard said
today in Canberra. The tax will switch to a cap-and-trade system
in 2015, while the plan provides about A$47 billion through 2020
to help households and industries and spur renewable energy.  Gillard, Australia’s least popular prime minister for 13
years, wants to cut  emissions  in the developed world’s biggest
per-capita polluter to at least 5 percent below 2000 levels by
2020. She already has support from the Greens party and the
three independent lawmakers needed to pass the program after
plans to price carbon and tax profits of miners cost her
predecessor,  Kevin Rudd , his job.  “This is an ambitious transition plan for the Australian
economy -- it’s not just about greenhouse gas emissions,”
Martijn Wilder, the head of the climate change practice at law
firm Baker & McKenzie, said today by phone. “Australia has been
working on this policy since the late 1990s. It’s about time.”  The country, which relies on coal to generate about 80
percent of its electricity, will require about 500 businesses to
pay for their pollution under the plan. The government also will
more than double aviation fuel excise. The carbon program will
increase the annual change in the  consumer price index  by 0.7
percentage point in its first year, the government estimates.  More Than  Europe   “Australia will cut 159 million tons a year of carbon
pollution from our atmosphere by 2020,” Gillard said. “That is
the equivalent of taking over 45 million cars off the road.”  Power generators facing losses in the value of their assets
will receive A$5.5 billion in assistance, Gillard said today.
The government also said it will provide loan support to
electricity suppliers and payment for the closure of coal-fired
plants to remove as much as 2,000 megawatts of capacity by 2020.  While the carbon initiative has “some positive” details
for the electricity generation industry, “risks remain for the
stable, competitive delivery of secure energy supplies,” Brad
Page, chief executive officer of the Energy Supply Association
of Australia, said in an e-mailed statement.  Adds Costs  A decision not to allow deferred payments for carbon
permits adds costs at a time when many generators would already
face reduced  cash flow , the industry group said.  Power plants 
would need access to more than A$10 billion of permits, he said.  The A$23 cost compares with allowances that averaged 15.42
euros (A$20.45) a ton during the past 12 months in Europe, which
started the world’s biggest emissions-trading program in 2005.  Carbon prices in Australia may rise to about A$32 by 2020
from A$22 in 2015, when trading starts, said Seb Henbest, who
leads Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Sydney-based research team.  “Business should be looking beyond 2015 to the trading
phase to understand their long-term liabilities and
opportunities,” Henbest said.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s pledge to repeal the
Gillard government’s planned legislation if he comes to power
may be hard to fulfill, as the Greens would likely block such an
attempt in the upper house.  The government will provide A$9.2 billion over three years
to assist the biggest-polluting businesses such as aluminum
smelting, steelmaking and pulp manufacturing. The assistance
will be in the form of free carbon permits. The government also
will allocate A$300 million to steelmakers to encourage
investment and innovation, the government said.  Industry Assistance  Coal mining companies would get A$1.3 billion, with the
biggest polluters getting assistance over six years, the
government said.  Anglo American Plc said the proposal puts coal investments
in  Australia  and 40,000 industry jobs at risk. Aluminum
producers estimate that extra costs they face because of
Gillard’s plan will rise to A$400 million in 2020 from A$120
million in the first year, the Australian Aluminium Council said
in an e-mailed statement.  Part of the plan includes A$10 billion for the Clean Energy
Finance Corp., which will invest in businesses seeking funds to
get projects off the ground, according to the government.  A carbon price may help trigger about A$20 billion of
investments in renewable energy by 2020, said Kane Thornton,
director of strategy at the Clean Energy Council, an industry
group. Spending on new gas-fired stations may reach A$14.7
billion through 2016, said Sajal Kishore of  Fitch Ratings .  AGL Energy Ltd., the Australian electricity and gas
retailer building the A$1 billion Macarthur wind farm in
Victoria state, said it supports the introduction of a carbon
price as “soon as possible to provide investment certainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  