-- 
Gillard in ‘Uphill Battle’ Amid Opposition to Australia Carbon Tax Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-11T13:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/gillard-aims-to-reverse-carbon-plan-backlash-in-uphill-battle-.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will
visit every Australian state and regional capital in the next
two weeks, and will run ads on popular television shows as part
of a campaign to reverse public opposition to her carbon plan.  The government plans to cut taxes for workers as Gillard
tries to woo a public deterred by rising costs associated with a
climate-change plan opposed by 60 percent of Australians.
Presenting the plan in Canberra yesterday, she said it would
include pension increases and higher payments for families in
the developed world’s biggest per capita polluter.  Having secured the support of Greens and independent
lawmakers whom she relies on for a majority, Gillard will need
to counter a campaign against the plan by the hardest hit
businesses. At stake is her political future, with polls showing
she is the most unpopular Australian leader in 13 years, ahead
of elections that are due in 2013.  “This has been a long and divisive debate,” Gillard said
during a question and answer session on Australian Broadcasting
Corp., where she faced a live audience as well as e-mailed
questions. “It’s been tough. We will get this through
parliament.”  Forty-eight percent of voters said they oppose the
government’s proposal to price carbon from 2012, according to an
Essential Media poll of 1,899 people published today, with 35
percent supporting it. The  poll , taken July 6-10, had a margin
of error of plus or minus three percentage points.  Gillard’s tax sweetener means workers will see the amount
of their annual salary that is tax free tripling to A$18,200
next July. The move is intended to help households deal with a
A$9.90 weekly rise in prices spurred by the carbon plan.  ‘Election Campaign’  While “people generally accept they should do something
about  climate change ,” Gillard “has to convince people they
will be better off,” said Rick Kuhn, a political analyst at the
 Australian National University . “It’s an uphill battle.”  Australia  expects to raise about A$27.8 billion ($30
billion) in three years by making polluters pay an initial
charge of A$23 per ton of carbon dioxide, increasing the price
by 2.5 percent a year, plus inflation. The country will switch
to a cap-and-trade system in 2015, while providing about A$47
billion through 2020 to help households and industries and spur
renewable energy.  “This is like an election campaign,” opposition climate
spokesman Greg Hunt told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio
today. “We will visit every corner of this country to tell them
that this is not only a bad tax, but one for which people cannot
be compensated.”  ‘Just Another Tax’  Gillard’s job has been made harder by the fact that the
government’s planned tax on coal and iron ore profits at miners
like  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group starts on July 1,
2012 -- the same day as the carbon system.  Some see the carbon scheme as “a way to raise money and
get the budget back into surplus and that it’s just another
tax,” said  Andrew Hughes , who specializes in government
marketing strategy at the Australian National University in
Canberra. “We have the mining tax, rising taxes on  consumer
goods , and people will just lump them all together.”  The country, which relies on coal to generate about 80
percent of its electricity, will require about 500 businesses to
pay for their pollution under the plan. The government also will
more than double aviation fuel excise.  The Australian Coal Association yesterday repeated earlier
warnings that 18 coal mines may  close  in the next decade if the
system is introduced and that it will be harder to attract
investment.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  said the proposal puts coal
investments in Australia and 40,000 industry jobs at risk.  Falling Behind  China   Gillard’s government has said  emissions trading  is needed
to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and encourage renewable
energy production before falling behind countries such as China
in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It has also argued that
the plan will cut pollution and help protect natural icons
including the Great Barrier Reef and Kakadu National Park.  “Australia will cut 159 million tons a year of carbon
pollution from our atmosphere by 2020,” Gillard said. “That is
the equivalent of taking over 45 million cars off the road.”  The carbon plan will increase the inflation rate by 0.7 of
a percentage point in 2012-13, concentrated on gas and
electricity prices, and 0.2 of a percentage point in 2015-16.
The plan is expected to reduce gross domestic product by 0.3
percent by 2020, Treasury projections show.  Gillard’s own support in polls is the lowest for any prime
minister since 1998, when  John Howard  proposed a tax increase.
She has not been helped by the fact that after she ousted her
predecessor  Kevin Rudd , whose popularity plummeted over a carbon
tax, she declared she wouldn’t introduce one.  “We have a long race to run,” Gillard told Nine Network
television today, the first of three media interviews in the
space of 40 minutes today. “We have got to get this done and I
am determined to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  