-- 
Greece Needs ‘Endgame’ for Deficit Cuts, Canada’s Martin Says in France

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-11T12:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/greece-needs-endgame-from-eu-to-enact-deficit-cuts-canada-s-martin-says.html
Former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin, who slashed his nation’s debt in the decade through
2005, said  Europe  needs to show Greece how austerity will pay
off in the medium term to successfully push through budget cuts.  More than a year after the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  extended Greece 110 billion euros
($157 billion) in aid, the region’s finance ministers meet today
to discuss the nation’s debt crisis as the turmoil afflicting it
shows signs of spreading. Greek bonds fell last week, pushing
the yield on the two-year note to a euro-era record, while
Spanish, Portuguese and Italian bonds also dropped.  Martin, in an interview yesterday in Aix-en-Provence,
 France , said that setting out a medium-term financial plan is as
important to gain support from the population as it is for
financial markets. He was  Canada ’s finance minister from 1993 to
2002, and he became prime minister in 2003.  The Greek government is “essentially saying ‘cut’ and the
rest of the world is saying, ‘it ain’t going to work, you’re not
going to be any better off,’” Martin, 72, said. “That’s hugely
important.” As a citizen, “why would you go through with those
cuts? What Europe has got to do is provide an endgame.”  The region’s sovereign-debt crisis will dominate today’s
Brussels meeting. It will be preceded by a gathering including
EU President Herman van Rompuy, European Commission President
 Jose Manuel Barroso , European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and
European Economic Commissioner Olli Rehn.  Default Option  European leaders are prepared to accept that  Greece  should
default on some of its bonds as part of a new bailout plan for
the country that would put its total debt levels on a
sustainable footing, the Financial Times reported, citing
unnamed senior officials. The ECB wants to expand the EU’s
rescue fund to allow for providing aid for  Italy , according to a
preview of an article published today in Die Welt.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report today that
European government calls for banks to share in bailing out
Greece are a “credit negative” for nations unable to access
market funding.  The EU forecasts Greece’s debt burden to rise to 158
percent of gross domestic product this year from 143 percent in
2010. Canada’s total government debt peaked at 101 percent of
GDP in 1996 and fell to 71 percent in 2005, the year Martin left
office, IMF data show. Canada’s federal government debt dropped
from more than 70 percent of output to about 35 percent in that
same time, according to  Finance Ministry data .  In Martin’s experience, the hardest moment in any debt-
reduction effort isn’t pledging cuts, but implementing them.  Enacting Cuts  “The objection to acting doesn’t necessarily take place
when you announce, it’s when the cuts begin to be felt,” Martin
said. “A lot of the people that support you, support you on the
grounds that it’s going to be everybody else but me. And when it
starts to happen you really get hit.”  Martin criticized a proposal floated by French banks that
would see Greece’s interest rate on privately held debt increase
if growth picks up.  “They’re saying to the Greeks ‘we’ll reduce your interest
rate but once your economy turns around we want those interest
rates to go up,’” Martin said. “It should be exactly the
reverse. It’s, ‘we’re going to bring your interest rates down
and as you start to come out of this we’re going to keep them
down until such time as you are solvent.’”  Targets  The key for governments facing high deficits, including
both that of Greece and the U.S., is setting targets and meeting
them, “come hell or high water,” Martin said.  “The endgame in the U.S. is going to be a much longer,
minimum 10 years,” he said. “You’re going to have to say we’re
going to do it in 10 years and here are my annual targets. With
targets there are no excuses.”  Europe’s effort to set constitutional limits on deficits,
as  Germany  has done and as France is in the process of doing,
may not be the most productive approach, said Martin.  “That doesn’t work,” he said. “You’re far better to have
a commitment from the government to the people. That scares the
hell out of the government. The problem with balanced budget
legislation is, the debate becomes changing the legislation and
people turn off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Aix-en-Provence, France at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Aix-en-Provence, France at   mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  