-- 
IMF’s Lagarde Says Failure on U.S. Debt Limit Will Be a ‘Shock’

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-10T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/imf-s-lagarde-says-failure-on-u-s-debt-limit-will-be-a-shock-.html
Christine Lagarde , the new head of
the  International Monetary Fund , said failure to find agreement
on raising the U.S. debt ceiling will jeopardize global economic
stability.  The former French finance minister said today on ABC’s
“This Week with  Christiane Amanpour ” that the IMF is
“concerned” and “very much hoping” American lawmakers will
compromise on raising the debt limit before an Aug. 2 deadline.
She said she expects an agreement, adding that she can’t
“imagine for a second” that the U.S. would default.  A default “would be a real shock” to the world’s largest
economy, said Lagarde, who took her post July 5. It would cause
 interest rates  to jump, “stock markets taking a huge hit, and
real nasty consequences, not just for the United States, but for
the entire global economy, because the U.S. is such a big player
and matters so much for other countries,”  President  Barack Obama  is meeting with congressional
leaders today to break a partisan impasse over reducing the
 budget deficit  and increasing the government’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit. The Treasury Department has said the ceiling must be
raised before Aug. 2 to avoid a default.  Asked about the “wounds” at the Washington-based IMF
after the arrest and resignation of former chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , Lagarde described employees’ feelings as “a very
strange chemistry of frustration, irritation, sometimes anger,
sometimes very deep sadness as well.”  Strauss-Kahn, who faces charges including attempted rape,
has pleaded not guilty. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. still has to decide whether to drop the prosecution on
concern about the credibility of the hotel maid who accused
Strauss-Kahn.  Lagarde, 55, was asked to abide by the highest ethical
principles and will undergo IMF training next week, she said.  She shared her own rule when it comes to ethics: “I always
think to myself: ‘Would my mother approve of that?’ And if she
did not, then there’s something wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  