-- 
Indonesia May Avoid Rate Increase as Slowing Inflation Gives `Wiggle Room’

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 
2011-07-10T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/indonesia-may-avoid-rate-increase-as-slowing-inflation-gives-wiggle-room-.html
Indonesia ’s central bank will
probably keep  interest rates  unchanged for a fifth month after
inflation eased, delaying an increase as risks emerge of a
slowdown in global growth.  Bank Indonesia will hold its reference rate at 6.75 percent,
according to all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead
of a decision due in Jakarta tomorrow. Policy makers last
increased borrowing costs in February, the only move this year.  The rupiah is the second-biggest gainer in Asia this year,
helping cap import costs and restrain inflation. That has
allowed central bank Governor Darmin Nasution to extend
Indonesia’s pause in monetary tightening as  Europe ’s debt crisis
and slowing U.S. growth threaten Asia’s exports, even as
neighbors from  Thailand  to India and  China  kept raising rates.  “The headline inflation slowdown provides some wiggle room
to wait and watch for now,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist
at  Capital Economics  (Asia) Pte in Singapore. Still, “policy
tightening must resume” as inflation risks remain, he said.  Inflation in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy eased to a
12-month low of 5.54 percent in June. Gains in consumer prices
will likely continue to slow given last year’s “high-base”
level, Nasution said this month.  Indonesia’s benchmark stock index has surged 37 percent in
the past year on optimism the central bank’s restraint in
raising rates will help support growth and bolster earnings at
companies including PT Bank Mandiri, the nation’s biggest lender
by assets.  Stocks Climb  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  rose above 4,000 for the first
time on July 8. Bank Mandiri shares advanced to a record and PT
Astra International, the largest automotive retailer, climbed 3
percent, leading gains among banks and consumer stocks.  Indonesia has become a “favorite” among investors, with
consumer, banking and commodity stocks being the most attractive
choices, said Roy Himawan, who helps manage $352 million in
assets at PT Syailendra Capital in Jakarta.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s government has raised
its forecast for the economy’s expansion next year to as much as
7 percent on rising exports and investments, Melchias Mekeng,
head of the parliament’s budget committee, said July 5. That
compares with a projection of as much as 6.9 percent in May.  Yudhoyono, who plans to double spending on roads, ports and
airports to $140 billion by the end of his term in 2014,
unveiled plans last month to develop six economic “corridors”
under an initiative to accelerate growth and cut poverty in the
period to 2025. The regions will focus on industries including
foodstuffs, energy, plantations, fishery and mining.  Rupiah Appreciation  Indonesia’s currency has climbed more than 5 percent this
year, the most in  Asia  after South Korea’s won, according to
Bloomberg data on 11 regional currencies. The rupiah may
strengthen further in the second half of this year, even as the
gains may ease, Nasution said July 1.  “Rupiah appreciation is helping to curb inflation,” said
Chandra Pasaribu, head of equity research at PT Danareksa
Sekuritas in Jakarta.  Growth in Indonesia’s $540 billion economy slowed in the
first quarter to 6.5 percent.  “We’ll give priority on domestic” issues while considering
global conditions, Nasution said in Jakarta on July 6.  Malaysia’s central bank unexpectedly refrained from raising
rates last week, choosing instead to order lenders to set aside
more cash as it pledged to consider further policy moves after
assessing economic conditions.  Sri Lanka  left borrowing costs
unchanged for a sixth straight month, taking advantage of
slowing inflation to support economic expansion.  In contrast,  India ’s central bank may continue to increase
interest rates until inflation is “under control,” K.C. Chakrabarty, a deputy governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India,
said July 8. China raised benchmark rates for the third time in
2011 last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Manish Modi in  New Delhi  at 
 mmodi6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  