-- 
Iron Ore Imports by China Decline as Monsoon Rains in India Slow Shipments

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-10T04:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/iron-ore-imports-by-china-decline-as-monsoon-rains-in-india-slow-shipments.html
China , the world’s biggest buyer of
 iron ore , cut purchases by 4 percent in June from the previous
month as India’s wet season curbed shipments and as Chinese
mills sought supplies from domestic mines.  Imports were 51.09 million metric tons last month compared
with 53.3 million tons in May, according to China’s General
Administration of Customs. That’s 8 percent higher than 47.2
million tons a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  India, the third-biggest iron-ore exporter after Australia
and  Brazil , usually experiences heavy rain from June to
September that disrupts infrastructure and deliveries to ports.
China’s domestic iron ore output rose to a record in May as
smaller steelmakers sought supplies from local mines to cut
costs, said Xu Guangjian, a Beijing-based analyst with
researcher Custeel.com.  “ India ’s monsoon season is affecting China’s iron ore
purchases starting from June,” Xu said, “Steelmakers are also
trying to keep raw-material inventories at low levels to avoid
price volatility.”  China’s domestic iron-ore production climbed by 13 percent
to a record 102.5 million tons in May from a year ago, according
to Bloomberg data which uses figures provided by the National
Bureau of Statistics. Crude-steel output from the nation, the
world’s biggest producer, also rose to a record 60.25 million
tons in May, according to bureau.  The cash price of 62 percent-iron ore arriving at China’s
Tianjin port has fallen 11 percent to $171.2 a ton as of July 8
from a record $191.9 in February, according to the Steel Index.  Imports gained 8.1 percent to 334 million metric tons in
the first six months from a year earlier, the General Customs
office said today.  Steel-product exports dropped 10 percent to 4.3 million
tons last month from 4.76 million tons in May, according to the
data. The shipments were up 3 percent from a year earlier to
24.3 million tons in the first six months, customs said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  