-- 
Israel Approves Border Demarcation Over Lebanese Opposition

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-07-10T15:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/israel-approves-border-demarcation-over-lebanese-opposition-2-.html
Israel ’s cabinet approved the
demarcation of the country’s northern maritime border today
after Lebanon said drilling for natural gas and oil in the
Mediterranean Sea encroached on its territory.  “This boundary will delineate the area in which the state
enjoys exclusive economic rights, including the right to exploit
the area’s natural resources,” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told cabinet members in Jerusalem, according to an e-
mailed statement from his office. “The outline that Lebanon
submitted to the  United Nations  is significantly further south
than the line Israel is proposing.”  Lebanon asked the UN to adopt measures to prevent a
conflict with Israel over oil and gas exploration in areas that
may fall within Lebanese territorial waters,  Beirut ’s Daily Star
newspaper reported on June 21. Israel’s agreement last year with
Cyprus to demarcate maritime borders for the purpose of energy
exploration “is a violation of Lebanon’s sovereignty and
economic rights,” Lebanese Foreign Minister Adnan Mansour said
in a letter to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, according to
the report.  Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman told Army Radio
earlier today that pressure from Hezbollah and other groups and
states “seeking conflict with Israel” were responsible for
Lebanon’s objections to Israeli offshore energy exploration.  Lebanese Objection  “Lebanon has warned that it insists on protecting its
borders and resources,” said  Ali Hamdan , spokesman for Lebanese
Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri, in a telephone interview from
Beirut. The Israeli Cabinet’s decision “comes late, as it is
proof that they want to drill to see where there might be oil
and gas, and then demarcate the border,” Hamdan said.  Israel has discovered two gas fields off its Mediterranean
coast, Tamar and Leviathan, which together hold an estimated 25
trillion cubic feet of the fuel. Investors in the sites include
 Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  of Houston, Texas, and Israeli companies Delek
Drilling-LP, Delek Energy Systems Inc., Avner Exploration-LP and
 Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP. (RATIL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  