-- 
James Murdoch’s Links Throughout News Corp. May Put BSkyB Takeover at Risk

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-11T14:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/james-murdoch-s-links-throughout-news-corp-may-put-bskyb-takeover-at-risk.html
James Murdoch’s ties throughout the
 News Corp. (NWSA)  empire may threaten the company’s 7.8 billion-pound
($12.4 billion) bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  as a
phone-hacking scandal around a News Corp. tabloid escalates.  The 38-year-old son and heir-apparent to News Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch has since 2007 been overseeing
News International, the U.K. publishing unit including News of
the World, the Sunday tabloid that was shut down on July 9 amid
allegations that employees hacked into voicemails of murder and
terror victims and bribed police. In the same year, Murdoch
became non-executive chairman at BSkyB after running the
satellite television company for four years as CEO.  “It’s politically difficult for the final approval for the
financial transaction to occur against a background of which the
chairman of News International is connected with BSkyB and his
name is Murdoch,” said Claire Enders, founder and CEO of media
researcher Enders Analysis in  London , whose clients include the
U.K. government and the Ofcom broadcast regulator. “It’s really
a question of the political climate.”  BSkyB slumped as much as 7.6 percent to 693 pence in
London, below the 700-pence-a-share bid News Corp. made last
year. While the alleged phone-hacking incidents predate the
younger Murdoch’s role at News International, he said last week
when announcing the closure of the tabloid that he shouldn’t
have approved out-of-court settlements to hacking victims.  Letter to Ofcom  The Ofcom regulator, which says it’s monitoring a probe as
the number of police arrests rises, has the power to bar News
Corp. from owning a broadcaster if it finds senior executives
not “fit and proper” to hold a license.  Alice Macandrew, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment when asked whether James Murdoch’s position would affect
the company’s bid for BSkyB. Murdoch wasn’t immediately
available for an interview on the matter.  U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  wrote today to Ofcom CEO
Ed Richards, asking whether he’d reconsider any of his previous
advice including “confidence in the credibility, sustainability
or practicalities” of News Corp.’s undertakings for the BSkyB
bid. Hunt also asked Ofcom whether its assessment of whether
News Corp. is fit and proper to run a broadcaster may change.  The U.K. government is looking for a way to block the deal
because of the public outrage after the hacking allegations, a
person familiar with the matter said. As the regulatory process
has already been laid out, the only organization that can raise
issues with the takeover by News Corp. at this stage is Ofcom,
said the person.  ‘Declared War’  Hunt assumed review of the BSkyB purchase after Business
Secretary Vince Cable was quoted as saying he had “declared
war” against  Rupert Murdoch .  News Corp. hasn’t made any decision on whether to withdraw
its bid and will continue to wait for regulatory clearance on
the transaction which may come after the summer recess, said
another person familiar with the matter. The House of Commons is
breaking from July 20 to Sept. 5.  As Rupert Murdoch arrived at News International’s
headquarters in London’s Wapping yesterday to contain the
crisis, U.K. politicians intensified calls for a halt of the
BSkyB deal, the biggest in News Corp.’s history.  Shares Slump  “The first thing he should do is to drop the bid,” Labour
Party leader  Ed Miliband  told  BBC Television . Energy Secretary
 Chris Huhne  said Murdoch should give “his personal assurance”
that phone-hacking wasn’t done at other company publications.
News International also publishes The Sun, The Times and The
Sunday Times.  BSkyB fell as much as 57 pence to 693 pence and traded 6.5
percent lower at 701.5 pence at 3:38 p.m. in London. New York-
based News Corp. retreated 5.7 percent to $15.80 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  BSkyB shares dropped 12 percent last week as the four-year-
old phone-hacking scandal at Britain’s largest Sunday newspaper
escalated, prompting Prime Minister  David Cameron  to pledge an
independent inquiry. Including today’s decline, the slump wiped
about 2.6 billion pounds off the company’s market value.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp., which already owns 39 percent of BSkyB, wants
full control to gain access to the broadcaster’s increasing cash
flow. BSkyB may also help Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspapers
more profitable by allowing him to bundle print and pay-TV
subscriptions and spread content over media platforms.  Earnings Outlook  Analysts project a 28 percent increase in BSkyB’s adjusted
per-share earnings in the year ended last month, as more viewers
subscribe to its pay-TV channels. That compares with estimate
for a 4 percent gain at News Corp. BSkyB has more than 10
million U.K. customers for services that include sports, on-
demand TV and high-end international content from networks such
as Time Warner’s  HBO .  BSkyB was where the younger Murdoch shined as a manager. He
was 30 when he was named CEO in 2003, making him the youngest
chief of a FTSE-100 company. He more than doubled the company’s
profit in four years and increased sales by 42 percent as he
drove the broadcaster beyond traditional pay-TV business.  By the time he left in 2007 to lead News Corp.’s  Asia  and
European operations, it was seen as a step toward eventually
succeeding his father, said Alexander Wisch, an equity analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s  in London who rates BSkyB as “hold.”  “When James arrived at BSkyB, he was greeted with quasi-
universal skepticism,” said  Claudio Aspesi , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “In a few years he managed to
change a lot of people’s opinion both of him and of the
potential of BSkyB.”  Misled Parliament  In a note to employees to announce the closure of the News
of the World, the younger Murdoch said the company had misled
the British Parliament. During hearings in 2007 and 2009,
executives including Les Hinton, former News International
chairman, and Colin Myler, News of the World editor, said that
there was no evidence that more than one reporter had been
involved in phone hacking.  “I now know that I did not have a complete picture when I
did so,” Murdoch said June 7, referring to his approval of out-
of-court settlements to hacking victims, made in return for non-
disclosure agreements. “That was wrong and is a matter of
serious regret.”  Police Arrests  When asked at a press conference the next day whether  James
Murdoch  remained a “fit and proper” person to run a large
company, Cameron said:  “I read the statement yesterday. I
think it raises lots of questions that need to be answered and
these processes that are under way are going to have to answer
those questions.”  London police have made eight arrests as part of the phone-
hacking investigation, including that of  Andy Coulson , one-time
editor of the News of the World and former communications chief
for Cameron. Coulson has denied any knowledge of reporters
tapping phones when he led the paper.  James and Rupert Murdoch have both given their backing to
News International CEO Rebekah Brooks, who was editor of the
tabloid when the alleged phone-hacking took place. She now
reports to the younger Murdoch.  Hinton, now CEO of News Corp.’s Dow Jones division, may
take the blame within News Corp. senior management for failure
to effectively handle the phone-hacking scandal, the Financial
Times reported, citing unidentified people close the company.  Brooks Questioned  Brooks is set to be questioned under caution in London in
the next two weeks, the  Daily Mail  reported. She will be asked
to give a full account of her actions during the period from
2000 to 2003 when she was editor, the newspaper said.  “If you assume for a second that somebody may have -- and
this is a huge hypothetical -- that the senior management at
News Corp knew sooner than we think about all of this, I don’t
think anybody’s resignation will stop the authorities from
asking questions,” Aspesi said.  In its final edition’s editorial yesterday, the News of the
World said it demanded “high standards” and apologized that
“for a period of a few years up to 2006 some who worked for us,
or in our name, fell shamefully short of those standards.”  “Phones were hacked, and for that this newspaper is truly
sorry,” it said.  Rupert Murdoch started off in 1953 when he inherited a
daily newspaper with a circulation of 75,000 in  Adelaide ,
 Australia . He then set out to build an empire with newspapers,
satellite-television and movie studios spanning the globe.  ‘Seismic Proportions’  He traded his Australian passport for U.S. citizenship in
1985, a move that exempted him from restrictions on foreign
ownership of U.S. TV stations and paved the way for the purchase
of Fox Entertainment Group Inc., which includes the 20th Century
Fox film studio.  The News of the World was Murdoch’s gateway into the
British press when he bought it in 1969. He built it into the
biggest-selling Sunday newspaper in the country, and
philandering politicians and celebrities learned to fear the
knock on the door from one of its reporters. Closing the tabloid
has done little to quell the public outcry at the phone-hacking
allegations.  “This is a scandal of seismic proportions and of immense
political and financial impact on News Corp. -- potentially
extremely negative to the business as a whole,” Enders said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 