-- 
Najib May Avoid Calling Early Malaysia Election After Protests

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-07-10T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/najib-may-avoid-calling-early-malaysia-election-after-protests.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
may avoid calling an early election this year after police
clashed with thousands of opposition-backed activists July 9,
signaling a rise in political risk in the Southeast Asian nation.  Police detained 1,697 people as demonstrators protesting
against what they call unfair voting practices  marched  on Kuala
Lumpur landmarks including Merdeka Stadium and the king’s palace.
Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections chief Ambiga Sreenevasan
was among those held, and opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  was
injured when tear gas was fired, local media reported.  The protests were the biggest since 2007 in a nation
governed by the United Malays National Organisation since
Malaysia’s independence from the U.K. in 1957. They coincide
with rising pressure for political change in Malaysia’s
neighbors, with Thai voters this month ejecting a party that
used soldiers to disperse opposition protests in 2010 that led
to more than 90 deaths, and  Singapore ’s ruling party in May
winning its narrowest election victory since independence.  “Judging from Saturday’s events, he’s losing support,”
Ooi Kee Beng, a senior fellow at the Institute of Southeast
Asian Studies said in a telephone interview from Singapore,
referring to Najib. “I don’t think he will call a snap election
now as he has everything to lose.”  While a vote isn’t due for two years, speculation that
Najib would call an early election rose after his coalition won
77 percent of the seats in a local election in Sarawak state in
April. The government isn’t frightened of facing the opposition
in the general election, Najib was cited as saying yesterday by
the official Bernama news service.  Equity Rally  Equity investors showed little concern at the planned
protests in the run-up to the event, with the FTSE Bursa
 Malaysia  KLCI Index closing at a record on July 8.  The July 9 rally attracted about 6,000 people, the Star
newspaper said, citing Inspector-General of Police Ismail Omar.
Bersih, as the coalition is known, put the figure at 50,000, the
Malaysian Insider reported. All those held, including 170 women
and children, were later released, a police spokesman said.  This is “not the end, it is but one more step in the long
walk for clean and fair elections in Malaysia,”  Bersih  said in
a statement after the rally. The group said it would continue to
attempt to deliver a memorandum of their positions to the king.  Bersih wants electoral changes, such as lengthening
campaign periods to at least 21 days and using indelible ink on
fingers to prevent people from voting more than once, according
to its website.  Group’s Demands  The Election Commission is looking into extending the
campaign period and plans to use biometric fingerprinting
instead of indelible ink, Election Commission Chairman Abdul
Aziz Mohd Yusof said in a television interview with TV3 and
Bernama on July 2. International observers may also be invited,
he said.  Water cannons were used to disperse crowds in 2007 when
similar protests drew 40,000 people in  Kuala Lumpur . This was
followed by riots led by Hindu-rights activists.  The ruling National Front coalition went on to suffer its
biggest election losses since independence in the 2008 national
poll, losing control of five of Malaysia’s 13 states to the
opposition. Then-Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi resigned
to take responsibility and was replaced by Najib in April 2009.
The front has since regained control of one state, Perak.  Malay Groups  Two Malay rights groups, Perkasa and UMNO Youth, which is
an arm of Najib’s ruling party threatened to hold rival rallies
should Bersih go ahead with street protests. UMNO Youth leader
Khairy Jamaluddin was also detained, police said.  The authorities rejected applications to use stadiums
within Kuala Lumpur by all three groups, Home Minister
Hishammuddin Hussein said on July 8.  Major roads into Malaysia’s capital were  sealed  on July 9
with road blocks, some train stations shut and buses diverted,
leaving some parts of the city deserted.  Anwar, 62, was hospitalized for treatment to a bruise on
his head and a cut on his leg after he fell when police fired
tear gas at protesters, Malaysiakini reported online, citing the
opposition leader. His bodyguard was “severely” injured by a
tear gas canister, Anwar’s daughter Nurul Izzah told reporters.  Tian Chua, vice president of Anwar’s party, was among those
a Bloomberg reporter saw detained by police. People’s Justice
Party deputy president Azmin Ali was also arrested, along with
three leaders of the opposition Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party, the
Star said.  “The coming election is going to be a hotly contested
one,” said Gerald Ambrose, who oversees about $429 million as
head of Aberdeen Asset Management’s Malaysian unit in Kuala
Lumpur. “One good thing about the protest is that Malaysia is
put on the stage to show even more progress that is needed to
convince all the people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  