-- 
Nigerian Security Forces Kill 11 Religious Militants in Borno

-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 
2011-07-10T20:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/nigerian-security-forces-kill-11-religious-militants-in-borno.html
     July 10 (Bloomberg)-- Nigerian security forces killed 11
militants yesterday who were suspected members of an outlawed
religious sect in the northeastern state of Borno, the army said
today.  Two soldiers were seriously injured in the fighting near
the state capital Maiduguri following a bomb attack by the sect
on a military checkpoint, Colonel Victor Ebhaleme, spokesman for
the Joint Task Force in the area, said in an interview. He said
residents of the area weren’t cooperating with the security
forces.  Authorities in northern  Nigeria  have blamed a radical
Islamic sect known as Boko Haram for bomb attacks and killings
of government officials and security forces since last year.
The group, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, claimed responsibility for a blast on June 16 at
Nigeria’s police headquarters in the capital, Abuja, which
killed at least five people and injured 11.  Many of the shootings have been carried out by men riding
on motorbikes.     Borno state on Friday banned the use of
motorbikes immediately in Maiduguri,  Guardian newspaper  reported
yesterday, citing governor Kashim Shettima. The state will
distribute 5,000 tricycles to commercial motorcycle operators at
subsidized rates and also put 100 new buses on the roads, it
said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer and most populous
nation, with more than 140 million people, is roughly split
between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian
south. More than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious
clashes in the West African nation between 1999 and 2009,
according to the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  