-- 
Brennan Urges Saleh to Step Down; Syria’s Weekend Death Toll Rises to 20

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 
2011-07-10T21:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/obama-aide-brennan-meets-with-yemen-s-saleh-to-urge-signing-of-gcc-accord.html
An aide to President  Barack Obama 
met yesterday with Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh in  Saudi
Arabia  and asked him to fulfill a pledge to step down after more
than three decades in power.  Saleh is in the Saudi capital of  Riyadh , recovering from
injuries sustained during a June 3 attack on his presidential
compound in Sanaa,  Yemen .  John Brennan , Obama’s assistant for
counterterrorism and homeland security, urged Saleh “to fulfill
expeditiously his pledge to sign the GCC-brokered agreement for
peaceful and constitutional political transition in Yemen,” an
e-mailed statement from the White House said, referring to a
proposal by the Gulf Cooperation Council.  Saleh will return to Yemen on July 17, the 33rd anniversary
of his taking office, Al Arabiya television said over the
weekend, citing an unidentified official. The official told  Al
Arabiya  that Saleh chose that date to send a message that he’s
still the legitimate president of Yemen until September 2013.  Brennan “emphasized the importance of resolving the
political crisis in Sanaa,” Yemen’s capital, and wished Saleh
“a speedy recovery,” the statement said. He also reiterated
the U.S. government’s condemnation of the attack on Saleh.  Hundreds of Yemeni citizens have been killed because of
terrorist attacks by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the
statement said. An end to the political crisis is needed “so
that the Yemeni Government and people can successfully confront
the serious challenges they face,” the e-mailed statement said.  Immediate Transition  Once the pledge is signed “much needed assistance will
flow to Yemen,” according to the statement. “The  United States 
believes that a transition in Yemen should begin immediately so
that the Yemeni people can realize their aspirations.”  Saleh said last week that he had eight operations and all
were successful. He left his deputy, Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi, in
charge. State media has said the president sends messages to
heads of state and has discussed a plan for the transition of
power proposed by the six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council.  Forces in the province of Abyan killed four al-Qaeda
militants and wounded two others in clashes, the state-run Saba
news agency said, citing a military spokesman. A Yemeni soldier
was also killed and 4 others injured in the fight, Saba said.  In  Syria , the death toll over the weekend rose to 20,
National Organization for Human Rights in Syria said. Meanwhile,
President Bashar al-Assad appointed a new governor to the
province of Hama, according to the state-run Syrian Arab News
Agency.  Hama’s New Governor  Anas Abdul-Razzak Na’em is a high-ranking Baathist and
holds a higher education certificate in Internal Diseases from
the Faculty of Medicine at Damascus University, the Syrian Arab
News Agency said. He also holds a diploma from Joseph Fourier-
Grenoble University in  France , it said.  On July 7, the U.S. ambassador to Syria,  Robert Ford , met
with residents of Hama, a center of anti-regime activity, in a
gesture of support for the 500,000 people rallying for the end
of rule of President Assad that were under threat from
government forces.  The Syrian Foreign Ministry yesterday summoned the U.S. and
French ambassadors to protest their visits to Hama, which took
place without the government’s permission, SANA said.  Ford in turn objected to what the State Department said was
a Syrian government-organized protest at the U.S. embassy in
Damascus where tomatoes, eggs, glass and rocks were thrown. Two
embassy workers were hit by food, according to the State
Department.  Opposition Talks  Syrian Vice President Faruq al-Shara yesterday called for a
transition to democracy as he opened a two-day conference in
Damascus that aims to start a dialogue with the opposition,
whose leading figures boycotted the event. Opponents said they
wouldn’t take part as long as the government continues to
violently crack down on protests.  Armored Syrian army vehicles stormed some neighborhoods in
the province of Homs amid heavy gunfire and tear gas, Al Arabiya
reported yesterday. One person had been killed and 20 injured,
Al Arabiya said, citing eyewitnesses. The army was staging mass
arrests in the province right now, the eyewitnesses told Al
Arabiya.  In  Egypt , Army troops fired in the air in a clash with
stone-throwing protesters in the city of Suez, according to the
 Associated Press . Egyptian demonstrators there and in the
capital of Cairo are demanding the justice system hold trials
more quickly of those former officials and policemen accused of
killings during the uprising that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  five months ago. Thousands had poured into central
Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , a focus of the protests against Mubarak’s
regime, to call for a general strike.  Colonel Islam Rafat, a spokesman for the Egyptian army in
Suez, told Al-Shorouk News that a sit-in had ended and tents
were removed with the approval of the protesters. More than 1000
Egyptians blocked roads in the province to urge for reforms, the
 news agency  said.  Ten protesters were injured and several arrested after a
clash in Suez, Mohamed Abdel Mubdi, one of the protesters, told
 Al Jazeera .  ‘Hundreds of army soldiers used electric sticks to beat the
protesters and we threw stones at them,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  