-- 
Obama, Congress Leaders Make Little Progress on Debt

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-07-11T01:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/obama-says-debt-accord-needed-in-10-days-as-boehner-targets-smaller-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders made little progress in debt-reduction
talks a day after House Speaker  John Boehner  said all sides must
settle for a smaller plan than the president seeks, according to
congressional aides familiar with the talks.  Before today’s 75-minute meeting at the White House, Obama
said “we need to” reach an agreement within the next 10 days
to allow an increase in the U.S. debt limit.  Obama scheduled a news conference for 11 a.m. tomorrow.
All sides plan to meet every day until an agreement is reached,
said one congressional aide who sought anonymity to discuss the
private negotiations.  They made little headway on the main issues of raising
taxes and cutting entitlement programs as Democrats insisted
that any package include new revenue and Republicans balked,
said congressional aides familiar with the meeting.  “It’s baffling that the president and his party continue
to insist on massive tax hikes in the middle of a jobs crisis
while refusing to take significant action on spending reductions
at a time of record deficits,”  Don Stewart , spokesman for
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican,
said in a statement after the meeting.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said in a statement that she is “still hopeful for a large
bipartisan agreement” that could include “more deficit reduction
over a longer period of time.” She said she continues to have
“serious concerns about shifting billions in Medicaid costs to
the states.”  $14.3 Trillion  Obama and congressional leaders are seeking a deficit-
slashing deal to pave the way for a vote in Congress to increase
the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, a move the Treasury
Department says is needed by Aug. 2 to avert a default on the
nation’s financial obligations.  Yesterday, Boehner of  Ohio  said he will pursue a smaller
deficit reduction accord than the $4 trillion one Obama is
seeking because the White House won’t approve a bigger deal
without tax increases.  During today’s meeting, Obama said he believed a bigger
deal might be politically easier, with both sides making
philosophically difficult concessions, said a Democrat familiar
with the discussions. The president reiterated his willingness
to put everything on the table, including Social Security and
Medicare, that person said.  Frustration From Reid  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
expressed frustration that Republicans had repeatedly walked
away from the table, according to one congressional aide. House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, left
negotiations led by Vice President  Joe Biden  in a similar
stalemate on taxes.  The meeting concluded with the president saying he was not
persuaded, and he asked Republicans to come in tomorrow with a
plan including numbers, said the Democrat familiar with the
talks.  Boehner’s office released a statement that said he told the
group he believes the most viable option is a plan based on the
discussions led by Biden. The speaker reiterated that he will
insist on spending reductions larger than the amount of the
debt-limit increase, and no higher taxes, the statement said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today the Obama
administration wants the most comprehensive deficit-cutting deal
possible and reiterated that failing to raise the debt limit
could have “catastrophic” consequences for the economy.  “We have to find a way to pass an agreement, but the
president is going to keep working toward the largest deal we
can do, because that’s the right thing for the country,”
Geithner said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  