-- 
Old Navy Makeover Replaces ‘Dungeons’ With 1980s Nostalgia to Boost Sales

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/old-navy-replaces-dungeons-with-1980s-nostalgia-to-boost-sales.html
Tom Wyatt, president of Gap Inc.’s
 Old Navy  chain, says the best part of shopping at his stores
comes when it’s time to leave.  As part of a remodeling of the shops, Old Navy revamped its
“cash wrap” -- the area where customers wait to pay for
clothes. It used to be a plain-old checkout lane. Now Old Navy
has added freeze-dried astronaut ice cream and specialty sodas
from Jones Soda Co., as well as super-hero lunch boxes, glitter-
covered piggy banks and  Mad Libs books .  They’re meant to stir nostalgia for the chain’s target
customers, who grew up in the 1980s. Even buttoned-down bankers
are susceptible, Wyatt said. During an Old Navy tour with
analysts, one bought four packets of the astronaut ice cream, he
said. “He hadn’t seen them in years.”  Customers shopping at the updated stores typically spend $1
to $2 more a trip than they did before, Wyatt said. Those
results spurred Gap to greenlight an expansion from two test
stores in 2008 to almost a third of its more than 1,020
locations by the end of this month. About 100 locations will get
the revamped look this year at Old Navy, which is  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s
biggest source of revenue in  North America .  Wyatt, 56, has led a comeback at Old Navy since he took
charge in 2008. At the time, the brand was reeling from five
years of declining same-store sales and its locations hadn’t
been modernized since the apparel chain debuted in 1994. Worse:
Wyatt realized that no one seemed to know who Old Navy was
designing its clothes for, he said.  ‘Holy Heck Moment’  “I had a holy heck moment,” he said while strolling
through racks of clothing at an  Old Navy  store in  San Mateo ,
 California . “So we spent a lot of time re-engaging who our
current customer is.”  The result was “Jenny,” Old Navy’s typical customer: a
fictional 25- to 35-year-old mother who earns $50,000 and is
pressed for time. Deciding on one personality helped the company
focus its clothing styles, marketing campaigns and store
designs.  The change has helped increase same-store sales every year
since Wyatt took over, even during the worst recession since the
Great Depression. Old Navy sales, which overtook those of Gap-
branded stores in 2005, ticked up 2 percent in the fiscal year
ended Jan. 29. That compared with a 1 percent drop for Gap’s
North American stores.  “We have 45,000 associates that literally talk about
Jenny,” Wyatt said. “What that did for us was normalized what
the interpretation of what the product should be.”  Commodity Prices  Old Navy still faces challenges, including soaring costs of
cotton and other materials. In May, San Francisco-based Gap Inc.
cut its full-year profit forecast by 22 percent as costs to make
clothes rose faster than expected. The stock suffered its
biggest one-day drop in almost 10 years.  Old Navy also has had some marketing misfires under Wyatt.
After years of advertising with talking mannequins, the company
switched back to people this year. That campaign has taken time
to resonate shoppers, contributing to a 2 percent sales decline
in the first quarter, Wyatt said.  “It wasn’t really that fun,” he said.  Old Navy also faces mounting competition from  Hennes &
Mauritz AB  and other low-cost, fashion-oriented rivals, as well
as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Target Corp. (TGT)  H&M plans to add more
than 150 stores in the second half, and the U.S. is one of the
biggest growth markets for the Stockholm-based company.  Early Days  That’s the sort of expansion Old Navy experienced in its
early days. The chain,  named after a bar in Paris , reached $1
billion in sales in 1997. It was the first retailer to hit that
milestone within less than four years of operation, according to
the company.  The new cash-wrap area is a small part of helping
reinvigorate growth, though it’s spurring sales of products
besides clothes, Wyatt said. The old setup was a “miserable way
to end your shopping experience at Old Navy,” he said. “Mad Libs
is a significant business for us, and didn’t exist a year ago.”  The total layout of the store is now what the company calls
a “race track.” It lets shoppers wind their way around one
level and see from one end to the other.  Before, tall displays near entrances blocked views of
merchandise farther down. New light bulbs and spotlights are
brighter than the previous lamps. And they’re more efficient,
saving $2 million a year in energy costs. The company also has
added more expensive clothing, along with its lower-end apparel,
giving shoppers more options, Wyatt said.  The changing rooms -- typically located at the back of the
store in a walled-off room and referred to by some customers as
“the dungeon,” according to Wyatt -- were moved to a lounge-
like area in the middle of the store. The company also installed
quick-change booths in various spots.  “It helps bring some of the excitement back to the
store,” said Edward Yruma, a retail analyst for KeyBanc Capital
Markets in  New York . “The old concept was north of 14 years old
and was looking very tired.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  