-- 
Pawlenty Criticizes Bachmann; Santorum Says Campaign Is a ‘Little Engine’

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-10T23:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/pawlenty-faults-bachmann-santorum-says-he-s-a-little-engine-.html
Republicans  Tim Pawlenty  and Rick Santorum downplayed early polls showing they were behind other
rivals in their bids to unseat Democratic President  Barack Obama 
in next year’s election.  “These early polls are not a good indicator of anything,”
Pawlenty said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program. “If they were,  Rudy Giuliani  or  Hillary Clinton  would
be president of the United States. They almost never predict the
outcome.”  The first test will be an Iowa straw poll Aug. 13, which is
run by the state’s  Republican Party  to look at the early
strength of presidential aspirants. A poll by the Des Moines
Register put Pawlenty, a former Minnesota governor, at 6 percent
and Santorum, a former senator from  Pennsylvania , at 4 percent.
The frontrunners were former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
at 23 percent and Congresswoman Michele Bachmann of Minnesota at
22 percent.  “We’re running a little-engine-that-could campaign,”
Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, said on CNN’s
“State of the Union,” referring to a children’s picture book
about a persistent railroad engine. “We’re just out there
meeting people, and meeting with activists, in people’s homes,
and building relationships, getting people interested in
volunteering and helping.”  Bachmann Criticized  Pawlenty criticized his fellow Minnesotan, Bachmann, saying
she hasn’t accomplished anything during her time in Congress.  “I like Congresswoman Bachmann. I’ve campaigned for her, I
respect her,” Pawlenty said. “But her record of accomplishment
in Congress is non-existent.”  “We’re not looking for folks who just have speech
capabilities,” he said. “We’re looking for people who can lead
a large enterprise in a public setting and drive it to
conclusion. I’ve done that, she hasn’t.”  Bachmann, in an e-mailed statement, said in response, “I am
proud of my record of fighting with resolve, and without
apology, for our free markets, for sane fiscal policies, and in
opposition to the advancement of the big-government left.”  Pawlenty also said it “would be difficult” for Romney to
win the Republican nomination because of his support of a
health-care program in  Massachusetts  that’s similar to the one
passed by Congress and supported by Obama.  Santorum said his fundraising is “at the low end” because
he only chose to get into the race in May and didn’t have his
first fundraising event until the last week of June. Romney
“has been running for president for four years and he’s the
favorite,” Santorum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  