-- 
Macarthur, BlueScope, Shares Drop on Australia Carbon Tax Plan

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-11T07:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/qantas-anglo-says-fares-jobs-affected-by-australia-carbon-tax.html
BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) ,  Macarthur Coal
Ltd. (MCC)  and  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  tumbled in Sydney trading on
concern they’ll be among the hardest hit by Australia’s first
levy on greenhouse-gas emissions.  Coal mining companies and steelmakers led declines after
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said yesterday polluters in
Australia, which is reliant on coal to generate 80 percent of
its electricity, will pay A$23 ($24.74) per metric ton of  carbon
emissions . Virgin Blue slumped as the plan will more than double
aviation fuel excise.  The developed world’s biggest per capita polluter will
require about 500 businesses to pay the charge, raising A$27.8
billion, and offer A$47 billion to assist industry and
households and spur renewable energy investment through 2020.
Gillard,  Australia ’s least popular prime minister in 13 years,
is counting on the Greens Party and three independent lawmakers
to pass her program, while opposition leader  Tony Abbott  has
said he’ll repeal the law if he comes to power.  “Companies that are uncompetitive on a global basis are
going to suffer the most,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage
about $1.7 billion at Platypus Asset Management. “Even after
the initial subsidies for certain industries, the carbon tax
will bring forward the inevitable for some, which may be closure
or withdrawal from the industry.”  The Australian benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index slipped 1.6
percent to 4,582.30 at the 4:10 p.m. close of Sydney trading.
The S&P 00 Index in the U.S. lost 0.7 percent July 8 after
American employers added 83 percent fewer jobs in June than
economists forecast.  Coal Miners  Coal mining companies in Australia will be required to pay
for fugitive emissions - gas emitted naturally from coal
operations - while receiving A$1.3 billion in compensation, with
the biggest polluters getting assistance over six years,
according to the government. The tax will make certain projects
uneconomical and cost jobs, the Minerals Council said.  “It may very well bring forward closures for some mines
that have had continuous issues with gas but it’s a long bow to
draw at this stage whether we’ll see previously robust projects
put on the backburner as a result of the tax alone,”  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in global equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne .  Macarthur, the biggest exporter of pulverized coal used by
steelmakers, fell 2.8 percent to A$11.08 in Sydney trading, the
most since June 16. After the stock market closed today,
 Macarthur Coal  said it has received an indicative, nonbinding
proposal from Peabody Energy Corp. and ArcelorMittal under which
they would make an off-market takeover bid to acquire a
controlling interest in Macarthur for A$15.50 a share less the
amount of the 2011 final dividend which Macarthur pays.  Investment Risk  The Australian Coal Association said overseas coal buyers
may switch to other nations, forcing mine closures.  “What is proposed is not good public policy in the best
interests of Australia, rather an expedient act of political
opportunism,” Seamus French, the head of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s
metallurgical coal business, said in a statement yesterday.
“The carbon tax puts at risk current and future coal
investments in Australia, the jobs of 40,000 direct employees
and the jobs of 100,000 contractors, suppliers and other workers
indirectly employed by the coal industry.”  The plan may cost as many as 2,700 industry jobs in
Queensland, said the Queensland Resources Council. The state is
the world’s biggest exporter of coal used to make steel.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest iron-ore
producer, said in a statement that a cut in the diesel rebate
was a tax imposed without consultation. Operations such as Rio’s
iron ore mines in the Pilbara rely on large diesel-powered earth
moving trucks.  Rio fell 1.4 percent, the most since June 16.  Deal Killer?  “There’s no doubt that this is another way in terms of
making the  mining industry  pay more,” said Schroeders. “I
don’t think it’s a deal killer and it’s not going to push
operations to the wall but it’s another hurdle for the mining
industry as a whole to overcome.”  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest airline, said
today the tax will cost as much as A$115 million in the year
ending June 30, 2013, while budget carrier Virgin Blue Holdings
said higher fares are ‘inevitable.” The excise on aviation
kerosene, the fuel mostly used by airlines, will rise by 6.604
cents a liter to 10.16 cents a liter in 2014-15. International
airlines in Australia won’t be affected by the levy.  “The impact of the carbon price on domestic airfares will
be marginal and against a backdrop where flying is today five
times more affordable than it was two decades ago as a result of
past Labor reforms such as the deregulation of domestic aviation
market,” Australia’s Transport Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. “What’s more, to offset any price rises there will
be generous assistance in the form of tax cuts of up A$500 a
year and higher payments.”  Qantas slipped 3.3 percent, the most since June 6, while
Virgin Blue fell 2.9 percent.  Australia will provide A$9.2 billion over three years to
assist the biggest-polluting businesses such as aluminum
smelters, steelmakers and pulp manufacturers.  Compensation Plans  BlueScope said yesterday it would receive about 60 percent
of the A$300 million in steel industry assistance offered under
Gillard’s plan. The rest of the compensation will go to  OneSteel
Ltd. (OST) , BlueScope said in a statement. BlueScope shares slumped
6.7 percent, while OneSteel lost 4.9 percent.  “Moving to a clean energy future is not simply about
making sure our existing industries can continue to prosper,”
Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said on the  Labor Party ’s
website. “It’s also about laying a platform to allow the clean
energy industries and jobs of the future to develop and grow.”  Power generators facing losses in the value of their assets
will receive A$5.5 billion in assistance, Gillard said in
Canberra. The government will provide loan support to
electricity suppliers and payment for the closure of plants to
remove as much as 2,000 megawatts of capacity by 2020.  While that offer may help energy producers reduce emissions,
some generators will receive nothing and still see their asset
values diminished, Brad Page, chief executive officer of the
Energy Supply Association of Australia, said in a statement.  Infigen Energy (IFN) , a developer of renewable-energy projects,
jumped as much as 11 percent and closed 5.4 percent higher.  RBA View  “The level of the tax should be sufficient to incentivize
a change in the behavior of heavy polluters, and the assistance
proposed in the interim will give them time to plan for the full
impact without wiping them out,” said Will Seddon, who helps
oversee about $350 million at White Funds Management in Sydney.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will likely “see through”
the inflation effects of the carbon tax proposal, said economist
 Warwick McKibbin , an RBA board member.  Gillard’s estimates of a 0.7 percentage point increase in
inflation “sound about right to me and I think the central bank
will see through the price effects of this and it will have no
impact on policy,” McKibbin, a professor at  Australian National
University  in Canberra, said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television.  “I don’t think it’s going to destroy the economy, but the
problem is it’s potentially a very risky policy,” he said.
“It’s important that we have a carbon price in Australia. I
think this policy, though, is far from the best way to achieve
that goal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  