-- 
Qantas Plans ’Significant Changes’ to end Losses on International Flights

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-07-11T12:06:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/qantas-plans-significant-changes-to-end-international-losses.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  plans to reduce
costs on its international network as  Australia ’s biggest
carrier tries to reverse two years of losses at the unit.  Faced with Australia’s first tax on  carbon emissions  next
year, Qantas will also increase airfares at home to compensate
for the levy, the Sydney-based carrier said. The cuts to
international expenses are part of a strategy to be announced
Aug. 24 to turn around the long-haul business, Chief Executive
Officer Alan Joyce told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  “We need to make significant changes to our international
services,” Joyce said on yesterday’s “Inside Business”
program, without providing details. The plan includes adopting
“an honest and fairly aggressive view on the performance of the
international network and making cuts where we need to make
them,” he said.  Qantas forecast on June 22 a A$200 million ($214 million)
loss at the international arm for the year ended June 30 and a
bigger loss in the fiscal year starting July 1. Competition from
Emirates Airline and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  has slashed the
Australian carrier’s market share in international services to
about 20 percent from 35 percent in 2001.  Qantas shares fell 3.3 percent to A$1.935 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney. The stock has dropped 24 percent
this year, compared with a 3.4 percent decline in Australia’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Carbon Tax  Joyce’s potential revamp of the international unit comes as
he adjusts domestic operations for the government’s new tax to
reduce carbon-dioxide emissions.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  expects to raise
about A$27.8 billion in three years by making polluters pay an
initial charge of A$23 a ton of carbon dioxide and then lift the
price by 2.5 percent a year plus inflation, she said yesterday.  The tax, which will be applied to domestic air services,
will increase the excise on aviation kerosene to 10.16 cents per
liter in the year ending June 2015 from the current 3.556 cents
per liter, the government said in a  statement . International
flights will not be subject to the extra tax on fuel.  The new tax will increase Qantas’s fuel bill by as much as
A$115 million in the 12 months ending June 2013. Qantas is
planning a “full pass-through to customers” of the higher
costs, the company said in a stock exchange statement today.  The airline’s long-haul pilots today voted in favor of the
first industrial action at Qantas in 45 years, the Australian
and International Pilots Association said. Qantas is prepared to
negotiate “sensible and reasonable increases in pay,” the
carrier said in an e-mailed statement.  Invest in Luxury  Joyce said he’ll invest some of the savings from the
international network into the luxury end of the division. The
turnaround strategy also involves addressing partnerships with
other carriers and targeting Asian expansion, Joyce said on the
television program.  In its June 22 forecast, Qantas said it was planning for an
increase of as much as 46 percent in overall pretax profit for
the year ended June 30 as domestic services, budget unit Jetstar
and a frequent-flyer program offset losses on overseas routes.
The international business is the company’s weakest and
delivered required returns only three times in the past 15
years, Joyce said at the time.  Qantas has scaled back capacity growth plans twice this
year, including scrapping plane orders, as natural disasters and
rising fuel prices damp demand and push up costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  