-- 
Qantas, Anglo Say Carbon Tax Will Boost Fares

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-07-10T07:24:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/qantas-anglo-say-australian-carbon-tax-boosts-fares-risks-jobs.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  said it will
raise airfares and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  warned coal-mining jobs
and investment are at risk after Australia’s government unveiled
the country’s first levy on greenhouse-gas emissions.  Polluters will pay A$23 ($24.74) per metric ton of  carbon
emissions  as the government seeks to wean the nation off its
dependence on fossil fuels, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said
today in Canberra. Australia, reliant on coal to generate 80
percent of its electricity, will require about 500 businesses to
pay the charge and will more than double aviation fuel excises.  “What is proposed is not good public policy in the best
interests of Australia, rather an expedient act of political
opportunism,” Seamus French, the head of Anglo American’s
metallurgical coal business, said in a statement today. “The
carbon tax puts at risk current and future coal investments in
Australia, the jobs of 40,000 direct employees and the jobs of
100,000 contractors, suppliers and other workers indirectly
employed by the coal industry.”  Qantas, Australia’s largest airline, said it can’t absorb
the cost of the tax, while budget carrier  Virgin Blue Holdings
Ltd. (VBA)  said higher fares in Australia are “inevitable.” The
Australian Coal Association said overseas buyers of coal may
switch to other nations and force the closure of mines at home.
It joined London-based Anglo in warning that Gillard’s tax
threatens jobs.  The excise on aviation kerosene, the fuel mostly used by
airlines, will rise by 6.604 cents a liter to 10.16 cents a
liter in 2014-15, according to the government’s proposal.  Compensation Plans  Australia expects to raise some A$27.8 billion in three
years by making polluters pay an initial A$23 per ton charge,
increasing the price by 2.5 percent a year, plus inflation,
Gillard said today in Canberra.  The government will provide A$9.2 billion over three years
to assist the biggest-polluting businesses such as aluminum
smelters, steelmakers and pulp manufacturers. It will also
provide about A$47 billion ($50.5 billion) through 2020 to help
households meet higher costs, reduce job losses and spur
investment in renewable energy.  “Moving to a clean energy future is not simply about
making sure our existing industries can continue to prosper,”
Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said today on the  Labor
Party ’s website. “It’s also about laying a platform to allow
the clean energy industries and jobs of the future to develop
and grow.”  Coal miners will get A$1.3 billion, with the biggest
polluters getting assistance over six years.  ‘Futile Loss’  That’s not enough, Anglo American said. It’s almost
impossible to measure emissions and the technology to reduce
them won’t be available for at least a decade, French said in
his statement.  Gillard, Australia’s least popular prime minister in 13
years, is counting on the Greens Party and three independent
lawmakers to pass her program. Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  has
said he’ll repeal the law if he comes to power.  Her proposal is “a futile loss of jobs” because it won’t
affect global emissions, according to Ralph Hillman, executive
director of the Australian Coal Association.  “You’ll see a crimping of the growth of the coal
industry,” he told Sky News. “Even if there is growth, there
will still be mine closures.”  The carbon tax may cost as many as 2,700 industry jobs in
Queensland, said the Queensland Resources Council. The state is
the world’s biggest exporter of coal used to make steel.  Extra Costs  Aluminum producers estimate Gillard’s plan will impose
extra costs of A$120 million on the industry in its first year,
rising to A$400 million in 2020. The policy will put local
producers at a disadvantage to overseas competitors, the
Australian Aluminium Council said today.  “Not only will  Australia  be discounted as a site for new
facilities but existing operations will find it hard to attract
the capital needed to maintain viability,” Miles Prosser,
executive director of the council, said in the statement. “If
we lose that investment, it costs Australia, but global
greenhouse emissions don’t reduce.”  Power generators facing losses in the value of their assets
will receive A$5.5 billion in assistance, Gillard said in
Canberra. The government will provide loan support to
electricity suppliers and payment for the closure of plants to
remove as much as 2,000 megawatts of capacity by 2020.  While that offer may help energy producers reduce emissions,
some generators will receive nothing and still see their asset
values diminished, Brad Page, chief executive officer of the
Energy Supply Association of Australia, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  