-- 
Retail Sales Probably Stagnated in June: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-10T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/retail-sales-probably-stagnated-in-june-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
stagnated in June, reflecting declining auto demand and rising
unemployment, economists said before reports this week.  The projected unchanged reading in purchases would follow a
0.2 percent May decrease, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department figures July
14. Another report may show the cost of living decreased for the
first time in a year as fuel prices retreated.  Supply constraints due to  Japan ’s earthquake helped push
car sales last month to the lowest level since June 2010, while
unemployment prompted stores like Target Corp. and Gap Inc. to
sweeten discounts to lure customers. A dearth of jobs raises the
risk that  consumer spending , which makes up 70 percent of the
economy, will have difficulty picking up for the rest of 2011.  “You’ve got a consumer who’s hobbled,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
 New York . “The soft patch is still there. The underlying trend
is toward very modest growth.”  Ben S. Bernanke  may address the issue of unemployment when
he delivers the semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress
on July 13 and 14. The chairman of the  Federal Reserve , in a
press conference after policy makers met on June 22, said “the
economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly than the committee had expected.”
Minutes of the gathering will be issued on July 12.  Bernanke also said the slowdown was caused in part by
“factors that are likely to be temporary,” including more
expensive commodities as well as supply chain disruptions
associated with Japan’s natural disaster.  Excluding Autos  The retail report may also show sales excluding automobiles
and service stations rose 0.4 percent last month after
increasing 0.3 percent in May, economists said.  The figures, which aren’t adjusted for inflation, probably
were depressed by receipts at service stations that reflected
lower gasoline costs. Regular fuel averaged $3.67 a gallon in
June, down from $3.90 the prior month, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest auto club.  Discounts implemented to clear inventory ahead of the back-
to-school season helped sales at chain stores beat analysts’
estimates. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
posted a 4.5 percent increase from a year earlier, while demand
at Gap rose 1 percent, beating projections for a drop, the
stores reported last week.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
risen 2.6 percent from the end of April. The broader  S&P 500
Index  declined 1.5 percent during the same period as the
European debt crisis and a U.S. debt-ceiling impasse concerned
investors.  Unemployment Climbs  Payrolls grew by 18,000 last month, the smallest gain since
September, the Labor Department reported July 8. The jobless
rate climbed for a third straight month, rising to 9.2 percent,
the highest level this year.  Sales of cars and light vehicle ran at a seasonally
adjusted 11.41 million annual rate in June, down from 11.76
million in May and 13.14 million in April, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co.
deliveries each fell 21 percent from the same month last year,
reflecting supply-chain constraints, while  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said sales rose 10 percent.  The consumer-price index fell 0.1 percent in June after a
0.2 percent gain in May, reflecting the drop in fuel costs,
economists projected a Labor Department report on July 15 will
show. Core prices, which exclude volatile food and fuel, may
have climbed 0.2 percent from a month earlier.  Prices Fall  The consumer-price index is the broadest of three monthly
price gauges the Labor Department releases. Figures earlier in
the week may show wholesale prices and the cost of goods
imported into the U.S. also fell in June.  Falling fuel prices may have also helped boost confidence.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to 72.5 in June from 71.5 in May,
according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of the July 15
report.  Manufacturing is one area of the economy still expanding.
Fed data due the same day will show output at factories, mines
and utilities rose 0.3 percent in June following a 0.1 percent
gain the prior month, economists forecast.  Also this week, Commerce Department figures may show the
trade deficit widened in May from the prior month, according to
the Bloomberg survey median before the July 12 report.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  