-- 
Redford Inspires Talent Hunt for Next Dylan, Biographer Says

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-07-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/robert-redford-inspires-music-talent-hunt-for-next-dylan-biographer-says.html
Robert Redford  was staying with the
writer Michael Feeney Callan in Dublin when he requested a night
on the town sampling Guinness in a busy pub.  Callan knew his famous friend would attract crowds of
onlookers. To avoid any disturbance, the Irishman usually booked
quiet tables in discreet restaurants, often causing disbelief
when he said who was coming.  “This time, Bob insisted on a night out,” he says.  Dublin drinkers stared as Redford entered a packed bar.
After a while, one tall man, reeking of booze, came and stood
swaying over Redford, silent and threatening. The tension
mounted. Finally, the man barked “ Paul Newman !” and turned on
his heels. Redford smiled: Newman was his co-star in “Butch
Cassidy and the Sundance Kid” and “The Sting.”  That was a nervous moment in the 16-year friendship that
has led Callan, 56, to write a  biography  of the actor that was
published in May.  It also has led to Callan setting up Bobcom, a
philanthropic organization to nurture music and be an antidote
to traditional television talent shows. The inspiration comes
from the  Sundance Festival , founded by Redford in 1981 to
promote independent moviemakers and challenge Hollywood.  Callan describes Redford, with his now weathered surfer
looks, as a political poet.  Good Teeth  “This goes over people’s heads,” he says. “What they
want to see about Bob Redford is a Beatle haircut, an Olympian
body and good teeth. It’s not exactly all he is.”  When they first met in  New York  in 1995 to discuss a
biography, Redford said no, even though he liked Callan’s book
on  Anthony Hopkins . “We talked about poetry,” recalls Callan,
“the dynamics of ‘The Waste Land,’ Ted Hughes, Henry Miller and
Edgar Allen Poe. That’s where we started.”  The endlessly articulate Callan describes Redford, 74, as
an iconoclast more than an icon. He could have had a cushy life
as a leading man. Instead he became a producer and director,
winning an Oscar for “Ordinary People” (1980). Caring more
about integrity than fame or fortune, he made literary films.  As “a Renaissance man who wants America to report back to
itself,” Callan says, Redford set up an international
conference on global warming as long ago as 1989.  During their chats “late at night over the cabernet
sauvignon,” he says, Redford often spoke of his stewardship at
Sundance.  Music Community  This led to  Bobcom , Callan’s website, which he describes as
a musical social network. Musicians can upload and sell their
work: The site pays almost three times what  iTunes  does. They
also can interact with fans, find fellow music makers and take
part in free Fasttrack competitions that involve no judges or
juries, only their peers among the Bobcom community.  “It’s a reaction to what’s happening to ‘ American Idol ,’”
Callan, wearing a jacket and open-necked shirt, says. “That
sort of stuff has become so plastic and so homogenized. We are
going back to Tim Berners-Lee’s definition of the Internet,
which is democracy.”  Winners have garnered a week’s recording at London’s  Abbey
Road Studios , and appearances on Bobcom’s U.K. Channel 4 series
“Sounds From the Cities.” The next two victors will get to
perform at Liverpool’s  Cavern Club  on July 13, marking 50 years
since the Beatles played there. The plan is for a swift rollout
of Bobcom beyond the U.K. and Ireland.  Redford Reference  The Bobcom name is “an obvious nod to Bob, that’s almost a
private joke,” Callan says. It was meant tongue-in-cheek as
“the birth of brilliance community,” and also stands for
another planned TV series “Birth of a Band.”  Much as Sundance initially was funded by benefactors such
as the  Rockefeller Foundation , Bobcom is privately financed --
by Callan, with money from the Redford book, and by his Swiss
partner Olivier Capt. He’s not interested in big  record
companies  joining the project.  Nobody would be more pleased than Redford if all those
late-night drinking sessions lead to finding a true star, says
 Callan . “We’re not looking for juggling monkeys in high heels,
we’d love to find the new  Bob Dylan .”  “Robert Redford: The Biography” is published in the U.S.
by Knopf (468 pages, $28.95). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here . The U.K. edition is from Simon & Schuster Ltd.
priced 20 pounds.  Information: Bobcom’s website is at  http://www.bobcom.com .
The author’s website:  http://www.michaelfeeneycallan.com .
What the publisher says:  http://bit.ly/msnPVn .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net ;  http://twitter.com/# !/Mark_Beech.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 