-- 
Romania Starts Record $870 Million Petrom Share Sale to Attract Investors

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-07-11T14:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/romania-starts-record-petrom-share-sale-in-bucharest-to-attract-investors.html
Romania  will seek to lure
international buyers to its 2.56 billion-lei ($861 million) sale
of shares in  OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  over the next two weeks, the biggest
offering ever on the Bucharest Stock Exchange.  The government is selling 5.57 billion shares in the
country’s dominant oil company, or 9.8 percent, at a maximum
price of 0.46 lei per share starting today through July 22 and
will hold promotional tours in European cities, including
London, Frankfurt, Vienna and Warsaw, according to Ioana Tanase,
the head of EFG Securities SA, one of the lead managers.  The eastern European country is cutting spending and
bringing in revenue from sales of minority stakes in energy
companies to meet pledges to the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union, from which it secured two loans since 2009.
The country plans to narrow its  budget deficit  to less than 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from 4.4 percent this
year.  “We believe this moment is very favorable for the share
sale,” Thomas Unger, a Vienna-based analyst at Erste Bank, said
in a phone interview. “Petrom is highly exposed to the
evolution of  oil prices , which are now growing, so its
profitability should be very strong this year and next.”  Double Free Float  The share sale, which will be deemed completed if valid
subscription reaches at least 80 percent of the offer, will more
than double Petrom’s traded shares to 16 percent from the
current 6.21 percent, said Valentin Ionescu, the chief executive
officer of the Bucharest bourse. The offer will exceed previous
share sales from state-owned utilities Transgaz SA and
 Transelectrica SA (TEL) , which raised a combined 349 million lei in
2006 and 2008.  “The offer will have a positive impact on the free-float
of the stock exchange, and thus on the liquidity,” Ionescu said
in a phone interview. “Petrom’s free-float will basically
double, once the offer is completed, and the bourse’s free-float
will rise by as much as 15 percent.”  Institutional investors may subscribe for as much as 85
percent of the offered shares, with the remaining 15 percent
going to retail investors, according to the  prospectus  published
on July 7. The final subscription price will be set for two
installments, one for institutions and the other for retail
investors, depending on demand. A minimum reference price may be
also set.  Renaissance Capital , EFG Securities, BT Securities Romania
SA and Romcapital SA are managing the sale.  Gas Discovery  Petrom’s shares fell 0.4 percent to close at 0.3975 lei in
Bucharest trading today, after rising 4.1 percent last week to
0.399 lei, after the sale announcement and a gas discovery in
southwestern Romania. The stock has risen  19 percent this year.  Petrom is majority owned by  OMV AG (OMV)  of  Austria . The Romanian
government currently holds 20.6 percent. Fondul Proprietatea SA,
Romania’s 4 billion-euro ($5.7 billion) property-restitution
fund, owns 20.1 percent of Petrom. The government is in the
process of reducing its 18.9 percent stake in Fondul and aims to
pull out completely as it compensates Romanians for property
seized under the communist regime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  