-- 
Safco Second-Quarter Net Drops 13%, Missing Estimates, After One-Time Gain

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-07-10T07:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/safco-second-quarter-net-drops-13-after-one-time-land-sale-gain-last-year.html
Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co., a unit
of  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , posted a 13 percent drop in
second-quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates.  Net income fell to 790 million riyals ($211 million) from
907 million riyals a year ago, the Jubail-based company known as
Safco said in a  statement  to the Saudi bourse today. The mean
estimate of four analysts was for a profit of 987 million
riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit declined because of a one-time gain from land sale
in the second quarter of last year, the company said in the
 statement . Safco said in April last year that it expected to
gain 263.4 million riyals from the sale of land in the eastern
city of Dammam.  “Results are really disappointing to us,” Ahmed Shams El Din, a Cairo-based analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in
response to e-mailed questions. “We were expecting a
significant improvement in quarter-on-quarter earnings mainly on
higher prices, which have increased 14 percent for ammonia and 7
percent for urea during the quarter.” Shams El Din had
estimated a second-quarter profit of 1 billion riyals.  Safco (SAFCO) , 43 percent owned by Saudi Basic, the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, will pay a dividend of 6 riyals a share
for the first half of the year, the company said in a separate
statement today.  The shares have gained 18 percent this year compared with a
0.1 percent rise in the benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index. (SASEIDX)  The
stock rose 0.7 percent to 188.50 riyals yesterday, giving the
company a market value of 47.1 billion riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  