-- 
Saudi Shares Retreat as Safco Quarter Profit Misses Estimates; Sabic Falls

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-07-10T14:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/saudi-shares-retreat-as-safco-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-sabic-falls.html
Saudi Arabia ’s stocks fell the most
in almost three weeks after second-quarter earnings at Saudi
Arabian Fertilizer Co. missed analysts’ estimates.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer, a unit of  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC) , lost 1.9 percent. Saudi Basic, the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, dropped the most in more than a month. The
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 0.7 percent, the most since
June 20, to 6,581.38 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. The
Persian Gulf region’s  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  retreated 0.4
percent. In North Africa, Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  fell 1.7 percent
to the lowest since May 19.  “Safco results are weighing down on  market sentiment ,”
said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad Capital.
“Investors are selling to lock in short-term gains.”  Net income at  Safco (SAFCO)  fell to 790 million riyals ($211
million) from 907 million riyals a year ago because the gain
from a land sale wasn’t repeated, the Jubail-based company said.
The mean estimate of four analysts was for a profit of 987
million riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares dropped to 185 riyals, the lowest since June 20.
Saudi Basic declined 1.4 percent, the most since June 4, to
104.5 riyals.  Egypt Drops  In Egypt, the benchmark EGX 30 declined to the lowest in
almost two months to close at 5,270.66 after earlier gaining as
much as 0.3 percent.  “The market witnessed a relief rally at the open after the
peaceful protests over the weekend; later reports of escalations
in Suez and  Tahrir Square  weighed on sentiment,” said Wafik
Dawood, director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega
Investments Securities. “Investors fear the transition period
is going to take longer than planned.”  Thousands of people poured into central Cairo’s Tahrir
Square on July 8, returning to the focus of the protests against
former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime. Activists, youth groups
and political parties, including the April 6 Youth Movement and
the Muslim Brotherhood, called for demonstrations across Egypt
to also demand the purging of alleged rogue police officers by
the Interior Ministry. The sit-in at Tahrir Square continued
today and spread to Alexandria and Suez.  The trials of former Interior Minister Habib el-Adli and
several police officers accused of killing protesters during the
uprising have been postponed. Eighteen days of protests, sparked
by falling living standards and high unemployment as well as a
lack of democratic rights, led to the ouster of Mubarak on Feb.
11.  Oman’s gauge rose a seventh day, gaining 0.3 percent.
Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 0.6 percent,  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  advanced 0.3 percent, while Bahrain’s measure was
little changed. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  dropped 0.2 percent and
Kuwait’s index slipped less than 0.1 percent.  Israel’s TA-25 advanced 0.7 percent. The benchmark Mimshal
Shiklit government bond due January 2020 rose, pushing the yield
three basis points lower, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.08
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  