-- 
Defending Champion Serbia Reaches Davis Cup Semifinals, Spain Ousts U.S

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/serbia-defeats-sweden-to-reach-the-semifinals-of-tennis-s-davis-cup.html
Defending champion  Serbia  defeated
Sweden to set up a Davis Cup semifinal against Argentina, while
Spain will host France in the final four after beating the U.S.  Janko Tipsarevic clinched Serbia’s victory in the best-of-
five contest yesterday with a 6-2, 7-5, 6-3 win over Michael
Ryderstedt in Halmstad, Sweden. Robert Lindstedt retired against
 Viktor Troicki  to make the final score 4-1.  Serbia, which secured the elite team championship in men’s
tennis for first time last year, had won the singles matches on
day one even as world No. 1 Novak Djokovic didn’t compete
because of a knee injury. Djokovic played two days ago in the
doubles, which Sweden won to keep the tie alive.  Argentina , appearing in a record 10th straight Davis Cup
quarterfinal, completed a 5-0 whitewash of Kazakhstan two days
ago and will travel to Serbia for the Sept. 16-18 semifinal.  “Whichever surface we choose I think it’s going to be a
really tough match,” Tipsarevic told the Davis Cup website.  Spain clinched the last semifinal spot when David Ferrer
beat Mardy Fish 7-5, 7-6 (7-3), 5-7, 7-6 (7-5) in Austin, Texas,
to give the visiting team an unbeatable 3-1 lead over the U.S.,
which had been seeking a record-extending 33rd title.  Top-ranked doubles pairing Bob and Mike Bryan had kept the
host nation’s chances alive with a victory yesterday after  Mardy Fish  and Andy Roddick both lost their opening singles matches.  Spain, which won four titles in the last decade, will have
home court advantage in the semifinals against France, which
headed into yesterday’s matches having already won its tie
against  Germany  and finished with a 4-1 victory in Stuttgart.  “We have a generation of players who are unbelievable,”
said Spain captain Albert Costa. “We have to try to take
advantage of this and win as much as we can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  