-- 
Shorting Chinese Chicken Breeder Earns Wings for GeoInvesting

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-07-10T17:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/shorting-chinese-chicken-breeder-earns-wings-for-geoinvesting.html
Yuhe International Inc. (YUII) , a Chinese
chicken breeder whose business model is based on quick
turnaround, took only three days to acknowledge it had been
bested by two short sellers in rural Pennsylvania.  The investors, who run  GeoInvesting LLC , issued their first
negative report about the firm on June 13, saying an announced
acquisition of 13 breeder farms never happened and that a $12
million down payment may have been misappropriated.  Yuhe, which says on its website that it’s the largest
supplier of day-old broiler chickens in China, denied the report
the next day. Three days later, on June 17, after GeoInvesting
posted recordings of its phone calls with the man who supposedly
sold the breeder farms, Yuhe executives admitted on a  conference
call  that disclosures weren’t accurate and said the $12 million
ended up in a separate private firm, where it was used to buy
other farms. Yuhe shares plunged 71 percent to $1.21 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market before trading was halted that day.  “Rarely do you see that Perry Mason effect, when a company
just gives up,” said Joe Giamichael, an analyst at Global
Hunter Securities LLC in  New York , who had a “buy” rating on
Yuhe. “I had taken for granted that those breeder-farm
transactions took place. GeoInvesting did an excellent job.”  The company, founded three years ago in Skippack,
 Pennsylvania , about 30 miles northwest of Philadelphia, has
gained attention in recent months, along with research firms
such as  Muddy Waters  LLC and Alfredlittle.com, for challenging
the accounting practices and business transactions of Chinese
companies listed on U.S. exchanges.  Shift in Direction  That marked a shift in direction for GeoInvesting President
Majid Soueidan and Vice President Dan David. The firm profited
over the past few years, they said, largely by taking long
positions in Chinese companies that gained U.S. listings through
reverse mergers. The booming Chinese economy offers investment
opportunities, and GeoInvesting had been upbeat on Yuhe because
of growing demand for chicken, they said.  “We had high hopes for Yuhe, and our aim had been to
reinforce a long position,” said Soueidan, 41, the son of
Lebanese immigrants, who wore a kung fu t-shirt during an
interview at a Skippack restaurant. “We wrote a positive report
on them last summer. But the more we looked, the more questions
we had about the acquisitions. We had no choice. I don’t like
being a short. I despise it. I just don’t like being that guy.”  Research for Subscribers  Short investors typically bet against a stock by selling
borrowed shares with the hope of repurchasing them at a lower
price.  GeoInvesting, which provides research on Chinese and U.S.
stocks to subscribers who pay $9.99 a month, had written
positive comments about Yuhe since 2010. The company, based in
Weifang, about 500 kilometers (311 miles) south of Beijing, had
$67.5 million in revenue last year and a $34.3 million net loss,
according to filings.  The partners, who also manage The Market’s Edge Ltd., a 17-
year-old investment fund with about $10 million in assets, said
they held a long position in Yuhe until April, when they went
short. They changed their position and issued a critical report
after evidence of questionable accounting mounted.  Yuhe is one of an increasing number of U.S.-listed Chinese
firms facing questions about their financial disclosures. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission revoked the
registrations of eight Chinese companies since December, and
more than 24 have disclosed auditor resignations or admitted
accounting misstatements since March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
wrote in an April 27 letter.  Reverse Mergers  Many of the companies, like Yuhe, obtained their U.S.
listings through reverse mergers, in which a closely held
business buys a publicly traded shell. The maneuver lets
companies avoid the vetting process that occurs during an
initial public offering. On June 9, the SEC urged investors to
be careful when buying shares in reverse-merger companies.  The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of 78 U.S.-
listed stocks has fallen 43 percent this year.  Yuhe’s auditor, Salt Lake City-based Child Van Wagoner &
Bradshaw PLLC, resigned after the June 17 conference call,
citing “the company’s management’s misrepresentation and
failure to disclose material facts surrounding certain
acquisition transactions and off-balance sheet related party
transactions,” Yuhe said in a June 20 regulatory filing.  ‘Become Pandemic’  Fraud at U.S.-listed Chinese companies has “become
pandemic,” Giamichael said. “It’s gotten incredibly difficult.
You doubt everything a company says.”  GeoInvesting said the disclosures are part of a necessary
culling of weak companies from an otherwise promising market.  “We’re saving this market,” said David, 42, a former
manager at a jewelry-store company. “We were very uncertain
about starting the short process. It’s so against the grain for
us. We’re still basically long investors. Ultimately, we believe
you make more money that way.”  Soueidan said he became obsessed with investing as a
teenager and grew more serious about it while majoring in
finance at  Temple University  in Philadelphia.  After college, he worked as an analyst at mutual fund
company Vanguard Group Inc., he said. When he learned it would
take years to manage his own portfolio, he quit to trade full-
time for himself.  ‘Hate Weekends’  Soueidan said he is a value investor who pores over
financial statements to select stocks with strong balance sheets
that are undervalued by the market. At 19, he said, he started
calling executives to quiz them before buying shares.  “I wouldn’t say I’m a trader,” Soueidan said. “I’m an
investor. I love what I do. I hate weekends. I get bored.”  He said he invested only his own capital until 2005, when
he started thinking about building a subscription-service
website and tried to lure David, a social acquaintance, to join
him as a partner.  David, a flag football enthusiast who wore shorts and a
button-down shirt during the interview, said he worked as a
manager at Finlay Enterprises Inc., which operated jewelry
concessions in department stores before filing for bankruptcy in
2009. He declined Soueidan’s offer at first, then agreed to join
him in 2006.  The partners began seeking investors in the fund and
launched the website in 2008. They first took an interest in
U.S.-listed Chinese companies in 2006, David said.  ‘Investing on Steroids’  “With the growth we were seeing, it seemed like value
investing on steroids,” David said.  Their Market’s Edge fund returned almost 50 percent a year
in 2006 and 2007, David said. It invested as much as 15 percent
of its capital on long positions in Chinese companies, he said.
He declined to disclose what percentage of the fund he and
Soueidan own.  The fund tumbled about 70 percent during the 2008 financial
crisis, David said. It surged more than 200 percent in 2009,
when it increased its holdings of Chinese stocks to about 70
percent, still all long positions. The gains continued into
early 2010 before returns leveled off. The fund ended the year
unchanged and is up about 12 percent this year, David said.  Among GeoInvesting’s biggest winners, David said, was  China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) , a Hong Kong-based company that sells
 television advertising  on intercity buses in China. The fund
bought warrants starting in July 2009 for less than 20 cents
each. It began selling the securities, which give the owner the
right to purchase common stock at a set price, in December 2009
for as much as $8 and later converted some warrants into common
stock, which they sold for as much as $15 in mid-2010.  Organic Fertilizer  They also scored with  China Agritech Inc. (CAGC) , a Beijing-based
producer of organic fertilizer. The fund started acquiring the
shares for less than $5 apiece in August 2009 and sold in March
2010 for about $26, David said.  GeoInvesting put Yuhe on its GeoSpecials list for
attractive shares in 2010, Soueidan said. He also wrote articles
for TheStreet.com, the flagship website of New York-based
TheStreet Inc. One  report  in February 2010 carried the headline:
“A Bullish Case for Chinese Stocks.”  Soueidan and David said they became concerned in mid-2010
that some Chinese stocks were dropping without news developments.
Then a report on June 28, 2010, by Muddy Waters, an investment
firm founded by Carson C. Block, questioned the accounting of
 Orient Paper Inc. (ONP) , a Baoding, China-based maker of paper
products. Orient plunged 40 percent to $5.09 on July 1. It
closed last week at $4.20 in the U.S.  Turned a Profit  In July 2010, GeoInvesting removed all Chinese companies
from its GeoBargains list because Soueidan was concerned that
the firms’ financial data may be inaccurate, he said.  Soueidan and David also learned that some of the companies
in which they had invested and turned a profit, including China
MediaExpress and China Agritech, had been accused of making
misstatements. Shares of China MediaExpress plunged 33 percent
to $11.09 on Feb. 3, then the biggest drop since its 2007
initial public offering, following a report by Muddy Waters
saying the company inflated revenue and profit. The stock was
delisted by the Nasdaq Stock Market in May and closed last week
in over-the-counter trading at $1.61.  China  MediaExpress said at
the time that it “strongly disagrees” with the claims.  Lucas McGee Research , another investment website, called
China Agritech a scam in a Feb. 3 report. The shares, which
closed at $10.78 a day earlier, dropped to $6.88 on March 14,
when trading was halted. The company was delisted by the Nasdaq
Stock Market on May 20.  “I was embarrassed,” David said. “Luck shouldn’t have
that much to do with it.”  Investigative Team  Soueidan and David built their own investigative team in
China starting in August 2010. They hired three Chinese staff
members, all with business degrees, and a Chinese lawyer to
conduct due diligence, David said. The team examined tax and
business records, interviewed customers and conducted
surveillance of company facilities.  GeoInvesting grew concerned about its Yuhe investment
because of delays in closing on the deal to buy the breeder
farms, first announced in December 2009. Yuhe initially said the
deal would be completed by March 2010.  Yuhe announced two delays and said on March 31 of this year
that the deal wouldn’t close until December. On May 16, the
company announced it had taken possession of 11 of the breeder
farms, not mentioning what happened to the other two.  That’s when GeoInvesting’s staff in China contacted Zheng
Xuejiang, head of Weifang Dajiang Corp., the company from which
Yuhe said it was buying the breeder farms. Zheng told them that
he never seriously negotiated a sale with Yuhe and that there
had been no deal, according to GeoInvesting’s June 13 report, in
which the firm disclosed its short position. Zheng didn’t reply
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Financial Disclosures  GeoInvesting also has written reports questioning financial
disclosures by companies including  Sino Clean Energy Inc. (SCEI) ,  China
Redstone Group Inc. (CGPI) ,  Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA) ,  Lotus Pharmaceuticals Inc. (LTUS) 
and  China Natural Gas Inc. (CHNG)   There was no response to phone messages and e-mails sent to
China Natural Gas. Crocker Coulson, a spokesman for Puda Coal,
said the company had no comment. The report by GeoInvesting
questioning Lotus’s financial disclosures wasn’t accurate, said
Xing Shen, a spokesman for the company.  Sino Clean Energy, a Xi’an-based maker of a coal-slurry
fuel, said it had been defamed by false reports, according to a
lawsuit it filed May 9 in New York state court against
GeoInvesting and Alfredlittle.com. Both firms said Sino Clean
Energy had inflated its shipments and revenue. Sino Clean
Energy’s lawyers haven’t served either research firm with legal
papers, according to David and Simon Moore, who said in an e-
mail that he’s the editor of Alfredlittle.com.  Cemetery Plots  Lawyers for China Redstone, which sells cemetery plots,
said it was defamed in a GeoInvesting report that questioned
whether the company had a license to sell the plots, according
to a March 15 cease-and-desist letter provided by GeoInvesting.
The report contained “material and gross inaccuracies,” the
Richardson Patel LLP  law firm  said in the letter.  The law firm wrote that China Redstone would sue unless
GeoInvesting removed the analysis from its website. As of July 8,
the China Redstone reports were still on GeoInvesting’s website
and no lawsuit had been filed.  China Redstone has declined 82 percent this year to $0.75 a
share. Sino Clean Energy has dropped 79 percent to $1.37.  GeoInvesting held no short positions when its investigators
first found discrepancies in the companies’ regulatory filings,
David said. It approached the firms hoping that any
misstatements could be corrected, Soueidan said.  Dave Gentry, president of Maitland, Florida-based RedChip
Cos., which handles  investor relations  for U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, said GeoInvesting approached him earlier this year
and presented its findings on Lotus Pharmaceuticals, a RedChip
client based in Beijing.  Independent Appraisal  GeoInvesting questioned filings in which Lotus said it had
acquired an Inner Mongolia property, valued at more than $33
million, that was to be used to build a production facility.
David said his staff interviewed government officials who
disputed Lotus’s assertions that it had purchased rights to the
land. GeoInvesting appraised the property independently and
found it was worth about $6 million, David said.  “There are charlatans out there, but GeoInvesting uses
good evidence,” Gentry said. “They came to us with their
information on Lotus. They’re trying to do the right thing, like
Muddy Waters. They’ve done a great service for the market.”  RedChip no longer represents Lotus, said Gentry, who
declined to elaborate.  David said he became discouraged when the Chinese companies
failed to amend SEC filings or change business practices after
GeoInvesting accused them of shortcomings. That’s when David and
Soueidan said they decided to take some short positions and
publish their negative findings.  They said they look forward to writing positive reports
again.  “Even when we didn’t take a short position on the
companies we criticized, we were hated,” David said. “The
longs all hated us for hurting their stocks, and the shorts
laughed at us for not being more aggressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 