-- 
Stricker Wins John Deere Classic for 3rd Straight Year Before British Open

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-07-11T04:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/steve-stricker-wins-golf-s-john-deere-classic-for-third-straight-year.html
Steve Stricker  sank a 25-foot birdie
putt on the John Deere Classic’s final hole to become the third
golfer in the past 20 years to win a U.S. PGA Tour event at
least three times in a row.  Stricker trailed rookie Kyle Stanley by two shots yesterday
before making birdies at the last two holes to win by one stroke
at the  TPC Deere Run  in Silvis,  Illinois . It was the 11th title
for Stricker and his eighth since turning 40.  Stricker, 44, is the 10th player to win the same PGA Tour
event at least three years running since 1940. He’s the first
since  Tiger Woods  -- who’s done it six times -- won a fourth
consecutive Buick Invitational in 2008. The only other golfer to
accomplish the feat on the  PGA Tour  since 1981 was  Stuart Appleby , who won the season-opening Mercedes Championships in
 Hawaii  from 2004 to 2006.  “‘When you watch someone like Tiger put away all those
tournaments, it’s a difficult thing to do,” said Stricker, who
received $792,000 and climbed 10 places to second in the season-
long FedEx Cup playoff standings. “So I have a hard time with
it. But I’m happy to come out on top.”  Stricker finished at 22-under-par 262, one shot better than
Stanley, 23, who was trying to become the fifth PGA Tour rookie
to win on the world’s richest golf circuit this year.  Stricker started the final round with a two-shot lead and
pushed his advantage to four shots. Stanley then had five
birdies in a six-hole stretch and moved atop the leaderboard as
Stricker had back-to-back bogeys on the 15th and 16th holes.  Putting Zone  Stricker birdied No. 17 and regained a share of the lead
when Stanley bogeyed the 18th. On the final hole, Stricker hit a
190-yard approach shot from a fairway bunker over a pond to the
back fringe and then drained the winning putt.  “When I get into a situation where I have to make a putt,
I feel like my nerves kind of go away,” said Stricker. “That’s
kind of the little zone I got in at 17 and 18.”  Stanley’s finish secured him a place at the  British Open ,
which is scheduled for July 14-17 at Royal St George’s Golf Club
in Sandwich, Kent, about 77 miles (124 kilometers) southeast of
 London  on  England ’s coast.  Stricker, who won the Memorial Tournament on June 5, is the
shortest-priced U.S. player for the third major of the year at
odds of 33-1, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc.  U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy is the 7-1 favorite at
William Hill and the Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports Book,
followed by  Lee Westwood  and  Luke Donald .  Nick Watney  has the
lowest British Open odds among Americans at the Las Vegas Hilton
at 25-1, followed by Stricker at 30-1.  Stricker said he’s ready for the challenge of negotiating
the links course at Royal St George’s.  “I’ll just go over there and see what it’s all about,”
Stricker said. “I enjoy that style of golf. We do it once a
year. It takes a little bit of getting used to, but I look
forward to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  