-- 
Strauss-Kahn Saga Exposes Flaws in Europe’s Greek Debt-Crisis Management

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-07-10T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/strauss-kahn-saga-exposes-flaws-in-europe-s-greek-debt-crisis-management.html
Greece ’s budget was unraveling,
Germany and the  European Central Bank  were at odds over the fix,
revelations of secret meetings and cover-ups were sapping
confidence in Europe’s crisis management -- and then came the
encounter between Dominique Strauss-Kahn and the maid.  Strauss-Kahn’s May 14 arrest on charges of sexual assault
left a void atop the  International Monetary Fund , busting the
one thing that had gone consistently right in the handling of
the euro-area debt crisis: cooperation between European leaders
and the Washington-based IMF. The fund’s contribution to
Greece’s next loan was no longer a sure thing, said two European
officials with direct knowledge of the talks who declined to be
identified because the deliberations were private.  Confusion over the IMF share was part of a catalogue of
missteps and miscommunication by  Europe ’s political elite that
has scarred their effort to prevent Greece from slipping into
the financial abyss. With Athens clinging to a lifeline opposed
by taxpayers in Germany and Finland, the margin of error is
narrowing and the crisis shows no sign of ebbing as it heads
toward year three.  “It’s now not just a Greek, Irish or Portuguese problem:
it’s a euroland problem,” said William Rhodes, a senior adviser
to Citigroup Inc. whose new book “Banker to the World”
recounts three decades of work on debt restructurings. “What’s
happening in Europe has been hit and miss from one day to the
next and the real danger down the road is contagion. All this
squabbling spooked the markets, which now move in nanoseconds.”  IMF Payment  The IMF’s approval July 8 to release a 3.2 billion-euro
($4.6 billion) installment for Greece plugged one hole in the
rescue strategy just as others are opening up: talks with
bondholders over rolling over Greek debt have prompted credit-
rating companies to threaten default. Portugal was downgraded to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service last week, leading bonds to
slump in Ireland,  Spain  and Italy.  Work on a new Greek package to follow last year’s 110
billion-euro pledge continues at a meeting of finance ministers
in Brussels today, with final decisions put off until September.  “No more short-term gimmicks,” Jeffrey Sachs, a Columbia
University professor, told Bloomberg Television’s  Tom Keene  on
July 5. European leaders “are treating this as a very short-
term set of operations -- get through the next three months, get
through the next six months. That won’t work. We need a bigger
structure.”  ‘On Track’  Short-termism appeared to be working as late as Feb. 11,
when the IMF and European authorities certified that Greece was
“broadly on track” to rebuild its finances and started paving
the way for the March loan installment. On April 1, with the
yield on Greece’s 10-year government bond at 12.8 percent, then-
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  predicted a possible
return to markets this year.  That went by the boards with the April 26 disclosure that
Greece fell short of its deficit-cutting objectives in 2010,
forcing it to look for more savings and pushing the 10-year
yield to 16.2 percent. Simultaneous talks over a 78 billion-euro
aid package for  Portugal  ate up more policymaking energy.  A private May 6 brainstorming session at Luxembourg’s
secluded Senningen Castle captured the tension. A core group of
finance ministers and ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
discussed Greece’s shortfall and German-driven talk of a debt
restructuring, said Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker .  When German magazine  Der Spiegel  reported that the inner
circle was discussing Greece’s exit from the euro, the currency
tumbled the most against the dollar in a year. Juncker denied
the meeting was taking place -- a line, he said a week later,
that “immediately prevented further speculation on the
markets.”  Solitary  Ten days after that, deficits, deceit and restructuring
formed the backdrop for a euro finance meeting that unfolded
with Strauss-Kahn in solitary confinement in  New York ’s Rikers
Island jail.  John Lipsky , the fund’s second-ranking official,
stayed in  Washington  to organize the stopgap IMF management.  Off to Brussels went Nemat Shafik, a deputy managing
director barely a month at her post -- a technocrat specializing
in the  Middle East  and Africa instead of the politically
connected Frenchman. She reminded the Europeans that the IMF
needed a 12-month funding program before committing its own
money.  Greece was caught in the middle as it became increasingly
clear that a 12 billion-euro disbursement due for July was the
only thing standing between the debt-stricken country and
default.  ‘Lack of Leadership’  The absence of Strauss-Kahn, 62, who as French finance
minister from 1997 to 1999 had played a role in setting up the
euro, made itself felt. On the heels of the Brussels meeting,
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  urged the IMF to
quickly appoint a new full-time chief, saying on May 19 there
was “a lack of leadership in solving the Greek crisis -- even
the last days it was very clear.”  Lipsky came to his interim position aware of market doubts
about Greece and European political solidarity. Investors “want
to see delivery,” he told Bloomberg Radio on April 15.
“They’re skeptical, they’re worried and now it’s up to the
Greek authorities to carry through the rest of their European
partners to provide the support.”  A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  economist nearing the end of
a five-year term as the IMF’s first deputy managing director,
Lipsky, 64, said two days before the arrest that he wouldn’t
seek reappointment after his term expires in August.  ‘By the Book’  Lipsky “played it by the book: he was staff-led,” said
Peter Ludlow, a Brussels-based historian and author of “The
Making of the New Europe.” “Strauss-Kahn was much more of a
political animal who felt himself, and indeed was, above the
book.”  European policy makers had operated on the understanding
that Strauss-Kahn would deliver the IMF’s share, said the two EU
officials. It soon dawned on them that, in his caretaker role,
Lipsky couldn’t steer the IMF board in the way Strauss-Kahn
could, they said.  More miscalculations followed. Lipsky didn’t spell out the
assurances the IMF required to release its share of the July
loan, first saying Europe needed to come up with a new three-
year program for Greece, then that it didn’t, the EU officials
said.  The IMF rejects suggestions of inconsistency. “The fund’s
position on Greece has not changed,” Conny Lotze, an IMF
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
fund has worked closely with the Greek authorities and the
European partners in supporting Greece’s economic program. The
success of Greece’s program has always been and still is the
primary objective.”  ‘Reprofiling’ Talk  Europe, meanwhile, was manufacturing its own distractions.
Fueled by Juncker’s May 16 proposal of a “reprofiling” or
“soft restructuring,” speculation swirled that  Germany  would
force an extension of Greece’s debt-repayment schedule, leading
to a formal default.  Greek debt continued to get hammered, with the yield on 10-
year bonds reaching 17 percent on May 23.  Debt-restructuring speculation contributed to the worsening
market psychology, EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. “There was some distortion of attention to a
discussion on debt restructuring and too little focus on program
implementation,” he said in a July 1 interview.  Germany, which as Europe’s biggest economy is the main
underwriter of the bailouts, faced pressure from all sides. The
French government and ECB pressed for a “voluntary” bond
rollover. President  Barack Obama  told Chancellor Angela Merkel
at the White House that it was her job to halt an “uncontrolled
spiral of default.”  Merkel’s Retreat  While Merkel’s abandonment on June 17 of a forced
restructuring bettered Greece’s long-term prospects, its chances
of escaping default in July still hinged on the euro zone and
IMF reading from the same script.  The two sides met again on June 19 in Luxembourg, with the
EU’s Rehn forecasting an IMF green light after 10-year yields
reached almost 18 percent. It didn’t happen. The European side
was unable to commit to another Greek funding program until
Greece passed a new, 78 billion-euro set of savings measures.  The IMF, in turn, wouldn’t move until Europe did. “The
assurances that we need are typical,” Lipsky said June 21. The
budget cuts squeaked through the Greek parliament a week later.  It took European government leaders, together tackling the
crisis again after a three-month hiatus, to break out of the
loop. Even then, they weren’t sure whether a June 24 pledge to
set up the “main parameters of a new program” would bring the
IMF on board.  ‘Credibility Issues’  And on July 2, a day after Strauss-Kahn was released from
home confinement and New York prosecutors told a judge the case
had been hurt by “substantial credibility issues” with the
accuser, euro-area finance ministers approved their share of the
12 billion-euro payment to Greece, providing a lifeline to
September.  “We’re entering a more critical phase because now the
important decisions have to be made how the debt will be
financed over the next three or four years,” said  Christopher Pissarides , a Nobel Prize-winning economist who teaches at the
London School of Economics. “So there is a lot more uncertainty
in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  