-- 
Supreme Court May Wade Into Election-Year Politics: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-07-10T14:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/supreme-court-may-wade-into-election-year-politics-albert-hunt.html
A familiar pattern of past
presidential elections is that early in the cycle both parties
gin up their base with warnings about dire consequences if the
other side controls the next  Supreme Court  selections; after a
few well-timed speeches and fundraising appeals the matter is
usually ignored by the electorate.  Next year could be different by becoming the first time
since 1968 that the Supreme Court is a central issue in the
American national elections.  The high court in the 2011-12 term could decide the
constitutionality of President Barack Obama’s health-care
initiative; the right of same-sex couples to get married, and if
states such as Arizona can fashion their own anti-immigration
laws. Each of these issues is controversial and emotional for
many Americans.  While it’s possible the court won’t take up these cases
next term, odds are that at least one, maybe all three, will be
decided.  “The possibility of a health-care ruling, along with gay
marriage, the  Arizona  immigration law and maybe revisiting
affirmative action on higher education, all leading into the
summer conventions and fall campaigns,” says  Stephen Wermiel , a
longtime court watcher and author of a biography of Justice
William Brennan, “could create political dynamite with the
Supreme Court on center stage.”  Swing Vote  The politics would be exacerbated by the unprecedented
political divide on the court. In most all 5-4 decisions, four
conservatives appointed by Republican presidents form one block
and four liberals chosen by Democrats form the other. The swing
vote is Justice  Anthony Kennedy , who in the last term was in
the majority 94 percent of the time.  Until 10 days ago, conservatives were guardedly optimistic
that central elements of Obama’s health-care law would be
overturned. Then, a special panel of an appeals court rejected
the argument of critics that the mandate in the law for everyone
to have insurance is unprecedented because it forces someone to
buy a product whether they want it or not. Supporters of the
measure say that those who don’t buy health insurance and then
get sick force an economic activity on others who have to pick
up the tab.  What made this decision noteworthy is that one of the
judges siding with the law was Jeffrey Sutton, a conservative
who once was a law clerk to Justice  Antonin Scalia .  Sending a Signal  This has thrown the conservative legal establishment into a
tizzy as it tries to discredit or diminish Sutton’s argument.
More likely it sends a signal to potential fence sitters like
Kennedy or even to Chief Justice  John Roberts .  Although public opinion divides on the Obama health plan,
the rejection of the individual mandate by the high court could
be a political hand grenade. In so doing it also would throw out
the law’s prohibition on insurance companies denying coverage to
people with pre-existing conditions, an overwhelmingly popular
provision.  With this political reality and the Sutton decision the
betting now is that Roberts -- who has shown no inhibitions
about sweeping decisions that overturn precedents such as the
evisceration of campaign-finance laws -- might step back. A
historical parallel might be in 1937 when the Supreme Court,
after a series of decisions overturning President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal measures and before any of that president’s
appointees reached the bench, elected not to throw out the
Social Security Act.  Gay-Marriage Cases  There are two major gay-marriage cases: The first is in
 California , where the State Supreme Court voided a gay-marriage
ban that then was narrowly overturned by a referendum. The other
is the 1996 Federal Defense of Marriage Act, which a
Massachusetts court declared unconstitutional.  The California question is more sweeping: Are the rights of
gays and lesbians to marry protected under the Constitution?  The Defense of Marriage Act declares that even in states
where gay marriage is permissible, that legitimacy doesn’t apply
for federal law and related benefits. This is a narrower case
where gay rights and states’ rights coincide, making it easier
for even a conservative justice or two to strike down the
Defense of Marriage Act. That’s what should happen, says Obama,
who has refused to defend the measure in court, and President
 Bill Clinton , who signed it into law fifteen years ago.  Immigration Laws  There are a number of immigration cases that could land on
the court’s agenda.  Arizona’s attempt to crack down on illegal immigrants has
been struck down by a judge. A harsher Alabama law takes effect
Sept. 1, with proponents hoping they will get a friendlier
hearing from a more conservative judiciary.  There may be a need to clarify, and anti-immigration
advocates were heartened by a 5-to-3 decision in the last
session when a separate case affirmed Arizona’s right to strip
companies of their corporate charters for hiring illegal
immigrants.  However, that  authority  was based on specific provisions of
the 1986 immigration law approved by Congress. In general, the
federal courts have held consistently that the U.S. government
has the power to regulate immigration, and that states can’t
form their own policies.  Whichever way the court rules on these issues will
reverberate politically. Often, the initial benefit redounds to
those on the losing side. That’s usually been the case with
abortion; when the high court seems to be tilting to a more
accepting view it energizes abortion opponents, and when
decisions are more restrictive it helps the pro-choice elements.  Democrats are convinced that if the Supreme Court were to
strike down  Obama’s health-care overhaul  and gay marriage and
uphold state anti-immigration statutes, it would energize their
base in the same way liberal decisions benefitted  Richard Nixon ’s 1968 presidential campaign.  Mr. Dooley, the character invented in the late 19th century
by the writer  Finley Peter Dunne , once observed that the Supreme
Court follows the election returns. Over the next year we may
learn whether it also anticipates them.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 