-- 
U.S. Delays $800 Million in Pakistan Aid as Ties at ‘Low Point’

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-11T16:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/u-s-to-hold-back-800-million-aid-to-pakistan-white-house-s-daley-says.html
The U.S. is withholding about $800
million in military aid to Pakistan over actions by the nuclear-
armed country since the U.S. raid that killed  Osama bin Laden ,
said White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley.  “They’ve taken some steps that have given us reason to
pause on some of the aid which we’re giving to the military, and
we’re trying to work through that,” Daley said yesterday on
ABC’s “This Week” program. “Until we get through these
difficulties, we’ll hold back some of the money that the
American taxpayers have committed to give.”  The countries’ relationship is “at its low point”
following the May 2 U.S. raid that killed the al-Qaeda leader in
a Pakistani army garrison town, Admiral Mike Mullen, the
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in an interview
with the U.S. military-affairs website  This Week in Defense News 
that was broadcast yesterday.  In those 10 weeks,  Pakistan  has arrested an army major for
allegedly helping the Central Intelligence Agency target bin
Laden, according to U.S. officials cited by the New York Times
and other newspapers, and has expelled more than 100 U.S.
military personnel.  Criticism of the Pakistani military by U.S. officials cited
by the Times amounts to “a direct attack” on Pakistan’s
security, its armed forces spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas,
said in an interview two days ago, Reuters reported.  Anger and Humiliation  The aid cutoff may deepen “a feeling of anger and
humiliation” that political analyst and retired Pakistani army
Lieutenant General Talat Masood says has grown. Tensions have
risen steadily since January, when a CIA contract employee,
 Raymond Davis , shot dead two Pakistani men he said were trying
to rob him in Lahore.  “We have not received any formal intimation or letter from
the U.S. informing us” of a decision to withhold aid, Abbas
said by phone to Bloomberg News. He said Pakistan’s operations
against Taliban guerrillas in the country’s northwest will be
unaffected because the country has conducted them since 2009
“without any external support whatsoever.”  The New York Times, which reported the deferral of military
aid earlier, said the amount being withheld represents more than
a third of the $2 billion in security assistance given to
Pakistan. It includes about $300 million to cover some of the
costs of posting more than 100,000 Pakistani soldiers along the
Afghan border as well as training assistance and military
hardware, the newspaper reported.  Withholding Visas  A full description of the U.S. assistance on hold is
classified, said Navy Captain John Kirby, a spokesman for
Mullen. Night-vision devices, helicopter spare parts, radios,
and equipment to counter guerrilla-made bombs are delayed
because Pakistan is withholding visas for U.S. personnel
required to assist with them, Kirby said in an e-mail yesterday.  Since the bin Laden raid by U.S. Navy commandos, American
officials have questioned whether some in the Pakistani military
were helping to hide the al-Qaeda leader, and whether Pakistan’s
investigation of the incident may be aimed more at those who
might have helped the U.S. find him. The U.S. didn’t notify the
Pakistani government before the raid out of fear that someone
might tip off bin Laden.  “Obviously, there’s still a lot of pain that the political
system in Pakistan is feeling by virtue of the raid,” Daley
said.  Not ‘Symbolic’  Pentagon spokesman Marine Corps Colonel  David Lapan  told
reporters today the “hold” on funds was not a symbolic gesture
but “directly tied to those decisions to curtail training and
to not grant visas for some of the personnel we need to get
in.”  “If those things change, than this aid will change as
well,” Lapan said. The U.S. personnel are needed to provide
training and “we don’t provide one without the other. That’s
been the case and should be the case going forward.”  Another irritant in relations is Pakistan’s covert support
for the Taliban and allied groups fighting U.S. troops in
Afghanistan, say analysts such as Imtiaz Gul, chairman of the
 Center for Research and Security Studies  in Islamabad.
“Pakistan is tied in to these groups because it wants to use
them to gain influence over  Afghanistan  in coming years,” and
thus block its foe,  India , from gaining sway there, Gul said by
telephone last week.  Insurgent Ties  Mullen said April 20 that Pakistan’s main military spy
agency, the  Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate , still “has
a longstanding relationship” with a Taliban faction led by
Jalaluddin Haqqani that a recent Defense Department report
called “the most significant threat” to U.S. forces in eastern
Afghanistan.  U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin 
said in May the U.S. should curtail more than $1 billion in
annual economic aid to Pakistan unless the Islamabad government
stops harboring groups such as Haqqani’s.  Mullen said July 7 there are indications that suggest the
Pakistani government sanctioned last month’s abduction and
killing of Saleem Shahzad, 40, a journalist who had written
about the infiltration of the military by militants.  Daley echoed Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s statement
last month that U.S. interests give it no option but to work
with Pakistan. “The Pakistani relationship is difficult, but it
must be made to work over time,” Daley said on ABC.  Pakistan has been “an important ally in the fight on
terrorism,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rupert in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net 
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 