-- 
Mullen: U.S., China Military Ties ’Vital’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-10T08:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/u-s-china-military-relations-vital-mullen-says-correct-.html
U.S. military ties with  China  are
“absolutely vital,” Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said in Beijing today at the start of a visit
that will conclude July 13.  “I can’t think of any place where there is more to be done
and more to be gained than between the U.S. and China,” Mullen
said. “We have not always enjoyed a great success in our
military-to-military relationship. I would want to very much
look into the future in terms of the success of this
relationship.”  The world’s two biggest economies have pushed to strengthen
military ties that have been strained on several occasions
because of issues including a 2010 U.S. decision to sell arms to
 Taiwan  and naval confrontations in 2009. Increases in Chinese
defense spending, which trails only U.S. expenditure, are also
raising concern among neighboring countries with competing
territorial claims.  “Admiral Mullen should send a clear message to his Chinese
counterparts that the U.S. welcomes improvements in military
relations as it benefits both sides, but it will not seek them
at the price of its own security,” Heritage Foundation analysts
Dean Cheng and Walter Lohman wrote in a note ahead of the visit.  Taiwan Arms Sale  Tensions rose last year after the U.S. announced plans in
January to sell $6.4 billion of missiles, helicopters and ships
to Taiwan, which China considers a renegade province that should
be reunited with the mainland by force if necessary.  China broke off bilateral military-to-military talks until
late 2010, ahead of visits by former U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  to Beijing in January this year and Chinese
President Hu Jintao’s state visit to the U.S. that same month.
Chinese General Chen Bingde, chief of staff of the  People’s
Liberation Army , visited the U.S. in May, further driving
efforts to improve ties.  Mullen was scheduled to deliver a speech today to students
at Renmin University in Beijing, encouraging themes he first
advanced in a speech earlier this year at the Center for
American Progress.  “In the spirit of mutual benefit, it is important to
emphasize that China’s rise does not imply an American
decline,” according to Mullen’s prepared remarks. “We are, and
will remain, a Pacific power, just as China is a Pacific
power.”  PLA Meeting  After the speech, Mullen was to tour the university campus
and meet with leadership at the headquarters of the PLA’s Second
Artillery, his spokesman, Navy Captain John Kirby, said by e-
mail. The day will conclude with a dinner hosted by Chen and a
live performance of traditional Chinese dance and music.  Mullen also plans to travel on to  Japan  and  South Korea .  China will spend 601.1 billion yuan ($93 billion) on
defense this year, an increase of 12.7 percent, Li Zhaoxing,
spokesman for the National People’s Congress, said in March. The
nation’s defense spending increased by an average of 16.2
percent a year from 1999 to 2008, according to a white paper
published in 2009. The biggest increase was 20.4 percent in
2006.  By comparison, the U.S. House of Representatives on July 8
passed a $649 billion defense spending bill for fiscal 2012.
U.S. analysts including National Defense University’s Phillip C.
Saunders say China’s actual defense spending is much larger than
figures given by the government as those numbers may not include
international arms purchases and other expenses.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  