-- 
U.S. Women Beat Brazil on Last-Minute Overtime Goal, Shootout in World Cup

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-07-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-10/u-s-beats-brazil-in-shootout-in-women-s-world-cup-quarterfinal.html
The U.S. rallied after having a
player ejected to score in the final minute of extra time
against  Brazil  and force a penalty shootout, which it won to
advance to the semifinals of the Women’s  World Cup .  The U.S., who had Rachel Buehler red-carded in the 66th
minute, won the shootout 5-3 in Dresden,  Germany , yesterday
after Abby Wambach scored in the 122nd minute for the U.S. to
tie the game at 2-2 following extra time. It was the latest goal
ever scored in the  soccer tournament .  “That is a perfect example of what this country is all
about,” Wambach told ESPN in a televised interview. “We never
gave up.”  The victory maintains the U.S.’s record of never exiting
before the semifinals of the World Cup, which it won in 1991 and
1999. The U.S. will face  France  for a place in the July 17
final. Sweden advanced yesterday to a semifinal against  Japan 
with a 3-1 win against Australia in Augsburg.  The U.S. took the lead after two minutes when Brazil’s
Daiane mishit an attempted clearance and sent the ball into her
own team’s net.  Fabiana hit the bar after 36 minutes as Brazil created one
of its few clear chances in the first half, with the U.S. also
having an attempt come off the crossbar on 63 minutes.  Brazil was awarded a penalty soon after when Buehler
brought down Marta. A red card was also shown to the American.  Cristiane’s spot-kick was saved by Hope Solo, although the
referee ordered the penalty to be retaken because of
encroachment into the area. Five-time FIFA World Player of the
Year Marta successfully converted.  Marta Strikes  With no further goals in regulation play, the teams entered
30 minutes of extra time. Marta put Brazil ahead in the second
minute as she looped in a shot off the far post.  The U.S. pressed for a tying goal, which it got in the
third minute of added time at the end of the extra 30 minutes.  Megane Rapinoe collected a pass on the left flank and sent
in a high cross that Brazil goalkeeper Andreia missed, allowing
Wambach to head the ball into the net.  Andreia saved the first kick in the shootout, only for
referee Jacqui Melksham from  Australia  to again order a retake,
which Shannon Boxx converted.  With the U.S. leading 3-2 on penalties, Daiane stepped up
for Brazil and Solo made the save. Rapinoe and Alex Krieger then
scored to give the U.S. the win.  “I was very confident,” Solo said of the U.S.’s chances
in the shootout. “I think the better team did win.”  Avenges Loss  The U.S. win avenges a 4-0 loss to Brazil in the semifinals
in 2007.  “They bring out the best performance in each other,” U.S.
coach Pia Sundhage, a Swede, told ESPN. “Right now I’m the
happiest person on earth.”  The U.S. remains on course to win a third title after
avoiding back-to-back losses for the first time in a decade. The
U.S. lost to  Sweden  in the last group game.  In Augsburg, Therese Sjogran, Lisa Dahlkvist and Lotta
Schelin got goals for 2003 runner-up Sweden. Ellyse Perry scored
for Australia, which matched its previous best performance of
reaching the quarterfinals in 2007.  Two days ago, two-time defending champion Germany was
beaten by Japan 1-0 in extra time, while France advanced in a
penalty shootout against  England . France won the shootout 4-3
following a 1-1 tie.  The semifinals are scheduled for July 13, with the final
four days later in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  