-- Apple Said to Be Close to Clinching Carrier Holdouts
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-09-07T00:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/apple-said-to-be-close-to-clinching-carrier-holdouts.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is on the verge of
clinching agreements with two of the biggest holdouts to selling
its iPhone,  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , opening a
route to hundreds of millions of new customers.  On the eve of an event on Sept. 10 to unveil new iPhones,
Apple and China Mobile are near a deal for the world’s largest
wireless carrier to offer the device, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions are private. Apple is also close to an agreement
to distribute its handset through  Japan ’s largest mobile
carrier, NTT DoCoMo, people with knowledge of the situation have
said.  Any final deals will bust loose at least 800 million new
consumers for the iPhone, with China Mobile boasting 740 million
subscribers and NTT DoCoMo at about 62 million, according to
data released by the carriers. Those would be welcome customers
for Apple, which is combating slowing sales growth for its
flagship product amid competition from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and makers of cheaper handsets.  “This is a very big deal for Apple,” said Brian Marshall,
an analyst with ISI Group in San Francisco. “Apple’s iPhone
growth has really slowed down.”  Long Roads  The agreements would end years of negotiations where the
carriers balked at Apple’s terms, including the costs of
subsidies needed to make the iPhone affordable for customers.
Apple is set to show a lower-cost iPhone at the Sept. 10 event,
a person with knowledge of the matter has said.  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Apple in Cupertino,
 California , declined to comment on China Mobile yesterday. Zhang
Xuan, a Beijing-based spokesman for China Mobile’s parent
company China Mobile Communications, didn’t answer calls to his
mobile or office numbers outside of normal business hours.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, also declined to
comment on talks with NTT DoCoMo yesterday. DoCoMo said in a
statement yesterday, “We’re not the source of information and
nothing has been decided at this point.”  An iPhone slowdown has broad consequences for Apple, which
gets more than half its sales from the device. The company sold
31.2 million iPhones last quarter, down 17 percent from the
prior quarter. Absent new products, profit has shrunk the past
two quarters. The  stock  has fallen around 6.4 percent so far
this year, compared with a 16 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, as investors question whether Apple can boost
sales.  Opportunities, Challenges  While Apple is preparing to a ship a lower-cost iPhone to
 China  Mobile, a deal won’t be announced at Apple’s Sept. 10
event, or at a follow-up event in Beijing on Sept. 11, said a
person familiar with the announcements. It’s unclear if a DoCoMo
agreement will be announced on Sept. 10.  A deal with China Mobile has been in the works for years.
China is one of Apple’s largest markets, yet sales there fell 14
percent last quarter as new local smartphone vendors like  ZTE
Corp. (000063)  and Xiaomi Corp. took market share by offering lower-cost
alternatives to the iPhone.  China is playing an increasingly important role in the
global smartphone market, with sales there exceeding North
American and Western Europe combined, according to Linda Sui, an
analyst with Strategy Analytics.  In the December quarter, China Mobile may order 5 million
iPhones, then 40 million more in 2014, according to Marshall.  ‘Huge’ Potential  “China is a huge opportunity for Apple,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  said in July.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that Apple was
preparing to ship iPhones to China Mobile.  Apple also has room for growth in Japan. The country
accounted for $2.54 billion of Apple’s $35.3 billion in sales
last quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Mobile CEO Li Yue said late last year that a deal
must be mutually beneficial to both companies, in a reference to
Apple’s strict carrier terms. DoCoMo CEO Kaoru Kato said in
February that Apple’s closed ecosystem makes it harder to
integrate into DoCoMo’s plan to link devices and services.  Not having the iPhone comes with a cost as well. DoCoMo has
been adding fewer subscribers than rivals  KDDI Corp. (9433)  and
 SoftBank Corp. (9984) , partly because it doesn’t offer the iPhone.
DoCoMo added 43,000 users in August, compared with 209,200 at
KDDI and 250,300 for SoftBank.  IPhone users are typically more profitable to wireless
carriers because they use their phones more for data-intensive
tasks such as searching the web and watching videos, said Sui of
Strategy Analytics.  “Operators can definitely make more money from iPhone
users,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  