-- China May Cut 2014 Growth Target to 7%, State Economist Fan Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-08T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/china-may-cut-2014-growth-target-to-7-state-economist-fan-says.html
China ’s government may cut the
country’s annual growth target to 7 percent next year, although
the actual pace of expansion will be higher, according to Fan Jianping, chief economist at a state research institute.  The drop would be in line with the goal set in the
country’s 2011-2015 five-year plan for annual average expansion
of 7 percent, Fan, who works at the State Information Center
under the National Development and Reform Commission, said in an
interview in  Shanghai  on Sept. 7.  China’s economy  is set to expand 7.5 percent this year,
matching the government’s target set in March and the weakest
pace in 23 years, amid curbs on credit expansion, property
development and overcapacity. President  Xi Jinping  said last
week the government chose to bring down the growth rate to solve
“fundamental problems” hindering long-run development.  China should stick to the annual goal set in the five-year
plan, Fan said. “Why should the target be changed every year.
It shouldn’t happen.”  Fan said his forecast for a cut in the growth target was
based on his own research.  The country’s  annual growth rate  will stay in a range of 7
percent to 8 percent over the next few years and the government
should use this window to speed up economic restructuring, Fan
said at a conference in Shanghai.  China sets an annual average growth target for the economy
in its five-year plans and the premier announces a goal for the
year at the annual session of the National People’s Congress
every March which may differ.  Exceed Targets  While the goal set in the current five-year plan through
2015 is an annual average 7 percent, the government announced a
2011 target of 8 percent in March that year and 7.5 percent
goals in March 2012 and 2013.  The 2006-2010 plan set an annual average target of 7.5
percent and the goal announced to the NPC every March of that
period was 8 percent. The targets were routinely exceeded, with
gross domestic product rising an average 11.2 percent a year
from 2006 through 2010.  Barclays Plc’s Hong Kong-based China economist Chang Jian
said in July she expects Premier  Li Keqiang  will lower the 2014
expansion target to 7 percent when parliament meets in March.  China’s economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in 2012 and
may ease further to 7.5 percent this year, according to the
median estimate of 52 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last
month.  Unsustainable Recovery  “It’s hard to find good reasons to be optimistic” about a
recovery in China’s growth, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong , said in a Sept. 6
interview. “The economy has been pretty much supported by
investment, especially property and infrastructure, but it’s
hard to see how the momentum can continue.”  Zhang, who sees “moderate upside risks” to his third-quarter growth estimate of 7.4 percent after better-than-expected economic data, said he’s maintaining his 2014 forecast
of 6.9 percent as the current recovery is unsustainable.  GDP (CNGDPYOY)  rose 7.5 percent in the April-June period from a year
earlier, the second straight quarterly slowdown. Monthly
purchasing managers’ indexes, industrial output and export data
have strengthened since July, bolstering confidence that Premier
Li’s policies have stabilized the economy.  Exports increased more than estimated in August, customs
administration data showed yesterday, adding to signs of a
recovery. Shipments climbed 7.2 percent from a year earlier,
beating the 5.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
 survey  and up from a 5.1 percent advance in July.  Raised Forecasts  At the same time, gains in imports slowed to 7 percent,
down from 10.9 percent the previous month and trailing the
median analyst forecast of 11.3 percent. The moderation mainly
reflected weaker imports of goods for processing, while inbound
shipments related to domestic demand “held their strength,”
 Wang Tao , chief China economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong, said
yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week joined JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Deutsche Bank AG in raising its third-quarter growth
estimate. The bank now forecasts expansion of 7.7 percent, up
from a previous 7.3 percent, and sees fourth-quarter growth of
7.4 percent, up from 7 percent.  China’s economy has stabilized “but rising  industrial
output  and a falling producer prices index shows the recovery
lacks momentum,” Fan said at the conference. The country’s
capacity utilization rate is now running at about 72 percent, he
said.  --Alfred Cang, Nerys Avery. With assistance from Daryl Loo in
Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Garry Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Alfred Cang  in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net 
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  