-- Democratic Pryor Opposes a Syria Strike ‘At This Time’
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-09-07T20:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/democratic-pryor-opposes-a-syria-strike-at-this-time-.html
Democratic Senator Mark Pryor of
 Arkansas  said he opposes U.S. military action against Syria “at
this time,” an announcement underscoring President  Barack Obama ’s challenge in winning Congress’s support for an attack.  The Obama administration hasn’t proven “a compelling
national security interest” or provided a clearly defined
mission for an assault, Pryor said today in a statement. “Based
on the information presented to me and the evidence I have
gathered, I do not believe these criteria have been met, and I
cannot support military action against Syria at this time.”  Obama is seeking congressional authorization for limited
military strikes after determining that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government used chemical weapons to kill more than
1,400 people in an Aug. 21 attack near Damascus. A divided
Senate, where Democrats have a majority, is set to vote on a
use-of-force resolution next week, with the Republican-controlled House of Representatives to follow.  Obama needs 60 votes in the 100-member Senate for the
resolution to overcome procedural efforts to stymie it. The
measure overcame its first hurdle when the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee approved it Sept. 4 by a 10-7 vote.  House Hurdle  The resolution appears to face an especially hard sell in
the House, where an unusual coalition of antiwar Democrats and
Republicans aligned with the anti-tax Tea Party are lining up
against it. Lawmakers return to Washington to reconvene on Sept.
9 after a five-week recess  The decision by Pryor, up for re-election in 2014 in a
state Obama lost in last year’s presidential race by about 24
percentage points, sets up a sharp contrast with his likely
Republican opponent, Representative Tom Cotton.  A veteran of both Iraq and  Afghanistan  who won his House
seat in 2012, Cotton is usually a vocal critic of the president.
On  Syria , he has sided with the Obama.  “I’m also deeply worried that our inaction is
destabilizing the Middle East,” he said during a Sept. 4 House
committee hearing on the resolution. “That’s why -- miracle of
miracles -- I am in support of the president’s call for action
in Syria.”  Pryor, seeking a third term, faced a choice on the Syria
issue of joining Cotton in backing Obama or siding with the
public, which polls show largely opposes U.S. military
intervention in Syria, said Larry Sabato, director of the
University of Virginia Center for Politics.  “Since he’s in a very difficult, tight race, it’s
perfectly understandable why he went with the public,” Sabato
said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  