-- Djokovic Gets by Wawrinka to Face Nadal Again in U.S. Open Final
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/djokovic-tops-wawrinka-in-five-sets-to-return-to-u-s-open-final.html
The men’s and women’s finals at the
U.S. Open, each featuring a battle of the top two seeds, will
help determine who had the most successful Grand Slam tennis
season.  Serena Williams  and  Victoria Azarenka , who play today in a
women’s final rematch at the National Tennis Center in New York,
and Novak Djokovic and  Rafael Nadal , who advanced to tomorrow’s
men’s final, each will be looking to claim their second of the
four major championships in 2013.  Nadal, the No. 2 seed who won his 12th Grand Slam title at
the  French Open  in June, is heading into his third U.S. Open
final with Djokovic in the last four years. The Spaniard said
that he’s focused solely on winning the New York tournament and
not about its implications.  “Not everything is about Grand Slams,” Nadal, who missed
last year’s U.S. Open and this year’s Australian Open due to a
knee injury, told reporters yesterday after beating No. 9 seed
 Richard Gasquet  of  France  in straight sets. “I’m happy the way
I’ve played since I came back. I’m going to try my best to win
on Monday, but being the second will not make the difference.
The difference is winning the U.S. Open.”  Djokovic, a 26-year-old from  Serbia  ranked No. 1 on the ATP
World Tour, came back to beat No. 9 seed Stanislas Wawrinka of
 Switzerland  yesterday in a five-set match that took more than
four hours. Nadal, 27, followed with a 6-4, 7-6 (7-1), 6-2 win
over Gasquet in 2 1/2 hours.  Williams, the 31-year-old French Open champion, will be
seeking her 17th Grand Slam title today when she plays the 24-year-old Azarenka. Williams, No. 1 on the WTA tour, holds a 12-3
advantage over Azarenka in head-to-head meetings, including a
three-setter a year ago to win in  New York . Azarenka, ranked No.
2 won the Australian Open for the second straight year.  ‘Plays Best’  “When she plays me she plays her best, by far,” Williams
said of Azarenka. “I have seen her play other players, and when
I play her I’m playing a totally different player.”  Nadal, who won the year’s final major tournament over
Djokovic in 2010 and lost the title to him the following year,
will be seeking his 13th Grand Slam singles crown. Djokovic will
be trying to win his seventh Grand Slam singles championship.  Nadal raised his record on hard courts this year to 21-0
with yesterday’s win, calling his return to the final
“amazing.”  “After what happened last year, having a chance to play in
this court, having a chance to play in the final is dream for
me,” Nadal said in a televised on-court interview. “Novak is
an amazing competitor. His results say he’s one of the best
players that I’ve ever seen.”  Streak Ends  Nadal broke Gasquet’s serve to open each of the first two
sets. Gasquet, playing his second Grand Slam semifinal after
Wimbledon in 2007, evened the second set at 2-2, ending a streak
of 88 consecutive service holds by Nadal that dated to the
semifinal of last month’s tournament in Cincinnati.  The set went to a tiebreaker, which Gasquet double-faulted
to open and close. Nadal won the final set in 38 minutes as
Gasquet again served a double-fault.  The Arthur Ashe Stadium atmosphere was much more electric
for the first semifinal, when Djokovic won a trip to the
championship match for the fourth straight year. Djokovic twice
was down a set before beating Wawrinka 2-6, 7-6 (7-4), 3-6, 6-3,
6-4 in 4 hours, 9 minutes.  Playing on the Ashe court on a sunny, 78-degree Fahrenheit
(26-degree Celsius) day, Djokovic won while converting just four
of 19 break-point chances. The match was Wawrinka’s first Grand
Slam semifinal.  ‘Live For’  “These matches is what we live for, what we practice for,
and I want to congratulate, firstly, my opponent for fighting
hard until the end,” Djokovic said in a televised on-court
interview.  Djokovic, whose serve was broken five times in his first
five matches in the tournament, lost three times on his serve in
the first set, hitting 14 unforced errors and six winners.  After coming back from down a break in the second set to
win it in a tiebreaker, Djokovic was broken in the third set
without winning a point to trail 3-5. Wawrinka served out the
set, gaining set point after a 35-shot rally and then hitting a
service winner.  After dropping a game on his serve to fall to 0-2 in the
fourth set, Wawrinka was penalized a point for slamming his
racket to the ground in anger following an error. With the
racket not completely broken, he bent it over his knee until it
snapped in half.  Injury Treatment  Trailing 1-4 in the fourth, Wawrinka left the court for
about six minutes for a medical timeout after sliding to the
ground and straining his right thigh trying to stop his momentum
in the previous game. Djokovic won the set with his fifth ace of
the day.  At 1-1 and Wawrinka serving in the fifth set, the two
played a 21-minute game that had 12 deuces and led to several
standing ovations. Wawrinka saved five break points and won the
game on the 30th point.  Djokovic broke in Wawrinka’s next service game, and took
the set and the match with his sixth ace, raising both arms in
celebration.  “Stan played more aggressive and he played a better tennis
overall,” Djokovic said. “I was trying to hang in there, to
adjust.”  Each player won 165 points in the match, while Wawrinka hit
57 winners, compared to 38 for Djokovic.  “I just tried to hang on and fight and be mentally tough
and believe all the way through I can actually win,” Djokovic
told reporters after the match. “And I sincerely believed that
as the match progresses and longer it goes, I felt I have maybe
that physical edge over him.”  Australian Reprise  Djokovic is now 13-2 for his career against Wawrinka. He
also started slowly the last time they played, in the fourth
round of the Australian Open in January. Djokovic survived that
five-hour match 1-6, 7-5, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 12-10 and went on to
win his third straight title in  Melbourne .  “Today, I was a little bit struggling, physically,”
Wawrinka said, fighting through leg cramps during his news
conference. “When I was still healthy I had the match in
control. I think I was playing better than him.”  The men’s final was scheduled for a Monday conclusion after
weather delays forced the five previous U.S. Opens to be
completed on Monday. The U.S. Tennis Association announced plans
last month to put roofs on Arthur Ashe Stadium and a newly
constructed Louis Armstrong Stadium as part of a $550 million
renovation of the tennis center. The Ashe roof could be in place
by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  