-- Dollar Rises Versus Euro, Yen on Taper Bets Amid Syria Tension
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-07T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/dollar-rises-versus-euro-yen-on-taper-bets-amid-syria-tension.html
The dollar gained versus the euro
and yen on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will trim the pace of
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this month.  The greenback reached a eight-week high versus the 17-nation currency as the prospect for U.S. intervention in  Syria 
increased demand for safer assets. The Australian and  New
Zealand  dollars gained as  China ’s service industry expanded last
month. The U.S. currency pared gains versus the euro and the yen
yesterday after U.S. employers added fewer workers than forecast
in August, even as surveys showed economists’ retained Fed taper
projections. U.S.  retail sales  growth quickened last month
according to economists’ forecasts before the Sept. 13 report.  “The market isn’t pricing out taper, even after the
payroll data, which minimizes the damage to the dollar,”  Greg Anderson , the head of global foreign-exchange strategy in New
York at Bank of Montreal, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “There’s potential of a risk-off dollar rally over
the next couple weeks with so much geopolitical risk.”  The dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.3178 per euro this week
in New York, after reaching $1.3105, its strongest since July
19. It climbed 1 percent to 99.11 yen after rallying beyond 100
and touching the highest since July 25.  Japan ’s currency dropped
0.6 percent to 130.63 per euro.  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, depreciated 0.3 percent to
1,031.35.  Winners, Losers  New Zealand’s dollar was the biggest winner this week among
the greenback’s major counterparts, with a 3.5 percent gain. The
Swiss franc was the second-biggest loser, trailing only the yen,
sliding 0.9 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index reached 9.58
percent yesterday, the lowest intraday level since Aug. 19.  Traders increased bets the yen will weaken against the
dollar, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge
funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the currency
compared with those on a gain -- known as net shorts -- was
79,761 on Sept. 3, compared with 78,353 a week earlier.  U.S. payrolls climbed 169,000 workers last month, trailing
the 180,000 median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 96
economists. Unemployment fell to 7.3 percent, the lowest since
December 2008, as workers left the  labor force .  Fed Plans  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues will reduce
Treasury purchases to $35 billion from $45 billion at a Sept.
17-8 meeting while maintaining mortgage-bond buying at $40
billion, according to the median of 34 responses yesterday in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. That was unchanged from an
Aug. 9-13 poll.  “Disappointing jobs data drove the U.S. dollar sharply
lower,”  Kathy Lien , managing director of foreign exchange at BK
Asset Management, an investment advisory firm in New York, wrote
yesterday in a client note. “However, the weak jobs number does
not completely eliminate the possibility of a change in asset
purchases this month.”  U.S. retail sales advanced 0.4 percent last month, compared
with a 0.2 percent gain in July, according to the median in a
Bloomberg survey of 53 economists before the Commerce Department
report.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars gained versus all
except one of their 31 most-traded counterparts as a report
showed China’s services industry expanded last month. China is
the biggest trade partner for both South Pacific nations.  Australian Growth  Second-quarter  gross domestic product  in  Australia  advanced
0.6 percent from the previous three months, when it rose a
revised 0.5 percent, a Bureau of Statistics report released in
Sydney on Sept. 4 showed. The result compared with the median of
31 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey  for a 0.5 percent gain.  The Aussie appreciated 3.2 percent to 91.85 U.S. cents
after touching 92.17, its strongest level since Aug. 19. New
Zealand’s dollar gained 3.5 percent to 80 U.S. cents.  “The data coming out of China has been supportive of
growth and sentiment,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist
for Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a Sept. 4
telephone interview. “That’s something that’s going to be a
positive for the Australian dollar and other high-yielders.”  The euro weakened after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said officials discussed an interest-rate cut at a
Sept. 5 policy meeting. Draghi spoke after the ECB kept
 borrowing costs  at a record-low 0.5 percent and said he would
consider a further reduction if money-market rates climbed too
high.  ECB View  “Draghi is still not very confident about the economic
recovery, and that’s contributing to the weakness in the euro,”
Douglas Borthwick, head of foreign exchange at Chapdelaine & Co.
in New York, said in a Sept. 5 telephone interview. “The market
knows very well that the ECB is going to be on hold with a bias
towards lower rates for the foreseeable future.”  The dollar has rallied 5.1 percent this year, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the euro rose 5 percent, the
second-most. The Australian dollar dropped 8.4 and the yen
slipped 9.5 percent to lead decliners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  