-- E-Cigarettes May Be as Effective as Patch to Help Smokers Quit
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/e-cigarettes-may-be-as-effective-as-patch-to-help-smokers-quit.html
Taking a drag from an e-cigarette
may be just as safe and effective as slapping on a nicotine
patch for smokers struggling to quit, according to the first
physician-run trial to compare the two products.  About one in 20 people who used either patches or e-cigarettes managed to quit completely six months after the test
started, according to  research  published today in The Lancet.
Meanwhile, users of electronic cigarettes -- battery-powered
devices that deliver vaporized nicotine -- were more likely to
have cut their use of the real thing in half even if they didn’t
quit entirely.  The 657-person trial wasn’t big enough to draw definite
conclusions about whether e-cigarettes are better than nicotine
patches, researchers said. Still, the results should be a signal
to the regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  now weighing
restrictions on e-cigarettes, Peter Hajek, a professor of
clinical psychology at  the Wolfson Institute of Preventive
Medicine , said in a comment published alongside the results.  “Health professionals will now hopefully feel easier about
recommending e-cigarettes to smokers, or at least condoning
their use,” Hajek wrote.  Sales Growth  If European and U.S. regulators treat e-cigarettes as
medical devices, yet leave cigarettes on general sale, tobacco
makers “will retain their market monopoly, and we will never
learn whether e-cigarettes would replace traditional cigarettes
if allowed to continue evolving and competing with smoked
tobacco on even terms,” he wrote.  The results will also be presented today at the European
Respiratory Society’s annual meeting in Barcelona.  E-cigarettes have taken Europe and the U.S. by storm. In
 France , there are more than 1 million regular users, according
to a government-commissioned report published in May. Sales
worldwide will probably approach $2 billion by the end of this
year and top $10 billion by 2017, according to a forecast by
Wells Fargo & Co.  That success has brought scrutiny. The French government
said it planned to ban e-cigarettes from public places. The U.K.
has moved to treat them as medicines. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  may announce potential restrictions as soon as
next month.  Heavy Metals  French magazine  60 Million Consumers  reported in its
September edition that it found formaldehyde and other
chemicals, along with traces of heavy metals, when it tested a
range of the devices. Certain brands contained dangerous
substances in greater quantities than cigarettes, and the amount
of nicotine in an e-cigarette is sometimes far more than what’s
listed on the label, according to the magazine.  The percentage of U.S. high school students who reported
ever using an e-cigarette rose to 10 percent in 2012 from 4.7
percent a year earlier, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention’s National Youth Tobacco Survey released
this month. CDC Director Tom Frieden called the trend “deeply
troubling,” saying students might start smoking real cigarettes
as well.  For the team of New Zealand-based researchers that
conducted the latest study, the point was not to figure out
whether e-cigarettes might lead new users to smoke, but rather
how well the devices could help entrenched smokers to quit. The
trial was funded by the Health Research Council of  New Zealand .  Stepping Stone  The team recruited smokers through newspaper
advertisements. Participants had smoked an average of almost 20
cigarettes a day for the past 25 years, and to join the study,
they had to want to stop. The team then divided its recruits
into three groups: assigning them to wear nicotine patches, or
to get an e-cigarette with nicotine, or to receive an e-cigarette with a nicotine-free placebo vapor.  Nicotine e-cigarette users who quit took more than twice as
long as patch users to relapse -- an average of 35 days. And at
six months from the start of the study, 57 percent of the people
“vaping” on nicotine e-cigarettes had cut their use of tobacco
cigarettes at least in half. By comparison, 41 percent of patch
users cut their cigarette use by the same amount.  “It’s not like this is a magic bullet,” said Chris
Bullen, director of the  National Institute for Health Innovation 
at The University of Auckland, who led the study. “If you
continue to smoke, obviously that’s not ideal, but it’s
something that’s a stepping-stone toward quitting. We just have
to be a little patient. They’ve been doing it for most of their
lives, and it’s not surprising they find it incredibly hard.”  Ritualistic Behavior  Importantly, side effects were similar between the nicotine
patch and e-cigarette groups, he said. Researchers are confident
in the safety results over the short term, as measured in the
study, Bullen said.  If people keep on vaping for years, longer-term safety data
is needed, the researchers said.  E-cigarette users told the researchers they wanted to keep
using their devices, and 88 percent of users in the nicotine e-cigarette group said they’d recommend the devices to friends.  Even users of the placebo e-cigarettes, while not as
successful at cutting back on smoking, got attached to their
gadgets -- 92 percent said they’d recommend them to friends.  “They replicate a lot of the ritualistic behavior people
have about getting a cigarette out, putting it in their hands,
touching it, and there’s the vapor,” Bullen said. “These are
very powerful sensory indicators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  