-- Fed Seen Set to Taper QE Even as Payroll Gains Trail Forecasts
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/fed-seen-set-to-taper-qe-even-as-payroll-gains-trail-forecasts.html
The Federal Reserve is poised this
month to start reducing bond purchases aimed at spurring the
labor market, economists said, even after a government report 
showed employers added fewer jobs in August than forecast.  Payrolls rose by 169,000 last month, a Labor Department
report showed yesterday in  Washington , and the jobless rate fell
to 7.3 percent as people left the workforce. Revisions to prior
reports subtracted a total of 74,000 jobs to payrolls in the
previous two months, while hours worked and earnings rose.  The jobs report is the last one Fed policy makers will see
before their Sept. 17-18 meeting, when they resume a debate on
when to pare $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The increase
in employment was probably strong enough to convince central
bankers to reduce so-called quantitative easing by about $10
billion a month, said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC
Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.  “Maybe they do this taper lite,” said Hoffman, the top
forecaster of private payroll growth for the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The headcount’s weak,
but the income earned from wages and longer hours is positive.
To me, it’s sort of win one, lose one.”  Hoffman’s forecast is in line with the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 34 economists after yesterday’s jobs report
showing the Fed is likely to reduce asset purchases to $75
billion this month. The Federal Open Market Committee will slow
Treasury purchases to  $35 billion  from $45 billion while
maintaining mortgage-bond buying at  $40 billion , according to
the survey. That pace was unchanged from an Aug. 9-13 poll.  Third Round  The gain in payrolls compared with an estimate for an
increase of 180,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists prior to
yesterday’s report.  Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
climbed 152,000 after a revised gain of 127,000 in July that was
weaker than first reported. Company payrolls were also projected
to rise by 180,000, the survey showed.  “The disappointing employment report makes it a tougher
call” about when to taper, said  Dana Saporta , an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York who predicts a cut to $65
billion. “It passes the taper test, albeit not with flying
colors, and it’s good enough to keep the taper as the most
likely scenario.”  Hourly Earnings  Average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent to $24.05 in
August from the prior month. They increased 2.2 percent over the
past 12 months, the most since July 2011.  While some companies are awaiting a pickup in sales before
adding to staff, Ford Motor Co. is among those putting more
workers on assembly lines as the auto industry surges.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, the second-largest U.S.
automaker, this week reported it will boost fourth-quarter
production by 7 percent. The company had in August said an
additional shift of 1,400 new workers at a factory in Flat Rock,
 Michigan , will help increase its Fusion sedan capacity.  Employment at  factories  increased by 14,000 in August
following a 16,000 decrease in the previous month. Economists
had projected a 5,000 rise. Employment at private service-providers increased less in August than the prior month.
Government payrolls rose by 17,000.  The road to employment has taken time for people like 22-year-old Madison Li. She will start a job as an information
technology consultant in Atlanta later this month after
graduating from Emory University with a double major in
economics and Chinese language and literature. Li put out 25
applications over the past year, and did about 15 interviews
before getting four job offers.  ‘Not Easy’  “I think it is still not easy” for new graduates, Li
said. “We still have a lot of very qualified graduates who are
unable to find jobs because of the economy. It is a little bit
better than a year ago or the year before. I think it is getting
better.”  The unemployment rate, which is based on a separate Labor
Department survey of households, unexpectedly declined to the
lowest level since December 2008. The rate was forecast to be
unchanged at 7.4 percent.  The rate was driven lower as the share of working-age
people in the labor force declined. The so-called  participation
rate  declined to 63.2 percent, the lowest since August 1978.  While unemployment “fell for the wrong reasons,” payroll
growth wasn’t bleak enough to delay a tapering, according to
Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  ‘Radically Weak’  “It would have taken a much more radically weak number to
change their view,” said Stanley, who expects the Fed to pare
monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries by $10
billion each. “They still feel like they want to be very
accommodative.”  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, who has
consistently dissented against additional stimulus, yesterday
called for a tapering of $15 billion at this month’s meeting.  “An appropriate next step toward normalizing monetary
policy could be to reduce the pace of purchases from $85 billion
to something around $70 billion per month,” George said in a
speech in Omaha,  Nebraska . She said doing so at the next meeting
is “appropriate” and future purchases could be split evenly
between Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, who has consistently
supported record stimulus, said in a speech yesterday in
Greenville, South Carolina, that the central bank shouldn’t
taper until inflation and economic growth pick up.  Evans, who votes on FOMC policy this year, later told
reporters he has an “open mind” on whether to taper buying
this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  