-- IBM Moves Retirees to Insurance Exchange as Costs Rise
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-07T19:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/ibm-moves-retirees-to-public-health-exchanges-as-costs-rise.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , faced with rising health care costs for retirees, says it
will move them to a health exchange where they may have cheaper
plan options.  The move affects about 110,000 Medicare-eligible retirees,
 Doug Shelton , an IBM spokesman, said by telephone. The company
has chosen the Extend Health exchange by Towers Watson, the
country’s largest private Medicare exchange, to provide more
options for prescription drug, dental and vision care, the
Armonk, New York-based company said in a statement e-mailed
today.  IBM’s move is the latest in a string of large changes that
organizations have made to counter rising health costs. In
August,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  decided to drop health
benefits for 15,000 of its workers’ spouses, while Michigan
Governor  Rick Snyder  tried to reduce costs by moving municipal
retirees to exchanges.  “This transition provides more choice and flexibility at
equal or better costs to our retirees,” IBM said in the
statement. “While some retirees may be skeptical today, studies
show that the majority of people who are presented the concept
of an exchange are skeptical at first, but once they understand
the options available to them through these exchanges, they have
a more positive outlook.”  Bigger Beneficiary Pool  IBM had projected that with its current plans, costs for
retirees would triple by 2020. Most of that would affect
retirees’ premiums and out-of-pocket costs.  IBM said the new arrangement puts the retirees in a bigger
pool of beneficiaries, spreading risk and lowering cost.  Reuters reported the change yesterday.  “IBM didn’t make this change to save money -- it does not
reduce our costs,” Shelton said, noting that IBM’s subsidies
were capped in the 1990s.  IBM has been holding briefing meetings with groups of
retirees to answer questions about the transition. A meeting in
 San Jose ,  California , on Sept. 4 drew 1,300 retirees, the
company said.  The company has made other moves to lessen its costs for
current employees. In the second quarter, IBM spent $1 billion
to restructure its workforce, cutting more than 3,300 employees
in the U.S. and  Canada , according to Alliance@IBM, an employee
group. It also required U.S. hardware division employees to take
a week off with one-third of the pay.  IBM doesn’t disclose the number of employees by country or
by division. The company’s total workforce was 434,246 as of
Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  