-- South Africa Takes Rugby Championship Lead as New Zealand Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-07T13:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/new-zealand-beats-argentina-to-move-atop-rugby-championship.html
South Africa beat  Australia  38-12 to
break a 42-year winless drought in Brisbane and move atop the
Rugby Championship ahead of titleholder New Zealand, which
defeated Argentina 28-13.  The Springboks scored four tries to none last night at
Suncorp Stadium, including three in a nine-minute span in the
second half, to secure their biggest victory over the Wallabies
on Australian soil. Fly-half Morne Steyn kicked South Africa’s
other 18 points, while Christian Leali’ifano booted four
penalties for the home team.  By claiming the bonus for scoring four or more tries, the
Springboks edged one point ahead of the top-ranked All Blacks in
the southern hemisphere championship standings before the teams
meet in Auckland next week.  “It’s a massive challenge,” Springboks captain Jean de Villiers, who scored his team’s second try, said in a televised
interview. “They’re a quality side, the No. 1 team in the
world. We’ll have to be at our best to be able to beat them.
We’ll enjoy this win, but then get to Auckland on Monday and
start all over again.”  Replacement prop Coenie Oosthuizen crashed over for the
opening try in the fifth minute at Suncorp Stadium, where
Australia had won all seven previous meetings between the teams.
Steyn converted and added three first-half penalties to give
South Africa a 16-6 lead at the break.  Two penalties from Leali’ifano and another to Steyn made it
19-12 before the Springboks stunned the home team with a three-try burst as inside center De Villiers, full-back Zane Kirchner
and winger Willie le Roux all raced over.  ‘Not Good Enough’  Australia, which fell to its third straight defeat under
new coach Ewen McKenzie, hosts Argentina in Perth next week with
both teams seeking their first victory in this year’s
competition. The Wallabies have lost five of their six Tests
in 2013, their worst start since 1958.  “We’ve got to do better, it’s as simple as that,”
McKenzie said in a televised interview. “When you wash it down,
there’s a bunch of small moments where individuals have to do
better. It’s just not good enough.”  South Africa’s last win Brisbane came in 1971 at the
Exhibition Ground.  New Zealand beat Argentina in rainy conditions at Waikato
Stadium in Hamilton, a victory that was marred by a tournament-ending knee injury to captain Richie McCaw.  The All Blacks outscored the Pumas by three tries to one
with scrum-half Aaron Smith touching down twice. Fly-half Dan Carter returned from injury to kick two conversions and two
penalties and lift his world-record tally to 1,409 Test points,
becoming the first player to break the 1,400-point barrier in
elite international matches.  New Zealand, which opened its title defense with back-to-back wins against Australia, also got a try through winger
Julian Savea, while Beauden Barrett added a penalty. Juan Manuel
Leguizamon opened the scoring with a try for the Pumas, who got
their other points from the boot of fly-half Nicolas Sanchez.  McCaw left the game after an hour with a knee injury. The
team later said it was a medial ligament injury that will rule
the openside flanker out for four to five weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  