-- Monte Paschi Wins Backing From EU’s Almunia for Aid Plan
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-09-08T20:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/monte-paschi-wins-backing-of-eu-s-almunia-for-italian-aid-plan.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
engulfed by investigations into alleged misconduct of former
managers, won the top European antitrust regulator’s support for
a 4.1 billion-euro ($5.4 billion) bailout after agreeing to
raise more than twice the capital previously planned.  European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
told reporters yesterday the bailout plan should receive final
approval within two months. The plan stipulates Monte Paschi
raise 2.5 billion euros in capital next year, Italy’s Treasury
said in an e-mailed statement today. The previous plan was for a
1 billion-euro capital increase.  Final approval from the EU will enable Chief Executive
Officer Fabrizio Viola to dispose of assets and branches in an
effort to return the lender to profit amid Italy’s longest
recession in 20 years. Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, is
seeking to raise funds from investors to repay state aid after
it abolished a cap on  voting rights  in July.  “All these things, very important things that were
difficult and were discussed before the summer have been
solved,” Almunia said. “We need to draft the decision.”  Debt to Equity  If the bank fails to raise the targeted amount, Monte
Paschi debt owned by the Italian government will be converted
into equity. So-called Monti bonds are those bought by former
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government in a bailout.  Italian regulators must now write a formal plan based on
the agreement announced yesterday and submit it to the EU. The
plan will include cost cutting measures and changes to the
business model, said Almunia. Monte Paschi’s holdings of Italian
debt are a concern for EU regulators, he said.  “We noted that the size of this public debt portfolio was
quite high,” Almunia said. “In our view, this should be
gradually reduced to an adequate level during the implementation
of the restructuring plan.”  The plan must be approved by the bank’s board of directors,
Italy’s Treasury and central bank, the Treasury said today.  Almunia, who met yesterday with Italian Prime Minister
Enrico Letta and Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni, said his
office reached “a political agreement” with  Italy  that must be
formally ratified.  The EU resisted Italy’s original bailout plan and insisted
in recent months on changes. EU regulators indicated they sought
tougher measures on cost-cutting, executive pay and treatment of
creditors to approve the restructuring, according to a July 16
letter from Almunia to Saccomanni.  Monte Paschi, controlled by Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di
Siena, posted a loss of 279.3 million euros in the second
quarter after net interest income dropped. The lender pays 9
percent interest on the bonds it sold to the government in the
bailout and must pay with its own stock if it’s unprofitable.  Prosecutors are probing whether former managers at Monte
Paschi, which piled up losses of 7.9 billion euros in the past
two years, obstructed regulators, manipulated the stock and
falsified accounts after stretching its finances with the
purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  