-- Pakistan Releases More Taliban Detainees After Karzai’s Visit
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-09-07T08:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/pakistan-releases-more-taliban-detainees-after-karzai-s-visit.html
Pakistan  today said it was releasing
senior Taliban commander Mansoor Dadullah and six other
detainees to help facilitate the Afghan reconciliation process.  The release comes nearly two weeks after Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  visited Pakistan to seek help from the new
government there to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table.
Afghanistan has said releasing Taliban held in Pakistan would
help the process.  “The release of Taliban detainees may facilitate the
holding of dialogue, but nothing beyond,” Hasan-Askari Rizvi, a
Lahore-based political analyst, said in a phone interview today.
“Pakistan doesn’t really have influence over these people to
get into a political arrangement with Kabul.”  Other Taliban being released include Said Wali, Abdul
Manan, Karim Agha, Sher Afzal, Gul Muhammad and Muhammad Zai,
according to a statement from Pakistan’s Foreign Office.  Karzai, who is barred constitutionally from standing for a
third term in elections due in April, has said Pakistan is
crucial to bringing into talks the Taliban and other militant
groups, which still control large areas of southern and eastern
 Afghanistan .  Karzai’s visit took place at a low point in relations
between the two neighbors. Karzai and the U.S. allege the Afghan
Taliban’s leadership is hiding in and around the southwestern
Pakistani city of Quetta, about 40 miles (65 kilometers from the
border with Afghanistan.  Northern Waziristan  Pakistani leaders have let Taliban-affiliated militant
groups like the Haqqani Network operate from Northern Waziristan
“due to their concerns that Pakistan will be left alone to
confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an Indian-influenced
Afghanistan on its borders” once U.S. troops leave, according
to a U.S. Defense Department report last year.  Dadullah was captured in February 2008 after a shootout in
the Qilla Saifullah district of Baluchistan. He was wanted for
his role in attacks on U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization soldiers in Afghanistan.  Pakistan released 26 members of the Afghan Taliban in
November and January, including former regional governors and
ministers. Former deputy leader and top military commander Abdul
Ghani Baradar, detained in 2010 in Karachi, was not among those
released.  Editors:  Jim McDonald   To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  