-- Treasuries Drop as Weak Jobs Growth Can’t Derail Fed Taper View
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/treasuries-drop-as-weak-jobs-growth-can-t-derail-fed-taper-view.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
in three weeks, pushing 10-year note yields to a two-year high,
on speculation economic growth has improved enough to make the
Federal Reserve comfortable slowing bond purchases this month.  Benchmark yields breached 3 percent yesterday for the first
time since July 2011 before a lower-than-forecast jobs report
sent them plunging the most on an intraday basis since November.
Fed policy makers are debating whether the pace of economic
growth merits reducing the asset purchases they have made to
support the economy and keep borrowing costs low. The Treasury
Department sale of $63 billion in notes and bonds next week
includes the smallest auction of three-year debt in four years.  “U.S. data has still been pretty good, and steadily
improving even with the disappointing payroll news, and that has
kept us in a rising-yield environment,” said  Carl Lantz , head
of interest-rate strategy in  New York  at Credit Suisse AG, one
of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Although the
data hasn’t been gangbusters, it’s been good enough for the Fed
to justify tapering, which has weighed on the market.”  Benchmark U.S. 10-year  yields  rose 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 2.93 percent this week in New York,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The 2.5 percent note due in
August 2023 fell 1 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 96
1/4.  Thirty-year bond  yields  advanced 17 basis points to 3.87
percent after reaching 3.90, the highest since Aug. 22.  Market ‘Correction’  U.S. government debt  has lost investors 4.3 percent this
year, which would be the biggest annual decline since data going
back to 1978, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  The 14-day  relative strength  index for the Treasury 10-year
yield dropped to 60 after reaching 69 on Sept. 5. A reading of
70 is a level that some traders see as a sign the market measure
has risen too fast and may be due to reverse course.  “We’ve had such an aggressive run, and the market had
priced in so much, that it was ready for a correction,” Kathy Jones, a New York-based fixed income strategist at Charles
Schwab & Co., which has $2.12 trillion in client assets, said
yesterday.  Benchmark yields rose seven basis points on Sept. 3 after
the  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  climbed to
55.7, the highest in two years, from the prior month’s 55.4, and
compared with a forecast of 53.8 in a Bloomberg survey. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  Jobs Report  The yield advanced to 3.005 percent yesterday only to drop
13 basis points after Labor Department figures showed payrolls
in the U.S. climbed less than projected in August and gains for
the prior two months were revised down.  The addition of 169,000 workers last month trailed the
180,000 median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 96 economists.
Unemployment fell to 7.3 percent, the lowest since December
2008, as workers left the  labor force .  “The economy has been stuck in low gear for years and
nothing seems to be breaking the paradigm of slow growth and
slow job gains,”  Jay Mueller , who manages about $2 billion of
bonds at Wells Capital Management in  Milwaukee , said yesterday.  Fed Decision  Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July meeting
released on Aug. 21 showed members were “broadly comfortable”
with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to begin tapering purchases
under its quantitative-easing program this year if the economy
strengthens, with a few saying a reduction may be needed soon.  The Fed will reduce to $75 billion from the current $85
billion pace, according to the median estimate of 34 economists
surveyed yesterday by  Bloomberg News . The central bank will keep
purchases of mortgage-backed securities at the current $40
billion per month pace, while cutting Treasury bond purchases to
$35 billion per month, economists said.  The world’s biggest money manager agrees on the size of the
cut, with the Fed trimming its monthly purchases of Treasuries
by $10 billion, while leaving mortgage securities purchases as
is, or cut each equally by $5 billion, according to Rick Rieder
at BlackRock Inc.  “We continue to think QE tapering will come at the
September meeting,” Rieder, chief investment officer for
fundamental fixed income in New York for the firm with $3.86
trillion in assets, wrote in a note to clients. “Although with
some weakness in the employment situation, the amount of
tapering is likely to be lower than previously anticipated.”  Gross’s View  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond mutual
fund, said policy makers will go ahead with a plan to reduce the
central bank’s unprecedented asset purchases even with the
disappointing jobs report.  “I think Bernanke and company are committed to a taper,”
Gross, co-founder Pacific Investment Management Co., said
yesterday in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “It will be taper ‘lite’ as opposed to a strong
tapering.”  Fed funds futures show a 7 percent probability that the
central bank will raise borrowing costs in January 2015 for the
first time since the 2008 financial crisis.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators almost
tripled their net-short position in 30-year bond futures in the
week ending Sept. 3, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative  short positions , or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 8,963 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 6,478 contracts, or
261 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Debt Sales  For 10-year notes, speculative short positions fell by
 7,731 contracts , or 7 percent, to outnumber long positions by
103,094 contracts.  The market is preparing for next week’s note sales as a
measure of demand at the U.S. Treasury Department’s debt
auctions has fallen this year to the lowest level since 2009 as
a drop in bond prices generates the biggest losses on  government
securities  in four years.  Investors have bid $2.87 for each $1 of the $1.257 billion
of notes and bonds sold by the Treasury this year, compared with
a record high $3.15 of bids last year. It’s the first decline in
demand at the auctions since 2008, when the U.S. government
increased note and bond offerings 59 percent to $922 billion as
the recession and the financial crisis deepened.  The Treasury Department is scheduled to auction $31 billion
in three-year notes on Sept. 10, down from $32 billion and the
least since January 2009. It will sell $21 billion in 10-year
notes the next day and $13 billion in 30-year bonds on Sept. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  