-- Richmond, California, May Abandon Plan to Seize Mortgages
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-07T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/richmond-california-may-abandon-plan-to-seize-mortgages.html
The City Council of Richmond,
 California , may withdraw offers to buy hundreds of troubled home
loans that it threatened to seize under eminent domain laws if
they refused, according to city documents.  If the plan stays alive, the council may require Mortgage
Resolution Partners LLC to provide insurance to protect the city
from lawsuits. Both proposals are listed for consideration when
the council meets Sept. 10, according to an  agenda  for the
meeting released yesterday.  Richmond, a refinery town of about 106,000 east of  San
Francisco , is the farthest along in a plan advocated by Steven Gluckstern’s Mortgage Resolution Partners for U.S. cities to
confiscate underwater mortgages and write them down in an effort
to help homeowners escape oversized debts. Almost half of
Richmond mortgages have higher values than the homes they
financed.  City officials didn’t respond to telephone calls after
regular business hours seeking comment on their plans.  The city sent letters in July to 32 servicers and trustees
with offers to purchase 624 mortgages in which the loan balance
exceeds the property’s value. The loans were the first targeted
by the city, which said it would seize them unless servicers
agreed to sell.  Mortgage bond trustees representing investors including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co. sued the
city on Aug. 7, alleging the proposal was unconstitutional and
seeking a court order blocking any seizures. The idea has drawn
opposition from at least 18 trade groups representing the
finance industry, homebuilders and real-estate firms.  Governments have long used eminent domain to take private
property for public uses, including highways, and for economic
development such as shopping malls, providing compensation to
the owner. Richmond planned to issue new loans to homeowners
that reflect current property values, easing their debt burdens.  Other municipalities, including California’s San Bernardino
County and  Chicago , considered similar moves last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net  