-- Rudd Resigns as Labor Leader After 3 Years of Party Turmoil
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-08T01:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-07/rudd-resigns-as-labor-leader-after-three-years-of-party-turmoil.html
Kevin Rudd  resigned as Labor leader
after voters in  Australia  evicted the government, setting the
stage for the party to install a new chief in an attempt to end
three years of damaging infighting.  “It’s time for the party to further renew its leadership
for the future,” Rudd told supporters in Brisbane late
yesterday after conceding the election to Liberal-National
coalition leader  Tony Abbott . “For me, that time is now. The
Australian people, I believe, deserve a fresh start with our
leadership.”  Rudd, 55, didn’t specify if he would quit his Queensland
district of Griffith. He leads 53 percent to 47 percent on a two
party-preferred basis against Liberal National Party candidate
Bill Glasson, according to the  Australian Electoral Commission.   His resignation leaves Australia’s oldest political party
leaderless and further drains its talent pool after nine former
ministers didn’t stand for re-election. Already scarred by
turmoil that saw Rudd ousted by  Julia Gillard  in 2010, only to
reclaim the leadership in June, Labor must now unite behind a
new leader to take on Abbott, 55, whose coalition returns to
power for the first time since 2007.  “The result is a repudiation of Rudd as leader but it’s
more than that, it’s a general rejection of the Labor brand,”
said  Paul Williams , a political analyst at Brisbane’s Griffith
University. “The problems with the party mean it will have to
get its house in order in opposition. It’s not like a lick of
paint will fix them up.”  Coalition Leads  The coalition was leading in 88 seats to Labor’s 57, with
vote counting continuing, according to the AEC.  Under rules introduced by Rudd in July, the party
automatically holds a leadership ballot if it loses office. The
new leader is chosen in a vote by its lawmakers and ordinary
members, with both groups carrying equal weighting.  Deputy Leader Anthony Albanese, 50, outgoing Education
Minister  Bill Shorten , 46, and outgoing Treasurer  Chris Bowen ,
40, have been touted as future leaders of the party. Both
Albanese and Shorten declined in television interviews today to
rule themselves out as potential candidates.  “We have a number of talented people in the  Labor party 
caucus,” Albanese told Channel Ten, naming Shorten and outgoing
ministers Tony Burke, Chris Bowen and Tanya Plibersek. “What’s
important is that the Labor party serve as a team, that it’s
united, that we defend our legacy and that we take up the
arguments to Tony Abbott and the coalition.”  Rudd Intentions  Even so, questions remain over whether Rudd will resign his
seat, which would trigger a special election for the district,
or stay on in parliament. He also did not rule out recontesting
the leadership in the future. After Rudd was ousted by Gillard,
senior party figures accused him of seeking to destabilize her
government.  “We cannot afford to have the sort of disunity that we’ve
experienced over the last few years,”  Greg Combet , who resigned
from his climate change ministry after Gillard’s departure and
didn’t re-contest his seat, told the Australian Broadcasting
Corp.  Along with infighting and a reputation damaged by
corruption scandals, Labor has struggled to appeal to its
traditional blue-collar base, resulting in a fall in membership
and questions over its relevancy as fewer voters identify
themselves as working class.  Internal Reforms  “It’s much easier to have internal reforms in opposition
than while in government,” said Joff Lelliott, Queensland state
director of the Australian Fabians, a Labor-linked think tank.
“The challenge is to once again become a party for the
masses.”  Rudd, a Mandarin-speaking former diplomat, entered
parliament in 1998 and became Labor leader in 2006. He enjoyed
record-high popularity ratings after defeating  John Howard ’s
coalition government in 2007, boosted in part by his apology to
the indigenous Aboriginal population for past abuses and signing
the  Kyoto Protocol .  His popularity sank as mining companies helped finance an
advertising campaign against his plan for a 40 percent tax on
resource profits, and he was ousted by senior Labor colleagues
who were critical of an autocratic leadership style.  Rudd served as foreign minister in Gillard’s government,
before quitting in February 2012 to challenge her leadership. As
Cabinet members rallied around Gillard, they made public their
animosity toward Rudd, with then-Treasurer  Wayne Swan  describing
him as a man of “great weakness” who had demeaned his
colleagues during his tenure as prime minister.  ‘Not Disciplined’  With Gillard’s poll ratings slumping and Labor facing an
election wipeout, Rudd stood against her in a vote by party
lawmakers on June 26 and was restored to the leadership.  Labor initially erased a 14 percentage-point opinion poll
deficit to the coalition under Rudd. His popularity waned during
the course of the five-week campaign and he was eclipsed as
preferred prime minister by Abbott in the final week.  “I think the Labor party should face up to the fact that
this is a devastating result,” former Labor Prime Minister  Bob Hawke , 83, said on  Sky News  yesterday. “We have suffered a very
major defeat and we must learn the lessons from it,” he said.
“I’m very grateful that Kevin Rudd made the decision he did. We
didn’t want a situation where there was going to have to be a
fight within the caucus about whether he was going to hang on.”  Rudd’s campaign came across as “slightly dysfunctional,”
said Griffith University’s Williams. “He had trouble staying on
message and allowed the coalition to set the agenda. It was a
poor campaign but with voter discontent growing in the years
preceding the election, he always seemed a long shot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  