-- T. Rowe Price’s Profit Rises 33% as Equity Markets Rally
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-10-24T20:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/t-rowe-price-s-profit-rises-33-as-global-equity-markets-rally.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , the asset
manager that has posted a profit every quarter since going
public in 1986, said third-quarter earnings rose 33 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, as global stock markets rallied and
investors made net deposits.  Net income  increased to $245.7 million, or 94 cents a
share, from $184.6 million, or 71 cents, a year earlier, the
Baltimore-based company said today in a statement. The average
estimate of 12  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg was a profit of 84
cents a share. Earnings were also boosted by 7 cents a share
from the sale of investments in sponsored mutual funds.  “The key is the market is up for the quarter, it’s up for
the year, our cash flows are positive and our performance
continues to be very good,” Chief Executive Officer James
Kennedy said in a telephone interview today.  The company has benefited as  investment performance  at
funds beat rivals and retirement-oriented offerings drew
investors. Clients added $4.3 billion in new money to T. Rowe
Price funds in the three months ended Sept. 30, including $2.2
billion in target-date retirement portfolios. Assets rose 6
percent to $574.4 billion during the quarter as market
appreciation added $28.4 billion.  Shares Rise  T. Rowe Price fell 0.8 percent to close at $64.16 in New
York. The  shares  have gained 13 percent this year, compared with
the 18 percent increase for Standard & Poor’s 20-company index
of asset managers and custody banks.  The  S&P 500 Index , a benchmark for U.S. stocks, gained 5.8
percent last quarter and global stocks, as measured by the MSCI
AC World Index, rose 6.2 percent.  T. Rowe Price has gathered deposits even as investors
withdrew $82.6 billion from U.S. funds that buy  domestic stocks 
this year through September, data compiled by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
show.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said
clients redeemed a net $55 billion in the third quarter, despite
deposits of $20.5 billion into equity exchange-traded funds.
BlackRock said a single institutional investor pulled more than
$72 billion from a fixed-income portfolio, after the firm didn’t
want to rebid for the business at lower fees. Assets rose 3.2
percent during the three months to $3.67 trillion, the company
said last week, fueled by market gains of $134 billion.  At T. Rowe, 72 percent of the firm’s mutual funds beat the
average return of their peers in this year’s first nine months,
according to data compiled by Chicago-based Morningstar. About
three quarters of T. Rowe’s assets are invested in equities.  Investors deposited $4.5 billion into T. Rowe Price’s
mutual funds, including $2.2 billion into stock and blended
asset funds and $2.1 billion into bond funds.  Revenue Rose  The firm’s revenue rose 13 percent compared with a year
earlier to $769.7 million. Operating expenses increased 7
percent to $410.8 million because of increased compensation
costs. T. Rowe Price has increased its average staff size by 1.4
percent from a year earlier and will continue to hire, Kennedy
said.  The sale of investments generated a $31.2 million gain for
T. Rowe Price and resulted from the firm moving about $170
million in its U.S. equity and bond portfolios to two of its
European investment vehicles, Kennedy said. The firm, which
shifted the money to increase assets in the European portfolios
and attract more investors, is close to getting an “attractive
mandate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  