-- Maersk Rate Rise Adds to Mothballing Ships for Profit: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/maersk-rate-rise-adds-to-mothballing-ships-for-profit-freight.html
Europe ’s largest container lines are
making an attempt to increase Asia-Europe rates to more than
break-even levels and restore profit before year-end. Capacity
cuts may boost their chance of success.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s container line, the world’s
largest, and Hapag-Lloyd AG, Europe’s No. 4 line, have announced
a $500 per-standard-container rate increase from Asia to Europe
starting Nov. 1.  France ’s CMA CGM SA, Europe’s No. 3 container
company, will also increase Asia to Europe rates by  $500  on that
date, while  Hong Kong ’s  Orient Overseas International Ltd. (316)  has
announced a  rise  of $525 per box.  Container lines are losing money on routes from Asia to
Europe because of an overcapacity of ships and slumping demand
due to the  European debt crisis . That’s made it difficult for
carriers to raise prices on the televisions, T-shirts and shoes
they ship from  China  to such ports as Hamburg and Rotterdam.
While efforts to increase prices in March restored profits,
rates have since slumped to below break-even levels.  “This will be a major trigger for Maersk and other
container share prices,” Frode Moerkedal, an analyst at RS
Platou Markets AS in Oslo, said in a phone interview.
“Utilization should improve and support higher rates.”  Container carriers such as Maersk Line, Hapag-Lloyd and
Hanjin Shipping Co. have announced the removal of capacity of
more than 30,000 standard containers between Asia and Europe in
recent weeks. Coupled with the planned Nov. 1 rate hike, that
may allow  Maersk Line  to achieve the full-year profit it
forecasts for the year and help offset rising fuel prices in an
industry in which all major container lines lost money in 2011.  Asia-Europe  A.P. Moeller-Maersk has  declined 3 percent  in the past six
months, partly because of investor concerns over profitability
on the Asia-Europe route.  Denmark ’s benchmark Copenhagen 20
Index has advanced 8.9 percent in the same period.  After the industry’s concerted effort to bring up prices
starting March 1, the  Shanghai  Containerized Freight Index
soared 54 percent between Feb. 24, the week before the rates
were raised, and May 4. The increase didn’t stick: The index,
which also includes rates on services to  North America , remains
down 22 percent from the May peak.  Still, the container carriers’ planned boosts and the
capacity cuts may be too little, too late, according to Danish
shipping Association  BIMCO , which represents 65 percent of world
tonnage.  ‘Caught Behind’  While carriers “were able to stay on top of the game and
adjust supply to the anticipated demand” in the first half of
this year, they have now been “caught a little bit behind,”
said BIMCO shipping analyst Peter Sand in a phone interview from
Bagsvaerd, Denmark. “Demand evaporated much faster than
anticipated during the summer.”  Rates between Shanghai and northwestern Europe stood at
$1,074 on Oct. 19 and $1,076 for cargo shipped to the
Mediterranean. Shipping lines need $1,200 to $1,300 a box to
make money, according to Kai Miller, Hamburg-based head of the
container desk at London-based ship broker ICAP. RS Platou sees
cash break-even at between $1,250 and $1,350 per box.  “Worryingly, rates have still fallen in October despite a
more than 20 percent reduction in capacity,” Miller said.  The total size of the global container fleet probably will
grow 7.2 percent this year and 7 percent in 2013 as new ships
ordered before the shipping industry’s crisis are completed,
BIMCO forecasts. At the same time, Maersk forecasts a 3 percent
slump in volumes between  Asia  and Europe in 2012.  Capacity Cuts  Maersk Line said on Oct. 12 that it would remove 19 ships
from Asia-Europe trade lanes. That will bring its total capacity
cuts on the route to 21 percent this year after a 9 percent
reduction in February. The G6 alliance, which includes OOCL and
Hapag-Lloyd, said Sept. 3 that it would halt its Loop 3 service
between Asia and Europe until further notice because of a lack
of demand.  Hanjin Shipping and Evergreen Line said on Oct. 18 that
they would reduce capacity between China and Europe by 23
percent during the fourth quarter and that they would consider
further capacity cuts depending on demand.  Coupled with similar measures by the CKYH alliance, which
includes  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  and  Yang Ming Marine Transport
Corp. (2609) , about 30,300 TEU, or 7.7 percent of the total fleet at
the end of September, will be cut between Asia and Europe, RS
Platou estimated.  Hildan and Moerkedal said capacity needs to be cut by
33,400 TEU to achieve the average utilization and freight rate
of $1,400 per standard container registered in the first nine
months of this year.  Profit Expected  “We see a similar picture as during the spring when liners
were able to bring rates substantially higher,” said Moerkedal.
“Demand is likely to be weaker this time around, but given the
substantial service cuts we believe $250 per TEU, or 50 percent
of the rate increase, could stick.”  That may help Maersk and other carriers make a profit for
2012, following losses last year. Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-
Maersk’s market-leading Maersk Line, which suffered a $372
million  net loss  in the first half of this year, said Aug. 14 it
expected a “modest” full-year profit after carriers raised
rates. The line posted a $227 million profit in the second
quarter after rates were increased.  “We know this market is price-inelastic, so if we lower
our rates, not a single box will ship more,” said Lucas Vos,
chief commercial officer for Maersk Line, in an interview in
Shenzhen, China, last week. “It’s not the first answer we
should look at. The first answer is, can we have the right
capacity in the market.”  Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd, which lost 139.7 million euros
($181 million) in the first six months of this year, said on the
same day that further rate increases were “crucial” for it to
offset rising fuel costs and post an annual operating profit.  Bunker Prices  “After a short and slight downturn in May and June, bunker
prices climbed to previous peaks again and the actual rate level
in the Far East trade is not sufficient,” Hapag-Lloyd said in
an e-mailed response to questions about its announced rate
increase. “If rate levels don’t pay the expenses of a
transport, liner shipping companies will not be able to provide
the service level customers expect from them.”  Switzerland ’s Mediterranean Shipping Co., the world’s
second-largest container shipping line, also  plans  a $500 rate
increase on Nov. 1.  Even partial implementation of the targeted higher rates
would make a difference, said BIMCO’s Sand.  “We are balancing on an edge right now in terms of break-
even levels, being just on top or below depending on what
container lines you refer to, as the break-even varies by a few
hundred dollars between the most efficient and least efficient
lines,” he said. “If rates rise by between $100 and $150 I
think we’ll be back in the black, above break-even levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  