-- Aflac Adds U.S. Corporates in Yield Hunt, Shuns Japan Bonds
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-24T20:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/aflac-adds-corporates-in-yield-hunt-as-kirsch-shuns-japan-bonds.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest seller of
supplemental health insurance, is expanding a program to favor
U.S. corporate bonds over Japanese government debt in an effort
to increase investment yield.  Aflac will invest about two-thirds of its Japanese  cash
flow  into dollar-denominated corporate bonds for the remainder
of the year, after buying $2.5 billion in the third quarter,
Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos, 61, said today on a conference
call with analysts. The U.S. bonds yielded about 3.6 percent in
the period, not including the cost of hedging to the yen, Amos
said.  Aflac hired Eric Kirsch, 52, from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to revamp investing after the Columbus, Georgia-based insurer
took losses on European holdings. Kirsch, Aflac’s chief
investment officer, said today that the firm’s  Japan  yield will
probably climb as more money is invested in the new allocation.  Kirsch “did an excellent job of changing Aflac’s
investment mix and new money yields in Japan surged,”  Eric Berg , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a research
note today.  Aflac’s new money yield in Japan was 2.76 percent at the
end of the third quarter, up from 2.48 percent at the start of
the year, the company said. The insurer had $124.2 billion of
investments and cash as of Sept. 30.  The average yield on U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds
was 2.78 percent as of yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Ten-year Japanese government debt
yielded about 0.78 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Margin Pressure  The insurer yesterday reported that sales of Japanese
 government bonds  added $192 million to third-quarter profit,
which jumped 36 percent to $1 billion.  Still, the insurer’s Japan business faces margin pressure,
Berg said in the note. Japan sales may be challenged for the
rest of this year, Amos said on today’s call. Sales in the
country will rise as much as 15 percent in the fourth quarter,
the insurer said yesterday. U.S. sales will be little changed
this year, missing a target for growth of 3 percent to 8
percent, Aflac said.  Aflac  fell  0.4 percent to $49.44 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York .
Shares have gained 14 percent this year, compared with a 15
percent advance in the  24-company KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   Aflac boosted the quarterly dividend yesterday to 35 cents
a share, 6.1 percent more than the 33-cent payout of the past
four quarters. That missed the Bloomberg Dividend Forecast for a
3-cent increase to 36 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  