-- Thai Baht Weakens, Bonds Gain as Stocks Drop Before Trade Data
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-24T01:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/thai-baht-weakens-bonds-gain-as-stocks-drop-before-trade-data.html
Thailand ’s baht fell toward a three-
week low and  government bonds  advanced before a report that
economists predict will show exports dropped for a fourth month.  Overseas sales decreased 2.7 percent in September from a
year earlier after a 7 percent slide in August, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before data due 11 a.m. in
Bangkok. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares declined for a
fourth day as earnings that trailed estimates at companies
including DuPont Co. and Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. fanned
concern the international economy is worsening.  “We are seeing weaker earnings, which makes investors
worry about the global economic slowdown and hurts  market
sentiment ,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of the investment trust
and fixed-income business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in
Tokyo. “This is feeding into the deterioration in the export
outlook for Asia and weighing on regional currencies.”  The baht declined 0.1 percent from Oct. 22 to 30.77 per
dollar as of 8:24 a.m. in Bangkok and touched 30.79 earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was near the
three-week low of 30.80 reached on Oct. 22. Onshore markets were
shut yesterday for a public holiday. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, held at 4.27 percent.  DuPont, the most valuable U.S. chemical maker, posted a
smaller profit than analysts estimated, while Japan’s Kawasaki
Heavy missed its profit forecast by almost half. Of the 61
companies on Asia’s benchmark equity index that have reported
quarterly earnings since Oct. 1, more than half missed analyst
profit projections, while almost two-thirds lagged sales
estimates, according to  data  compiled by  Bloomberg News .  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 slipped
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.10 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  