-- Airlines Steer Rebound on Manufacturing Pickup: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-24T20:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/airlines-steer-rebound-on-manufacturing-pickup-china-overnight.html
The benchmark index of Chinese
equities in  New York  rebounded from the biggest drop in a month
as signs of improved manufacturing sentiment stoked gains in air
carriers and infrastructure stocks.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 0.4 percent to 95.76
yesterday, after tumbling 1.3 percent on Oct. 23.  China Southern
Airlines Co. (ZNH)  traded at its smallest discount to Hong Kong in
four days and  China  Eastern Airlines Corp. jumped after  UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  said carriers will report “stellar”
profits.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (HNP)  soared to a three-year
high as BNP Paribas SA classed it a top pick. Social network
website  Renren Inc. (RENN)  gained as Facebook Inc. surged 19 percent.  Chinese stocks in New York are poised for their third
 monthly advance  as data signals the seven-quarter slowdown in
the world’s second-largest economy may be abating. A preliminary
reading of a purchasing managers’ index released yesterday by
HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated fewer Chinese
manufacturers are seeing deteriorating conditions in the sector
than in the past two months. The measure follows government
reports last week showing industrial production rebounded in
September and retail sales surged.  “Improvement in the PMI index is pointing toward a
recovery,” Morgan Harting, who helps manage about $100 million
in emerging-market assets at AllianceBernstein Investments Inc.,
said by phone yesterday in New York. “Companies with more
cyclicality to their business, that are more sensitive to
changes in expectations about the economic cycle, tend to have
the most potential for appreciation.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.6 percent to $37.20,
after dropping the most since September on Oct. 23. The  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slumped 0.3 percent to 1,408.75 as the
 Federal Reserve ’s call for moderate growth offset  improvement
signs in Chinese factory output and America’s housing market.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares was little
changed yesterday at 2,115.99, after falling 0.9 percent the day
before. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong sank 1 percent to 10,638.73, the
biggest slump in two weeks. The market there was closed on Oct.
23 for a holiday.  HSBC’S PMI preliminary reading of 49.1, should it be
confirmed, would compare with a final number of 47.9 in
September, and improve for a second month after the gauge
dropped to the lowest level since March 2009 in August. The
recovery was probably helped by strength in export growth and
rising fixed-asset investment, analysts  Yu Song  and Yin Zhang at
Beijing Gao Hua Securities Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s China
partner, wrote in a report yesterday.  Airline Profits  China Southern, Asia’s largest airline by passenger
numbers, surged 3.6 percent to $23.99 in New York, the biggest
one-day gain in two weeks. The American depositary receipts
traded at a 0.8 percent discount to Hong Kong stock, the least
since Oct. 18. Each ADR represents 50 underlying shares in the
Guangzhou-based company.  Shanghai-based China Eastern, the nation’s second-largest
carrier, climbed 2.9 percent to a two-month high of $17.30.  The airlines will show substantial profit improvements on
rising traffic, lower fuel costs and appreciation in the Chinese
 yuan , UOB-Kay Hian analysts said in the note yesterday. China
Southern, which is scheduled to post third-quarter results
tomorrow, may say net income increased 24 times from the
previous three months, according to the UOB-Kay report.  China
Eastern  is  scheduled  to release earnings on Oct. 30.  ‘Meaningfully Outperforming’  Government data released since Oct. 13 has shown China’s
overseas shipments grew a better-than-estimated 9.9 percent last
month from a year earlier, and that investment expansion
exceeded the median projection of analysts, rising 20.5 percent
in the first three quarters. Retail sales advanced 14.2 percent
in September, the most since March, while industrial output grew
9.2 percent from a three-year low of 8.9 percent in August.  “China is meaningfully outperforming the broad emerging
market so far this year,” Harting at AllianceBernstein said.
The  MSCI China Index (MXCN)  has advanced 11.5 percent in 2012, compared
with an 8.5 percent gain in the MSCI gauge for  emerging-market
equities .  ADRs of Huaneng Power, China’s largest electricity
producer, climbed 2.5 percent to $30.88, the highest level since
August 2009. The stock was mentioned as a top pick at BNP
Paribas after the utility company said third-quarter net income
surged 757 percent from a year earlier, in an Oct. 23 statement.  Renren, the Beijing-based owner of a real-name networking
website, climbed for a third day, adding 2 percent for a one-
week high of $3.56 in the U.S.  Youku Tudou  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, jumped 19
percent yesterday after reporting a 32 percent increase in sales
to $1.26 billion last quarter, exceeding the $1.23 billion
average estimate of 34 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , which owns the most popular video
websites in China, advanced 2.2 percent to $20.31, the steepest
rally in a week.  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) , the nation’s largest wireless carrier,
surged 3.4 percent to $56.56 in New York, rising the most since
March 9. SWS Research Co. analyst Jim Tang raised his
recommendation on the company to neutral from underperform
yesterday, lifting the price target for its  Hong Kong  stock to
HK$83, or $10.70. Each ADR represents five Hong Kong shares.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on China’s yuan
strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.3670 per dollar in New York, after
the currency traded unchanged at 6.2480 against the greenback in
Shanghai yesterday.  The  30-day volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge fell
to 16.4 yesterday from 17.5 on Oct. 23, and compares with this
year’s average of 23.1. The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers
Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that gained U.S.
listings after buying firms that already trade, retreated 0.2
percent to 71.53.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  