-- Manchester City, Arsenal Lose in Champions League; Real Beaten
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-24T22:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ajax-beats-manchester-city-in-champions-league-arsenal-loses.html
Ajax beat  Manchester City  3-1 to
keep the English title holder winless in soccer’s Champions
League, while the perfect records of Arsenal and Real Madrid
ended in defeat.  Siem de Jong, Niklas Moisander and Christian Eriksen scored
last night as Ajax dropped Manchester City to the bottom of
Group D. Schalke scored twice in the final 14 minutes to win 2-0
at Arsenal, while Dortmund beat Real Madrid 2-1.  “They played better football,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told Sky Sports. “I didn’t prepare the players well for
this game and I take the fault for this defeat.”  Malaga and Porto both won to maintain their 100 percent
records midway through the group stage of  Europe ’s elite club
competition. Paris Saint-Germain, Olympiacos, and Zenit  St.
Petersburg  also picked up victories.  Samir Nasri gave City the lead after 22 minutes in
Amsterdam before de Jong tied the score just before halftime.
Moisander then headed in a corner kick in the 57th minute and
Eriksen clinched the win with a shot that deflected in off Gael Clichy 11 minutes later.  Mancini said it would now be “very difficult” for the
English champion to advance to the round of 16. City has one
point through three games, two behind third-place Ajax.  “We’re disappointed, we thought we would come here and get
the three points but it wasn’t to be,” City defender  Micah Richards  told Sky Sports. “No disrespect to Ajax, but we
expected to come here and win.”  Real Loses  Marcel Schmelzer’s second-half goal gave Dortmund the win
over Real Madrid that moved it one point ahead of the record
nine-time European champion atop the group with seven points.  Robert Lewandowski  put the German team in front in the 36th
minute before  Cristiano Ronaldo  tied it two minutes later with
his competition-leading fifth goal.  Dortmund went ahead in the 64th minute as Real goalkeeper
 Iker Casillas  punched a cross out to the edge of the penalty
area, where Schmelzer sent a shot through a crowd of players
into the bottom corner.  Klaas-Jan Huntelaar and Ibrahim Afellay scored at the
Emirates Stadium as Schalke handed Arsenal its first group stage
home loss since 2003 and moved to the top of Group B.  “We had some good defense, played close to each other,
then we countered,” Huntelaar told  Sky Sports . “Arsenal are a
good team so we had to take our chances.”  Schalke had more attempts on target, though wasn’t able to
break through until the 76th minute as Afellay headed the ball
to Huntelaar between two defenders and the striker fired a shot
past Vito Mannone. Afellay then clinched the win when he knocked
in Jermaine Jones’s cross with four minutes remaining.  One Shot  It was Arsenal’s second straight defeat after a 1-0 loss at
Norwich in the Premier League. The Gunners managed just one shot
on target, which came in second-half injury time.  “We are really disappointed,” said Arsenal captain  Thomas Vermaelen . “We lost on Saturday and wanted to be better today
but it was the same story. We didn’t create enough chances to
score goals.”  Schalke, which won for the first time in six visits to
 England , has seven points, one more than Arsenal. Olympiacos is
third after winning 2-1 at Montpellier on Kostas Mitroglou’s
goal in stoppage time.  Malaga, making its first appearance in the  Champions League ,
opened up a five-point lead atop Group C with a 1-0 home win
over seven-time winner AC Milan.  Fifth Shutout  Joaquin scored the goal in the 64th minute to give Malaga
its third straight win. The Spanish club has yet to allow a goal
in five Champions League games, including the qualifying round.  Zenit St. Petersburg beat Anderlecht 1-0 on Aleksandr
Kerzhakov’s second-half penalty kick to go third in the group,
one point behind Milan.  Jackson Martinez scored twice as Porto beat Dynamo Kiev 3-2
in  Portugal  to move to nine points in Group A. PSG remained
three points back as goals from Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Jeremy
Menez gave it a 2-0 win at Dinamo Zagreb.  The fourth round of group stage games will be played Nov. 6
and 7. The top two teams from each pool advance to the last 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  