-- Making Risk-Taking Riskier Will Hurt Startups
-- B y   R i c h a r d   H .   T h a l e r
-- 2012-10-24T22:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/making-risk-taking-riskier-will-hurt-startups.html
A recurring theme of this year’s
presidential campaign is the need to encourage the formation of
new businesses. Republicans in general, and  Mitt Romney  in
particular, have stressed that the best way to stimulate such
startups is via low tax rates on high-income earners.  Romney wants to  cut top rates  by 20 percent, maintain the
favorable treatment given to capital gains and dividends, and
completely eliminate the estate tax, which currently only kicks
in on estates in excess of $5 million for an individual or $10
million for a (heterosexual) married couple.  In other words, this is a strategy that emphasizes
maximizing the after-tax returns if and when you hit it big. Yet
if you think about the way most new businesses are started, it
should be clear that these tax incentives have very  little to do 
with the decisions facing most new entrepreneurs.  The typical business startup (think Joe the Plumber) begins
with an initial stake that has been saved or borrowed, and 97
percent of small-business owners make less than $250,000 a year.
It is a good bet that when  Bill Gates ,  Steve Jobs  and  Larry Page 
were creating their new businesses in their proverbial garages,
they weren’t giving much thought to the tax rate they would have
to pay if they struck it rich. Rather, they were hoping their
startups would survive, something that less than half of new
businesses succeed in doing.  Loss Aversion  Research in  behavioral economics  shows that when people
consider risky propositions, they are especially concerned about
the downside. Roughly speaking, people weigh losses about twice
as heavily as gains, a phenomenon called “loss aversion.”  So if we really want to encourage risk takers and job
creators, we should concentrate on what will happen to them in
the all-too-likely event that their brilliant idea doesn’t pan
out and the new venture flops.  One might think that Romney, an expert on new businesses,
would be particularly insightful on this topic. But it turns out
that the most sensible thoughts I have heard on this issue were
not from him, another business executive, or an economist for
that matter. They  were from   Jon Stewart  on “The  Daily Show .”
Here is a portion of what Stewart said (profanity deleted) in a
recent  interview  with my  University of Chicago  colleague  Austan Goolsbee :  “What we need to do in this country is make it a softer
cushion for failure. Because what they say is the job creators
need more tax cuts and they need a bigger payoff on the risk
that they take. … But what about the risk of, you’re afraid to
leave your job and be an entrepreneur because that’s where your
health insurance is? … Why aren’t we able to sell this idea that
you don’t have to amplify the payoff of risk to gain success in
this country, you need to soften the damage of risk?”  This is exactly right. Someone who leaves a big company to
start her own business is bearing not only the risk of losing
all of her investment, but also her health insurance. One
benefit of health-care reform is that people will still be able
to get insurance while they are starting their new business, or
after it fails, even if they have a pre-existing condition.  The essence of Stewart’s idea goes to the heart of why our
economy is largely organized around limited-liability public
corporations. When successful entrepreneurs decide to take their
businesses public, they are selling some of the upside to other
shareholders in return for making sure that they can’t lose all
their wealth if something at the company goes wrong.  So-Called Reform  What about smaller startups that don’t begin their lives as
corporations? One thing that would help stimulate this sort of
business creation is making sure that a business bankruptcy is
not ruinous to the entrepreneur’s family. But the Republican-
sponsored bankruptcy “reform”  law of 2005  changed the rules in
the opposite direction. For someone who uses a  credit card  to
help open a bakery or landscaping business, this law raised the
cost of failure. Maybe this is what people mean by the phrase
“job-killing” legislation.  A more generous safety net, not just the continued access
to health insurance but also downside protections such as
 unemployment insurance , can stimulate  job creation  in another
way. The owners of many successful small businesses treat their
employees as if they were family members, and some actually are.
Such owners may be more reluctant to hire new employees if these
safety nets are not in place.  This brings us back to Jon Stewart’s point. Cutting taxes
on high-income earners is unlikely to be the most cost-effective
way of stimulating new business startups. If entrepreneurs who
hit it big have to pay the same tax rate on their  capital gains 
as on their ordinary income, they are unlikely to give up on
their dreams. When people are contemplating starting a new
enterprise, the last thing they are worried about is the tax
rate their heirs might have to pay if they die as billionaires.
But if they aren’t sure they can provide health insurance and a
home to live in for their family should they fail, they may play
it safe.  (Richard H. Thaler is a professor of behavioral science and
economics at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
He is the co-author, with Cass R. Sunstein, of “Nudge.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the  candidates’ tax plans
are converging  and on the  economics of immigration ;  Caroline
Baum  on the  economic and political landscapes in 2015 ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s way with words ;  Ezra Klein  on the  most
important issue in the presidential race ; Jonathan Mahler on
 Scott Fujita ’s  battle against the NFL ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  Obama
was wrong to trash the 1920s .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard H. Thaler at  Richard.thaler@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  