-- American Electric Profit Declines on Lower Demand
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-10-24T11:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/american-electric-profit-declines-on-lower-demand.html
American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , which
delivers electricity to more than 5 million customers in 11
states, said third-quarter profit fell 48 percent on customer
defections, storm clean-up costs and sluggish demand for
electricity.  Net income decreased to $487 million, or $1 a share, from
$928 million, or $1.92, a year earlier, as revenue fell 2.3
percent to $4.2 billion, Columbus, Ohio-based American Electric
said in a statement today. Excluding one-time costs, per-share
profit was 1 cent less than the  $1.03 average  of 15 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite some bright spots in the economy, particularly
related to shale gas development, the recovery is tenuous and
overall load growth in the regions where we operate is expected
to remain essentially flat,” Nicholas Akins, American
Electric’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  American Electric said results were hurt as utility
customers switched to rival power marketers in  Ohio , its largest
market. The company also spent $230 million restoring power to
1.4 million homes and business from  Indiana  to  Virginia  buffeted
by a rare storm system known as a derecho that produced gusts of
91 miles (146 kilometers) an hour on June 29.  “They should recover most of that amount,” Andrew Bischof, a Chicago-based equity analyst with Morningstar Inc.,
said in a telephone interview before earnings were announced.
“They’ll get future regulated returns on this through rates.”  Hot Summer  American Electric benefited from hot summer weather across
its service territory, as the number of cooling-degree days
during the quarter were 36 percent above average in the central
Midwest and 9 percent above average in southwestern states such
as Texas and  Oklahoma , Angie Storozynski, a New York City-based
utilities analyst with Macquarie Capital USA Inc., wrote in a
Oct. 16 note to clients.  Weather-related sales gains were tempered by falling demand
for electricity, which was caused by energy conservation efforts
and slow economic growth among American Electric’s industrial
customer base, Bischof said. Demand declined 1.3 percent from a
year earlier in the central U.S. and 4.1 percent in south-
central states, according to Storozynski.  American Electric owns nearly 39,000 megawatts of
generating capacity and the largest U.S. electricity
transmission system, the company said on its website.  The earnings were released before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. American Electric, which has 13 buy and 10 hold
 ratings  from analysts, fell 0.7 percent to $44.62 yesterday in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  