-- American Airlines Assails Sabre in Data-Business Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-10-25T18:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/american-airlines-assails-sabre-in-data-business-trial.html
(Corrects to replace dropped word from lawyer’s argument
in 23rd paragraph of story published yesterday.)  American Airlines  accused Sabre
Holdings Corp., the flight reservations and data business it
spun off 12 years ago, of trying to “crush new competition”
from its former parent as a trial began.  American, a unit of bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , alleges that a
Sabre unit doubled the fees charged the airline for displaying
its flight data while other Sabre entities organized a boycott
to punish the airline for trying to develop a new data and
reservations system. The  jury trial  started today in Fort Worth,
Texas.  “This is a story of how a very powerful company, in a
secret way, set out to crush new competition,” American
attorney Paul Yetter told the jury in his opening statement.  The lawyer said the airline has sustained $993 million in
damages as a result of Sabre’s acts.  “We cannot have fair competition in our state unless
juries like you enforce the law,” Yetter said.  Sabre lawyer Chris Lind told the jury of eight women and
four men that the parties were embroiled in a business dispute
that should have been resolved out of court.  “This is a commercial contract dispute,” he said of the
six-year-old disagreement between the companies, not an
antitrust case. “We’ll be asking you to reject American’s
claims,” Lind said.  The case before District Judge David  Cleveland  is part of a
broader dispute spurred by Fort Worth-based American’s push to
provide data directly to travel agents rather than going through
a company such as Sabre.  Sabre’s Business  Such businesses compile the information from airlines and
distribute it to travel agents. Some airlines want to use their
own technology to customize offerings for travelers and boost
revenue.  Sabre, created by American in 1960 and spun off in 2000,
operates the world’s largest such company, linking more than
350,000 travel agents to more than 400 airlines through its
 global distribution system , or GDS, according to its website. It
also runs the only bookings site Travelocity.  “Its GDS is and long has been the largest non-direct
source of bookings for American,” according to the airline’s
complaint. Travel agent sales of its plane tickets through
Sabre’s system accounted for more than $7.7 billion in revenue
for the carrier in 2010, it said.  Sabre, a closely held company based in Southlake,  Texas ,
countersued, accusing the carrier of antitrust violations and
breach of contract, according to American’s answer to Sabre’s
allegations and to court records. The document was submitted
under seal, as are most other Sabre filings in the case.  Earlier Ruling  Another judge, Don Cosby, on Sept. 17 denied Sabre’s motion
for partial judgment on its contract claim and granted judgment
in favor of American. Two days later, the GDS operator filed
additional motions seeking judgment on certain claims.  Nancy St. Pierre, a Sabre spokeswoman, declined by e-mail
to comment on the litigation.  The company has accused American in federal court of trying
to eliminate global distribution systems by refusing to furnish
them with complete fare information, forcing travel agents to
use the carrier’s nascent “Direct Connect” system.  American, in its heavily redacted complaint, accused Sabre
of “biasing” the carrier’s data, meaning that a travel agent
searching for a client’s preferred ticket pricing or flight
scheduling may not see American’s information on the first
screen of results no matter how closely it matches the search
parameters.  Cosby enjoined the practice by court order in January 2011.  Antitrust Claim  American has also accused Sabre of violating Texas
antitrust laws. The carrier in August won a federal judge’s
ruling blocking Sabre’s exit from the parallel federal case in
which the airline accused it and another GDS operator,
Travelport LP, of violating federal antitrust law.  “The judge did not say American’s claims were valid,” St.
Pierre said then, “only that American had made allegations
sufficient to meet the minimal pleading requirements of federal
court.”  Yetter told jurors today that Sabre had carried out an
aggressive campaign against the airline once the carrier began
rolling out its own booking service. He showed the jury e-mails
from Sabre executives in which they discussed how they would
“hurt” and “cripple” the carrier.  Corporate Clients  The reservation service contacted travel agencies and
longtime American corporate clients, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  urging them to shun American and its Direct Connect
system, Yetter said. Then, in late 2010 and early 2011, Sabre
began biasing search results against American data, he added.  In his own opening remarks, Lind said the biasing was
permitted under the parties’ 2006 contract. He also said America
used its market strength to obtain the lowest fee contract in
the industry from Sabre.  “These two companies negotiate very hard. They used to be
one company,” Lind said of the e-mails in the case. “Tough
talk does not make it a monopoly. It doesn’t make an anti-
competitive situation.”  Cosby was disqualified from presiding over the case on Oct.
22, at Sabre’s request.  The company cited the judge’s Oct. 16 disclosure that he
had learned a corporate affiliate of American recently donated
500 books to a charter school associated with a charity on whose
board he served and for which he was a past president.  Not Aware  No American employee involved in the donations was aware of
Cosby’s role with the charity, the carrier said in a court
filing opposing the Sabre motion. It also argued that a Sabre
attorney too had been associated with the organization.  Presiding Judge Jeff Walker ordered Cosby off the case and
he was replaced by Cleveland.  American is seeking money damages and a bar to the future
biasing of its data. It also asked for the right to decide what
information it provides to different GDS operators.  The two sides agreed to continue their 2006 contract, which
was due to expire last year, until 14 days after the jury
returns a verdict. Jury selection began on Oct. 9.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Sabre Inc.,
067-249214-10, Tarrant County, Texas, District Court for the
67th Judicial District.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in  Fort Worth , Texas, at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  