-- An Obama Re-Election Nightmare
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-10-24T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/an-obama-re-election-nightmare.html
It is April 2015. The cherry
blossoms are in full bloom in the nation’s capital, yet the
colorful display can’t dispel the cloud hanging over the city
and the country.  The skies are gray. The mood is gray. Even President  Barack Obama  is gray as he looks forward to the end of his second term.  Obama emerges from his portable-solar-panel-powered
limousine and is greeted by the chairman of his Bureau of Income
Equality. Despite his attempts to cap the difference between the
average salary of a company worker and the chief executive
officer, the gap between rich and middle class has only gotten
wider.  To address the problem, Obama’s Fish and Wildlife Service
declared the middle class an  endangered species . In order to
prevent this entire class of society from becoming extinct, FWS
designed thousands of spawning facilities and controlled living
environments where, with government assistance, the new middle
class would be allowed to thrive and prosper before being
reintroduced into society at large.  Following Obama’s victory in the 2012 presidential
election, Republican members of the  House of Representatives 
signed  Grover Norquist ’s pledge to do nothing about anything.
Representatives no longer show up in  Washington  to do the
people’s business on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday because
there is nothing to do. C-SPAN transmits videos of the empty
chamber, where occasionally a lawmaker can be found practicing
his oratorical skills so that he can find representation with
the  Washington Speakers Bureau  and cash in on the speaking
circuit when he retires from Congress.  Do-Nothing Congress  Meanwhile, the Senate hasn’t passed a budget in more than
five years.  Continuing resolutions  to fund the government are
rolled over every few months, leading to the
institutionalization of the permanent continuing resolution. The
relative ease of voting “yea” or “nay” on existing
appropriations has some lawmakers questioning why a budget
process was ever necessary in the first place.  The  U.S. economy  is still limping along, the reasons for
which are a point of contention between Democrats and
Republicans. Former Obama economic adviser  Christina Romer 
regularly  defends the 2009 fiscal stimulus , providing a running
tally of “jobs created or saved.” Princeton University
economist  Paul Krugman  reminds us he was right all along when he
said the $831 billion package was too small. The Nobel laureate
recently relocated to  Sweden , where he preaches the Keynesian
gospel to an audience more receptive to European-style
capitalism.  At the  Federal Reserve ,  Ben Bernanke  returned to Princeton
when his second term as chairman ended in January 2014. In
announcing his decision, Bernanke said he was “excited by the
opportunity” to revise his  2001 book on inflation targeting .
The working title for the new edition is, “Inflation Targeting:
Double the Fun (and Twice the Work) Under a Dual Mandate.” The
former Fed chief has embarked on a project to determine why
econometric models work so well in the classroom and fail so
miserably in the real world.  Obama appointed Fed Governor  Janet Yellen  to succeed
Bernanke, giving him the opportunity to tout “the first woman
to lead the U.S. central bank in its 100-year history.” The
president said he welcomed the Fed’s efforts to accommodate her
request for flextime scheduling.  Yellen, one of the more dovish governors, didn’t change her
feathers when she slipped into the chairman’s seat. She
continued to expand the Fed’s  balance sheet  and, in a move that
caught financial markets by surprise, altered the  forward
guidance . At the conclusion of Yellen’s first meeting as
chairman in March 2014, the Fed said it expected to hold the
funds rate near zero “at least through the end of the decade.”  Tangible Target  The change had no discernible effect on the public’s
behavior. After months of study, the Fed’s Permanent Committee
on Communication determined that the forward guidance was
hypnotizing animal spirits instead of awakening them. Housing
experts explained that it’s the threat, or reality, of rising
 mortgage rates  that nudges potential  homebuyers  off the fence.  Armed with new insights, the Fed decided to abandon the
time-frame guidance and insert a tangible target in its
 statement  for the first time. (The Permanent Committee was
disbanded until further notice.) At the Fed’s March 11, 2015,
meeting, the central bank said it “anticipates that
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate are likely
to be warranted until there’s a Republican in the White House.”  Financial markets didn’t know what to make of it, but the
shift introduced some volatility -- and wider bid-ask spreads --
for  banks struggling to make a profit  in a low-interest-rate
environment. The ban on proprietary trading, which regulators
are still struggling to define, removed a major source of
revenue. At the same time, slow growth has kept loan demand in
check.  Under pressure to boost earnings, banks found a way to
exploit a loophole in the Dodd-Frank law and create a newfangled
product: the reverse reverse mortgage with an inverse floater
attached. Actor Fred Thompson has been hired to  promote the
product  on TV but is reportedly struggling to simplify his pitch
for the octogenarian set.  That was as much of fantasy-land 2015 as I could handle.
Eager to move on, I grabbed my Magic 8 Ball and asked about the
outcome of the 2016 presidential race.  “Reply hazy. Ask again later.”  Maybe it’s just as well.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the  candidates’ tax plans
are converging  and on the  economics of immigration ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s way with words ;  Ezra Klein  on the  most
important issue in the presidential race ; Jonathan Mahler on
 Scott Fujita ’s  battle against the NFL ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  Obama
was wrong to trash the 1920s ;  Richard Thaler  on why
entrepreneurs aren’t thinking about  tax rates .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  