-- ANZ Bank’s Record Profit Misses Estimates on Lower Rates
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-10-24T23:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/anz-bank-s-record-profit-misses-estimates-on-lower-rates-1-.html
Australia  &  New Zealand  Banking
Group Ltd., Australia’s third-largest bank by market value,
missed analyst estimates as lower  interest rates  eroded the
profitability of its lending business.  Net income in the 12 months ended Sept. 30 rose 6 percent
to a record A$5.66 billion ($5.86 billion), Melbourne-based ANZ
Bank said in a statement today. That fell short of the lowest of
11 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, where the average
expectation was for earnings of A$5.96 billion.  “The post-GFC lower growth business environment will be
with us for the foreseeable future,” ANZ Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Smith  said in a statement. “The operating
environment in 2013 looks more challenging with stronger
headwinds in a number of areas.”  ANZ Bank, the most Asia-focused of Australia’s four largest
lenders, is courting savings and demand for credit in the
region’s  emerging markets  as loan growth at home slows. Return
on equity, the key measure of profitability for banks, fell 60
basis points to 15.6 percent as ANZ Bank raised capital levels
for regulatory reasons and interest rates fell.  Net interest margin excluding Global Markets declined 3
basis points from the end of the first half, reflecting
increased funding costs from deposits, the bank said.  ANZ Bank  shares  declined 1.1 percent to A$25.32 at 10:25
a.m. in Sydney trading, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
was little changed.  The proportion of revenue generated outside of Australia
and New Zealand rose to 21 percent, against a target of 20
percent the bank has set for this fiscal year.  Asian Presence  “The differentiation of the Asian presence is a
‘strategic’ advantage for ANZ,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
 Scott Manning  wrote in an Oct. 12 note to clients, “although we
are relatively less bullish on the profitability of this growth
channel.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia this month cut the nation’s
benchmark borrowing cost to 3.25 percent, the lowest level since
2009, to help revive spending and underpin housing.  Deposits grew 12 percent while loans climbed 8 percent,
after adjustments for currency effects, ANZ Bank said. Smith in
August said he’d freeze his pay for another year in 2013 as
competition for customer deposits pushes up costs.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the worst performer among
Australia’s four biggest lenders, last week set aside an extra
A$250 million for loans that might sour after cutting economic
expectations at home and in the U.K., where it owns Clydesdale
Bank. ANZ Bank cut impairment provisioning A$335 million, or 7
percent, from a year earlier, the company said.  ‘Ripple Effects’  Shares in ANZ bank have climbed 23 percent this year.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  has advanced 16 percent, NAB 11
percent and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  26 percent. The S&P/ASX 200
index has risen 11 percent in the same period.  “There’s no question the global economy is softening,”
Smith said in an investor webcast today. “The ripple effects of
the chronically weak Europe are becoming more and more
apparent.”  The recovery in the  U.S. economy  was “painfully slow,” he
said, and a softening economic outlook in 2013 meant that the
bank expects to set more money aside for asset price drops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  