-- Marfrig Plans $543 Mln Share Sale After Debt Hits Record
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-10-24T12:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/marfrig-plans-543-mln-share-sale-after-debt-hits-record.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , Brazil’s
second-largest food company, plans to raise about 1.1 billion
reais ($543 million) in new shares and boost capital by a third
after  debt  surged to a record. Shares tumbled.  The sale may be increased by 35 percent in offers of
additional and supplementary shares, Sao Paulo-based Marfrig
said in a statement today. Proceeds will be used to “strengthen
the  capital structure ,” the company said.  Marfrig follows meatpacker  Minerva (BEEF3)  SA in selling shares to
cut debt after costs increased. Prices for soybeans and corn,
which Marfrig uses to feed its chickens and swine, have soared
this year after the worst drought in the U.S. in half a century
prompted concern demand growth will outpace supplies. Soybean
futures in  Chicago  are up 28 percent this year, while corn has
risen 17 percent.  Net debt jumped to a record 9.3 billion reais at the end of
the third quarter, after almost tripling in the past two years,
Marfrig said in a separate filing today.  Marfrig dropped 3.9 percent to 10.04 reais at 10:46 a.m. in
 Sao Paulo , after falling to 9.81 reais earlier, the lowest since
Aug. 13. The shares led losses on the benchmark Bovespa index,
which was up 0.1 percent.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization of 549.8 million reais surpassed the 435.8 million
reais expected by analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Marfrig reported net income of 10.4 million reais,
compared with a loss of 54 million reais expected by analysts,
after losses stemming from a currency drop weren’t repeated.  Other Sales  The company led by founder and Chief Executive Officer
Marcos Antonio Molina is the country’s fifteenth share sale this
year following Minerva,  Fibria Celulose SA (FBR)  and Banco BTG Pactual
SA.  Marfrig said shareholder BNDES, Brazil’s development bank,
has agreed to convert as much as a third of its Marfrig bonds
into equity as part of the offering, provided that the sale is
held by Feb. 6. BNDES holds 13.94 percent of Marfrig.  BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3)  is the country’s largest food
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  