-- Markit Index of Manufacturing in U.S. Rose to 51.3 in October
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-24T12:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/markit-index-of-manufacturing-in-u-s-rose-to-51-3-in-october.html
The Markit Economics preliminary
 index  of U.S. manufacturing rose to 51.3 in October from a final
reading of 51.1 a month earlier, the London-based group said
today.  A reading of 50 in the purchasing managers’ measure is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists was 51.5. Estimates
ranged from 50.5 to 52.1.  Sustained auto sales and rising demand for homebuilder
materials may be helping sustain manufacturing in the face of
limited export demand as the global economy cools. Looming
changes to U.S. fiscal policy continue to weigh on the industry
as more than $600 billion in federal spending cuts and tax
increases are scheduled to take effect in January unless
Congress acts.  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing and services contracted
more than economists forecast in October, suggesting the economy
may struggle to regain strength.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area decreased to 45.8,
the lowest in more than three years, from 46.1 in September,
Markit said.  Another survey today showed a Chinese manufacturing index
climbed in in October. The preliminary reading was 49.1 for a
 China  purchasing managers’ index by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit, compared with a final level of 47.9 last month.  The Markit gauge of U.S. manufacturing debuted in May. The
company surveys purchasing managers in more than 30 countries
and regions, including Europe and China.  Markit’s preliminary purchasers figure is based on replies
from about 85 percent to 90 percent of those American
manufacturers who respond to the poll of the more than 600
companies surveyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  