-- Armstrong Faces $200 Million Salary Loss With Reputation Hit
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n ,   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-10-24T16:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/armstrong-faces-200-million-salary-loss-with-reputation-ruined.html
Lance Armstrong may lose as much as
$200 million in future earning potential, more than the wealth
he accumulated in a championship cycling career now gutted by
revelations of doping.  Two days after he was officially stripped of a record seven
Tour de France titles, Armstrong faces demands that he repay up
to $16 million in purses and bonuses from those victories.  Lost earnings potential far outpaces that, said sports
marketing analysts. With a net worth estimated by Forbes at $125
million, the 41-year-old American would have had a prosperous
future as an endorser and motivational speaker had the evidence
gathered by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency not surfaced, according
to Patrick Rishe, an economics professor at Webster University
in St. Louis.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and his other sponsors deserted him
after USADA’s report.  “To think that he would be able to make $15-$20 million
annually over the next 10 years is not out of the question,”
Rishe said in a telephone interview yesterday. “That puts his
loss in potential future earnings at between $150-$200
million.”  The French cycling federation, which distributes Tour de
France prize money on behalf of the race organizer, the Amaury
Sport Organization, said yesterday it plans to cooperate with
the family-owned company to reclaim the $3.8 million (2.95
million euros) it estimates Armstrong won during his career. SCA
Promotions Inc., which insured bonuses Armstrong received for
winning the race from 2002 through 2004, said two days ago it
will seek almost $12 million.  Income Increase  Armstrong earned $17.5 million in endorsement and speaking
fees in 2005, when he won his last Tour de  France , Sports
Illustrated reported. That number grew to $21 million in 2010,
Forbes said. The revenue gain as his career declined is an
indication that Armstrong, who survived cancer and started the
Livestrong foundation that has pumped what it says is more than
$470 million into helping others with the disease, would have
remained a potent corporate spokesman and health advocate.  “But for these doping allegations, which now have been
corroborated by USADA’s report, he would have always been a
cancer survivor and his story would have always been
motivational and inspiring,” Rishe said.  That career is in the past.  “I can’t imagine anyone being able to make a positive out
of a relationship with him at this point,” Jim Andrews, senior
vice president of content strategy at IEG, a sponsorship
consultant, said in a telephone interview.  First Time  Pauline Juliard, a spokeswoman for the French cycling
federation, said in a telephone interview that the group hadn’t
begun proceedings to try to recoup money paid to Armstrong. It
would be the first time they have asked for money back from a
rider, she said.  Armstrong sued SCA for failing to pay his $5 million 2004
bonus. The company settled the case, paying Armstrong that money
and $2.5 million in interest and court costs. SCA will work
quickly to try to regain almost $12 million from Armstrong, said
Jeffrey Tillotson, an attorney for the company.  “If you have a claim, you want to pursue it as quickly and
vigorously as possible, particularly if there may be other
claimants,” Tillotson said in a telephone interview.  Lawsuits could arise from either side, though they aren’t
very likely, analysts said.  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) , whose Oakley brand was the last major
sponsor to drop Armstrong, won’t try to recoup money paid to the
cyclist, said company spokeswoman Cheri Quigley.  ‘Rebuild Cycling’  “We are deeply saddened by the situation, especially given
our longstanding relationship, but we feel it is best for all
involved to move on and collectively spend our energy rebuilding
the sport of cycling,” Quigley, who declined to discuss
financial details of Armstrong’s contract, said in an e-mail.  That’s the approach Armstrong’s other former major sponsors
probably will take, according to  Paul Swinand , an equity analyst
who covers Nike for Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . It’s in Nike’s
best interest to focus on public perception by further
distancing itself from the Texan instead of pursuing more
action, said Swinand, who also covers Adidas AG, Under Armour
Inc. and Luxottica.  “Whether you’re Nike, Anheuser-Busch, Oakley, you want to
have as little noise about this as possible,” Swinand said in a
telephone interview. “You don’t want more scabs ripped off.”  Nike ended contracts with quarterback Michael Vick
following his conviction for crimes related to dog fighting and
with sprinter Marion Jones after a doping confession. It
maintained contracts with basketball player Kobe Bryant and
golfer Tiger Woods following acknowledgments of adultery.  Nike Stock  Swinand, 45, was a semiprofessional cyclist in France in
1989-90. He said he owns no Nike shares and currently rates the
stock at three-stars, a rough equivalent to a “hold.”  An e-mail to Tim Herman, Armstrong’s attorney, seeking
comment about the French cycling federation’s plans, SCA and
Armstrong’s endorsement deals wasn’t immediately returned.  Among Armstrong’s other former sponsors, Nike spokeswoman
Mary Remuzzi,  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  spokesman Eric Bruner, Honey
Stinger Marketing Director Len Zanni, and Mark Riedy, a
spokesman for Easton Bell Sports which makes Giro helmets and
gloves, said their companies had nothing further to add to
previous statements ending relationships with Armstrong.  Phillip  Cleveland , a spokesman for  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV (ABI) ’s Michelob Ultra beer; Eric Bjorling, a spokesman for Trek
Bicycle Corp.; Carli LaForgia, a spokeswoman for FRS Co.; and
David Zimberoff, a spokesman for Sram International Corp.,
didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  USADA Report  USADA released a 202-page summary of its investigation of
Armstrong on Oct. 10, saying his cycling career was “fueled
from start to finish by doping.” Nike became the first sponsor
to cut ties with Armstrong on Oct. 17, shortly after he stepped
down as Livestrong’s chairman, and the International Cycling
Union said two days ago that it would not appeal USADA’s
findings.  Armstrong would have a difficult time seeking payment from
the companies because of the breadth of the USADA evidence and
because most endorsement deals have moral turpitude clauses that
free sponsors if athletes break the law or negatively affect the
sponsor’s public image, according to Daniel Lazaroff, director
of the Sports Law Institute at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles.  “Companies will want to get out of these high-paying
contracts if the asset has lost its value,” Lazaroff said in a
telephone interview.  Lazaroff said he’d be surprised if Nike tried to get its
money back from Armstrong “after all, he provided value for
them.”  Past Strategy  Armstrong has sued those he felt lied or otherwise wronged
him in the past, and he’ll have to re-examine whether that’s a
sound strategy now, said  Marc Mukasey , a partner with Bracewell
& Giuliani LLP’s White Collar Criminal Defense and Special
Investigations practice in New York.  “I imagine that the legal fees are going to cost him a
pretty penny,” Mukasey said in a telephone interview.
“Virtually anybody who ever paid him anything, certainly with
some sort of moral turpitude clause in it, is going to try to
recoup. I would guess that he will be in contractual litigation
for a long time.”  Armstrong has denied ever doping and says he’s never failed
a drug test. Any acknowledgement of drug use now is complicated
by the fact that in the original SCA dispute he testified under
oath that he had never doped.  Boxed-In  “To say under oath that you never used performance-
enhancing drugs, that makes a subsequent admission and apology
that much more difficult,” said Mukasey, who has no involvement
in Armstrong’s legal representation. “From a legal perspective,
once you box yourself in like that, you better be committed to
that story or have a really good excuse as to why you were
mistaken or delusional at the time you gave that answer.”  While there remain people who believe Armstrong is
innocent, it won’t mean a return to sponsorships, said Paul Swangard, managing director of the Warsaw Sports Marketing
Center at the University of Oregon.  “I see him as tainted goods,” Swangard said last week in
a telephone interview. “There are plenty of ways to reach your
target consumer and Lance just isn’t one of them anymore.”  NKE US <equity>
RSH US <equity>
LUX IM <equity>
ABI BB <equity>  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  