-- Arsenal to Miss Llorente, Juve Wants Walcott: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-24T10:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/arsenal-to-miss-out-on-llorente-as-juve-targets-walcott-roundup.html
(Corrects Llorente’s team in second paragraph.)  The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Gunners to Miss Out  Arsenal is set to be beaten to the signature of Athletic
Bilbao striker Fernando Llorente by Juventus, which will also
try to acquire Gunners forward Theo Walcott, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  Llorente is said to have been offered a provisional
contract of 145,000 pounds ($225,000) a week by Juventus, which
has been monitoring Walcott since learning that his contract
negotiations with Arsenal have stalled, the newspaper added.  Mikel Extension  Chelsea is ready to give midfielder John Obi Mikel a new
five-year contract with a salary raise, the  Sun reported .  “The club agrees with us he deserves a new and improved
contract,” the Sun cited Mikel’s agent, John Shittu, as saying.
“He has a year left and Chelsea have decided to add four more
years to it.”  Goal-line Technology  England’s Premier League is pushing ahead with its 6
million-pound drive to install goal-line technology for the
start of next season, the  Independent reported .  FIFA yesterday granted the companies that developed the
Hawk-Eye and GoalRef systems licenses to install them worldwide,
the newspaper added. It is said to cost about 300,000 pounds per
stadium to install a system and all 20 Premier League clubs will
have to have the technology operational by August, the
Independent added.  Racist-Abuse Sanctions  The Football Association will review the sanctions applied
to racist abuse following high-profile protests from some
players about the four-match ban handed to John Terry, the
 Guardian reported .  FA Chairman David Bernstein defended Terry’s sanction under
the current rules, though said the tariffs and processes would
be reviewed, the newspaper added. The review will probably
establish a minimum sanction, the Guardian said.  Friedel to Retire?  Tottenham goalkeeper Brad Friedel is considering retiring
at the end of this season when his contract runs out, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Friedel, 41, is undecided over whether to sign a new deal,
seek media work or start a coaching career, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  