-- Las Vegas Home Water Rates May Rise for Third Lake Mead Pipeline
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-24T20:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/las-vegas-home-water-rates-may-rise-for-third-lake-mead-pipeline.html
The Southern Nevada Water Authority,
which supplies water to  Las Vegas , may raise household bills by
a “minor” amount more to help pay for a third pipeline to Lake
Mead, said Patricia Mulroy, general manager for the authority.  “We are open to letting customers re-examine what we did
with rates,” Mulroy said today during an interview at the
Bloomberg New Energy Finance Water Leadership Forum in Del Mar,
 California . The pipeline, needed due to falling lake levels, is
estimated to cost at least $800 million.  The Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce has said businesses were
being asked to pay a disproportionally higher rate that could
hurt the local economy, already suffering in the economic
downturn. Typical residences would have a monthly increase of
about $5 while bigger clients such as resorts face increases of
$2,200 a month, according to the authority’s website.  The authority approved a $90 million rate increase in
February to pay for debt and  capital spending  needed for
infrastructure projects as the region grapples with a 13-year
drought, Mulroy said. Customers are in agreement on the
total amount that needs to be collected, Mulroy said.  “It gets down to who pays,” she said on the last day of
the two-day water forum. “It will have to be a tradeoff and
there could be minor tweaks around the edges as the residential
component could go up with the commercial rates going down”
more.  The new pipeline to augment two others into Lake Mead is
needed as the drought is causing water levels to sink below the
level of an existing line that supplies 40 percent of Las Vegas,
Mulroy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Diego  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  