-- Mashreq’s Al Ghurair Fears U.A.E. Banks Becoming Over-Regulated
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-10-24T07:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/mashreq-s-al-ghurair-fears-u-a-e-banks-becoming-over-regulated.html
Banks in the United Arab Emirates
risk becoming over-regulated amid tightening central bank rules
that may hurt economic growth, said Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair, chief
executive officer of  Mashreqbank PSC. (MASQ)   Lenders in the country plan to introduce a code of conduct
next year to help banks regulate themselves and “to avoid over-
regulation,” Al Ghurair, who is also the chairman of the Dubai
International Financial Authority and head of the Emirates Banks
Association, said in an interview yesterday.  “Banks are concerned the central bank is imposing too many
regulations,” he said. “If the trend continues, we’ll swing to
heavy regulation. We need to have balanced regulation to
encourage the economy.”  The U.A.E. has the lowest loan growth in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council this year as central bank rules
restrict lending to the government and cap personal and retail
credit. Loans and advances from banks in the second-largest Arab
economy grew 2.7 percent in the first eight months of the year,
on average, down from an average of 3 percent in 2011, according
to central bank data.  Many lenders in the U.A.E. are still reeling from the
fallout of debt restructurings by state-owned businesses
including Dubai World Ltd., which shook global markets in 2009
with its request to delay $25 billion of debt payments. Banks
also suffered as Dubai property prices slumped more than 65
percent at the height of the financial crisis and many
homeowners skipped mortgage payments.  Al Ghurair said the local banking industry is starting to
“bounce back nicely” after the downturn as retail sales, trade
and construction pick up. Mashreqbank’s revenue will grow faster
year-on-year in 2012 than it has done for the past four years,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  