-- Aspirin Helps Colon Cancer Patients With DNA Defect
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/aspirin-helps-colon-cancer-patients-with-dna-defect.html
Regular use of aspirin may keep
colon cancer from killing patients whose tumors contain a
specific gene defect, according to a study that shows how modern
gene science can guide use of old drugs.  Previous studies have suggested that regular aspirin use
may help keep the disease from spreading. The new data,
published in the  New England Journal of Medicine , identifies a
gene variation linked to the protective effect of aspirin.  Cancer researchers have been using gene tests to select
patients likely to benefit from new medicines that target
mutations driving tumor growth. The study released yesterday
from researchers at Harvard Medical School and  Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute  shows the DNA test method can uncover the
potential of other drugs to fight cancer.  “The data are very strong,” said  Boris Pasche , chief of
hematology and oncology at the University of  Alabama  at
Birmingham, who wrote an editorial accompanying the study, in a
telephone interview. “It would be a big deal if these numbers
are confirmed.”  Researchers examined tumors from 964 previously treated
colon cancer patients and found that the protective effect of
aspirin was limited to those whose tumors had a gene defect
called PIK3CA.  If it holds up, the finding may lead to a gene test that
would allow oncologists to recommend aspirin to only those colon
cancer patients likely to benefit from it, Pasche said. Colon
cancer patients without the gene defect could avoid being
exposed to aspirin’s  possible side effects  including internal
bleeding.  Study Data  Just 3 percent of colon cancer patients with the tumor
mutation who regularly took aspirin died from the disease within
five years of being diagnosed, compared with 26 percent of those
with the mutation who didn’t regularly use aspirin, according to
the new findings. Patients without the mutation gained no cancer
survival benefit from aspirin, according to the results.  Pasche compared aspirin’s benefit in colon cancer patients
with the mutation to the effect of the breast cancer drug
 Herceptin  from Roche Holding AG. Herceptin helps extend the
lives of about 20 percent of breast cancer patients with a
particular gene defect that drives tumor growth.  Unlike the rigorous trials that led to regulatory approval
of Herceptin for breast cancer, the link found with aspirin and
the colon cancer gene isn’t definitive and must be confirmed in
larger studies, Pasche said. The new study contained only 66
patients who took aspirin and had the tumor mutation that
predicted the medicine’s benefit.  Earlier Findings  The study builds on a  2009 analysis  that looked at 1,279
men and women with colon cancer participating in the Health
Professionals Follow-up Study or the Nurses’ Health Study, said
 Shuji Ogino , a molecular pathological epidemiologist at Harvard
Medical School and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and senior
author on the new study. The 2009 finding, published by Ogino
and others in the Journal of the American Medical Association,
found that colon cancer patients who took aspirin had a 29
percent lower risk of death from the disease.  Following that result, Ogino and his colleagues tried to
see whether genetic testing could pluck out a subset of
colorectal cancer patients most likely to benefit from aspirin.
They obtained genetic data from old tumor samples from 964
colorectal patients in the two epidemiology studies, leading to
the finding that aspirin may help only those cancer patients
with the PIK3CA mutation.  Roughly 20 percent of colon cancer patients have mutations
in the PIK3CA gene, Ogino said.  The difference in aspirin benefit in patients with the
mutation “is quite striking” Ogino said. “This is by far the
best marker we have found for prediction of response to
aspirin.”  Exactly how the aspirin may help colon patients with the
growth-promoting gene mutation is not clear. One possible
explanation is that the enzyme called cyclooxygenase-2 blocked
by aspirin may interfere with growth-promoting signals produced
by the mutant PIK3CA gene, Ogino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  