-- Australian Inflation Accelerates, Paring RBA Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-24T01:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/australian-core-inflation-accelerates-boosting-local-currency.html
Australian consumer prices gained
more than economists forecast last quarter, sending the nation’s
currency higher as investors pared bets the central bank will
cut interest rates.  The trimmed mean gauge of core prices rose 0.7 percent from
the previous quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today, compared with the median forecast of 26 economists for a
0.6 percent gain. The consumer price index advanced 1.4 percent
from the previous three months, compared with a forecast 1
percent increase.  Traders priced in a 77 percent chance of a rate reduction
Nov. 6, down from 95 percent yesterday, swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg showed after the figures were released. Reserve Bank
of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens lowered borrowing costs in
May and June as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatened global growth
and  China ’s economy slowed, and again this month.  “There’s still a risk of inflation, although people seem
to think the inflation genie has been killed,” Warwick McKibbin, a former member of the RBA’s board, said at a
Citigroup Inc. conference in Sydney today. “There is still a
very strong inflationary impulse inside the Australian economy
and that’s something that the central bank needs to worry
about.”  Currency Reaction  The nation’s currency advanced, buying $1.0290 at 12:16
p.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0274 immediately before the
report.  Today’s report showed a 3.2 percent increase in the cost of
housing, which is the biggest component of the index. It showed
electricity prices surged 15.3 percent in the period.  Median weekly rents for houses rose 1.6 percent and
apartments climbed 0.2 percent in the three months ended Sept.
30, according to Sydney-based researcher Australian Property
Monitors. Australia also started charging its largest polluters
for carbon emissions on July 1 as the nation aims to meet its
target of a 5 percent cut in emissions from 2000 levels by 2020.  The cost of food and non-alcoholic drinks, which at 16.8
percent is the second-biggest component in the consumer-price
basket, advanced 1.9 percent, the report showed.  Food Prices  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest retailer, posted the
fastest first-quarter sales growth from supermarkets open at
least a year since 2009 as promotions and higher food prices
drove revenue. Growth was helped by a return of food inflation,
after three consecutive quarters of declining prices, Grant
O’Brien, Woolworths chief executive officer, said in an Oct. 18
analyst briefing.  The cost of transport, which includes motor vehicles and
automotive fuel and accounts for 11.6 percent of the basket,
fell 0.8 percent, the report showed, as automotive fuel dropped
3.9 percent.  The weighted-median  gauge  of inflation, another core
measure that excludes the largest price increases and declines,
advanced 0.8 percent in the third quarter, compared with
economists’ estimates for a 0.6 percent gain. That nudged the
annual rate to 2.6 percent versus a forecast 2.2 percent rise.  On an annual basis, the trimmed mean gauge advanced 2.4
percent, compared with economists’ forecasts for a 2.2 percent
increase.  RBA Target  That lifted average core inflation to 2.5 percent on an
annual basis, in the middle of the central bank’s target range
of 2 percent to 3 percent.  The CPI increased 2 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, compared with economists’ forecast a 1.6 percent
increase, today’s report showed.  The statistics bureau released a seasonally adjusted
consumer price index that showed a 1.2 percent increase last
quarter, for an annual gain of 2 percent.  The RBA said in minutes of its October meeting last week
that it saw signs the pace of global growth had “edged down.”  The board observed “that the outlook for inflation was
consistent with” the 2 percent to 3 percent target range over
the next one to two years, the minutes showed.  Even after this month’s rate cut, Stevens has among the
most monetary firepower among major developed economies.
Benchmark rates are near zero in the U.S. and  Japan , 0.5 percent
in the U.K., 0.75 percent in the euro area, 1 percent in  Canada 
and 2.5 percent in New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  