-- Wallabies Pick Pocock, Omit Higginbotham for European Rugby Tour
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-24T23:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/australia-names-30-man-squad-for-rugby-union-tour-to-europe.html
Australia picked rookie prop Paddy
Ryan in a 30-man rugby squad to tour Europe next month, when
flanker  David Pocock  will make his return from a knee injury.
Fellow back-rower  Scott Higginbotham  was omitted.  Ryan, 24, is the only uncapped player on a roster featuring
seven first-year Wallabies. Hooker Stephen Moore and utility
back Berrick Barnes were included after recovering from
hamstring and lung injuries, respectively.  Openside flanker Pocock returns after missing the past 10
weeks because of damaged knee cartilage. Higginbotham was left
out following his suspension for the first two matches of the
four-Test schedule, which will have a bearing on Australia’s
seeding for the 2015 Rugby World Cup.  “To have included Scott within the 30 would have created
an additional challenge in terms of selection for the opening
two matches which would have compromised the group,” Wallabies
coach  Robbie Deans  said in an e-mailed statement. “Scott was
aware once he was suspended that this was a possibility.”  Higginbotham, who was banned for two games for kneeing and
head-butting New Zealand captain Richie McCaw in the teams’ 18-
18 draw five days ago, will be on stand-by to join the tour in
case of any injuries.  Winger  Digby Ioane  is available after missing the match
against New Zealand, as are forwards Sekope Kepu and Sitaleki
Timani, who got injured during the draw in Brisbane.  The Wallabies, the No. 2 team behind the All Blacks in the
International Rugby Board rankings, open their tour Nov. 10
against France in Paris before facing England, Italy and Wales
on successive Saturdays.  Australia faces three of the four teams ranked immediately
below it in the  IRB standings . The rankings as of Dec. 3 will be
used to band the 12 automatic qualifiers in the draw for the
2015 World Cup in England. The first four will be allocated to
the top line in each of the four five-team groups at the 20-
nation tournament.  WALLABIES SQUAD: Ben Alexander, Adam Ashley-Cooper,  Berrick
Barnes , Kurtley Beale, Nick Cummins,  Dave Dennis , Kane Douglas,
Anthony Fainga’a, Liam Gill, James Hanson, Mike Harris, Michael
Hooper, Digby Ioane, Sekope Kepu, Pat McCabe, Drew Mitchell,
Stephen Moore,  Wycliff Palu , Nick Phipps, David Pocock, Tatafu
Polota-Nau,  Benn Robinson , Paddy Ryan, Radike Samo, Nathan
Sharpe, (captain), Brett Sheehan, Rob Simmons, James Slipper,
Ben Tapuai, Sitaleki Timani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  