-- BAE Tests Pirate-Hunting Ship Gun for Smaller Vessels
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-24T12:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bae-tests-pirate-hunting-ship-gun-for-smaller-vessels-correct-.html
(Corrects price guidance in second paragraph, spelling of
executive’s name throughout.)  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  is testing a naval
gun for smaller warships, a market that’s growing amid demand
from the  Middle East  and coast guards hunting pirates.  The Bofors 40 Mk4 system is about 40 percent lighter and
cheaper than an earlier model, and the 40 millimeter gun can be
used against helicopters and other airborne targets, as well as
ships, and can fire as many as 300 rounds a minute, said Ulf
Einefors, the company’s integrated systems director. The weapon
is built by BAE’s GCS Weapons business in Sweden.  The potential for smaller warships is outpacing that for
larger vessels, causing shipbuilders and suppliers to adapt
their offerings. Putting a large gun on smaller boats would
allow navies and coast guards to more effectively tackle pirates
and similar threats without a large warship, Einefors said.  “When you look at what is sold today it is largely patrol
vessels,” he said in a briefing at the Euronaval maritime
warfare conference in Le Bourget outside Paris.  The company plans a similar size and cost reduction on its
57 millimeter naval gun. The Swedish navy and FMV arms
procurement agency are working with BAE to sponsor at-sea trials
of the Mk4 gun on the HMS Jagare patrol boat next week. Once
trials are completed, the company would be ready to deliver
hardware to customers within 16 months, including the needed
certification phase, Einefors said.  The company has already begun talks with potential buyers.
Although Einefors would not name possible customers beyond
 Sweden  itself, he said a first contract should be in-hand early
next year.  “There are a number of markets we have not had traction
before such as in the Persian Gulf region,” he said. “This is
an interesting option for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  