-- Bank of America Sued by U.S. Over Mortgage Loan Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-10-24T17:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bank-of-america-sued-by-u-s-over-mortgage-loan-sales.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, sold defective residential
mortgage loans to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  that later
defaulted, the U.S. government said in a $1 billion fraud
lawsuit against the bank.  The U.S. Justice Department filed the complaint today in
 Manhattan  federal court, claiming the bank and its Countrywide
Financial unit generated thousands of defective mortgage loans
and sold them to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  The lawsuit is the first by the Justice Department to
allege fraud over mortgage loans sold to the two entities,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement
announcing the suit, which covers conduct from 2007 to 2009.
Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  “The fraudulent conduct alleged in today’s complaint was
spectacularly brazen,” Bharara said. “Through a program aptly
named ‘the Hustle,’ Countrywide and Bank of America made
disastrously bad loans and stuck taxpayers with the bill.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately return calls
and an e-mail seeking comment on the complaint.  The lawsuit is the sixth brought against a major U.S. bank
by the Justice Department in less than 18 months over what
Bharara called “reckless mortgage practices in the lead-up to
the financial crisis.”  Subprime Losses  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  The government said in the complaint that Bank of America
“systematically removed every check” in the issuance of
mortgages and then sold the “flawed” mortgages to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac. Both relied on Bank of America’s assurances
that the mortgages they purchased complied with their standards,
the U.S. said.  According to the complaint, Countrywide initiated “the
Hustle” in 2007 just as mortgage loan defaults were increasing
nationally and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were tightening their
loan purchasing standards to reduce risk. The Countrywide
program did just the opposite, the U.S. said.  “The goals of the Hustle were high speed and high volume,
where loans ‘move forward, never backward’ in the origination
process,” Bharara said in his statement. “To accomplish these
goals, the Hustle removed necessary quality control ‘toll gates’
that could slow down the origination process.”  Potential Losses  The suit increases the potential losses Bank of America
faces from its acquisition of Countrywide, whose lax lending
standards helped fuel the housing bubble. The bank has booked
more than $40 billion in costs tied to the takeover.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
53, is already engaged in disputes with Fannie Mae over who must
pay for billions of dollars in failed loans made before and
during the financial crisis. The bank had $12.3 billion in
unresolved demands for loan refunds from the so-called
government-sponsored enterprises as of Sept. 30, a 12 percent
increase from the previous quarter.  Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac are both under pressure to minimize the scale of
their U.S. taxpayer bailouts. The firms, which buy mortgages
from lenders and package them into securities for sale to
investors, have collectively drawn more than $180 billion in
taxpayer funds.  ‘Reprehensible’ Conduct  Steven Linick, the inspector general of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , said in the statement announcing the suit that
Bank of America’s conduct was “reprehensible.”  Earlier this month, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. lender,
over defective mortgage loans, a suit he said would act as a
template for other such cases. The bank has denied wrongdoing.  Last year, Bank of America, JPMorgan and Citigroup were
among 17 lenders sued by the FHFA for allegedly misleading
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac over billions of dollars of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Today’s suit was brought under the federal False Claims
Act, which allows for triple damages. In announcing the case,
Bharara said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac losses totaled more than
$1 billion.  The case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  