-- Bank of America Sued by U.S. Over Mortgage Loan Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-10-25T22:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bank-of-america-sued-for-1-billion-by-u-s-over-mortgages-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, was accused by the federal
government in a $1 billion fraud lawsuit of selling defective
residential mortgage loans to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  that
later defaulted.  The U.S. Justice Department filed the complaint yesterday
in  Manhattan  federal court, claiming the bank and its
Countrywide Financial unit generated thousands of defective
loans and sold them to the two home-mortgage finance companies
now under government control.  “The fraudulent conduct alleged in yesterday’s complaint
was spectacularly brazen,” U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan said in a statement announcing the suit. “Through a
program aptly named ‘the Hustle,’ Countrywide and Bank of
America made disastrously bad loans and stuck taxpayers with the
bill.”  The lawsuit, which covers conduct from 2007 to 2009, is the
first by the Justice Department to allege fraud over mortgage
loans sold to the two entities, Bharara said. Bank of America,
which acquired Countrywide in 2008, was among 17 financial
institutions sued in September 2011 by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac’s regulator, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , over losses
on mortgage securities sold to the companies.  The Bank of America lawsuit is the sixth brought against a
major U.S. bank by the Justice Department in less than 18 months
over what Bharara called “reckless mortgage practices in the
lead-up to the financial crisis.”  Current Employees  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is overseeing the case,
today set a schedule that could result in a trial as early as
August 2013. In a pretrial conference in Manhattan, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Pierre Armand told Rakoff the government may amend
its complaint to add current and former Bank of America
employees to the case. Rakoff set Dec. 31 as the deadline for
doing so.  This month, the government sued  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
biggest mortgage lender and servicer, over claims the San
Francisco-based bank made reckless loans that caused losses for
a federal insurance program when they defaulted. The complaint
alleges misconduct over more than a decade related to the bank’s
participation in a Federal Housing Administration program and
follows similar cases against other lenders including  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DB)   First Action  A state and federal task force is investigating misconduct
in the bundling of mortgage loans into securities before the
housing bust. The group’s first legal action was this month,
when New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. lender, over defective mortgage
loans underlying securities, a suit he said would act as a
template for other such cases. The bank has denied wrongdoing.  “Bank of America has stepped up and acted responsibly to
resolve legacy mortgage matters,” Larry DiRita, a spokesman for
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The claim that we have failed to repurchase loans
from  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  is simply false. At some point, Bank of America
can’t be expected to compensate every entity that claims losses
that actually were caused by the economic downturn.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac losses totaled more than $1
billion, Bharara said. The Justice Department’s complaint was
brought under the federal False Claims Act, which allows for
triple damages.  ‘The Hustle’  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  The government said in the complaint that Bank of America
“systematically removed every check” in the issuance of
mortgages and then sold the “flawed” mortgages to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac. Both relied on Bank of America’s assurances
that the mortgages they purchased complied with their standards,
the U.S. said.  According to the complaint, Countrywide initiated “the
Hustle” in 2007 just as mortgage loan defaults were increasing
nationally and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were tightening their
loan purchasing standards to reduce risk. The Countrywide
program did just the opposite, the U.S. said.  “The goals of the Hustle were high speed and high volume,
where loans ‘move forward, never backward’ in the origination
process,” Bharara said in his statement. “To accomplish these
goals, the Hustle removed necessary quality control ‘toll gates’
that could slow down the origination process.”  Whistle-Blower Lawsuit  Also yesterday, a federal judge in Manhattan unsealed a so-
called whistle-blower lawsuit filed on Feb. 24 against Bank of
America over the same program. Edward O’Donnell, who worked at
Countrywide as an executive vice president, said in his
complaint that he “personally objected to the ‘Hustle’ on
numerous occasions” because it was leading to an increasing
number of early mortgage defaults.  O’Donnell’s concerns “were dismissed and his role
continued to be marginalized,” he said in his complaint.  David Wasinger, a lawyer for O’Donnell, didn’t respond to
phone and e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment on the
complaint.  O’Donnell lives in  Texas  and worked at Countrywide from
2003 to 2009, according to his complaint. The statute allows
citizens to file complaints on behalf of the government and
share in the recovery.  Housing Bubble  The U.S. lawsuit increases the potential losses Bank of
America faces from its acquisition of Countrywide, whose lax
lending standards helped fuel the housing bubble. The bank has
booked more than $40 billion in costs tied to the takeover.  Bank of America  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
53, is already engaged in disputes with Fannie Mae over who must
pay for billions of dollars in failed loans made before and
during the financial crisis. The bank had $12.3 billion in
unresolved demands for loan refunds from the so-called
government-sponsored enterprises as of Sept. 30, a 12 percent
increase from the previous quarter.  Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac are both under pressure to minimize the scale of
their U.S. taxpayer bailouts. The firms, which buy mortgages
from lenders and package them into securities for sale to
investors, have collectively drawn more than $180 billion in
taxpayer funds.  Steven Linick, the inspector general of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, said in the statement announcing the suit that
Bank of America’s conduct was “reprehensible.”  The case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). O’Donnell’s
suit is U.S. ex rel. Edward O’Donnell v. Bank of America, 12-
cv-1433, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  