-- Bank of Canada's October Monetary Policy Report Summary (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-24T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bank-of-canada-s-october-monetary-policy-report-summary-text-.html
Following is the text of the summary
of the Bank of  Canada ’s Monetary Policy Report, released today in
Ottawa.  The global economy has unfolded broadly as the
Bank projected in July. The economic expansion in the  United
States  is progressing at a gradual pace. Europe is in recession
and recent indicators point to a continued contraction. In  China 
and other major emerging economies, growth has slowed somewhat
more than expected, though there are signs of stabilization
around current growth rates. Notwithstanding the slowdown in
global economic activity, prices for oil and other commodities
produced in Canada have, on average, increased in recent months.
Global financial conditions have improved, supported by
aggressive policy actions of major central banks, but sentiment
remains fragile.  In Canada, while global headwinds continue to restrain
economic activity, domestic factors are supporting a moderate
expansion. Following the recent period of below-potential growth,
the economy is expected to pick up and return to full capacity by
the end of 2013. The Bank continues to project that the expansion
will be driven mainly by growth in consumption and business
investment, reflecting very stimulative domestic financial
conditions. Housing activity is expected to decline from
historically high levels, while the household debt burden is
expected to rise further before stabilizing by the end of the
projection horizon. Canadian exports are projected to pick up
gradually but remain below their pre-recession peak until the
first half of 2014, reflecting weak foreign demand and ongoing
competitiveness challenges. These challenges include the
persistent strength of the Canadian dollar, which is being
influenced by safe-haven flows and spillovers from global
monetary policy.  After taking into account revisions to the National
Accounts, the Bank projects that the economy will
grow by 2.2 per cent in 2012, 2.3 per cent in 2013 and 2.4 per
cent in 2014.  Core inflation  has been lower than expected in recent
months, reflecting somewhat softer prices across a wide range of
goods and services. Core inflation is expected to increase
gradually over coming quarters, reaching
2 per cent by the middle of 2013 as the economy gradually absorbs
the current small degree of slack, the growth of labour
compensation remains moderate and inflation expectations stay
well anchored. Total CPI inflation has fallen noticeably below
the 2 per cent target, as expected, and is projected to return to
target by the end of 2013, somewhat later than previously
anticipated.  The inflation outlook in Canada is subject to significant
risks. The Bank’s projection assumes that authorities in  Europe 
are able to contain the ongoing crisis, and that the U.S. fiscal
cliff will be avoided. Imbalances in the Canadian household
sector remain the biggest domestic risk. This risk is two-sided.  The three main upside risks to inflation in Canada relate to
the possibility of higher global inflationary pressures, stronger
Canadian exports and renewed momentum in Canadian residential
investment.  The three main downside risks to inflation in Canada relate
to the European crisis, weaker demand for Canadian exports and
the possibility that growth in Canadian household spending could
be weaker.  Overall, the Bank judges that the risks to the inflation
outlook in Canada are roughly balanced over the
projection period.  Reflecting all of these factors, on 23 October, the Bank
decided to maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per
cent. Over time, some modest withdrawal of monetary policy
stimulus will likely be required, consistent with achieving the 2
per cent inflation target. The timing and degree of any such
withdrawal will be weighed carefully against global and domestic
developments, including the evolution of imbalances
in the household sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  