-- Bankers Join Collectors Seeking Booker-Prize Bindings
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-10-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bankers-join-collectors-seeking-booker-prize-bindings.html
Hilary Mantel’s Thomas Cromwell saw
to it that there could be only one winner in this year’s Man
 Booker Prize . Yet all six finalists were presented with
something that the canny Tudor statesman would himself have
prized: a hand-bound copy of their novel.  For the runners-up, these unique volumes already rival the
value of the checks they receive for 2,500 pounds ($3,200). Were
they to part with them, the tomes would fetch much more.  Their presentation is a tradition dating back to 1991, when
the U.K. prize partnered with Designer Bookbinders.  Ben Okri’s “The Famished Road” won that year, and it was
bound by  Angela James . When the author glimpsed it before the
judges revealed their verdict, he was so impressed he told James
he should have written a better book.  A plate with the word “winner” was already pasted inside.
Okri hid his lack of surprise well when his name was read out.  Since then, a copy of every shortlisted novel has been
bound by one of the society’s fellows. They are far from gilt-
tooled editions of the kind that are sold by the yard.  In Hans Holbein’s portrait, described in “Wolf Hall” and
“Bring Up the Bodies,” Cromwell poses with a bejeweled book in
forest green. It’s not that different from some of the Booker
bindings, whose materials -- leather, wood, and beeswax-coated
linen thread -- have remained unchanged for centuries.  Bird Bone  Yet there’s a contemporary edge to many designs that keeps
them relevant in our eBook age. In recent years, they have
featured feathers, shells and even a tiny bird bone.  The judges called “Bring Up the Bodies” a bloody story.
Sue Doggett’s binding reflects that. Covered in shimmering
vermillion fabric, its jet spine is beaded like a courtier’s
doublet. The edges of its pages are mottled an ominous scarlet.  Mark Cockram  has worked on five Man Booker novels. He read
each as many as six times, he told me when I visited his studio.  “I’m getting my inspiration from the text in the same way
a landscape artist would get from the landscape,” he says.  He spent seven years mastering his craft and can make a
basic book in about 27 minutes. The longest he has ever taken is
three years. It was a gift for his father, who insisted on first
killing the animals whose skins would make its cover. They were
rats, and the book itself was a guide to keeping them as pets.  “We used the tails for the page markers,” Cockram says.  No rodents were harmed when he bound  Zoe Heller’s  “Notes
on a Scandal,” which he housed in a box file, or Steve Toltz’s
“A Fraction of the Whole,” whose leather was hand-dyed and
embellished with acrylic paint and photographic prints.  Literary Limelight  The types of bindings that the Man Booker inspires would
otherwise sell for about 2,000 to 3,000 pounds, James says. If a
Booker copy were to make its way onto the market, an author’s
reputation and its moment of literary limelight would add value.  There aren’t enough sales to create anything resembling an
index for contemporary fine bindings. Still, they do perform
well at auction. One of Cockram’s made its seller a profit just
two years after it was commissioned.  They’ve acquired some savvy connoisseurs, Cockram says,
included a managing director in markets at Citigroup, who is
taking binding lessons and asked not to be named.  Simon Eccles, an honorary fellow of the Designer
Bookbinders, spent his working life as a stockbroker.  “I’m an investor,” he says. “I’ve got to buy good value
for money, and I think this is the finest.”  In 2002, he attended a Designer Bookbinders exhibition and
was smitten. When I met him for tea in  London ’s  Tate Britain , he
brought along one of his favorites, a book of Wilfred Owen’s
letters and poems bound by Paul Delrue.  “It’s tactile,” Eccles says, “a whiff of leather. It
gives you a special lift -- you don’t get that from an eBook.”  Stuart Southall, chairman of the actuarial consulting firm
Punter Southall, is another bibliophile. The most expensive
volume in his collection was bought for 31,500 pounds and bound
by the late Frenchman Paul Bonet.  What he lusts after is something that he cannot commission:
a Man Booker binding complete with its commemorative bookplate.  This year’s Man Booker bindings are on show at Waterstone’s,
203-206 Piccadilly, London, W1J 9LE through Oct.31. Information:
 http://themanbookerprize.com ,  http://www.waterstones.com  and
+44-843-290-8549.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  James Russell 
on architecture and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 