-- Barclays, UBS Lead $2.1 Billion in CMBS Deals as Sales Surge
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-10-24T17:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/barclays-ubs-lead-2-1-billion-in-cmbs-deals-as-sales-surge.html
Wall Street banks are marketing $2.1
billion in commercial-mortgage bonds amid a surge in sales of
the securities as investors seek riskier assets.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are teaming up to offer $835
million of securities linked to a shopping mall in  Las Vegas ,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because terms aren’t public. Deutsche Bank AG
and Cantor Fitzgerald LP are planning about $1 billion in debt
tied to property loans across the U.S., while real-estate
investment firm  NorthStar Realty Finance Corp. (NRF)  is selling $227.5
million of the debt, the people said.  Issuance is rising as the  Federal Reserve ’s attempt to
stimulate economic growth by holding its benchmark lending rate
at almost zero for a fourth year pushes investors toward riskier
debt. Banks have arranged $29 billion in bonds backed by
shopping malls, skyscrapers and hotels this year, compared with
$28 billion in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
After shutting down in 2008 following a peak of $232 billion in
2007, sales are forecast to reach $45 billion this year,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Rising issuance is a boon for landlords with maturing
loans. The offering from Barclays and UBS linked to debt on the
Fashion Show Mall in Las Vegas is part of a $1.6 billion
financing package the lenders arranged for  General Growth
Properties Inc. (GGP) , people familiar with the loan said. The deal
financed five other properties across the U.S., the people said.
General Growth is the second-largest U.S. mall operator behind
Simon Property Group Inc.  NorthStar Offering  The deal from New York-based NorthStar is composed of debt
on 19 properties including so-called transitional buildings,
meaning mortgages were taken out on the expectations of higher
future income, people familiar with that sale said. The largest
loan is $73 million on a shopping center in Buena Park,
California.  Top-ranked commercial-mortgage bonds are yielding 104 basis
points, or 1.04 percentage points, more than Treasuries,
hovering at about the narrowest level since at least January
2008, according to a Barclays index. The spread has declined
from 144 basis points on Aug. 31, the index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  