-- BAT Nine-Month Cigarette Shipments Fall on Europe and Brazil
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-24T07:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bat-nine-month-cigarette-shipments-fall-on-europe-and-brazil-1-.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,
Europe’s largest cigarette maker, said shipments declined during
the first nine months of the year because of lower consumption
in Brazil and western Europe.  The quantity of  cigarettes  sold dropped to 517 billion from
523 billion a year earlier, the London-based company said today
in a statement. That missed the 521 billion median estimate of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Excluding acquisitions and
disposals, the selling volume declined 1.8 percent.  Shipments in western Europe declined 5 percent, while
volume fell in Brazil after a price increase in May. The  maker 
of Lucky Strike and Pall Mall cigarettes has raised prices to
offset falling tobacco consumption and increased government
restrictions on smoking. The tobacco market “continues to be
challenging, with industry volumes under pressure” and
expansion of illicit trade remains a threat, BAT said.  Conditions in Brazil are “deteriorating” after the 21
percent price boost, Nomura analyst  David Hayes  said in a note
published prior to the results. “The government has put into
place a number of interventions to try to tackle illegal trade,
but how these will play out remains to be seen. Brazil is a key
watch-out going forward.” Brazil accounts for about 10 percent
of BAT’s volume, he said.  BAT shares  fell  0.8 percent to 3,138.5 pence at 8:11 a.m.
in London. The stock has advanced 2.6 percent this  year ,
bringing its market value to 60.7 billion pounds ($97 billion).  ’Fragile Recovery’  BAT also posted declines in  Japan ,  Italy ,  Turkey  and  Egypt ,
which offset gains in Bangladesh, Vietnam and Pakistan. The
company’s four core brands, which include Dunhill and Kent,
posted a volume gain of 3 percent, a slowdown from the 8 percent
advance in the same period last year.  “Economic recovery remains fragile this year and difficult
trading conditions persist in many parts of the world,” Chief
Executive Officer Nicandro Durante said in the statement.
“However, pricing remains strong.”  Philip Morris International Inc., the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, last week reported third-
quarter profit that trailed estimates after sales tumbled 15
percent in the European Union, where smokers have cut back or
switched to contraband cigarettes or roll-your-own varieties.  Hayes said BAT is in a “better place” in Europe as 22
percent of its profit comes from that region, a lower share than
both PMI and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , the U.K.’s biggest
tobacco maker.  Tougher Restrictions  Governments from Europe to  Asia  have toughened restrictions
on smoking.  Australia  this year became the first country to
require cigarettes to be sold in plain packaging without any
company logos.  New Zealand  and the U.K. are among countries
whose governments have indicated interest in implementing
similar action, which takes effect in Australia Dec. 1.  Cigarette makers including BAT and New York-based PMI are
also battling a smoking crackdown in Russia, the biggest tobacco
market after China, whose government is pushing an eightfold
increase in cigarette taxes along with a bill that bans smoking
in public places and cigarette sales in kiosks. BAT has about 21
percent of the Russian cigarette market, behind Tokyo-based
Japan Tobacco and PMI.  BAT said nine-month group revenue rose 4 percent at
constant exchange rates.  The company said it has bought back 30 million shares so
far this year for 978 million pounds ($1.6 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  