-- Berlusconi, Force in Italy Politics, to Abandon Limelight
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-25T07:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/berlusconi-force-in-italy-politics-to-abandon-limelight.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who has dominated Italian politics for almost two
decades, said he won’t run for prime minister in elections next
year and will focus on reinvigorating his sagging party.  His announcement was unveiled in a style befitting the
flamboyant 76-year-old media magnate, soccer-team owner and
three-time prime minister, using a mixture of sporting metaphors
and proclamations of love for his homeland.  “Eighteen years ago I stepped on the soccer pitch, an act
of folly not devoid of wisdom,” he wrote in an e-mailed
statement released last night. “Now I prefer to take a step
back for the same reasons that pushed me to act back then.”  The announcement will ease speculation about the political
future of  Italy ’s longest-serving prime minister. Berlusconi
wrote that he’ll still stand next to the younger generation
taking his place because they “must also play and score
goals.” He said he still had some “good muscles and some
brains,” which he would use to proffer advice, without being
intrusive, to those who could benefit from his memory.  “It was a difficult, no, extremely difficult decision”
for Berlusconi, Marco Dell’Utri, a senator and former executive
at Berlusconi’s Fininvest SpA media holding who is fighting a
conviction for collusion with the Mafia, said in an interview
with newspaper la Repubblica today. “He didn’t make the
decision lightly. For him, it’s kind of an abdication.”  Primary  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 3 basis points to
4.815 percent and the benchmark FTSE MIB index added 0.2 percent
to 15,733 at 9:30 a.m. in  Rome .  Berlusconi said in the note that the political movement he
founded in 1994 should hold primaries in December to pick its
candidate for the premiership. Such a vote could pose a
challenge to Angelino Alfano, the general secretary of the
People of Liberty bloc, who Berlusconi had previously chosen to
run the party.  Berlusconi’s party has been hurt by scandals involving
regional politicians, and public support has fallen behind its
traditional rival from the center left and the opposition
movement of comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo. Berlusconi’s
own standing has also been hurt by ongoing corruption trials,
including one accusing the former premier of paying for sex with
a minor.  Support Sagging  Support for the People of Liberty party fell to 14.3
percent from 15.1 percent in a poll released last week by SWG
Institute. That compares with 21 percent for Grillo’s 5 Star
Movement and 25.9 percent for the  Democratic Party , according to
SWG.  With self-confidence and bravura, Berlusconi cast a long
shadow over Italian politics after exploiting his fame as a
media mogul and one of the country’s richest men into winning
his first election as premier in 1994. He won two other
elections and served more than eight years as prime minister, an
accomplishment in a country that has averaged almost a
government a year since World War II.  While he failed to deliver the tax cuts and many of the
free-market overhauls he had pledged, Berlusconi managed to win
one of the biggest parliamentary majorities in Italian history
in 2001, serving out a full term and showing that it was
possible to build a lasting government.  Limits of Legacy  In what sounded like a farewell to the Italian people,
Berlusconi reflected on his achievements and regrets.  “I am personally proud and conscious of the limits of my
legacy,” he wrote in the statement, without dwelling on the
specifics of his political shortcomings.  Berlusconi had words of praise for the man who succeeded
him as premier:  Mario Monti , an economist and former European
commissioner whose style of governing could not be more
different than that of the self-made billionaire.  “The prime minister and his collaborators did what they
could which is a lot” given the conditions, Berlusconi said.  While Monti, who heads an unelected government of
technocrats, has declined to run for a second term, politicians
such as former Premier Romano Prodi say his reappointment is
still a likely outcome, especially if the vote produces a hung
parliament.  Berlusconi’s own ability to govern was often hampered by
dissent among his disparate allies and his need to defend
himself from corruption charges brought by the judges and
prosecutors whom he dismissed as communists, “mentally
disturbed” and out to destroy him politically.  Resignation  His final term ended with his resignation in November 2011
with the economy battered by contagion from the euro-region debt
crisis and Berlusconi struggling to overcome the stigma of
criminal charges over charges of prostitution with a minor,
allegations that sapped confidence among investors and his
European allies. The revelations about his relations with a 17-
year-old nightclub dancer introduced Bunga Bunga into the
political lexicon as a synonym for his sexual exploits and the
parties he hosted with dozens of young women.  Berlusconi has denied sexual relations with the woman at
the center of the charges.  Berlusconi was known more outside Italy for his gaffes than
for his accomplishments. After  Barack Obama  became the first
African-American elected to the U.S. presidency, Berlusconi
quipped that he admired his suntan. He told a German lawmaker
he’d make a great Nazi prison guard in a forthcoming movie.  Reports of Berlusconi’s sexual exploits and his regular
diplomatic faux-pas helped alienate his European allies, who
increasingly distanced themselves from the premier rather than
stand shoulder-to-shoulder as debt woes spread and his
government teetered.  For example, at an Oct. 23 summit, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and then-French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  began chuckling
when asked whether they had confidence in Berlusconi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  