-- Billionaire Slim’s Wireless Hold in Colombia Under Threat
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-10-24T21:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/billionaire-slim-s-wireless-hold-in-colombia-under-threat.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s dominance
of Colombia’s wireless market is under threat as lawmakers and
rivals press for market-share limits and seek to prevent him
from getting licenses for faster smartphone speeds.  The Colombian government is drawing up a plan for the
auction of 4G radio licenses and an early document  outlining  the
bidding process excluded Slim’s  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)  Separately, a
group of lawmakers last week proposed a bill that would restrict
any one company from controlling more than 30 percent of the
wireless market, which could force Mexico City-based America
Movil to break up or return airwave licenses.  A regulatory crackdown in Colombia, where America Movil has
about 60 percent of mobile users, would handicap the company in
its third-largest market and one of its most lucrative. The
carrier said the market-cap proposal would increase client costs
and an auction ban would crimp its business. Just last year,
Slim, the world’s richest man worth more than $76 billion, was
praising  Colombia ’s openness to foreign investment.  “It will basically sentence the company to a slow death,”
Juan Carlos Archila, president of America Movil’s Colombia unit,
said of the proposal by rivals to keep the company from the
auction. “The company would have immense limitation to compete
in the market,” he said in an interview.  The proposed bill seeking to cap market share, introduced
by Jorge Robledo, an opposition leader in the Senate, is backed
by 18 other lawmakers, said Roy Barreras, president of
Colombia’s Congress. Barreras, a member of the ruling party who
supports the proposal, said there’s a good chance the bill will
pass.  Telefonica, Empresa  If the market-share cap proposal is approved, America Movil
would shed its less profitable customers, losing interest in
clients in rural and poor neighborhoods, said  Jose Otero , an
analyst at Signals Telecom Consulting in Montevideo, Uruguay.
The company’s network investment would drop and coverage
expansion would slow, he said. Once its smaller competitors
neared the 30 percent mark, they too would have little incentive
to grow, he said.  “It’s a measure that doesn’t benefit the consumer in any
way,” Otero said.  The move to sideline America Movil from the wireless
airwave auction for so-called fourth-generation service was
included in an early document for the auction plan, America
Movil’s Archila said.  Slim Visit  Slim, 72, is scheduled to arrive today in Cartagena,
Colombia, said  Arturo Elias , the billionaire’s spokesman, in an
e-mail. He said he didn’t know the nature of Slim’s visit.  Competitors  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which has 26 percent of
Colombia’s mobile-phone subscribers, and Empresa de
Telecomunicaciones de Bogota said America Movil, operating under
the Claro  brand (BRND) , uses its size in Colombia to keep customers
from switching providers.  ETB advocates keeping Claro out of the auction, which had
been tentatively scheduled for December.  America Movil offers discounts to users for calling within
Claro’s network, so it’s more expensive to phone customers of
other networks, said ETB President Saul Kattan. That makes
Colombians more likely to choose Claro, he said in an interview.  “With the dominance they have in voice, with 4G they’re
going to easily get dominance in data,” Kattan said.  While the government is unlikely to block  America Movil 
outright from participating in the 4G auction, it could require
the company to accept undesirable conditions to bid, said Otero,
the Signals Telecom analyst. The carrier could be asked to
participate in infrastructure-sharing agreements with rivals, or
to allow competitors without their own wireless towers to roam
on its networks, he said.  ‘More Cautious’  “The conditions may cause them to be more cautious in
investing. If they can’t roll out LTE, we’re talking about a
delay in their strategy to offer high-speed data,” Otero said.  America Movil’s licenses to operate its mobile-phone
network are up for renewal in 2014, which would offer the
government another opportunity to impose those conditions on the
carrier, he said.  “There’s little room for them to maneuver,” Otero said.  America Movil gained less than 1 percent to 16.94 pesos at
the close in Mexico City. The shares have gained 7.1 percent
this year.  President  Juan Manuel Santos ’s government is reviewing the
auction-ban proposal,  Information Technology  and Communications
Minister Diego Molano has said. Molano accepted and then
canceled several interview requests by Bloomberg.  Mexican Attempts  The Colombian proposals go beyond regulatory attempts in
Slim’s home market to contain the power of America Movil, which
has 70 percent of Mexican mobile-phone subscribers. That
nation’s antitrust agency agreed this year to drop a $1 billion
fine against Slim’s company for anticompetitive behavior in
exchange for concessions such as lower fees to connect calls
from competitors.  In  Brazil ,  Latin America ’s largest economy, regulators
blocked sales of new plans by America Movil and two competitors
for 11 days until they presented investment plans to address
customer complaints.  While Mexico and Brazil account for almost two-thirds of
America Movil’s sales, the company’s Colombia and Panama
division makes up 8.6 percent of  revenue  and is one of the
company’s most profitable markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Colombian unit recorded a profit margin last year
of about 47 percent, leaving out interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization.  Still Concentrated  The Colombia government hasn’t done enough to act on a 2009
ruling that declared America Movil the dominant carrier, said
Alfonso Gomez, president of Madrid-based Telefonica’s Colombian
division.  “The only thing that has happened is that the market keeps
on being concentrated,” he said in an interview.  Lawmakers and regulators are only pressuring America Movil
because of lobbying by the company’s competitors, America
Movil’s Archila, said.  “What should be asked is if the way to promote competition
is by eliminating the leading competitor,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  