-- Blatnick, Gold Medal Greco-Roman Wrestling Olympian, Dies at 55
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-25T04:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/blatnick-greco-roman-wrestling-gold-medal-olympian-dies-at-55.html
Jeff Blatnick, who overcame
Hodgkin’s disease to win a gold medal in Greco-Roman wrestling
at the 1984 Olympics, has died. He was 55.  Blatnick died following complications from heart surgery,
USA Wrestling said on its  website , citing an initial report from
television station WNYT in  Albany ,  New York .  Blatnick, who was on the 1980 U.S. Olympic team that
boycotted the Moscow Games, and teammate Steve Fraser became the
first Americans to win Olympic golds in Greco-Roman wrestling at
the Los Angeles Games.  “I am stunned by it,” Fraser said in a statement on
TheMat.com. “I talked to him just a few weeks ago about his
work with our state association in New York and how we can
promote Greco-Roman wrestling. I am heartbroken. He has done so
much for the sport as an athlete, an announcer, a leader and a
spokesman. My prayers go out to his family.”  Blatnick, a native of Niskayuna, New York, noticed small
lumps on his neck in May 1982. He was diagnosed with Hodgkin’s
disease, a form of cancer, in July and began radiation
treatments after having his spleen and appendix removed in
October, according to “The Complete Book of the  Summer
Olympics ,” by David Wallechinsky.  Inspired by the memory of his brother, David, who died in a
1977 motorcycle accident, Blatnick went on to beat  Sweden ’s
Tomas Johansson in the final before falling to his knees and
crying.  “I’m a  happy dude ,” Blatnick said through tears in an
interview at the side of the mat.  ‘Great Tragedy’  Joe DeMeo, who coached Blatnick with the ATWA Wrestling
Club in Albany, said in a statement that the death “is a great
tragedy for wrestling in general, and for New York wrestling. He
was our New York state chairman, and has been doing a phenomenal
job. I am saddened for his wife and two children. I am feeling
the greatest sadness.”  Blatnick, who wrestled at Springfield College in
Springfield,  Massachusetts , was inducted into the National
Wrestling Hall of Fame in 1999. He was a three-time national
champion in Greco-Roman, served on USA Wrestling’s board and
worked as a broadcaster for NBC and ESPN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  