-- BlueCrest's Platt Says Draghi Bond Purchases to Buy Time
-- B y   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-10-24T21:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bluecrest-s-platt-says-draghi-bond-purchases-to-buy-time.html
Michael Platt , founder of hedge fund
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, said European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy  government bonds  fails to
address the underlying problems in the region.  Draghi’s proposal for so-called Outright Monetary
Transactions will buy time for the region, though it won’t
strengthen the region’s economy, Platt said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with
 Stephanie Ruhle .  “We need to not be confused between liquidity fixes and
insolvency problems,” Platt said. “ Europe  has no credible plan
for growth.”  Draghi, seeking to stem the European sovereign-debt crisis
and safeguard the euro, has proposed buying government bonds, a
plan that has been criticized by Germany’s Bundesbank as
tantamount to printing money to finance governments, which is
prohibited by the ECB’s statutes. Draghi today addressed the
German parliament in Berlin to win popular support for his plan.  Platt’s comments were echoed today by Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.,
who said policies by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European
Central Bank  aren’t sufficient to reestablish economic growth on
their own.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  Without the assistance of politicians and other policy
makers, the Fed and the ECB can’t restore growth, employment and
debt sustainability, El-Erian said today in remarks for delivery
at the Economist’s Buttonwood Gathering in New York. The costs
of witholding support could include the distortion of the normal
functioning of markets and the implosion of certain areas within
the financial services industry, he said.  “The longer central banks are left carrying the bulk of
the policy burden, the more likely that the intended benefits of
their actions will be countered, first partially and then fully,
by collateral damage and  unintended consequences ,” said El-
Erian, who is also the co-chief investment officer of Pimco.  Platt said that like the long-term refinancing operation by
the ECB, the direct asset purchases seek to address the solvency
problem of some European countries by providing liquidity. As
economic growth remains subdued, policy makers will continue to
print money without addressing the underlying economic issues,
he said.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  earlier this month cut its
euro-region growth forecast for next year to 0.2 percent from
0.7 percent and said the economy may shrink 0.4 percent this
year as governments cut spending.  Platt said the bond purchases are calculated to instill
confidence in the debt markets of  Spain  and Italy. While the
moves have driven down the cost of financing in Spain, the
nation will “undoubtedly” have to ask for more money.  Platt said he doesn’t like the debt of Mediterranean
countries, who may have trouble paying back their obligations.  “I don’t like lending money to people that ultimately are
going to have difficulty repaying,” he said.  Equities might be the only investment alternative as short-
term bond yields remain low and commodities haven’t performed
well this year, Platt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  