-- Borrowers Making Over $480,000 to Escape Tougher Mortgage Checks
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-10-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/borrowers-making-over-480-000-to-escape-tougher-mortgage-checks.html
Mortgage customers earning more than
300,000 pounds ($480,500) annually will be exempt from tougher
affordability checks designed to prevent borrowers taking on too
much debt, the U.K.  Financial Services Authority  said.  The rules are part of an overhaul proposed by the FSA
following seven consultations and three years of work. The
regulations require lenders to assess the impact of rising
interest rates in mortgage-approval calculations and ban
interest-only mortgages in cases where the borrower would have
to rely on rising house prices to repay the loan.  The FSA wanted the borrowing process to be “more
straightforward for mortgage professionals, high net worth
individuals and business customers who can opt out of receiving
advice,” the regulator said in the statement. The regulator
classifies high-net worth individuals as having 3 million pounds
in net assets or an annual income of 300,000 pounds.  “We recognize that many lenders are now using a far more
sensible set of lending criteria than before, but it is
important that these common sense principles are hard-wired into
the system to protect borrowers,” Martin Wheatley, managing
director of the FSA, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The FSA is reforming the U.K.’s 1.2 trillion-pound mortgage
market after some practices exacerbated the banking crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
Tougher rules will rein in the type of practices that led to the
U.S. sub-prime crisis,  Adair Turner , chairman of the FSA, told
lawmakers earlier this year.  The practice “was the absolute core of the U.S. sub-prime
disaster,” Turner said.  The full set of proposals will be implemented in April
2014, the FSA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  