-- Brazil Said to Consider Mobile Fee Cuts to Aid Competition
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-10-24T20:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/brazil-said-to-consider-mobile-fee-cuts-to-bolster-competition.html
Brazil  is considering cutting the
fees mobile-phone companies charge to accept incoming calls from
rivals to boost competition, a government official said.  The changes under review would reduce costs for smaller
companies such as  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , allowing them to offer more
competitive rates to attract users from bigger carriers from
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  to Tim Participacoes SA, said the official, who
asked not to be named because a final decision is yet to be
made. Anatel, the industry regulator, probably will vote on the
changes as soon as Nov. 1, the official said. Tim shares fell in
 Sao Paulo , while NII recovered losses in New York.  A reduction in interconnection fees could shrink Brazil’s
base of mobile-phone subscriptions, according to Barclays Plc
and Banco Itau BBA SA. The current fees are so high that
Brazilians typically have multiple mobile-phone lines so they
can call other users at in-network rates. Out-of-network calls
cost an average of 70 percent more than in-network, so 85
percent of mobile-phone traffic in Brazil is in-network,
according to the government official.  “If Anatel announces this, it’s going to have a strong
impact on the companies, from the point of view of the way they
handle billing as well as their share prices,” said  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at SLW Corretora in Sao Paulo, in a
phone interview.  The changes  Anatel  is considering include eliminating
completely the interconnection fee NII pays, the official said.
Reston, Virginia-based NII, which operates a walkie-talkie-like
service under the Nextel brand in  Latin America , won airwaves
last year in a government auction to begin offering 3G wireless
service to compete more directly in the mobile-phone market. The
company is expected to begin offering the new third-generation
services in November, the official said.  Market Leaders  Telefonica Brasil SA, the local unit of the Madrid-based
company, had 30 percent of Brazil’s 256 million mobile-phone
lines at the end of June, making it the No. 1 carrier.  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  had 27 percent, America Movil SAB had 25
percent and  Oi SA (OIBR4)  had 19 percent, according to Anatel. NII had
4.2 million Brazilian  subscribers  at the end of June.  Anatel’s press office declined to comment, as did Oi’s,
Telefonica’s and America Movil’s. Representatives of Tim and NII
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Tim Drops  Tim, based in  Rio de Janeiro ,  dropped  4 percent to 6.95
reais at the close in Sao Paulo, the lowest price since January
2011. NII rose 2 percent at $7.11 in New York after earlier
dropping as much as 5 percent.  “If Nextel wants, it can manage to become competitive,”
said Valder Nogueira, chief analyst at Banco Santander SA in Sao
Paulo, in a phone interview. “Anatel’s decision provides an
opening for Nextel to enter the market.”  America Movil  gained less than 1 percent to 16.94 pesos in
Mexico City, Telefonica Brasil fell 1.2 percent to 43.54 reais,
and Oi was little changed at 8.21 reais.  Under the rules Anatel is considering, a mobile-phone
carrier would only have to pay interconnection fees to a
competitor if it gets 40 percent or more of the incoming calls
in traffic between the two companies, the official said. The
change could reduce the overall costs of mobile interconnection
fees, known in Brazil as VU-M, by 20 percent, the official said.  In addition, Anatel may decide to directly reduce the rate
for interconnection fees, the official said.  The fees generate about 8 percent to 21 percent of each
carrier’s revenue in Brazil, according to an Oct. 3 report by
Vera Rossi, a Barclays analyst in  New York . The fees should be
cut by 50 percent to 80 percent to match the level of other
Latin American countries, where they range between 3 and 9 U.S.
cents a minute, she said.  Cutting the fees would reduce the “exclusive-club”
advantage that big carriers get by encouraging users to make in-
network calls, Itau said in an Oct. 4 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  