-- Brazil Extends Tax Breaks on Car Purchases to Revive Growth
-- B y   L e o n a r d o   L a r a   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-10-24T18:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/brazil-extends-tax-breaks-on-car-purchases-to-revive-growth-1-.html
Brazil  will extend until the end of
the year tax cuts on car purchases that helped spur record sales
and are being counted on by the government to revive the
economy.  President  Dilma Rousseff  made the announcement today at the
annual  Sao Paulo  auto show. The tax cuts, which were already
renewed once previously, were scheduled to expire at the end of
the month.  The tax break is one of several government measures
targeting the automobile sector, a cornerstone of the economy,
to shore up growth that has trailed other emerging markets this
year. In addition to lowering the so-called IPI tax charged on
vehicles in exchange for automakers’ commitments to improve fuel
efficiency, Rousseff’s administration has lowered reserve
requirements for banks to boost car loans.  “We don’t want any price increases at the end of the
year,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters. “If we
suspend the exemption, companies are probably going to increase
prices in November and December. We want prices to remain low.”  This extension of the IPI tax cuts is “probably” the last
one, Mantega said.  Car Sales  The measure has helped fuel a rebound in  car sales  and
economic growth in the third quarter, though purchases fell 31
percent in September from a record 420,080 in August. Cuts in
the IPI tax for other big-ticket items including appliances,
furniture and refrigerators were extended in August through
year-end.  As part of Rousseff’s bid to protect local manufacturers
amid a global economic slump, the government has raised tariffs
on carmakers that don’t have assembly lines in the country.  While the effort has been criticized by Brazil’s trading
parters, including Japan, a slew of carmakers have since agreed
to boost investments in the country. This week  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of luxury vehicles,
announced a 200 million euro ($259 million) investment in a
factory in Santa Catarina state.  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said in
September that Brazilian incentives encouraged the Turin, Italy-
based carmaker to build a factory in the country. Chinese
manufacturer  Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. Ltd. (600418)  said last month
it plans to make 100,000 cars annually at a new Brazil facility.  Economists surveyed by the central bank last week forecast
the world’s second-largest emerging market will  grow  1.54
percent this year, less than Russia, India or China, Brazil’s
peers in the so-called BRIC nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leonardo Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 llara1@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  