-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall on Global Outlook; Real Strengthens
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-10-24T20:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/brazilian-swap-rates-rise-on-china-outlook-real-little-changed.html
Brazil  swap rates dropped for a
third day as global economic concern reinforced speculation that
the central bank will keep borrowing costs at record lows.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2015 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to a record low 7.85
percent in Sao Paulo. The real rose 0.1 percent to 2.0259 per
U.S. dollar.  “Both the government and the central bank expect growth to
come back, but it may be more muted,” Kenneth Lam, a Latin
America currency and rates strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by
phone from New York. “They’ve stated specifically that they
want rates to be as low as possible.”  The real fluctuated after Finance Minister Guido Mantega
told the daily Valor Economico that the government’s “dirty
float” currency policy will last as long as necessary to defend
the country’s competitiveness. A Finance Ministry official
didn’t respond to e-mail and phone messages.  The currency dropped yesterday from a two-week high as the
central bank auctioned 33,000 reverse currency swaps contracts
out of 60,000 offered, including $849 million worth due on Dec.
3 and $799 million maturing on Jan. 2.  “The central bank should continue with the same currency
policy, defending the 2 per dollar level,” Flavia Cattan- Naslausky, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
said in a phone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “With
weak economic growth, there’s no reason for the government to
change its strategy, as Mantega mentioned.”  Currency Intervention  Brazil’s central bank sold $1.3 billion in reverse currency
swaps on Oct. 5, $5.7 billion of contracts Sept. 12 through
Sept. 17 and $350 million on Aug. 21 to weaken the real. The
August reverse swaps were the first since March.  Swap rates erased their increases today after a composite
index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing managers in
services and manufacturing fell this month to 45.8, the lowest
level in three years, London-based Markit Economics reported.
Figures above 50 indicate expansion.  China ’s manufacturing may shrink in October at a slower
pace, according to a survey released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics. The preliminary reading for the private
purchasing managers’ index was 49.1, compared with a final
reading of 47.9 last month.  Brazil’s central bank cut the  target lending rate  for a
10th straight meeting to a record low 7.25 percent Oct. 10 to
revive the slowest growth among major  emerging markets . Policy
makers will boost borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point
as soon as May, trading in swap rates indicates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  