-- Buffett Tells CNBC He Doesn’t Know Solution for P&G
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-10-24T13:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/buffett-doesn-t-know-answers-for-procter-gamble-he-tells-cnbc.html
Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has been cutting its stake in  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , said he doesn’t have solutions to improve the consumer-
products company’s earnings.  “What goes on inside the place, what mistakes have been
made, what the plans are, I don’t know the answers on that,”
Buffett, 82, told CNBC today. “The jury’s out on that now,
because they have disappointed in terms of earnings and we’ll
see what happens. I know the board is actively engaged and
trying to come up with a strategy they think makes sense to take
the earnings forward.”  Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald is under pressure from
activist investor  Bill Ackman  after cutting P&G’s forecast three
times this year and scaling back price increases that hurt
sales. Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP took
a $1.8 billion stake in P&G in July, has pushed to fire McDonald
and split the CEO and chairman roles, a person familiar with the
matter has said.  McDonald is working on a turnaround that includes $10
billion in cost cuts through 2016 and a renewed focus on the
company’s top categories and markets. P&G’s board in July said
it unanimously supports him and his plan after Bloomberg
reported that some directors were dissatisfied with his
performance and had discussed replacing him. The board said it
would monitor the plan’s effectiveness.  “The board and management team are not only fully engaged
but also confident in our growth and productivity plan,” Paul Fox, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based P&G, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “At P&G, we remain focused on execution and
value creation ­- we are on track and laser focused.”  He declined to comment directly on Buffett’s CNBC
interview.  Berkshire Stake  Berkshire’s P&G holding declined 19 percent to 59.6 million
shares in the second quarter, according to an August filing
disclosing its U.S. stock portfolio. That represents about a 2.2
percent stake in the company and would be valued at about $4
billion at yesterday’s closing price.  Buffett called McDonald “a terrific human being.”  P&G, which reports first-quarter results tomorrow, rose 0.5
percent to $67.80 at 9:44 a.m. in  New York . Berkshire, based in
Omaha,  Nebraska , rose 0.5 percent to $131,168.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  