-- Bystander CPR More Likely in High-Income Neighborhoods
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/bystander-cpr-more-likely-in-high-income-neighborhoods.html
Chances that people with cardiac
arrest will get help from a bystander providing cardiopulmonary
resuscitation are greater if the victim is stricken in a high-
income neighborhood, a study found.  A person suffering from cardiac arrest had a 55 percent
chance of getting lifesaving CPR in upper-income, white
neighborhoods and at a similar rate in high-income, racially-
mixed areas, the research showed. That compares with a 35
percent chance of receiving CPR in a poor, black neighborhood,
according to a study published yesterday in the  New England
Journal of Medicine .  The study is the first to look at the rates of bystander-
initiated CPR in neighborhoods with different demographics, said
 Comilla Sasson , the lead author. The findings suggest that
income levels as well as the racial makeup of an area where a
person collapses affect survival. Public health officials should
target certain areas to boost training and education, she said.  “It shouldn’t matter where you live to have someone stop
and help you,” Sasson, an assistant professor in the Department
of Emergency Medicine at the  University of Colorado  in Aurora,
said in an Oct. 22 telephone interview. “My survival should not
be dependent on my heart stopping in a grocery store on a nice
side of the street versus the other side.”  383,000 Incidents  Nearly 383,000 cardiac arrests occur each year outside a
hospital, according to the  American Heart Association . Survival
rates vary from 0.2 percent in  Detroit  to 16 percent in  Seattle ,
the authors wrote. For every one minute that a person who is
having cardiac arrest doesn’t receive CPR, the chance of
survival drops 10 percent, Sasson said.  When giving CPR to adults, people no longer need to breathe
in a victim’s mouth. They should just push hard and fast in the
center of the victim’s chest to the tune of the Bee Gees’ song
“ Stayin’ Alive ,” which helps keep the proper rhythm to perform
CPR correctly, until help arrives, she said.      The
researchers analyzed data on 14,225 patients who suffered
 cardiac arrest  from October 2005 to December 2009. CPR by a
bystander was only initiated in 29 percent of those patients.
Only 8 percent of patients in the study, or 1,144, survived to
leave the hospital.  Researchers classified neighborhoods as high-income or low-
income on the basis of a $40,000 per year household income. A
neighborhood was white or black if more than 80 percent of the
census count in the area was predominantly of one race.  The study also found that those in low-income white
neighborhoods were 35 percent less likely than people in high-
income white areas to get CPR, while those in high-income black
neighborhoods were 23 percent less likely, the authors said.  Sasson said people in low-income areas may not have extra
money to pay for CPR classes or they may be concerned if they
help, the person might be pretending to be injured and hurt
them. Local officials should target these areas to teach people
CPR to help reduce cardiac arrest deaths, she said.  “There’s very simple things we can do that are very cost
effective such as teaching people about hands-only CPR and when
to call 911 and the signs and symptoms of when people’s hearts
stop,” Sasson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  