-- Cameron Says U.K. Won’t Allow Prisoners Vote, Rebuffing Court
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-10-24T12:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/cameron-says-u-k-won-t-allow-prisoners-vote-rebuffing-court.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
he’ll allow the U.K. Parliament to vote again to bar prisoners
from voting in elections, in a move designed to quash a judgment
by a  European court .  “No one should be in any doubt: prisoners are not getting
the vote under this government” Cameron told lawmakers in
 London  today during his weekly question-and-answer session.
“If it helps by having another vote in Parliament on another
resolution to make absolutely clear, to help put the legal
position beyond doubt, then I am very happy to do that.”  The top chamber of the  European Court of Human Rights 
affirmed on May 22 previous rulings against Britain by a lower
chamber for disenfranchising prisoners. A 2010 decision found
that the U.K. hadn’t changed laws on prisoner voting to comply
with a 2005 ruling that they violated the principle of free
elections.  The U.K. Parliament  voted last year  against the right of
the prisoners to cast ballots in elections. That motion was
proposed by rank-and-file lawmakers, whereas a new vote would be
on a government motion to give it clear legal authority.  “The prime minister was very clear that if someone goes to
prison, they lose certain rights and one of those should be the
right to vote,” Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field told reporters.
“On this issue, parliament is sovereign.”  Earlier today, Attorney General Dominic Grieve suggested
the government would need to change policy to comply with
international obligations.  ‘Latitude’ Granted  “The decision by the court places a duty on the  United
Kingdom  as a signatory to the  Council of Europe  and to the
European Convention to implement change to the Representation of
the People Act in this area,” Grieve told a parliamentary
committee hearing. “Exactly what the U.K. should do is not
specified, and indeed it’s quite clear there’s a great deal of
latitude in what the United Kingdom can do.”  Cameron told lawmakers in November 2010 that “it makes me
physically ill even to contemplate having to give the vote to
anyone who is in prison.”  The court in Strasbourg,  France , gave the U.K. six months
in May to set out plans to comply with its judgment. While it
accepted the U.K.’s argument that countries should have “wide
discretion” on how they implement the ban, it said, “general,
automatic and indiscriminate disenfranchisement of all serving
prisoners, irrespective of the nature or gravity of their
offenses,” isn’t compatible with the European Convention on
 Human Rights .  “The Tory-led government’s sheer confusion this morning
over whether prisoners will or won’t get the vote is yet another
illustration of the ridiculously shambolic way they are running
our country,” Sadiq Khan, the justice spokesman for the
opposition  Labour Party , said in an e-mailed statement. “The
public will be rightly concerned at reports prisoners could get
a vote. If true, thousands of those serving sentences for
serious and violent crimes such as wounding, assault and
domestic violence would be given a say in who runs the
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  