-- Canada Natural Gas Prices Decline on U.S. Stockpile Forecasts
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-10-24T20:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/canada-natural-gas-prices-decline-on-u-s-stockpile-forecasts.html
Canadian natural gas dropped as
analysts predicted government data would show U.S. inventories
expanded more than average last week.  November gas in  Alberta  declined 2.5 percent. An Energy
Department report scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow
in  Washington  may say inventories rose 67 billion cubic feet in
the seven days ended Oct. 19 to 3.843 trillion, according to the
median of 21 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The five-
year average gain for the week is 65 billion.  ’’Natural gas prices are coming under some selling
pressure, erasing Tuesday’s gains in nervous trade ahead of
Thursday’s DOE storage report,’’ said Tim Evans, an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York, in a note to
clients today.  Alberta gas for November delivery fell 8 cents to C$3.115
per gigajoule ($2.97 per million British thermal units) as of
3:07 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet market. Gas
traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada  and the
U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas November delivery on the New York Mercantile
Exchange slid 8.5 cents, or 2.4 percent, to settle at $3.45 per
million Btu. The futures have fallen 4.3 percent from a year
ago. Prices gained 2.4 percent yesterday.  Gas Volume  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.8 billion cubic
feet at 1 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2 billion cubic feet at
Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to TransCanada’s
main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.13 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s  British Columbia system 
at Kingsgate was 160 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.51 billion cubic feet today. Estimated capacity was
1.67 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.88
billion cubic feet at 2:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  