-- Canadian Dollar Fall as Carney Says Increase Less Likely
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-24T21:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/canadian-dollar-gains-as-bank-of-canada-reiterates-bias.html
The Canadian dollar fell against
most of its major peers after Bank of Canada Governor  Mark
Carney  said the need for higher  interest rates  has become “less
imminent,” a day after strengthening the case for tightening
monetary policy.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the aquatic bird
on the C$1 coin, had gained earlier after the Bank of Canada’s
quarterly monetary policy report repeated the central bank’s
forecast for a gradual reduction of stimulus to prevent rising
household debt from threatening the economy. Carney spoke to
reporters in Ottawa after the report was released.  “Carney’s statements that a rate increase is ’less
imminent’ pushed dollar Canada into unwinding,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
in Toronto, said in a phone interview. “We’re back and forth
now trying to discount when the next rate hike is going to be.”  Canada’s currency fell 0.1 percent to 99.36 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0064.
The loonie gained as much as 0.3 percent following the release
of the Bank of Canada report.  Speaking to reporters in Ottawa, Carney said that over
time, interest rates are more likely to go up than not. He
didn’t elaborate on the timing of any moves.  The currency climbed from a more than two-month low
yesterday against the greenback after Carney kept the bank’s
benchmark rate at 1 percent and said that withdrawal of stimulus
may become appropriate.  Household Risk  The central bank highlighted record household debt that may
trigger a sudden drop in  consumer spending  in the world’s 11th
largest economy in the policy report today.  The risk is “two-sided” because the  household debt  burden
is already forecast to grow to new records before stabilizing by
the end of 2014, and a new surge of housing investment could
boost it further, the Ottawa-based Bank of Canada said today.  Government bonds  were little changed with the Canadian 10-
year benchmark yield falling less than one basis point to 1.85
percent. The bond ended the trading session at C$107.89. Two-
year bonds advanced, with the yield on the 1 percent note
falling two basis points to 1.12 percent.  A so-called doji candle formation on the daily chart
yesterday implied a high level of indecision in the market and a
loss of the strong upward direction that was in place,  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
said in a note to clients.  “It is notable that this has happened around key
retracement resistance and just ahead of the 200-day moving
average,” he said.  The loonie strengthened beyond its 50- and 200-day moving
averages today.  The loonie has gained 1 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2 percent, one of
the top three decliners along with the yen and euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  