-- Carney Says Rate Increase ‘Less Imminent’ on Economy Risk
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-24T18:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/carney-says-rate-increase-less-imminent-on-economy-risk.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said that his inclination to raise  interest rates  is “less
imminent” given risks to economic growth including moderate
global demand and record domestic debt burdens.  “The case for adjustment of interest rates has become less
imminent,” Carney, 47, told reporters in Ottawa today. “Over
time, rates are more likely to go up than not,” he said, adding
“to draw more precision out of it than that is false
precision.”  Canada’s dollar fell after the remarks, which came a day
after he kept his  key lending rate  at 1 percent and said in a
statement that “some modest withdrawal of monetary policy
stimulus will likely be required.” Carney also reiterated that
using monetary policy to curb  household debt  is “the last line
of defense” and he would be clear if he took such a step.  “They are trying to make the point that our next move is
going to be up but it’s still a long way off,” said Emanuella Enenajor, an economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
Toronto. She forecasts no move until 2014.  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.2 percent to 99.39 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 1:47 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0061. The currency had gained as much as 0.4 percent. Two-
year government bond yields declined 2 basis points to 1.11
percent, while overnight index swaps showing reduced bets on
rate increases next year, with them showing 3 basis points of
tightening priced in for May, down from 5 yesterday.  Two-Sided Risk  Carney spoke after publishing a quarterly economic forecast
that the risks from  consumer debt  are “two-sided” because the
household debt burden is already forecast to grow to records and
a new surge of housing investment could boost it further.  Consumer debt has reached a record 165.8 percent of
disposable income, higher than the U.S. peak before its property
bubble burst. The bank didn’t forecast how high debt levels will
go.  Carney said he and other officials are tracking the housing
imbalances. If he had to move to correct imbalances, he said he
would outline how long he expected inflation to deviate from his
2 percent target as a result. “There’s no acting by stealth
here,” he said.  Biggest Risk  “Imbalances in the Canadian household sector remain the
biggest domestic risk,” the central bank said in its quarterly
Monetary Policy Report. “It is possible that the elevated level
of household debt is beginning to induce a more cautious
attitude.”  Housing investment will reduce Canada’s economic growth
rate by 0.1 percentage point next year and in 2014 after
contributing 0.3 percent this year, the central bank forecast.
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s measures to tighten residential
lending, introduced earlier this year, should curb credit
growth, the report said.  “With signs of overbuilding, the level of housing
investment still remains near historical highs,” the central
bank said.  The housing market “could regain momentum, thereby
reinforcing existing imbalances,” the report said, while a
sudden drop in the housing market “could have sizeable
spillover effects on other areas of the economy.”  Canada’s banking system and housing market were relatively
unscathed by the global financial crisis, allowing the world’s
11th-largest economy to recover ahead of other Group of Seven
countries.  Stimulus Reduction  The bank’s forecast “includes a gradual reduction in
monetary stimulus over the projection horizon, consistent with
achieving the inflation target,” policy makers said, repeating
language from past reports. Today’s document also repeated
wording from yesterday’s interest-rate announcement that “over
time, some modest withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus will
likely be required.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of asset purchases,
known as quantitative easing, will add 0.4 percentage point to
Canada’s gross domestic product by 2014, the  Bank of Canada 
said. The recovery also remains threatened by the chance of
legislated tighter fiscal policy in the U.S. -- the so-called
fiscal cliff -- and  Europe ’s debt crisis, according to the
report.  The Bank of Canada raised its economic growth forecast for
this year to 2.2 percent from 2.1 percent and kept it at 2.3
percent for next year. The 2014 growth estimate was pared to 2.4
percent from 2.5 percent.  The bank said Canada’s economy was operating about two-
thirds of a percentage point below full capacity in the third
quarter, which is “slightly larger” than policy makers had
estimated in July.  Stronger Dollar  The bank’s forecast assumes the Canadian dollar will trade
at about 101 U.S. cents through 2014, compared with the July
assumption of 98 U.S. cents.  On a quarterly basis, the annualized economic growth rate
for the third quarter was cut to 1 percent from the July
forecast of 2 percent, while the fourth quarter was boosted to
2.5 percent from 2.3 percent. Inflation will average 1.5 percent
this quarter and remain below the bank’s 2 percent target until
the fourth quarter of 2013, the bank forecast.  Consumption, Investment  Canada’s recovery through 2014 will be led by consumption
and business investment as the strong dollar restrains exports,
the central bank said. Even as housing investment slows,
consumption will add 1.2 percentage points of 2.3 percent
economic growth next year, according to the bank forecast.  Flaherty told CBC Radio Oct. 20 that he isn’t planning
further measures to restrain the housing market because steps to
tighten mortgage regulations have already slowed gains in some
of the country’s major cities. Those comments followed
historical revisions by  Statistics Canada  on Oct. 15 that
boosted the ratio of consumer debt to  household income .  “On the margin, that paints a picture of a slightly more
vulnerable household sector,” Carney said.  Asked about the economic case for foreign investment, after
Canada blocked Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s C$5.2 billion ($5.24
billion) purchase of  Progress Energy  on Oct. 19, Carney said
“Canada is an attractive destination for foreign investment,”
without commenting on the specific transaction.  “Our challenge is how we use that capital which comes into
Canada, and how we channel it most productively, so I wouldn’t
overplay the investment story,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  