-- Chile Traders See Key Rate Unchanged as CPI Stays on Target
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-24T11:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/chile-traders-see-key-rate-unchanged-as-cpi-stays-on-target-1-.html
Chilean traders and investors expect
the  benchmark interest rate  to be left unchanged at 5 percent
for the next two years as inflation expectations remain anchored
to the central bank target.  Policy makers last changed borrowing costs in January when
they made a quarter-point reduction that surprised economists.
Traders and investors forecast annual inflation of 2.9 percent
in a year and 3 percent in two years, according to the bi-weekly
survey posted on the central bank website today.  Since the previous poll was published, policy makers have
shown an increased willingness to eventually tighten monetary
policy, Santiago-based financial services company Celfin Capital
SA said in an Oct. 22 note e-mailed to investors. Over the past
month, economic growth exceeded estimates made by economists as
manufacturing rose and unemployment dropped.  “The central bank has become more hawkish and is unlikely
to consider reducing the  base rate  anytime soon,” according to
the Celfin note. “If the  U.S. dollar  does not continue to fall
in the next few months -- our base case scenario -- and if
domestic demand remains robust, the board could become more
biased toward tightening.”  The peso, which has gained 7.8 percent against the dollar
this year, gained 0.1 percent to 482.11 per dollar at 8:43 a.m.
Santiago time. The peso will trade at 480 in three months,
according to today’s survey.  Policy makers target 3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1
percentage point over two years.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product in the Andean nation expanded 5.4
percent in the first half of the year, while growth, as measured
by the central bank’s Imacec index, was 5.3 percent in July and
6.2 percent in August, the fastest pace in half a year.  Manufacturing climbed 3.6 percent in August from last year,
compared with the 1 percent median estimate of analysts polled
by Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate  fell to 6.4 percent in the
three months through August after economists forecast it would
remain unchanged at 6.5 percent.  Economists polled monthly by the central bank on Oct. 10
raised economic growth forecasts for this year and next while
estimating borrowing costs would increase to 5.25 percent within
23 months. Economists in the previous poll, published Sept. 12,
saw no change in borrowing costs over that time-frame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  