-- China’s Stock Index Rises on Manufacturing Data; Yanzhou Drops
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-24T07:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/china-s-stocks-rise-after-manufacturing-report-airlines-rally.html
China ’s benchmark  stock index  rose
as a report showing China’s manufacturing may contract at a more
moderate pace in October overshadowed concern the earnings
outlook for resource companies is worsening.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011)  led a gauge of utility
stocks in the CSI 300 Index to the biggest gain among 10
industry groups after BNP Paribas SA said profit growth will
accelerate on weaker coal prices. China Eastern Airlines Corp.
rallied 2.4 percent after  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  said the
nation’s carriers will report “stellar” earnings on lower fuel
prices. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. dropped 1.6 percent after
Barclays Plc downgraded the stock and UOB-Kay Hian said China’s
coal industry may post “poor” earnings in the third quarter.  “ China’s economy  is recovering but at a very slow pace and
there’s no sign of a big pick-up in growth,” said  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co., which manages about $120 million. “The index
may trade in a narrow range.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.1 percent to 2,115.99
at the close, even as 463 stocks declined and 459 gained. The
CSI 300 fell 0.2 percent to 2,307.78. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  slid
0.7 percent today. Hong Kong’s market was shut yesterday for a
holiday. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 1.3 percent in
 New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite had rebounded 5.6 percent since
reaching a three-year low on Sept. 26 on expectations regulators
will introduce measures to stabilize the market ahead of a once-
in-a-decade power transition of the Communist Party. The
Shanghai gauge is still down 3.8 percent this year and trades at
10 times estimated earnings for this year, compared with the
17.8 average since Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in
2006.  Manufacturing Report  The preliminary reading was 49.1 for a purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
It compares with a final level of 47.9 for September. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  The manufacturing survey may bolster prospects that China’s
expansion will rebound from a three-year low after official data
showed exports, production and investment accelerated last
month. That would reduce the urgency for leaders to roll out
more pro-growth policies ahead of a Communist Party congress set
to begin Nov. 8, part of a once-a-decade power handover.  The world’s second-largest economy is bottoming out and
growth will probably accelerate during the next few quarters,
Morgan Stanley strategists including Hong Kong-based  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report today. The rebound will probably
surprise investors who have become “increasingly cautious” on
China, they wrote.  Utility Stocks  Chinese stocks traded on the mainland are among the top
investments to profit from an economic recovery, they said.  Yuan-denominated A shares that are traded in mainland China
lagged behind their equivalent securities in Hong Kong for a
record 10 straight days through yesterday and traded at the
biggest discount since June 2011, according to an index compiled
by Hang Seng Bank Ltd.  A gauge of  utility stocks  in the CSI 300 rose 1.6 percent,
the most among industry groups. Huaneng Power jumped 4.8 percent
to 6.28  yuan  after it reported net income surging 757 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier. Datang International
Power Generation Co. added 2.5 percent to 4.44 yuan.  BNP Paribas forecast faster earnings growth in the fourth
quarter for power producers on a power generation recovery and
weakening spot coal prices. Huaneng is a top pick among
independent power producers, BNP said in a report to clients.  The nation’s carriers will report “stellar” earnings in
the third quarter, UOB-Kay Hian said in a report to clients.  Earnings Outlook  China Eastern, the nation’s second-biggest domestic
carrier, advanced 2.4 percent to 3.40 yuan. China Southern
Airlines Co., the largest domestic carrier, rose 1.2 percent to
3.52 yuan. Air China Ltd., which scrapped a planned share sale
this week, rebounded 1.6 percent to 5 yuan.  China Eastern  is poised to report a 332 percent jump in
third-quarter profit from the previous quarter, while China
Southern will show a 2,400 percent surge in profit as airlines
benefited from a 1.1 percent increase in the value of the yuan
during the period and a 10 percent drop in fuel prices, they
wrote.  Fourth-quarter earnings for non-financial companies may
grow 9.9 percent, compared with an 11 percent drop in the third
quarter, according to Chen Li, head of China equity research at
UBS AG. China’s stocks may rebound in the fourth quarter as the
slowdown in earnings growth halts and liquidity supports
valuations, he said, recommending cement producers, heavy
machinery companies and retailers.  Resource Stocks  Yanzhou Coal, the fourth-biggest producer, declined 1.6
percent to 18.38 yuan. China’s coal industry may show “poor”
results for the third quarter and Yanzhou’s profit is estimated
to fall 32 percent from the previous three months,  Helen Lau , an
analyst at UOB-Kay Hian, wrote in note. China Coal Energy Co.
reported a 22 percent drop in quarterly net profit yesterday.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co., the
rare earth producer that reported a 90 percent slump in third-
quarter profit, retreated 3 percent to 31.46 yuan after it shut
some of its production.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 19.8
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.2. About 7.3
billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 5.2 percent lower
than the daily average in 2012.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  