-- China Shuffles Military Leaders Ahead of Wider Party Transition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-24T05:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/china-shuffles-military-leaders-ahead-of-wider-party-transition.html
China shuffled three senior military
officials amid political horse-trading at the highest echelons
of the Communist Party before a once-a-decade leadership
transition next month.  General Ma Xiaotian, the army’s deputy chief of staff, was
named to lead China’s  air force , while Zhu Fuxi, former director
of the air force’s political department, replaces Tian Xiusi as
political commissar of the Chengdu area, Caixin magazine
reported yesterday, citing an unidentified military source. Tian
becomes air force political commissar, it said.  The moves are part of a broader changes within the party
and the  People’s Liberation Army  ahead of the Communist Party
Congress, when Vice President  Xi Jinping  is forecast to replace
 Hu Jintao  as party general secretary and as president next year.
China’s factions vie to to insert loyalists in a range of
positions as part of the secretive transition process, which was
roiled by the ouster of Chongqing Party Secretary Bo Xilai
earlier this year.  “In every transition, the new leaders, like Hu Jintao in
early 2000’s and  Jiang Zemin  in the 1990’s, have to promote
their people to consolidate their influence,” said  Ho-Fung
Hung , an associate professor of sociology at Johns Hopkins
University who focuses on China. “At the same time, it could be
that Hu is using his last few months to promote his own people
to perpetuate his influence.”  Calls to the mobile phone of  Defense Ministry  spokesman
Geng Yansheng went unanswered today. The Defense Ministry also
didn’t respond to a fax seeking comment.  U.S. Talks  Ma has been a public face of China’s army, meeting
Pakistani Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf in September and
U.S. defense officials last year. The appointment means he will
be named to the powerful Central Military Commission, said Huang Jing, a political science professor at the  National University 
of Singapore.  “Ma Xiaotian’s promotion is not really unexpected because
if you look at the air force, there really isn’t anyone else who
can take the position,” Huang said.  China’s defense spending has more than doubled since 2006
as it carries out a broad modernization plan, and it announced
in March that it planned to spend about 670 billion  yuan  ($107
billion) this year. The U.S., with an economy less than three
times the size of China’s, has a military budget between five
and six times as big.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  