-- Cnooc Plannikng on Nexen Approval as Output Falls Short
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-10-25T02:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/cnooc-plannikng-on-nexen-approval-as-output-falls-short.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
energy explorer, said it’s planning on getting approval for its
$15.1 billion bid for  Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , even after Canada
last week blocked a takeover bid for another  oil company .  Cnooc expects the Nexen deal, China’s largest foreign
takeover, to be completed within the year, Chief Financial
Officer Zhong Hua told a conference call yesterday in Beijing.
The company has prepared for all possible outcomes of the bid,
he said without elaborating.  The Nexen deal was called into doubt after Canada rejected
a C$5.2 billion ($5.23 billion) bid by Malaysia’s state oil firm,
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, for Calgary-based  Progress
Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on the grounds that the deal wouldn’t
bring a “net benefit” to the country.  “The odds still favor Cnooc winning approval,” said
 Gordon Kwan , Hong Kong-based head of energy research at Mirae
Asset Securities Ltd. “Cnooc has promised to create additional
jobs in the country and invest in building more energy
infrastructures that could lead to higher export prices for
Canada’s oil production.”  Cnooc shares rose 1.9 percent to HK$16.34 at 9:50 a.m. Hong
Kong time. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.1 percent.
Cnooc shares have gained 5.6 percent since it announced the
Nexen acquisition on July 23. Nexen gained 0.2 percent to close
at C$23.63 yesterday in Toronto.  Overseas Assets  Canada extended regulatory scrutiny of Cnooc’s bid for
Nexen by 30 days on Oct. 11. The Nexen deal hinges in part on
 China ’s willingness to approve Canadian investments there, a
person with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Cnooc, which produced more than 80 percent of its oil from
domestic fields in the third quarter, is seeking overseas assets
to boost reserves, which may last for less than nine years at
current production levels.  The company said yesterday total net production rose 9
percent to 87.8 million barrels of oil equivalent in the third
quarter. It also said 2012 net production could be as much as
345 million barrels, 1.5 percent higher than previously
estimated.  The increase in output still falls short of the 6 to 10
percent annual growth targeted by the company in the five years
to 2015. A takeover of Nexen could add around 200,000 barrels a
day, or more than 70 million barrels a year, to Cnooc’s output.  Penglai Shuttered  The Chinese government shut down Cnooc’s biggest offshore
field, Penglai 19-3 in northern China’s  Bohai Bay , in September
2011 after an  oil spill . Cnooc said there is no clear timetable
on when production can resume at the field, which was
contributing around 7 percent of its output.  Improved third-quarter production was mainly attributable
to “the contribution from the new projects and new development
wells,” Cnooc said in a statement. Higher overseas output and
“stable production” from other wells contributed to the
increase, it said.  Although investors remain focused on the Nexen deal,
Cnooc’s “strong organic production momentum” could
increasingly come to the fore, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s Hong
Kong-based energy analysts  Neil Beveridge , Ying Lou and Lu Gang
said in a research note yesterday.  Shale Gas  Cnooc finished test-drilling at a shale gas block in Anhui
province in June, according a statement on its parent company’s
website. The statement didn’t mention testing results.  China has yet to produce shale gas commercially as its
explorers struggle to overcome a lack of domestic drilling
expertise and difficult geology. The country aims to produce 6.5
billion cubic meters of the fuel annually by 2015 and ramp up
output to between 60 billion and 100 billion by the end of 2020,
the National Development and Reform Commission said on March 16.  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, holds 25.08
trillion cubic meters of exploitable onshore shale gas reserves,
the Ministry of Land and Resources said on March 1. That’s
almost double the quantity available in the U.S., where shale
has been heralded as having the potential to deliver energy
independence to a nation still reliant on imports of foreign oil.
The U.S. has 13.65 trillion cubic meters of technically
recoverable gas from shale formations, according to its Energy
Information Administration.  “Cnooc should pay more attention to developing domestic
shale gas resources, especially if energy nationalism picks up
steam worldwide,” said Wu Fei, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Bocom International. Such protectionism would make it “much
harder for Chinese state-owned companies to buy assets
overseas,” she said.  Beijing will conduct its second auction for shale gas
blocks later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  