-- Commodity Supercycle Seen Continuing on Emerging Markets Demand
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-10-24T13:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/commodity-supercycle-seen-continuing-on-emerging-markets-demand.html
The commodity  supercycle  has further
to go on increasing demand from  China  and emerging markets,
according to Longview Economics Ltd. and economist Dambisa Moyo.  Raw materials have been in a supercycle since 2001 and the
average length of each phase since the late 1700s has been
almost 21 years, Chris Watling, chief executive officer of
London-based Longview Economics, said today at a World
Commodities Week conference in the U.K. capital. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI spot gauge of 24 commodities erased this year’s gain
yesterday after entering a  bull market  in the third quarter.  Emerging market and developing economies will grow 5.3
percent this year, compared with 3.3 percent globally, the
 International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 9. The Washington-based
group estimated growth of 7.8 percent for China this year and
8.2 percent next year.  Raw materials , as measured by the S&P
GSCI, have risen for most of the past decade, making annual
advances in 11 of the last 13 years.  “It’s all about what’s happening in emerging markets,”
Moyo, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist, said in a
presentation at the conference. Improving wealth levels “have
implications for what we’ll eat” and more people will want
consumer products, she said.  Moyo pointed to more urbanization globally as why there
will be higher demand for some commodities. Increasing
urbanization in China, the biggest user of industrial metals,
means more demand there for consumer-driven commodities, Richard Elman, chairman and executive director of Hong Kong-based
commodity supplier  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , said at a London Metal
Exchange conference in London Oct. 15. Arable land, needed for
growing foods, covers about 11 percent of the world, Moyo said.  Commodities Performance  The GSCI gauge of commodities fell 0.5 percent since the
beginning of January. The last annual decline was in 2008. The
MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 9.8 percent this
year. Treasuries returned 1.7 percent, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows.  After slowing for seven quarters, China’s growth will gain
for the following four quarters, based on the median of
estimates from economists compiled by Bloomberg. After
industrializing nations have used metals for infrastructure,
they start consuming more farm products and energy, Watling
said. Those commodities will make new highs in the current
supercycle, while copper and steel probably won’t, he said.  “I’m a great believer that the supercycle has more to
go,” he said. “Next year is going to be a tough year. Global
growth is struggling. I wouldn’t be overly bullish on a six- to
nine-month view.”  Prices Peaked  Many commodities may have peaked,  Marc Faber , publisher of
the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, said in a presentation at the
conference. He recommended holding physical gold and silver and
said he’s “not so keen on other commodities.”  Investors boosted holdings in bullion-backed  exchange-
traded products  to a record this month and gold is heading for a
12th consecutive annual gain as central banks from the U.S. to
China pledged more stimulus to bolster economies. Federal
Reserve policy makers conclude a meeting today.  Coffee, sugar and cotton are the worst performers this year
in the S&P GSCI. Wheat gained the most, while corn and soybeans
reached records, as the U.S. endured its worst drought in more
than 50 years.  “I remain fundamentally bullish,” said Moyo. “The rise
of wealth across  emerging markets  is a key driver. The commodity
supercycle still has a long way to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  