-- Cortec Mining Kenya to Start Niobium Mine for Export by 2016
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-10-25T13:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/cortec-mining-kenya-to-start-mining-niobium-for-export-by-2016.html
Cortec Mining  Kenya  Ltd., a Nairobi-
based exploration company, will start production at its niobium
project in southeastern Kenya by 2016, Managing Director  David
Anderson  said.  Cortec plans to invest about $160 million to $200 million
to extend a drilling program at its Mrima Hill prospect, analyze
samples and build a mineral processing test plant within two
years, he said yesterday in a phone interview from Nairobi,
Kenya’s capital.  Output, once at full capacity, is expected to reach 2,900
metric tons to 3,600 tons of niobium concentrate a year, he
said. The deposit is estimated to hold the world’s sixth-largest
reserve of the rare metal and it has an initial mine-life of 16
years to 18 years, Anderson said. Niobium is used in high-
temperature alloys for  jet engines  and to strengthen steel for
cars, buildings and oil pipelines.  World production of niobium grew to 100,000 metric tons in
2009. Brazil accounts for about 95 percent of output, followed
by Canada, according to the British Geological Survey.  Awaiting Approval  Kenya’s Cabinet this month approved a mining law meant to
strengthen the country’s legal framework for mineral
exploitation and boost revenue from natural resources, which
accounted for 0.7 percent of the gross domestic product last
year, according to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics.  Investment in Kenya’s mining, oil and natural gas
industries lags behind other countries in the region, including
Tanzania, Africa’s third-largest gold producer, and Uganda,
where  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  expects to start pumping crude by 2016.
Tullow, with partner  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) , made Kenya’s first oil
discovery in March.  Cortec’s application to convert a special prospecting
permit for the Mrima Hill site, about 75 kilometers (47 miles)
outside the port city of Mombasa, to a full development license
is awaiting approval by Kenya’s National Environment Management
Authority, Anderson said.  Pacific Wildcat Resources, a mineral explorer publicly
traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, has a 70 percent indirect
interest in CMK’s holding companies; Cortec Mining U.K. Ltd. and
Sterling Capital U.K., Anderson said.  Kenya also has “significant” deposits of soda ash,
fluorspar and titanium, according to the Ministry of Environment
and  Mineral Resources . Gold,  iron ore , coal, gemstones and other
minerals also exist, according to the ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  