-- Czechs See Risks in Incomplete EU Bank Union, Lizal Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-24T09:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/czechs-see-risks-in-incomplete-eu-bank-union-lizal-says.html
The Czech central bank sees risks in
incomplete proposals for a European banking union that may
change national supervisory powers over the financial industry,
board member Lubomir Lizal said.  Lizal commented on  Europe ’s debt crisis, Czech economic
developments and the monetary-policy outlook in an interview in
Prague yesterday.  On debt crisis and banking union:  “The main goal of efforts in Europe is to install a
credible lender of last resort, because the governments in the
troubled countries cannot fulfill this function.  ‘‘This means more involvement in public budgets. If this
cannot be performed directly by the governments, what is needed
is to find another possibility of doing it from public budgets.  ‘‘The primary goal is to break the link between the banking
sector holding problematic government debt, and the public
sector which, because of its own problems, isn’t able to rescue
the banking sector.  ‘‘The risks from proposals for a banking union are that
they’re not presented in a complete form. The proposal
addressing the issue of relations between the home and host
regulators include potential risks. For instance, the European
regulator is seen having different powers than the national
regulators, while the national regulators will still carry the
fiscal responsibility for eventual problems.  ‘‘Our view is that the proposal should be presented in a
complete form to allow analysis of all potential benefits, risks
and costs.  ‘‘Unequal positions of the regulatory authorities inside
and outside the euro zone could create situations in which the
monetary-union bloc could outvote those outside the bloc.  ‘‘Moreover, views of what are systemically important banks
will differ in a small, open economy and in a larger economy. If
there is an institution that might not be seen as systemically
important for the European regulator, its subsidiary may be seen
as systemically important in the Czech Republic or some other
similar country.  ‘‘What I consider crucial for financial stability is that
the banking group not only meets the requirements overall, but
that it also meets the requirements in every country where it
has operations.’’  On Czech economy and monetary policy:  ‘‘We are trying to communicate that the economic situation
isn’t as pessimistic as may be perceived by the public or the
companies.  ‘‘The latest step to lower the interest rates was reflected
in the market interest rates. To me, the effect was there, and
the transmission mechanism is working even with the current low
rates.  ‘‘Our decision was in line with the central bank’s
forecast, and the effect was also in line with the impact that
was assumed in the forecast.  ‘‘The current forecast assumes another rate reduction. I
don’t think the next forecast will be dramatically different
from the current one. This means there shouldn’t be a change in
the trend, although there may be a change in the timing.  ‘‘If the new forecast isn’t very different from the
previous one, then more relaxed monetary conditions will
probably be warranted.  ‘‘The transmission mechanism has been working so far, so I
don’t see a reason not to use interest rates again, if we agree
that it is needed. For me, zero rates aren’t a problem. It is
neither a psychological nor a technical barrier.  ‘‘My perception is that extra policy measures should be
used when the main tool cannot be used anymore. And we still can
use it.  ‘‘The foreign-exchange channel seems to be the next most
effective instrument in terms of an impact on prices and in
terms of relaxing monetary conditions. It is also an instrument
that we know the best, an instrument that is the easiest to
monitor and regulate.  ‘‘Inflation expectations are anchored near the inflation
target, which reflects the credibility of the monetary policy.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  