-- D.C. Inquiry, Europe Circuit Breakers, Sifma: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-24T12:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/d-c-inquiry-europe-circuit-breakers-sifma-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission opened an “informal inquiry” into Washington,
D.C.’s finances after the city’s finance chief faced scrutiny
for failing to disclose internal audits of his agency.  The SEC on Oct. 22 asked the chief financial officer for
records of internal audits and investigations conducted since
the beginning of 2010, the  District of Columbia  said in a
disclosure to investors yesterday.  The federal request follows a city council hearing this
month at which officials faulted Chief Financial Officer Natwar
Gandhi for not disclosing internal audits documenting failures
at the agency. The Washington Post this month reported the
audits show security lapses in the tax department since 2007,
when an employee was caught embezzling $48 million.  On Oct. 16, the city council approved a measure requiring
disclosure of the chief financial officer’s internal audits.  Washington is the second city this month to face a fresh
inquiry from the SEC, which has been stepping up its
investigations of the municipal  securities market .  David Umansky, a spokesman for the city’s chief financial
officer, said the department is complying with the SEC’s
request.  “This is an informal inquiry, not an investigation,”
Umansky said. “We don’t think there’s any problems with our
disclosures, which is what the SEC would be concerned about.”  Special Section: Sifma Annual Meeting  U.S. Derivatives Regulator Proposes Rules for Customer Funds  U.S. derivatives regulators, faulted for poor oversight of
failed brokerages  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and Peregrine
Financial Group Inc., proposed new rules to improve segregation
and protection of customer funds.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission members voted 5-0 to
approve the proposals Oct. 22 without a public meeting, CFTC
Chairman Gary Gensler said yesterday at a Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association conference in  New York .  The proposals will be open to public comment before they
are completed.  The CFTC and  National Futures Association , an industry
self-regulator, are bolstering oversight after Peregrine, a
commodities brokerage, collapsed in July with at least $200
million in client funds missing. MF Global, which filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy last Oct. 31, is returning money
to customers who faced a $1.6 billion shortfall as part of the
firm’s liquidation.  The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission and  Justice
Department  have been investigating the collapse of MF Global,
and congressional investigators are preparing a report. The
coalition has urged regulators to file civil and criminal
charges following MF Global’s collapse and to take steps to
improve customer protection.  Under the CFTC proposal, regulators would have direct
electronic access to futures brokers’ bank accounts to monitor
customer funds. The proposals also would require heightened
disclosure by brokers about how client collateral is held at
custodial banks.  Gensler Favors ‘Back to Basics’ Stance on Swaps Rules  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, talked about derivatives regulation with Scarlet Fu
and  Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Movers”
from the Sifma conference in New York.  For the video, click here.  Sifma’s Ryan Says Volcker Rule Has Most Complexity Risk  Timothy Ryan , president and chief executive officer of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, talked
about financial regulatory overhaul and the potential impact of
the  U.S. presidential election  on the industry.  Ryan spoke with Peter Cook at Sifma’s annual meeting in New
York on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Schapiro Says SEC Working at ‘Good Pace’ on Dodd Frank  U.S. Securities and Exchange Chairman  Mary Schapiro  talked
about the SEC’s role in financial regulation.  Schapiro spoke with  Peter Cook  at the  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association ’s annual meeting in New York
on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money.”  For the video, click here.  Swaps Users Granted Grace Period to Clear Trades, Gensler Says  Swaps-market participants will have a grace period before
trades are required to be cleared, settling confusion over a
rule that will begin early next year, said Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler.  Firms dealing in  $648 trillion  of outstanding swaps
contracts expected that trading during a phase-in period
wouldn’t need to be processed by central clearinghouses,
according to an Oct. 5 e-mail sent to clients by Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP, which represents the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. While the firms were wrong,
misreading one sentence in 17,000 words of regulation, Gensler
said yesterday the idea was always to allow a grace period.  Dealers and money managers that trade swaps had faced the
potential need to find cash and Treasuries to back the trades
sooner than they anticipated. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act is
requiring that swaps be moved to the  central counterparties  to
limit the kinds of risks that fueled panic during the 2008
credit crisis.  Referring to the Davis Polk e-mail, Gensler said some
market users were confused about how the final rule, passed by
the CFTC on June 30, was written.  For more, click here, and  click here .  Compliance Policy  U.K. Offers Firms Chance to Defer Economic-Crime Prosecutions  The U.K. government, seeking to speed up prosecution of
complex cases of economic crime, said companies may be offered
the chance to defer prosecution for fraud, money-laundering and
bribery if they agree to terms that might include paying a
“substantial financial penalty.”  Justice Minister Damian Green announced the introduction of
“ Deferred Prosecution Agreements ,” which can be made between a
prosecutor and an organization to defer prosecution for alleged
economic wrongdoing as long as stringent conditions are met.
These include making amends to victims, publicly admitting
wrongdoing, reforming practices and paying a fine.  Fraud costs the U.K. 73 billion pounds ($116 billion) a
year, Green said.  The DPAs will be overseen by a judge, agreed on in open
court and the outcome will be published to ensure transparency,
the Ministry of Justice in  London  said in a statement. A failure
to live up to the agreement can result in referral of the case
to prosecutors once again, the ministry said.  Regulators Should Avoid Choking HFT Benefits, U.K. Panel Says  European regulators should coordinate controls on high-
frequency trading to prevent disruptions in markets without
choking off its benefits, the U.K. government’s lead scientific
adviser said.  His report recommended pan-European circuit breakers to
halt trading when swings become too great and proposed minimum
trading price increments to boost liquidity. Tighter
restrictions, such as forcing traders to hold orders for a
certain period or limiting how often they may be canceled, are
“likely to be problematic,” it said.  While computerized trading has increased liquidity and
lowered costs, regulators should work on managing instances of
sudden instability and disruptions, John Beddington, Britain’s
chief scientific adviser, said at a presentation in London Oct.
21. The recommendations follow research his group published in
September 2011 that found high-frequency trading isn’t spurring
broad increases in volatility even as it sometimes creates
“instability” that may lead to crashes.  The two-year study, produced by about 150 people from more
than 20 countries, found no direct evidence that faster trading
increased volatility or market abuse, Beddington said.  The report, “The Future of Computer Trading in Financial
Markets,” was produced by Foresight, a division of the
Government Office for Science. The program provides evidence to
aid the formulation of policy and doesn’t reflect the views of
the government.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Google, Carmakers Discuss Robotic Autos With U.S. Regulators  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and automakers are having “extensive
discussions” with U.S. safety regulators about self-driving
cars such as the one the search-engine leader has developed, the
top U.S. auto regulator said.  Google, which developed its autonomous car in secret, is
testing it on U.S. roads. California Governor  Jerry Brown  last
month signed a law allowing trials of self-driving cars on the
state’s highways, as long as there’s a human in the driver’s
seat to take over if needed.  NHTSA, which evaluates vehicles for safety in crash tests
and sets standards for parts from headlights to windshield
wipers, will have to find a way to evaluate the software or
other systems that control an autonomous vehicle, said Ron
Medford, the agency’s deputy administrator.  Google, as a technology company getting attention for its
foray into the automotive sector, “has to be right the first
time” on autonomous vehicles, said Chris Urmson, the company’s
technical leader on the project.  Volvo sees autonomous vehicles as part of its strategy to
eliminate deaths among people driving its cars by 2020.  Nevada , where the housing market has suffered during the
U.S. economic downturn, rushed regulations for testing
autonomous vehicles in part because it wanted to attract the
testing business, said Bruce Breslow, director of the state’s
motor vehicles department.  NHTSA’s discussions about state autonomous vehicle laws and
regulations have been mostly with Nevada and California, Medford
said.  Mortgage Lenders Seeing ‘Perfect Storm’ of Rules on the Horizon  Mortgage bankers and  Realtors  are warning that it could
become even harder for borrowers to qualify for a home loan
early next year as the industry faces what some are calling a
“perfect storm” of new rules.  Regulators are preparing to release the language of two
rules taking effect in January to set standards for non-abusive
lending and require banks to hold a slice of risky mortgages on
their books. In addition, U.S. banking overseers must also
complete new capital standards mandated in the international
Basel III accords next year.  The industry’s main worry is that the rules, coming almost
simultaneously, may overlap or conflict, creating what National
Association of Realtors President Maurice “Moe” Veissi called
a perfect storm of regulation.  Mortgage credit is already tight. U.S. regulators including
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and  Shaun Donovan ,
secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, have expressed concern that banks are preventing
qualified borrowers from taking advantage of  interest rates 
driven to record lows by the Fed’s quantitative easing strategy.  Lenders say they’ll probably make only the safest mortgages
as defined by the rule, commonly known as the QM regulation,
after it is issued.  For more, click here.  ThyssenKrupp Investigates Board Member Over Antitrust Case  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, said it’s
investigating a possible breach of duty by executive board
member Edwin Eichler in connection with antitrust violations in
the railway-steel market.  Its supervisory board hired Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
LLP as well as a criminal law professor from Munich to probe the
executive on behalf of the company, according to Alexander
Wilke, a spokesman for the steelmaker. Eichler faces possible
dismissal, Handelsblatt reported yesterday.  ThyssenKrupp GfT Gleistechnik GmbH, a unit of the Essen-
based company, was fined 103 million euros ($134 million)
earlier in the year for cartel collusion in Germany. The
executive board of ThyssenKrupp Services AG, which oversaw the
unit and was headed by Eichler, “had taken all measures to
prevent cartel-related offenses,” ThyssenKrupp said yesterday
in a statement.  Stefan Ettwig, another company spokesman, said Eichler
declined to comment on the probe.  Comings and Goings  EU Fails to Agree on Proposed Female Quotas for Company Boards  European Union plans to set a 40 percent quota for women on
company supervisory boards by 2020 stalled after EU
commissioners failed to agree on the measures at a meeting
yesterday.  The European Commission’s legal service warned that a
binding quota for women may be illegal ahead of the meeting,
according to a person familiar with the talks. Lawyers said EU
regulators don’t have the right to mandate binding targets for
results obtained by companies, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the process is private. EU rules can
require companies to make efforts toward a target.  EU commissioners postponed discussion of EU Justice
Commissioner  Viviane Reding ’s plan until Nov. 14. Reding said
she has “strong support” from other commissioners and drafted
a compromise in line with lawyers’ guidelines to win consensus
from her colleagues. She declined to give details, beyond saying
she would retain the 40 percent target.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  