-- TD Tops Buying Spree Joined by RBC, Scotiabank
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-24T20:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/td-tops-buying-spree-joined-by-rbc-scotiabank.html
Royal Bank of Canada ,  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia , three of the world’s
soundest financial firms, are seeking to boost profit with more
than C$12 billion ($12.1 billion) in consumer-oriented
acquisitions.  Royal Bank yesterday agreed to buy a unit of auto lender
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  for as much as C$3.8 billion. About 20
minutes later Toronto-Dominion said it would buy  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s
$5.9 billion U.S. credit-card portfolio. Combined with
Scotiabank’s C$3.1 billion agreement in August to buy the
Canadian unit of  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the country’s three largest
lenders by assets are on the biggest buying spree since 2010.  Bankers including Toronto-Dominion Chief Executive Officer
 Edmund Clark , 65, have warned that domestic consumer banking
profit may slow next year with household debt levels at a
record. The Toronto-based lenders, ranked the soundest for the
past five years by the  World Economic Forum , have also looked to
asset management and foreign banking to increase earnings.  “The banks have now realized they no longer can just go
out there and cross-sell their way to better growth; they are
going to have to go out and acquire assets,”  Craig Fehr , a
strategist at Edward Jones & Co., said in an interview yesterday
in Bloomberg’s Toronto office.  Canada’s six biggest banks agreed to spend $7.07 billion on
13 takeovers announced last year and $16 billion in 23 deals in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Auto Financing  “While we have a very good market in Canada, there are
great opportunities elsewhere,” Scotiabank CEO Richard Waugh
said in an interview after a conference in Toronto yesterday.
“That’s where Scotiabank has been looking, and also at a few
opportunities in Canada.”  Royal Bank  was  little changed at C$57 at 4 p.m. in Toronto
while Toronto-Dominion fell 0.8 percent to C$81.44. Scotiabank
was little changed at C$53.55. The eight-member Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index has risen 6.8 percent this
year, outperforming the 2 percent gain of the S&P/TSX Composite
Index.  Royal Bank,  Canada ’s largest lender by assets, said
yesterday it plans to buy Ally’s Canadian auto-finance and
deposit business in a cash deal that Ally said will generate
$4.1 billion for the Detroit-based company. RBC said the total
price will range from C$3.1 billion to C$3.8 billion, depending
on the size of a dividend taken by Ally before the deal is
completed. It would be the largest takeover ever for Royal Bank,
eclipsing a $2.16 billion  purchase  of Centura Banks in 2001.  Taxpayer Bailout  Ally put its non-U.S. operations up for sale in May to help
repay a $17.2 billion taxpayer bailout that left the U.S.
government with a 74 percent stake.  Royal Bank said it expects the Ally business to generate
C$120 million in profit, excluding C$50 million in one-time
costs, and “modestly” add to per-share earnings in the first
year. The acquired business will have a return on equity in the
“high single digits,” said David McKay, head of personal and
commercial banking. Combined, RBC’s auto-lending business will
have a return of 15 percent or more, he said.  RBC is buying a business that offers inventory financing to
more than 580 auto dealerships across Canada, the lender said.
RBC said it will have C$24 billion in auto loan receivables and
offer financing to more than 890 dealerships after this
transaction, expected to close in the first quarter of 2013.  “It speaks to a very healthy, profitable banking industry
that is well-capitalized and has the ability to expand, so I
think that is a real positive.” McKay said in a phone
interview. “You’re seeing the Canadian banks with capital to
deploy based on strong performance that are able to expand.”  ‘Good Demonstrations’  The transaction, as well as TD Bank’s card acquisition, are
demonstrations of the “capital allocation theme that drives our
thinking for 2013,”  Mario Mendonca , an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity, said yesterday in a note. “We believe that with
capital strength established across the industry, investors will
become intensely focused on capital allocation.”  Some banks will return capital in the form of
“significant” buybacks while others, especially Toronto-
Dominion and Scotiabank, are more likely to invest in growth,
Mendonca said.  Toronto-Dominion said its pact with Minneapolis-based
Target will significantly expand the bank’s presence in the
North American credit-card business. TD agreed to a seven-year
deal to underwrite, fund and own consumer loans made with the
retailer’s Target- and Visa Inc.-branded credit cards in the
U.S.  “We think it makes financial sense, because it leverages
our deposit base,” said Michael Rhodes, Toronto-Dominion’s
executive vice president of North American credit cards and
merchant services. “It makes strategic sense because we have a
lot of interest in expanding our North American card business.”  Toronto-Dominion, which has more branches in the U.S. than
Canada, said the transaction will help it meet a forecast for
$1.6 billion in U.S. consumer-banking profit by next year.  Slowing Consumer  “The Canadian consumer cannot constantly leverage
themselves up, and so we had a pretty classic leverage-driven
expansion in Canada that aids the banks,” Clark said at a
conference in Toronto in September. “You’re going to see slower
growth.”  Yesterday’s buying binge compares to one in 2007, when the
country’s two biggest lenders announced deals valued at about $9
billion within minutes of each other. On Oct. 2 that year, Royal
Bank agreed to buy RBTT Financial Holdings Ltd. in  Trinidad and
Tobago  while Toronto-Dominion agreed to buy Commerce Bancorp
Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  