-- Daimler Scraps 2013 Targets After Cutting Forecast
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-10-25T14:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/daimler-cuts-2012-profit-forecast-after-earnings-decline.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  scrapped a Mercedes-Benz
earnings target for the second time, highlighting the luxury-car
brand’s widening gap to leader  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche gave up on boosting
Mercedes profit margin to at least 10 percent of sales next
year, a level that  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi beat in the third
quarter. The earliest Mercedes will achieve the target now is
2014, four years later than originally planned.  “In light of the relative strength of VW and BMW, I’m
simply shocked by the weakness of Daimler,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst with Credit Suisse. “The
management of Daimler is disappointing once more.”  Burdened by a disjointed strategy in  China , sluggish
expansion of entry-level models and an aging S-Class sedan,
Mercedes has slipped deeper into third place. The gap in sales
to BMW this year jumped 41 percent, while Audi more than doubled
its lead over Mercedes, casting doubt on Zetsche’s pledge to
retake the lead in deliveries and profit in the segment.  Burdened by costs to expand its model lineup and tougher
competition in Europe and China, Daimler’s third-quarter
earnings before interest and taxes slipped 2 percent to 1.92
billion euros ($2.5 billion), the company said late yesterday.
Mercedes Ebit fell 12 percent to 975 million euros, even as
sales climbed 10 percent.  Trailing Audi  That meant the Daimler unit’s margin dropped to 6.4 percent
from 8 percent a year ago. Audi reported a margin of 10.5
percent last quarter, while BMW is forecasting an auto margin at
the “upper end” of a range of 8 percent to 10 percent. BMW
releases third-quarter earnings on Nov. 6.  “They need to improve in every area,” said  Albrecht Denninghoff , an analyst with Silvia Quandt Research in
 Frankfurt . “In the direct comparison with Volkswagen and BMW,
they fall clearly behind.”  Daimler fell as much as 4 percent to 36.31 euros, the
 lowest price  since July 24, and was down 2.4 percent as of 4:12
p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has  gained  8.7 percent this year,
valuing the German carmaker at 39.4 billion euros. VW has surged
34 percent in 2012, while BMW has climbed 18 percent.  In September 2011, Zetsche sought to cap the celebrations
for the automaker’s 125th anniversary by setting the goal for
Mercedes to become the No. 1 upscale car brand by the end of the
decade, reclaiming the spot it lost to BMW in 2005. At the time,
he said it was “impossible” for the brand to accept being
third. A year later, the tone is more muted.  Not Fit  “We have one of the oldest product portfolios compared to
the competition,” Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said
today. “We can’t catch up this year to BMW and Audi.”  To prevent a further slip in profitability, Daimler plans
to cut costs at Mercedes by 2 billion euros by the end of 2014
under a program dubbed “Fit for Leadership.”  The measures, which include actions previously initiated,
will reduce material, production and fixed costs and cut back on
research and development and capital spending, with the aim of
safeguarding earnings levels in the short term.  “All expenses are under review,” Uebber said. Still, the
company aims to keep its  dividend  “stable,” after paying out
2.20 euros a share last year, he said.  Daimler, also the world’s largest commercial-vehicle maker,
lowered its  forecasts  for 2012 profit as well yesterday. The
company now expects Ebit to fall 11 percent to 8 billion euros,
after a previous target of matching last year’s 9 billion euros.  The car business is expected to decline 15 percent to 4.4
billion euros, while truck Ebit will fall 10 percent to about
1.7 billion euros.  Later Date  The scrapped 2013 targets called for Mercedes to earn a
margin of 10 percent and trucks 8 percent. Zetsche, who
originally planned to hit those marks in 2010, first delayed the
targets in February 2009 in the midst of the financial crisis.
Daimler now said it will meet the goals at “a later date.”  “I’m surprised that they are holding on to their long-term
goals,” said  Frank Schwope , an analyst with Hanover-based
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale. “These are implausible
and will never be reached.”  Daimler’s strategy to catch up in luxury cars is based on
introducing 10 new models by 2015, including additional variants
of the S-Class, which will be overhauled next summer. The
company targets sales of 1.6 million Mercedes brand cars by
2015, 25 percent more than last year.  ‘Unusually Unlucky’  Daimler expects car sales to increase in the fourth quarter
on rising demand for its new A- and B-Class compact models and
its sport-utility vehicles. Earnings will be subdued by a “high
double-digit” million-euro amount to support its Chinese dealer
network, Uebber said.  Mercedes has been trailing in China, where deliveries edged
up 6.7 percent this year, compared with gains of more than 30
percent for BMW and Audi. To improve its fortunes, Zetsche is
combining two separate sales units -- one for imported vehicles
and one for locally made cars -- into a single entity.  “Daimler seems an unusually unlucky company,” said  Max Warburton , an analyst with Bernstein Research. “Investing in
the hope that its luck will change is probably not a great
idea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  