-- Danske Drops as Nordea’s Interest Income Falls: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-24T10:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/danske-drops-as-nordea-s-interest-income-falls-copenhagen-mover.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s largest
lender, fell to the lowest price in seven weeks in Copenhagen
trading after its biggest rival  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  reported a
decline in Danish net interest income.  Danske fell as much as 1.8 percent to 101.80 kroner, the
lowest since Aug. 31. The stock retreated 1.6 percent to 102
kroner at 12:13 a.m. in the Danish capital. Investors had traded
368,773 shares; the average  six-month  daily volume is 1,014,005.  The Danish central bank in July cut below zero the rate on
seven-day certificates of deposits to weaken the krone, putting
pressure on the banking industry’s interest margins. Nordea,
based in Stockholm, reported today net income that missed
analyst estimates and said Danish net interest income declined 3
percent in the third quarter from the previous three-month
period. Copenhagen-based Danske has more than half of its
lending exposure in  Denmark , which is teetering on the brink of
its second recession in less than a year.  “There’s a negative read-across from Nordea’s interest
income that rubs off on Danske,” Mads Thinggaard, an analyst
with Nykredit Markets in Copenhagen, said by phone. “We could
see this weakness repeated when Danske reports earnings next
week.”  Danske is scheduled to publish earnings on Oct. 30 when the
bank also will present results of a strategic review. Danske
will report third-quarter net interest income of 6.22 billion
kroner ($1 billion) and loan losses of 2.96 billion kroner,
according to the  average estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of eight
analysts conducted before today. That compares with a net
interest income of 6.02 billion kroner and loan losses of 2.8
billion kroner in the third quarter of 2011.  Nordea reported today a 93 percent jump in third-quarter
loans losses for its Danish unit.  “Nordea’s loan losses shouldn’t be seen as a bad omen for
Danske’s third-quarter report,” Bjoern Schwarz, an analyst with
Aabenraa, Denmark-based Sydbank A/S, said by phone. “A big
portion of Nordea’s losses derives from the stricter writedowns
rules that the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority has
introduced and Danske already made those writedowns in the
second quarter.”  Nordea  fell  as much as 4.1 percent in  Stockholm  trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  