-- Deduction Cap Means Romney’s Math Adds Up, Tax Group Says
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-10-24T21:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/deduction-cap-means-romney-s-math-adds-up-tax-group-says.html
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s latest income tax cut proposal would be able to pay for
itself by placing a cap on individual deductions, according to
the  Tax Foundation .  “When you add the new deduction cap, we find that the plan
actually does come in on balance,” Scott Hodge, president of
the Washington-based group that favors a simpler tax code, said
today at a Bloomberg Government breakfast. Still, he said having
taxpayers choose which deductions to take to reach the cap isn’t
a sound approach.  “From a political perspective it’s probably the smart way
to go, even though it is probably the crudest form of tax
policy,” Hodge said. “It’s bad tax policy for those of us who
are purists.”  The tax group’s board includes former U.S. Representative
Bill Archer of Texas, a Republican who was chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee;  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , chief economic
adviser to 2008 Republican presidential candidate  John McCain ;
and Pam Olson, a former Treasury Department official under
President  George W. Bush .  Romney’s plan would cut individual income tax rates by 20
percent, eliminate the estate tax and alternative minimum tax
and reduce the corporate  tax rate  to 25 percent from 35 percent.
The combination of those policies would reduce federal revenue
by $5 trillion over the next decade, an amount Romney has
pledged to make up.  Multinational Companies  President  Barack Obama  has said he wants to raise taxes for
top earners and multinational corporations. He has said Romney’s
insistence on rate cuts would mean a bigger  deficit  or higher
taxes for the middle class.  Increased taxes for middle-class Americans would be
inevitable “unless we slash expenditures,” according to  Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington, who also spoke at today’s
Bloomberg Government breakfast.  Unless spending on entitlement programs such as Medicare is
significantly reduced, Hufbauer said, “you can’t close the
 budget deficit  without raising taxes in one shape or another on
the middle class. It’s as simple as that, and the arithmetic is
extremely powerful.”  Hufbauer said taxes most likely would be raised by limiting
deductions. The Peterson Institute’s chairman is  Peter G. Peterson , co-founder of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private-equity company. The institute’s board includes  Lawrence Summers , former  Treasury secretary  for President  Bill Clinton .  Carried Interest  Another variable in any tax overhaul is how to classify
carried interest, or the share of profits that private-equity
managers receive.  Carried interest is now taxed as  capital gains  -- at 15
percent -- rather than at higher rates for ordinary income.
Obama wants to tax it as ordinary income, while the Romney
campaign hasn’t said whether he wants to keep the preferential
tax treatment.  “It’s income, without a doubt,” Hufbauer said. Hodge said
that while it “is probably income, if you eliminated it, people
would find other ways to accomplish the same thing.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, has said he would
make up the $5 trillion revenue loss from his tax reductions by
limiting tax breaks and by assuming the cuts will spur economic
growth.  Corporate Taxes  Overhauling the corporate  tax code  by lowering rates
wouldn’t hurt federal revenue, Hodge said. With the top rate now
at 35 percent, Romney wants to cut it to 25 percent. Obama wants
to reduce it to 28 percent, with a 25 percent rate for
manufacturers.  “When it comes to business taxation, the United States has
a Neiman Marcus tax system in a world of Wal-Mart tax systems,”
Hodge said. “We have every-day high prices every day, and we
offer a few white sales to get people in the door. But everyone
else is competing on low tax rates.”  Romney’s proposed ceiling on deductions would be part of a
three-part set of limits on tax breaks, according to a campaign
aide who spoke on condition of anonymity Oct. 3 to provide
details on the options. The aide said there would be a $17,000
cap on deductions and credits, while Romney suggested a ceiling
of $25,000 during the Oct. 16 debate.  A second ceiling would apply to personal exemptions and a
third cap would apply to the tax break for employer-provided
health insurance.  $1,000 Credit  One undecided issue is how to handle the fact that a $1,000
credit, which is a subtraction from a person’s tax payment, is
different from a $1,000 deduction, which is a subtraction from
income.  The amount and details of the limits could be changed to
meet Romney’s targets for revenue and distribution of the tax
burden. The aide said the three-cap idea is only one option
being considered.  Hodge and Hufbauer also said the U.S. needs to overhaul
international taxation of domestic companies, something proposed
by Romney. Under current law, companies owe U.S. taxes on
profits they earn around the world. They receive tax credits for
payments to foreign governments and don’t pay the U.S. until
they bring the money home.  Territorial System  Romney wants to adopt a so-called territorial tax system,
under which companies would owe little or no taxes on their
overseas income. Obama has said lower taxes on foreign income
earned by U.S.-based companies would encourage them to send more
jobs and investment overseas.  “We are beginning to see companies move abroad” to take
advantage of lower tax rates in other countries, Hodge said.
“The handwriting is on the wall: We have to move to a
territorial system or we will further erode our global
competitiveness.”  Romney says his tax plan adds up, assuming that some
revenue to pay for the proposed tax cuts comes from growth.
Obama, in contending the plan doesn’t add up, cites math used by
Congress, which doesn’t allow higher growth to cover the cost of
tax cuts.  The nonpartisan  Tax Policy  Center  said that , even with
growth effects, Romney’s plan would be $33 billion short of
paying for itself in 2015. Romney allies objected and said other
changes, such as ending the tax break for municipal bond
interest, would fill the gap. The group is a joint venture of
the  Urban Institute  and  Brookings Institution .  Under the  Tax Policy Center ’s standard, erasing that gap
would require Romney to support proposals he hasn’t offered or
has suggested he wouldn’t accept, such as eliminating the
charitable deduction once a household’s annual income reaches
$200,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  