-- Delta to Retire Jets Under Plan for $1 Billion in Savings
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-24T20:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/delta-sees-fourth-quarter-capacity-cut-up-to-3-as-traffic-drops.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will pare costs
by $1 billion, in part by retiring older jets, and trim fourth-
quarter capacity as much as 3 percent after expenses increased
at the world’s second-largest carrier.  The capacity cut will be in a range of 1 percent to 3
percent, with the deepest pullback on international routes,
Atlanta-based Delta said today in a statement. Third-quarter
profit excluding some items was 90 cents a share, trailing the
91-cent average of 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We will generate significant savings starting in the
second half of 2013,” Chief Financial Officer Paul Jacobson
said today on a conference call with analysts and investors. The
changes are “not easy and will take some time and upfront costs
to implement.”  The biggest piece of the savings plan comes from getting
rid of aging aircraft on U.S. routes and replacing 50-seat jets
with larger models, Jacobson said. Trading out the small planes
for used  Boeing Co. (BA)  717s being bought from  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV)  and new Boeing 737-900ERs will reduce operating costs and
put higher-fare business-class seats on more of Delta’s fleet.  Delta is also in discussions with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  to buy about 70 76-set regional jets, Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Anderson  said on the call. Delta plans to make a
decision on an order by year’s end, he said.  Maintenance, Technology  The other major parts of the cost reduction plan call for
paring maintenance expenses and making technology improvements
that will lower payments to vendors and drive more customers to
Delta’s reservations website to book flights because that’s the
cheapest way to distribute tickets, Jacobson said.  Delta slid 1.1 percent to $10.04 at the close in New York.
That pared the shares’ year-to-date advance to 24 percent, which
was still good enough to rank third in the 10-carrier Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index.  “There’s no growth, and you need growth to offset cost
inflation,” said Savanthi Syth, a Raymond James & Associates
Inc. analyst in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . She rates Delta  stock 
as outperform. “The cost-cutting initiative is less related to
demand. There’s an expectation here that you’re not going to see
rapid growth anywhere.”  The airline’s fleet consisted of 775 planes, with an
average age of 15.6 years, at the end of 2011, according to a
regulatory filing. That compared with an average of 11 years
among 12 North American carriers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Jets at  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s
largest airline, averaged 12.4 years of age, the data show.  Pilot Contract  Delta would add the new regional jets under a new pilot
contract that allows for more of those smaller models, Anderson
said.  Delta joins Southwest in efforts to reduce expenses after
the Dallas-based carrier said last week it plans spending cuts
of at least $100 million to blunt costs that are outpacing sales
gains.  Excluding fuel, Delta’s cost to fly each seat a mile rose
5.6 percent last quarter for its consolidated operations, which
consist of its main jet flights and its regional business.
Salary and wage expenses, Delta’s second-largest after fuel,
climbed 7.7 percent, and maintenance jumped 15 percent.  Third-quarter net income jumped to $1.05 billion, or $1.23
a share, from $549 million, or 65 cents, a year earlier. Delta
said the one-time items in the quarter included a $440 million
gain on fuel hedge accounting and charges for trimming jobs,
trading airport slots and shutting the Comair regional unit.  Delta charged more for tickets to mute the impact from a
1.2 percent decrease in miles flown by paying passengers across
its network. Revenue rose 1.1 percent to $9.92 billion, lagging
behind the $9.97 billion average projected by analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  