-- Deutsche Wohnen Seeks Cash as Landlord’s Chief Sees Growth
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-10-24T15:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/deutsche-wohnen-seeks-cash-as-landlord-s-chief-sees-rapid-growth.html
Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  increased the
number of homes it owns by more than half in 2012 and Chief
Executive Officer Michael Zahn predicts that Germany’s biggest
publicly traded property company can double its market value
within four years.  The company will ask shareholders on Dec. 4 to approve a
capital increase to buy more homes, according to a statement
today. The stock dropped the most in more than four months.  “We are continually working on the goal of becoming one of
 Germany’s top companies ,” Zahn, 49, said in an Oct. 9
interview. It’s “realistic” to expect Deutsche Wohnen’s market
value to reach as high as 5 billion euros within four years,
from 2.1 billion euros currently, as the company widens its
focus, he said.  Germany’s publicly traded property companies have expanded
in the past three years as investors seek assets that generate
steady rental income in  Europe ’s largest economy. Deutsche
Wohnen has bid for 38,000 apartments being sold by  Gagfah SA (GFJ) ,
the Fortress Capital Management Inc. unit it surpassed this year
to become the country’s biggest real estate company by market
value.  Gagfah still has more than twice as many apartments .  Deutsche Wohnen owns 73,500 apartments, including 23,500 it
bought in May from Barclays Plc in a deal valued at 1.24 billion
euros. The company is negotiating the purchase of about 10,000
properties valued at about 485 million euros, it said on Aug.
13.  Rising Value  The Frankfurt-based company’s market value has almost
doubled from about 1.1 billion euros at the beginning of the
year as the stock rose by 42 percent in Frankfurt trading. The
shares fell 4.2 percent to 13.55 euros today, the most since
June 11.  Deutsche Wohnen raised 461 million euros selling shares in
June to help pay for this year’s 2012 acquisitions.  The company’s shares are expensive relative to assets
compared with competitors because of  its low vacancy rate and
relatively small debt burden , said Roger Quirijns, portfolio
manager at  Cohen & Steers (CNS)  Capital Management, which owns about 5
percent of Deutsche Wohnen. The vacancy rate was 2.2 percent in
the first half, according to the company’s earnings report
published in August.  “As long as they continue to buy relatively high-quality
portfolios and keep leverage the same, or de-lever a bit, you
get a better company with increasing earnings,” Quirijns said
in an interview. The company sells single units to tenants more
frequently than its competitors, which also helps boost profit,
he said.  Different Strategies  The property company’s surge past Gagfah reflects a
difference in strategy. Deutsche Wohnen, a former Deutsche Bank
unit that began trading publicly in 1999, has financed its
acquisitions largely  by selling shares.  Gagfah, founded by
Fortress in 2004, often used bank loans for purchases.  “Gagfah bought most of their apartments during the German
residential boom of 2006 to 2007 when it was common to buy a
property with just 20 or 25 percent down,” said Torsten Klingner, an analyst at Warburg Research who has a buy rating on
both stocks. “They’re still suffering from that.”  By contrast, Deutsche Wohnen made few acquisitions during
that period and it’s now targeting portfolios that ran into
financing trouble after the boom faded.  Barclays’ Portfolio  Barclays (BARC) ’ Baubecon portfolio is an example.  Prelios SpA (PRS)  and
Deutsche Bank’s RREEF Real Estate acquired the asset for 1.67
billion euros in 2007 in a deal 78 percent financed with a loan
from Barclays. The U.K. lender took over Baubecon late last year
after Prelios and RREEF refused to increase their investments.
Deutsche Wohnen bought the asset in May.  Deutsche Wohnen will become Germany’s third-largest
residential landlord by number of apartments if it wins the
bidding for the 38,000 Gagfah apartments, once again surpassing
the Fortress unit. The Dresden portfolio would help the company
achieve its goal of entering new cities, Zahn said.  Dresden’s growing population and wealth make it an
attractive investment, the CEO said. “After Berlin and Potsdam,
it’s certainly the most interesting city in eastern  Germany 
right now.”  Gagfah took preliminary bids for its Dresden Woba
apartments, which make up about 25 percent of its holdings, on
Oct. 5. The company plans to complete a sale by the end of the
year to help repay 1 billion euros it borrowed to buy the
apartments in 2006.  Doubled Value  Deutsche Wohnen’s market value can easily double in the
next four years if it continues to add properties at this speed,
said Klingner.  “If their portfolio grows by 20 or 30 percent, and you add
in the leverage, that would boost their market capitalization to
that level,” he said.  Deutsche Wohnen plans to keep its debt low, and will
finance future deals with share sales, Zahn said.  The company has  financed its apartments  with about 60
percent debt, and Zahn said he plans to bring that number closer
to 55 percent.  “We want to grow our market capital so that we can have
more alternatives to a classic bank loan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 