-- Diageo Sees Innovation Driving High-Priced Spirits Sales Growth
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-24T16:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/diageo-sees-innovation-driving-high-priced-spirits-sales-growth.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, said it can continue to win market share with its
high-end spirits brands as it creates more variants of drinks,
including Ciroc vodka.  Diageo, which has increased its share of so-called super-
deluxe spirits to 15 percent last year from 10 percent three
years ago, will continue to increase sales in that category,
Rudy Paoli, managing director of its Reserve Brands unit, said
today in a telephone interview from  Singapore .  Diageo  cited
market-share data from London-based International Wine & Spirit
Research.  “My ambition is to always be a growth engine at Diageo,”
Paoli said, adding that he’s confident Reserve Brands can
continue to expand sales at a pace similar to the 27 percent
organic growth of last year. Super-deluxe brands retail at $40
or above.  The Reserve Brands unit, which sells high-end spirits
including Ron Zacapa rum, grew in every region last year,
including a 10 percent sales increase in  Europe , he said. There
was a “strong double-digit” increase in the first quarter of
this year in  China . The sales figures were on an organic basis,
excluding the effects of acquisitions and currency fluctuations.  Heritage Brands  Consumers in China are moving from “ostentatious luxury”
to brands with “heritage,” he said. The London-based distiller
opened its Johnnie Walker House in  Shanghai  last year selling
$2,000 bottles of whisky.  Diageo now gets more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) a
year in  revenue  from the Reserve Brands unit, Laetitia Delaye,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, wrote today in a note.
That represents about 9 percent of total sales.  “We think growth can be driven by further brand
internationalization and distribution expansion, further
innovation and favorable demographics,” including a growing
middle class in  emerging markets , she said.  As well as creating more expensive variants of its spirits,
including a Johnnie Walker whisky blend called Odyssey, which
sells at about $1,000 a bottle, Diageo is catering to consumers
seeking so-called affordable luxury, and has created Johnnie
Walker Gold Reserve whisky at $50 a bottle and Platinum at $80,
alongside new variants of Ciroc vodka.  “In difficult times, people will economize in some
categories and trade up in some,” Paoli said. “It’s a movement
to affordable luxury, and we’re well-positioned in that.”  Diageo doesn’t anticipate adding brands from recent
purchases to its luxury portfolio, such as Turkish raki maker
Mey Icki, Paoli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  