-- Dim Sum Sales Cut at Deutsche Bank on Yuan Squeeze: China Credit
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-10-24T02:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/dim-sum-sales-cut-at-deutsche-bank-on-yuan-squeeze-china-credit.html
A shortage of yuan in  Hong Kong 
caused deposit rates to double in four months and prompted
Deutsche Bank AG to slash its forecast for Dim Sum bond sales.  The three-month  interbank rate  jumped to 3.15 percent in
the city yesterday, up from a three-month low of 1.55 percent on
June 20. That’s nine times the equivalent rate for Hong Kong
dollars and  approaching  the 3.70 percent interbank rate in
 Shanghai .  Germany ’s largest bank cut its 2012 forecast for net
sales of yuan debt in Hong Kong on Oct. 19 by 33 percent to 160
billion yuan ($25.6 billion).  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s ambition of making Hong Kong a hub for
the globalization of the renminbi is stalling as a slowing
Chinese economy damps expectations for yuan gains, prompting
companies in the city and onshore to hoard foreign currencies.
SinoPac Asset Management Ltd. says the rise in 10-year sovereign
Dim Sum yields to a record high is a buying opportunity, while
Fullerton Fund Management Co. favors corporate debt.  “Tight liquidity makes Dim Sum sales harder,” said  Ju
Wang , a strategist in Hong Kong at HSBC Holdings Plc, the
leading underwriter. “Some banks probably hoarded dollars,
which coupled with a weak outlook for the renminbi, reduced the
accumulation of the pool in Hong Kong.”  Dim Sum debt sales fell to 5.7 billion yuan this month,
from 10.5 billion yuan in September and set for the weakest
level this year. Issuance of 143.4 billion yuan this year,
compares with 152 billion yuan for all of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes short-dated
certificates of deposit.  After weakening in the first two quarters of this year, the
yuan rebounded and is now 0.7 percent stronger in 2012, the
slowest advance since 2009. It touched a 19-year high of 6.2446
per dollar on Oct. 18 and was little changed at 6.2487 today.  Record Yields  Expectations for yuan gains have returned and liquidity has
improved onshore, easing the cash crunch in the city, said Wang
at HSBC, which has a 24.4 percent share of Dim Sum underwriting
this year. Inflows of capital forced the monetary authority to
intervene to prevent the Hong Kong dollar from strengthening
this week.  “Issuers will opportunistically return to the market in
the next few weeks as the recent strength in the  renminbi  has
improved overall  market sentiment  towards dim sum bonds,”
Suanjin Tan,  a Singapore-based Asian fixed income portfolio
manager at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which manages $3.67 trillion as of
Sept. 30. “The overwhelming demand for paper we have witnessed
in the dollar space is also likely to filter through to the dim
sum market as investors scramble for yield.”  The yield on 10-year sovereign Dim Sum notes closed at 3.29
percent, 17 basis points lower than the record high reached last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar-maturity
securities yielded 3.03 percent in  South Korea  and 1.79 percent
in the U.S.  Prices Supported  Bond buying by the  Federal Reserve , the  European Central
Bank  and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is prompting global investors to plow
more money in higher-yielding securities. Emerging-market bond
funds have attracted more than $42 billion this year, compared
with the $17.3 billion for all of 2011, according to data
research firm EPFR Global.  “We have seen some money coming back to  government bonds 
this month, pushing up prices,” said James Su, Hong Kong-based
portfolio manager at SinoPac Asset Management, which manages
about $200 million in assets. “The scarcity of supply will keep
long-term government Dim Sum bonds in demand and help support
prices.”  Gerard Teo, Singapore-based head of strategy and currency
at Fullerton Fund Management which manages about S$10 billion
($8.2 billion) in assets, said earlier this month that his
company favored corporate notes in the offshore  yuan  market that
offer “additional yield pick-up.”  Russia’s VTB Bank sold 1 billion yuan of three-year Dim Sum
bonds on Oct. 16 at 4.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Onshore Shortages  Deutsche Bank attributed the shortage of yuan in Hong Kong
to banks that remit money onshore for higher investment returns.  “Given that more channels of cross-border flows were
permitted, the onshore and offshore liquidity condition has
become increasingly correlated, particularly at times of acute
liquidity stress,” said Linan Liu, a Hong Kong-based Deutsche
Bank strategist. “The offshore yuan liquidity pressure and
elevated funding costs will remain a key funding constraint in
the final quarter.”  The one-year swap rate paid to get hold of renminbi in the
city rose to 2.95 percent on Oct. 22, the highest in Bloomberg
data going back to September 2010, before falling to 2.69
percent yesterday.  Yuan deposits  in Hong Kong fell 1.9 percent
to 552 billion yuan in August, the lowest level since May 2011,
data showed on Sept. 28. The total has dropped 75 billion yuan
since reaching a record 627 billion yuan at the end of November.  Better Returns  China ’s onshore government bonds returned 4.1 percent in
the past year, compared with 2.8 percent on Hong Kong government
securities, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings. The
notes offer an average yield of 3.67 percent versus 0.59 percent
in Hong Kong.  The People’s Bank of China has opted to use money-market
operations to contain borrowing costs since benchmark  interest
rates  were lowered in June and July and banks’ reserve
requirement ratios were last relaxed in May. The Shanghai
interbank offered rate, or Shibor, for three-month yuan loans
reached an 11-week high of 3.71 percent last week.  Signs of an improvement in the world’s second-largest
economy propelled China’s 10-year government bond yield to 3.55
percent yesterday, rising from a 22-month low of 3.24 percent on
July 11, according to Chinabond data.  Money Returning  The  cost  of protecting China’s sovereign debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps touched 70 on
Oct. 18, the lowest level since May 2011, was at 74 yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities should a government or company fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  Hong Kong’s central bank bought $1.25 billion yesterday at
HK$7.75 per  U.S. dollar , the strong end of the currency’s peg.
That followed a $603 million intervention on Oct. 19, when it
stepped into the market for the first time since 2009.  “Money is coming back into the region, even for the Hong
Kong dollar,” said Andy Yeung, a treasurer at the Hong Kong
unit of Los Angeles-based  Cathay General Bancorp. (CATY)  “We will have
to wait and see if this will turn around the yuan too.”  -- With assistance from Yanping Li and Tanya Angerer in
Singapore. Editors: Sandy Hendry, Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 