-- Dollar Gains Versus Euro as Fed Stimulus Unchanged; Kiwi Climbs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-24T21:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/dollar-remains-higher-versus-euro-as-fed-leaves-policy-unchanged.html
The dollar gained versus the euro as
the Federal Reserve maintained asset-purchase programs without
suggesting it’s closer to boosting stimulus, reducing concern
additional measures will debase the currency.  The shared currency fell against most major counterparts as
a gauge of German business confidence sank to its lowest since
February 2010. The euro’s losses were limited amid speculation
 Greece  will get its next installment of aid. New Zealand’s
dollar rose against all its most-traded peers after the central
bank kept interest rates unchanged. The Fed is buying $40
billion of debt a month in a third round of quantitative easing.  “It’s still a strong-dollar environment,” said David Mann, regional head of research for the Americas at Standard
Chartered in New York. “It was a clear message of steady as she
goes. There have been some better numbers, and none of that is
wavering their determination to follow through on QE3.”  The dollar gained 0.1 percent to $1.2974 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time and touched $1.2921, the strongest level since
Oct. 15. It was little changed at 79.81 yen.  Europe ’s shared
currency fell 0.1 percent to 103.54 yen.  The greenback has advanced 0.8 percent over the past week,
the best performer after the New Zealand dollar, which climbed
1.1 percent, on the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The
gauges track 10 developed-nation currencies.  Sweden’s krona slid for a fourth day against the dollar
after a report showed  consumer confidence  worsened. The National
Institute of Economic Research said a sentiment index declined
to negative 2.9 in October from 2 the previous month. The median
prediction of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for 1.7.  The krona lost 0.5 percent to 6.6836 per dollar and fell
0.5 percent to 8.6709 per euro.  Kiwi Rallies  The kiwi, as New Zealand’s dollar is nicknamed,
strengthened 1.1 percent to 82.04 U.S. cents and advanced 1
percent to 65.48 yen.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler left
the official  cash rate  at a record low 2.5 percent, according to
a statement today after a meeting in Wellington. Sluggish
domestic demand and a rising currency have pushed inflation
below the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range,
had spurred speculation Wheeler might consider a rate cut.  The euro pared its decline against major counterparts after
a report that officials of the European Union, European Central
Bank and International Monetary Fund rejected a German proposal
to tighten Greek access to an aid account. ECB President Mario
Draghi said the so-called troika has made no proposals yet on
Greece. The officials have discussed an agreement that would
pave the way for the next payment of aid funds to the debt-
stricken country.  Next Payment  “It seems extremely likely Greece will be getting its next
tranche of aid,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  The dollar advanced versus the euro as the Ifo institute in
Munich said German business confidence dropped to the lowest
level in more than two years.  “I’m quite impressed with the resilience of the euro,”
 Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The last time equities were trading at these type
of levels, the euro was trading at the $1.26 area.”  Bond Buying  The Fed said in a statement after a two-day policy meeting
that the economy is still growing modestly and unemployment
remains elevated.  The central bank said its bond-buying will continue, and it
maintained a pledge to hold  interest rates  at virtually zero
until at least mid-2015. It also said a program to lengthen the
average maturity of its holdings will remain in place until
year-end, when it’s scheduled to expire. The effort is called
Operation Twist  The greenback fell 0.7 percent against the euro on Sept. 13
after Fed policy makers announced following their last meeting a
third round of large-scale asset purchases and said the buying
would continue until the economic recovery is well-established.
Two previous rounds of quantitative easing totaling $2.3
trillion failed to breathe life into the labor market.  Sixty-eight percent of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News said the Fed chairman’s third round quantitative easing
will last until January 2014.  Operation Twist, a separate program, is designed to hold
down borrowing costs by lengthening the average maturity of the
Fed’s holdings. The central bank swaps short-term debt in its
portfolio for longer-term Treasuries.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fluctuated after a report showed sales of
new homes in the U.S. rose to a two-year high in September. The
gauge, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to track the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trade
partners, was little changed at 80.027 after rising for the past
four days. It was at 79.929 today after losing as much as 0.2
percent and gaining 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  