-- Dow Chemical Tops Estimates as Shale Gas Lifts U.S. Plastics
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-24T20:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/dow-chemical-tops-estimates-as-shale-gas-benefits-u-s-plastics.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the chemical
producer eliminating 2,400 jobs to cope with a slowing economy,
reported better-than-expected third-quarter earnings as volumes
rose and plastics output benefited from low-cost natural gas.  Net income  fell 35 percent to $582 million, or 42 cents a
share, from $900 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier, Midland,
Michigan-based Dow said in a statement dated today. That exceeds
the 37-cent average of 16 analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg . Revenue dropped 9.7 percent to $13.6 billion.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said
yesterday he’s cutting jobs and closing plants at the biggest
U.S. chemical maker because global economic growth is slowing.
The belt-tightening won’t affect planned expansion on the U.S.
Gulf Coast, where low-cost natural gas from shale helped boost
third-quarter demand for ethylene-derived plastics by 5 percent,
Dow said.  “Dow had very strong volumes in an uncertain macroeconomic
environment,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic
Global Advisors who recommends buying the shares, said today by
phone. “When I heard the announcement they were cutting jobs, I
thought they had a really bad quarter, but it seems that
business is A-OK.”  Liveris is eliminating 2,400 jobs and closing 20 plants to
cope with slow global economic growth. About 3,000 employees
will receive severance notices, with the difference due to
growth in other strategic programs, Rebecca Bentley, a Dow
spokeswoman, said today.  Cost-Cutting  The moves will save about $500 million over two years and
another $500 million will be saved by curtailing  capital
spending  and other plans, Dow said.  “Liveris is putting his money where his mouth is,” Ahmed
said. “Clearly we are living through uncertain times, so
cutting 5 percent of workforce is quite proactive.”  Dow rose 4.7 percent to $29.88 at the close in  New York .
 The shares  have increased 3.9 percent this year.  The company’s cost-savings plans, which now total $2.5
billion, won’t affect investments in  Saudi Arabia  or on the U.S.
Gulf Coast to turn oil and low-cost natural gas into plastics
and other chemicals, Liveris said yesterday.  “Our low-cost feedstock advantage enabled us to deliver
volume growth -– despite weakening demand,” Liveris today said
in the earnings statement. “These difficult conditions may have
extended staying power, as the new reality is that we are
operating in a slow-growth and volatile world.”  Sales Decline  Sales excluding divested units fell in every region as
prices declined an average of 9 percent, outweighing a 2 percent
gain in sales volumes, Dow said.  Dow’s basics businesses, including performance plastics and
performance materials, accounted for the majority of the
earnings beat, boosting profit 17 cents more than estimated, Don Carson, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group
who rates the share neutral, said in a note today.  The average operating rate at Dow’s factories was 83
percent, unchanged from a year earlier and 5 percentage points
more than the second quarter, the company said. The sequential
improvement shows the prior quarter was hurt by plant
maintenance, as Dow said at the time, rather than poor
operations, Ahmed said.  “The biggest question they faced last quarter was, ‘Are
these guys bad operators?’” Ahmed said. “They have allayed
those fears this quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  