-- Draghi Defends Bond Purchases With Warning of Deflation
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-24T14:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/draghi-says-bond-purchases-won-t-fuel-inflation-hit-taxpayer.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi defended his plan to buy government bonds in the
German parliament today with a warning about deflation risks.  The ECB’s so-called Outright Monetary Transactions “will
not lead to inflation,” Draghi told lawmakers in Berlin in a
closed-door session, according to a text provided by the ECB.
“In our assessment, the greater risk to price stability is
currently falling prices in some euro-area countries,” he said.
“In this sense, OMTs are not in contradiction to our mandate:
in fact, they are essential for ensuring we can continue to
achieve it.”  Draghi is seeking to win support in  Europe ’s largest
economy for his plan to purchase government bonds to stem the
debt crisis and safeguard the euro. Some German policy makers
including Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann have said the
proposal is tantamount to printing money to finance governments,
which is prohibited by the ECB’s statutes.  “OMTs will not lead to disguised financing of
governments,” Draghi said. “All this is fully consistent with
the Treaty’s prohibition on monetary financing. Moreover, they
will focus on shorter maturities and leave room for market
discipline.”  Press Conference  Speaking at a press conference afterwards, Draghi said
while it would be “too ambitious” to claim he had won over the
German public, he had a “very productive, wide-ranging”
exchange with German parliamentarians, which was aimed at
building confidence and trust.  “His answers were very convincing and for that reason we
can send a message to the German people that inflation fears are
without foundation,” Norbert Barthle, the parliamentary budget
spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic
Union party, told reporters. “His uppermost focus is the
maintenance of price stability.”  Draghi explained that the ECB’s intervention is necessary
“because confidence in the euro has been disturbed,” said
Priska Hinz, the Green party’s budget spokeswoman.  The ECB president also convinced lawmakers that indebted
euro states must commit to austerity measures and that his bond-
buying program is not intended as an alternative to budget cuts,
said Hans Michelbach, a lawmaker from Merkel’s CSU Bavarian
sister party.  Draghi “emphasized that buying bonds is not the only
instrument,” he said. “There is pressure to act on member
states to ensure that they consolidate their finances. Draghi
emphasized that this is the first priority.”  Merkel’s Blessing  The announcement of Draghi’s yet-to-be-deployed bond-buying
program has calmed financial markets.  The program has Merkel’s blessing, yet 42 percent of
respondents to a Stern survey published Sept. 6 said they had
little or no trust in the ECB president, compared with just 18
percent who judged him favorably.  Draghi said the program won’t compromise the ECB’s
independence because it requires governments to agree to
conditions. The program doesn’t create “excessive risks” for
euro-area taxpayers, he added, according to the ECB text.  “Such risks would only materialize if a country were to
run unsound policies,” Draghi said. “The ECB intervenes only
in countries where the economy and public finances are on a
sustainable path.”  Bond purchases won’t fuel inflation because the ECB will
absorb the liquidity created by those interventions, Draghi
said.  The ECB expects the 17-nation euro economy to remain “weak
in the near term,” before recovering very gradually in 2013, he
said.  The International Monetary Fund earlier this month cut its
euro-region growth forecast for next year to 0.2 percent from
0.7 percent and said the economy may shrink 0.4 percent this
year as governments cut spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  