-- Dubai Builds Two Months of Gas Reserve for Power, Official Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-10-24T14:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/dubai-builds-two-months-of-gas-reserve-for-power-official-says.html
Dubai, the second-largest sheikhdom
in the United Arab Emirates, has developed a two-month reserve
of natural gas to ensure it can run its power plants in the
event of a supply disruption, a government official said.  The Persian Gulf emirate built up the gas reserves and cut
the amount of diesel it stores, Saeed Mohammed  Al Tayer , chief
executive officer of the government-owned utility Dubai
Electricity & Water Authority, said today in an interview. Al
Tayer is also vice chairman of the emirate’s Supreme Council for
Energy, a policy planning body.  The regional business, banking and real-estate hub imports
liquefied natural gas by ship and also takes gas by pipeline
from Qatar since it’s exhausted its own supplies. Dubai’s energy
council last year announced a plan to diversify fuel sources to
cut the use of gas from more than 90 percent of supply now to
about 70 percent by 2030. Solar power, coal and nuclear
generation will comprise the rest, according to the plan.  Dubai reduced its own requirements to hold 14 days worth of
diesel to run its power plants to five days of reserves since it
built up the gas storage, according to Al Tayer.  DEWA, as the government-owned utility is known, has
electricity generation capacity sufficient to meet demand
through 2019, Al Tayer said. DEWA will raise about 4.5 billion
dirhams ($1.2 billion) in debt next year to refinance existing
borrowings and will likely focus mainly on the sale of Islamic
bonds, known as sukuk, for the funds, he said.  Abu Dhabi, the largest emirate in and capital of the
U.A.E., holds most of the country’s oil and gas reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 