-- Dublin Home Prices Rose Most in Six Years in September
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-10-24T11:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/dublin-home-prices-rose-most-in-six-years-in-september-1-.html
Dublin  home  prices rose the most in
six years in September, the latest sign that Irish residential
property prices are stabilizing after the country’s decade-long
real estate bubble started to deflate in 2007.  Home prices in the Irish capital rose 2.4 percent from a
month earlier, the biggest gain since August 2006, the Central
Statistics Office said today. Residential property prices
nationwide rose 0.9 percent in September, marking the third
consecutive month of gains.  “Anecdotal evidence points to pent-up demand for family
homes, especially in certain areas of Dublin,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Merrion Capital in Dublin. “While
the figures are encouraging, I think it is too early to say
whether house prices are on a steady upward rise.”  Irish property prices are gaining after homes lost half
their value since a property crash pushed the nation to the
brink of insolvency and the unemployment rate tripled. A lack of
bank credit and the end of tax-relief measures for new buyers
next year along with high unemployment will weigh on the housing
market, according to McQuaid.  Ireland’s  unemployment rate  was unchanged at 14.8 percent
in September. New Irish mortgages granted in the second quarter
declined 16 percent to 524 million euros ($678 million) from the
same period a year earlier, the Irish Banking Federation said in
August.  “For homes in well-established parts of Dublin, demand is
outstripping supply,” Aoife Brennan, head of research at
Lisney, an Irish broker, said in a statement today. “In recent
months, cash buyers have been making up about 40 percent of the
Dublin market.”  The CSO data is compiled with mortgage data from lenders.
Dublin home prices would show a bigger increase if cash
purchases were included, according to Lisney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  