-- ECB Is Said to Push Bankia Losses as Spain Purges Assets
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e ,   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-25T11:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ecb-said-to-push-spain-s-bankia-to-swap-junior-debt-for-shares.html
European authorities are pushing
Bankia group to impose losses on junior debt holders as Spain
purges a banking system clogged with about 180 billion euros
($234 billion) of bad real estate assets, people familiar with
the talks said.  The European Central Bank and European Commission want
investors including holders of preference shares to swap their
securities for new stock to reduce the cost to the taxpayer,
according to two people who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private. Profit at  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
biggest lender, slumped in the first nine months as it took a
14.5 billion-euro charge on real estate losses.  Confronting the toxic legacy of Spain’s 10-year building
boom is imposing political costs on Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy
as he faces protests on the streets of Madrid, a separatist
challenge in Catalonia and a battle to avoid a full bailout. His
European partners are complicating the task as they blanche at
putting capital on the line to backstop Spanish lenders.  “They are dragging their feet because there are still
question marks over where the money comes from to plug the
gaps,” said Olly Burrows, a London-based credit analyst at
Rabobank International. “Regardless of whether or not there is
a bailout of Spain, we need to clean up the banking system.”  Bonds Fall  Banco Financiero y de Ahorros SA’s 372.25 million euros of
subordinated floating-rate notes due October 2016 fell by more
than 7 percent overnight. The securities opened at 21 cents on
the euro, compared with 22.6 yesterday, and were at 22.25 as of
1:28 p.m. in Madrid, according to Bloomberg generic prices.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond dropped two
basis points to 5.55 percent, after exceeding 7.75 percent in
July.  European policy makers, who are still to make the first
payment of a 100 billion-euro bank rescue agreed in June, insist
Rajoy can’t use public money to rescue retail investors who
bought preferred shares as part of publicity drives by banks.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  placed new hurdles in
Rajoy’s path at a European Union summit in Brussels last week
when she said that any bailout loans disbursed before the bloc
completes a banking union will stay on the Spanish government’s
balance sheet.  Rajoy Stymied  That ties the sovereign more tightly to its ailing banking
system, dashing Rajoy’s plans to transfer bailout loans to the
EU rescue fund once the banking union starts. Merkel also damped
expectations that the bloc will meet its deadline to bring
together lenders under a single supervisor by the start of next
year as AAA rated sovereigns in northern Europe backed away from
a pledge made in June.  “The problem is the decisions are not being made in
Spain,” Burrows added. “There’s stalling on the European
level.”  The strictures the EU is imposing on Spain’s banking clean-
up make it harder for the government to rebuild  Bankia (BKIA) , which
was nationalized in June, by forcing losses on some of its best
retail clients. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has said in
Parliament in Madrid that banks should never have sold preferred
shares to individual investors.  Sharing Burden  Under EU rules, junior bondholders must share the burden of
rescuing lenders to reduce the cost to taxpayers and the
exercise typically involves exchanging the notes for cash or new
securities at a discounted value.  In a fresh sign of the weakness in Spanish banks, Santander
saw net income drop to 100 million euros in the third quarter
from 1.8 billion euros a year earlier as it pushed on with the
process of recognizing its real estate losses. The bank, which
runs retail operations across  Europe  and the Americas, said the
process of purging its balance sheet of real estate losses
ordered by de Guindos is 90 percent complete.  Banco Sabadell SA, Spain’s no. 5 bank, said today that bad
loans rose to 8.5 percent of its portfolio in the third quarter
from 5.7 percent a year ago.  Santander Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz added his
voice to those urging Rajoy to trigger ECB bond-buying by asking
for financial help from the EU rescue fund.  “It seems clear that it would reduce the risk premium for
the sovereign and reduce the spreads that the most important
Spanish banks pay,” Saenz said on a call with analysts today.  Toxic Warehouse  Santander’s 1 billion euros of 4 percent senior bonds due
2017 trade at 318 basis points above the mid-swaps rate, a
benchmark for fixed-rate debt, according to Bloomberg prices.
That compares with the 250 basis-point yield spread the lender
paid when it issued the notes in March.  Officials in  Madrid  are working on plans to fund a bad bank
to warehouse toxic assets from lenders bailed out by the
government. The EU demanded that as a condition of the bank
rescue package and Rajoy, who has until the end of November to
establish the bad bank, has said it won’t end up costing
taxpayers.  De Guindos, who changed legislation to limit future sales
of preference shares to retail clients after Bankia’s collapse,
has said the government is seeking a solution for the bank’s
investors. EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said in
June that Spain could use budget revenue to compensate them.  Spokesmen for the ECB and the Spanish Economy Ministry
declined to comment yesterday. Antoine Colombani, an EU
spokesman, said the terms of Bankia’s restructuring are being
discussed with Spanish authorities. A spokesman for Bankia also
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  