-- Hedge Fund Boxers Tame Animal Instincts in H.K. Fight Night
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-10-25T13:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/hedge-fund-boxers-tame-animal-instincts-in-hong-kong-fight-night.html
Anthony “The Tank” Carango had
more to celebrate than a victory in the ring at tonight’s sixth
annual Hedge Fund Fight Nite in Hong Kong. His second child was
born just days earlier.  Bikini-clad models and black-tie wait staff with trays of
beer and wine welcomed 600 spectators to the fight, where no
sign of looming woes in the financial industry lingered.
Carango, 40,  executive director  at Nomura, who attended  West
Point  and went on to man the turret of an M1 Abrams tank
defeated Craig “El Toro” Barnish in the second round of the
evening.  “She insulted my manhood, and told me if I didn’t have the
’guts’ to sign up, then I should just keep my trap shut about it
forever ” Carango wrote in his program biography of first
mentioning the idea to his wife. “By the time you read this,
she will have just given birth to our second child in two years
so I figured that if I didn’t do something painful myself, I
would never hear then end of that.”  The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index returned 2.3 percent
in September, the best performer among five regional indexes,
based on preliminary figures. Investors have withdrawn more than
$440 million this year from funds in the region, where at least
70 hedge funds have closed as equity-focused strategies
depressed performance. The index has returned 3.9 percent this
year through September compared with the 4.3 percent advance by
the global industry gauge.  The 14 finalists have been training at  Jab Mixed Martial
Arts Studio  in the heart of the business district twice a week
for five months. In addition to the bi-weekly sessions of
sparring, punching bag work, crunches and rope-skipping, most
have been doing training four to five times a week, and in some
cases twice a day. The finalists were culled from 70 hopefuls
and will be paired off for seven bouts of three two-minute
rounds each.  Operation Smile  The event at the Indian Recreation Club in Happy Valley,
organized by IronMonger Events Ltd., seeks to raise HK$1 million
($129,022) for  Operation Smile , which funds surgery for children
with facial deformities, and  Operation Breakthrough , which
combats crime and juvenile delinquency in low-income and
immigrant communities. Standard tables of 12 cost HK$24,000 with
the ringside version pulling in HK$50,000.  Steve Taw, the oldest competitor at age 53 in the history
of  Hong Kong ’s sixth annual  Hedge Fund Fight Nite , competed four
years after his son’s victory in the same charity event.  “I’m the only one ever following in his son’s footsteps,”
said the white-haired Taw, known in the ring as “The Wizard of
Wanchai” after the commercial area of bars and clubs made
popular in “The World of Suzie Wong,” the 1960 William Holden
movie, before the event.  ‘In it to win it’  His son Thomas, 27, who sports the same square jawline and
broad wry smile, works in electronic trading at Macquarie Group
Ltd. He said gets more nervous watching his father, a director
at South Ocean Management Ltd., fight than he does stepping into
the ring himself. The senior Taw said before the event that
while he’s “in it to win it,” his focus will be on putting on
a good show when facing off against Blair “The Bear” Crichton,
an associate vice president in business development at HSBC.  “Boxing is a sport; it’s to be practiced and mastered,”
he said before the event. “Not a chance that I want to stand up
there swinging wildly for six minutes. That’s for outside the
chip shop back home in the U.K. after the pubs turn out.”  Barnish, 30, co-founder of  BAH Partners Ltd. , a recruitment
firm specializing in information technology workers at
investment banks, said conquering the headstrong nature that
proffered his ring name has been the biggest challenge.  “My first reaction on getting hit was to lash out and
counter,” the sandy-haired native of  England ’s south coast said
before the event. “The hardest thing has been accepting getting
punched, then using your head to react instead of animal
instinct.”  Animals Sport  His mother wishes he wasn’t getting hit at all, calling it
a “sport for animals,” he said. With co-workers, friends and
his girlfriend supportive, he expects his parents to come around
after he walks out of the fight without major injury.  Andrea “Glynn-sanity” Glynn, 28, and Danielle “Steely”
Midalia, 30, will face off in the only women’s bout of the
evening. They are the final two of 10 women who tried out for
the event this spring.  “It’s certainly portrayed as a brute sport, but that is
far from the truth,” said Midalia, the creative manager at The
Cat Street Gallery, before the event. “You don’t need to be a
beefy boxer to participate. Boxing requires agility, fortitude
and determination, things that all women are capable of.”  Midalia, a long-distance runner, and Glynn, who has played
volleyball, soccer and tennis, both said the mental challenges
of boxing far outweigh the physical.  A-Game  “After a long day at the office, it’s one thing to jump on
the treadmill and another thing to step into the ring,” said
Glynn, who works in fixed-income sales at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,
before the event. “You really have to show up to every session
with your A-game, otherwise you’ll get punched in the face.”  The financial industry has been taking its own punches amid
shrinking equity volumes. Bank of America Corp., BNP Paribas SA,
Deutsche Bank AG, Macquarie, Morgan Stanley, Nomura Holdings
Inc., and UBS AG are all shedding jobs.  Equity volumes dropped 21 percent globally year-on-year in
September and 14 percent year-on-year for the first nine months
of 2012, according to the  World Federation of Exchanges .  Given the downturn, making time for training while managing
a more challenging workload has been difficult, said Mark
“Slugger” O’Reilly, 36, a managing director at recruitment
firm  Astbury Marsden . Lessons learned from the discipline
required for boxing translate outside the ring, said the former
Australian rules football player from Tasmania state.  ‘The Razor’  “It’s all about executing your plan,” he said before the
event. “You have to keep composure regardless of what’s going
on around you.”  George “The Razor” Radford, a consultant at property
investment company IP Global, faced off against O’Reilly after
going along to the event last year, having one too many drinks,
and telling everyone that would listen that he’d be in the ring
in 2012. Not one to go back on his word, he responded when the
organizers followed up, the 29-year-old rugby player said.  “I’m not going to lie to you, it’s been bloody exhausting
and I really can’t wait for the whole thing to be over” he said
before the event. “I can’t wait to stop thinking about Mark
O’Reilly.”  HSBC, Nomura  Other fighters in tonight’s event included Nicolas Boulay,
a derivatives broker at Louis  Capital Markets ; Carango of
Nomura; Adam Gazal, a managing partner at National Australia
Bank Ltd.; Grant Livingston, an executive director in
convertible bonds at JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Brad Moreland, a
director in prime services at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ; Richard Rouse,
an account manager at HSBC, and Andrew Wylde, head of sales and
operations at Hatstand Consulting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  