-- Emaar Drops Most in 2 Weeks as Net Misses Estimate: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-24T08:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/emaar-drops-most-in-2-weeks-as-net-misses-estimate-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  fell the most
in more than two weeks after the developer of the world’s
tallest skyscraper said third-quarter net income missed
estimates as revenue declined.  The shares of the stock with the heaviest weighting on
Dubai’s gauge retreated 1.9 percent, the most since Oct. 8, to
3.68 dirhams at 11:55 a.m. in the emirate. The stock pushed
Dubai’s benchmark DFM General Index down 0.9 percent to 1,635.71
and was the most active in the gauge today with 15.16 million
shares traded, or 136 percent of the three-month average daily
volume.   Net income  fell 5 percent to 387 million dirhams ($105
million), missing the 476-million dirham  mean estimate  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue declined 12 percent to
1.64 billion dirhams.  “The stock fell on disappointment in earnings, which came
below expectations as the company attributed the drop to
seasonality,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based
Al Fajer Securities. “Emaar’s strategy is still focused on
increasing recurring revenues through its investment portfolio
including malls and hotels and capitalizing on economic growth
in the United Arab Emirates and abroad.”  Emaar is seeking to diversify revenue from its home market
with plans to expand in  Egypt  and  Iraq . The company, which also
operates in  China ,  India , Pakistan and  Syria ,  derived 18 percent 
of sales from outside of the U.A.E. last year, up from 8 percent
the year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Emaar’s revenue from hotels and malls has helped cushion the
effect of the region’s real estate slowdown.  Rents Rising  Dubai, which relies on trade, is seeing a recovery in the
real-estate market, according to Mohammed Al Shaibani, director
general of the emirate’s ruler’s court. Sub-market home rental
rates are on an “upward curve” in Dubai,  CBRE Group Inc (CBG)  said
in a report this month. Economic growth in the emirate, which
was on the brink of default in 2009, will accelerate to 5
percent this year from 3 percent in 2011, according to
government forecasts.  Emaar shares have rallied 44 percent in 2012 and were the
 best-performing  on Dubai’s benchmark stock index in the third
quarter. The surge outpaces a gain of 21 percent for the  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  this year.  Thirteen analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of
Emaar while three have a hold rating on the stock, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  