-- EMC Cuts Full-Year Forecast After Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-24T20:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/emc-profit-misses-estimates-as-companies-pare-spending.html
EMC Corp. (EMC) , the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, cut its sales forecast for the year and
posted earnings that missed estimates as a weak economy prompted
corporate customers to curb spending.  Sales this year will advance to $21.6 billion to $21.75
billion, the Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based company said today
in a statement. In July, it projected sales of $22 billion.
Third-quarter profit excluding some items was 40 cents a share,
missing the 42-cent average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  EMC Chief Executive Officer Joe Tucci said he anticipates
only “modest growth” in technology spending next year,
reflecting economic weakness that has curbed earnings throughout
the computer industry. International Business Machines Corp.,
the biggest computer-services company, and Microsoft Corp., the
largest software maker, last week reported sales that fell short
of expectations as corporate clients pared outlays.  For EMC, “there was weakness in storage and hardware,”
said  Shebly Seyrafi , an analyst at FBN Securities, in an
interview. Sales growth for the company’s high-end Symmetrix
storage gear grew just 5 percent, less than expected, Seyrafi
said. “The quarter is rather disappointing.”  The shares fell less than 1 percent to $24.46 at the close
in  New York , and have advanced 14 percent this year.  Sales Miss  EMC’s  sales  climbed 6 percent to $5.28 billion in the third
quarter. That compares with the $5.46 billion average  estimate .
Net income advanced to $626.3 million, or 28 cents a share, from
$605.6 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier.  Full-year earnings, excluding some items, will be $1.68 to
$1.70 a share, EMC said. In July, it predicted $1.70. Analysts
project earnings of $1.72 a share on sales of $22 billion.  “Economic and political uncertainties are affecting
business confidence and this is affecting IT spending,” Tucci
said on a conference call with investors today.  VMware, the software maker majority-owned by EMC, yesterday
reported third-quarter profit that topped estimates as it gained
corporate customers. VMware is the biggest maker of software
that lets computers run multiple operating systems.  Earnings excluding some costs were 70 cents a share,  Palo
Alto , California-based VMware said in a statement. That
surpassed the average estimate of 63 cents a share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 20 percent to $1.13
billion, matching analysts’ projections.  The company also appointed Jonathan Chadwick as chief
financial officer, effective Nov. 5. Chadwick, 46, was
previously at Microsoft as a vice president and CFO of Skype.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  