-- Encana Reports Quarterly Loss on Natural Gas Prices
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-24T20:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/encana-reports-quarterly-loss-on-natural-gas-prices.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Canada ’s largest
natural gas producer, posted a third-quarter loss after reducing
the value of its reserves by $1.19 billion on falling prices for
the fuel.  The net loss was $1.24 billion, or $1.69 a share, compared
with profit of $459 million, or 62 cents, a year earlier, the
Calgary-based company said in a statement today. Excluding the
writedown and other one-time gains and losses, per-share profit
was 36 cents, beating the 27-cent average of 18 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Encana, which curtailed  output  when gas prices in New York
went below $2.50 per million British thermal units, said it
began resuming production at shut-in wells in August and volumes
are “now largely restored.” The company affirmed its 2012
production target of 3 billion cubic feet a day.  “We believe that natural gas prices will settle out in the
$4 to $5 range in the next couple of years,” Chief Executive
Officer Randy Eresman said on a conference call today. “We have
a considerable volume which is exposed to that potential
upside.”  Encana  fell  3.1 percent to C$21.86 at the close in Toronto.
The shares have one buy, 16 hold and six sell recommendations
from analysts.  Average gas production was 2.9 billion cubic feet a day
during the quarter, a 14 percent decline from the same period a
year earlier. Output of natural gas liquids rose 24 percent to
30,300 barrels a day. Encana has been boosting production of
liquids, which fetch higher prices than gas, and raising cash by
selling assets or seeking joint venture partners to help fund
drilling costs.  Venture Stakes  Encana is selling stakes in five joint ventures, including
holdings in Texas and  Alberta . It expects to announce one deal
by year end, Eresman said in an Oct. 17 interview.  The company has seen “tremendous interest” in its joint
venture packages and will meet or exceed a target of raising $3
billion from partnerships or sales this year, Eresman said
today. The number of other assets available for buyers may limit
the size of its transactions and slow a deal, he said.  Encana is splitting up a combined three-property offering
in the U.S. and allowing bidders to make separate offers for its
holdings in the Eaglebine, Tuscaloosa and Mississippian. Other
“designer packages” may be offered, he said.  Encana increased the amount of 2013 output it has hedged to
about 1.2 billion cubic feet a day at an average price of $4.51
per thousand cubic feet, according to today’s statement.  ‘Negative’ Results  Natural gas prices averaged $2.893 per million British
thermal units in New York during the quarter, down 29 percent
from a year earlier. The futures have recovered after reaching a
10-year low on the New York Mercantile Exchange in April.  The company’s results were “negative,” Philip Skolnick, a
New York-based analyst for Canaccord Genuity Corp., wrote in a
note today. Encana didn’t announce a joint venture or disclose
specific well results and its added hedging, which may bring in
$100 million, shows the company doesn’t see more “upside” to
gas prices or is cautious about partnerships and asset sales, he
wrote.  Investors have been speculating Encana may announce a
partnership in its liquids-rich Duvernay shale in Alberta “in
the near term,” Skolnick said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  agreed to pay C$2.86 billion ($2.87
billion) to take over  Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT) ’s Duvernay and
Montney shale leases in Alberta on Oct. 17. The sale helps
“externally verify” the Duvernay formation, Eresman said in
the interview last week.  Encana’s writedown today follows a $1.7 billion reduction
in asset values by the company in the second quarter because of
declining gas prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  