-- English Soccer Body Plans Program to Boost Women’s Team, Game
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-24T13:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/english-soccer-body-plans-program-to-boost-women-s-team-game.html
England’s Football Association is
starting a five-year plan to boost women’s soccer following the
sport’s success at the  London  2012 Olympics.  Britain’s women’s team broke attendance and television
viewing records on its way to the quarterfinals, according to
the F.A. The England team qualified undefeated for the women’s
2013 European Championships in  Sweden , with its final two home
games shown live on terrestrial television.  “Women’s football is the area with the most potential for
growth in the nation’s favorite game,” F.A. Chairman David
Bernstein said in a statement on the association’s website. “We
are determined to lead that development at every level and have
created a robust plan for doing so using all our resources and
knowledge.”  The F.A. said it will create an “Elite Performance Unit”
and appoint a head of elite development.  For the first time in its 149-year history, the F.A. will
develop a commercial program for women’s soccer to make it
financially sustainable. It will sell the commercial rights for
women’s matches separately from rights for the men’s game. The
governing body said it will also try to secure more television
coverage and strike sponsorship deals to boost the profile of
the women’s game.  The F.A. wants women’s soccer to become the second-biggest
team sport after the men’s game by 2018. The women’s version is
currently in fourth place, behind men’s soccer, cricket and
rugby.  Manchester United (MANU) , a 19-time English soccer champion in the
men’s game, yesterday said it had no plans to roll out a
professional women’s side.  “I’ve got no idea,” United vice chairman Ed Woodward said
at a press briefing in London, when asked why the club didn’t
field a women’s pro team. “It’s not been discussed at board
level since I’ve been here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  