-- Environmental Groups Ask EPA to Require Fracking Disclosure
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-10-24T21:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/environmental-groups-ask-epa-to-require-fracking-disclosure-1-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency should force oil and natural-gas producers to disclose
the chemicals they release during drilling, hydraulic
fracturing, compressing and storage, environmental groups said.  The Environmental Integrity Project and 16 other groups in
a petition today said the information is necessary to inform
local residents about pollutants released into the air, water
and land. Disclosure also would prod companies to reduce their
chemical pollution, according to the  petition  to the EPA.  “At the very least, we have the right to know what these
companies are using and releasing as part of their oil and gas
production,” Jane Davenport, senior attorney for Delaware
Riverkeeper Network, said today on a conference call with
reporters.  The EPA requires electricity producers, many manufacturers
and some mining operators to report chemicals that are released
to its Toxic Release Inventory. The disclosure isn’t tied to
regulations or permitting requirements, and instead is meant to
give citizens information about air, water and land pollution.  “We have received the petition and will respond
appropriately,” David Bloomgren, a spokesman for the EPA, said
in an e-mail.  Hydraulic Fracturing  U.S. gas and oil production is booming in part because
drillers are using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to free
gas trapped in underground rock. That development has driven
down the price natural gas, and spurred job growth in states
such as Pennsylvania, Ohio and  North Dakota .  “We support compliance with existing requirements, and in
fact we often go beyond those requirements,” Dan Whitten, a
spokesman for America’s Natural Gas Alliance, which includes
 Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , said in an e-
mail. “Thanks to the natural-gas community’s commitment to safe
and responsible development, and our work with state regulators,
people don’t have to choose between the many  energy security ,
 air quality  and economic benefits natural gas brings, and a
clean environment.”  Gas production has prompted complaints from nearby
residents, who say their wells have been tainted by chemicals
seeping into aquifers or spills at drilling sites. Also, air
pollution from methane and air toxic emissions during drilling
is a frequent concern.  “The EPA estimates the oil and gas industry releases
127,000 tons of hazardous air pollutants every year, second only
to  power plants  and more than any of the other industries
already reporting” it,  Eric Schaeffer , director of the
Environmental Integrity Project, said in a statement. “Why
shouldn’t oil and gas companies be required to report these
toxic releases under our right-to-know laws, like so many other
industries already do?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  