-- EON Withdraws From Finnish Nuclear Project on Price Slide
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-10-24T13:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/eon-to-withdraw-from-finnish-fennovoima-nuclear-reactor-project.html
EON AG, Germany’s biggest utility,
plans to withdraw from the Fennovoima Oy nuclear reactor in
 Finland  after European energy prices declined, threatening the
viability of the project.  Fennovoima, in which EON owns a 34 percent stake, plans to
begin construction of a 1,600 to 1,800-megawatt reactor at
Pyhaejoki in northern Finland in late 2016, Timo Kallio,
executive vice president of construction, said today in an
interview in Tampere, Finland. EON, the sole provider of nuclear
expertise to the project, will exit the venture in the first
quarter, Roger Strandahl, a spokesman for EON in Malmoe,  Sweden ,
said today by telephone.  “We weren’t expecting it,” Fennovoima Chairman Pekka
Ottavainen said by phone today. “EON’s decision to withdraw
means that next spring when we ask for more funding to take the
project to the next stage, we need to resolve the question of
who will replace EON.”  Utilities are pulling out of nuclear projects across  Europe 
as uncertainty over energy prices makes them too risky. EON’s
withdrawal from Finland follows its decision in September 2011,
along with SSE Plc and  RWE AG (RWE) , to give up building nuclear
plants in the U.K.  German 2013 power dropped to a record 46.90 euros ($60.85)
a megawatt-hour on Oct. 15 as output from wind and solar cuts
usage of gas and coal plants.  Finnish Pullout  EON intends to sell all its Finnish operations in order to
focus on the “most important” Nordic markets of Sweden and
 Denmark , including an upgrade of Sweden’s 638-megawatt
Oskarshamn-2 nuclear reactor, EON Sverige Chief Executive
Officer Jonas Abrahamsson said in an e-mailed statement. The
company will sell its Finnish subsidiaries EON Kainuu Oy, Karhu
Voima Oy and EON Suomi, as well as its 20 percent share in
Finnish gas monopoly Gasum Oy.  There are 62 other companies involved in the project, which
plans to sell power at production cost for the lifetime of the
plant to its shareholders. Voimaosakeyhtioe SF, a joint venture
of the smaller investors who collectively own 66 percent of the
project, has begun talks with EON about future ownership,
Fennovoima said in a statement on its website today.  “We remain committed to this project,” Mika Seitovirta,
chief executive officer of Outokumpu Oyj, which owns a 10
percent stake in the project, told reporters today in Helsinki
after EON’s announcement. “Of course we’re looking at the
return on the investment, but we have no reason to withdraw.”  Price Rise  Nordic power prices may rise if EON’s withdrawal leads to
the cancellation of the reactor, according to Pareto Securities
ASA. If no buyer is found it will ease an expected glut in power
supplies after 2020, he wrote in an e-mail today. At the very
least, it will be delayed, he said.  Finnish nuclear operator Teollisuuden Voima Oyj’s under-
construction Olkiluoto-3 reactor has missed a 2009 completion
deadline, and may not start operating until 2015, Anna
Lehtiranta, a company spokeswoman, said last month in an
interview.  Finland is pushing ahead with plans to increase atomic
output from 32 percent in 2011, even as countries from  Germany 
to  Japan  begin closing reactors following the Fukushima nuclear
disaster last year. Finland is investing in new capacity to
reduce energy imports and provide cheap power for industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  