-- Ergen’s Dish Wireless Bet in Jeopardy Amid Industry Deals
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-10-24T20:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ergen-s-dish-wireless-bet-in-jeopardy-amid-industry-deal-making.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman Charlie Ergen, a former professional poker player, has bet the satellite
TV provider’s future on a shift into the wireless business. That
wager is in jeopardy as the U.S. mobile industry consolidates.  Ergen scooped up wireless licenses through acquisitions
last year and has been sitting on the sidelines ever since as he
waits for U.S. regulators to define rules so Dish can put its
airwaves into use. Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite TV
provider, has been planning to offer wireless Internet service
in partnership with existing mobile operators.  In the meantime, dealmaking is transforming the industry.
This month,  Japan ’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  agreed to take control of
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for $20.1 billion and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
said it will combine its T-Mobile USA with  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  Those deals take four possible partners off
the market for as long as 12 months, Ergen said.  “If the timing is too soon, you spend a lot of money and
sometimes you run out. If timing is too late, the market runs
away from you,” Ergen, 59, said in an interview. “There always
has to be an option to exit the business if we’re not able to
get into the business on time, and that window is closing.”  The delays have Ergen thinking through backup plans. He may
have to sell off the wireless licenses even if he gets approval
to use them. And Dish may instead take another run at merging
with  DirecTV (DTV) , a deal proposed and blocked by regulators in 2002.  Dish  fell  1.4 percent to $35.48 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 25 percent this year. DirecTV  declined 
0.5 percent to $50.88 and has advanced 19 percent this year.  LTE Technology   Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , had initially sought to
build a wireless network from scratch, aiming to become the
first company to use so-called long-term evolution, or LTE,
technology. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission’s long
approval process, driven in part by interference issues with
spectrum owned by the now-bankrupt LightSquared Inc., has
eliminated that opportunity as other companies, including
Verizon and AT&T, have adopted LTE, Ergen said.  No company will do a deal with Dish before the FCC sets
rules on what spectrum can be used for terrestrial service, said
Ergen, who, with a net worth of $10.9 billion, is the world’s
84th richest person, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  “That’s what’s frustrating about the process, which has
now taken more than 18 months and counting, because the window
is shrinking,” Ergen said.  FCC Denial  Sprint and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , of which Sprint owns 50.3
percent, have both failed to turn a  profit  for five consecutive
years because they mistimed the market, Ergen said.  It’s been more than seven months since the FCC denied
Dish’s attempt to quickly offer wireless service bundled with
its TV product and more than 20 months since Dish announced it
purchased satellite spectrum from bankrupt DBSD North America
Inc. for $1.4 billion. Dish later bought more spectrum from
bankrupt TerreStar Networks Inc.  Dish should hear from the FCC by the end of the year,
 Julius Genachowski , the agency’s chairman, said at a news
conference Oct. 17.  “It is a priority,” Genachowski said.  Ergen said Sprint and Deutsche Telekom remain potential
partners. He said he prefers not to sell Dish’s spectrum to a
company such as AT&T, although he will if there are no other
alternatives. Selling the airwaves, for which Dish paid about $3
billion, would position the company with “more cash but in the
same mature business it’s already in,” Ergen said.  Cable Competitors  Dish won’t partner with Verizon, even if it’s “smart
business” because the largest U.S. wireless provider struck a
deal to market products from rival cable companies, including
Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and New York-based  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , Ergen said.  “They made peace with cable, and we’re not a peace
company,” Ergen said. “It just wouldn’t be any fun.”  Investors looking for a quick return shouldn’t invest in
Dish, Ergen said. The company’s plan is to rely less on the
mature TV business for growth and more on an industry where data
consumption is expected to increase 18-fold from 2011 to 2016,
according to the Cisco Visual Networking Index.  “If you think long term, if I can’t invest your money
efficiently, and I have to just buy back my stock or pay a
dividend to you, I shouldn’t be your guy,” Ergen said. “If you
want next quarter’s earnings, don’t invest in Dish.”  DirecTV Deal  Entering the wireless field may be unwise, Craig Moffett,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an interview.
Sprint, Clearwire and T-Mobile’s troubles competing with AT&T
and Verizon are largely due to the structure of the industry,
Moffett said. It costs billions of dollars to build a network,
requiring companies to entice millions of customers to stand a
chance at turning a profit.  “The wireless business may seem like a sexy growth
opportunity at first glance, but the reality is, only two
companies are earning cost of capital,” Moffett said. “For a
new entrant today to come into the industry and earn an
attractive rate of return is a very, very tall order.”  Dish may be able to build up its customer base by reviving
a plan to merge with DirecTV, Ergen said. Ten years ago,
regulators blocked a deal between the largest satellite
television providers for anti-competitive reasons, saying
millions of rural customers would have only one choice for TV.  National Pricing  AT&T and Verizon have offered TV service since 2002 and the
Internet has given consumers new ways of watching video. While
many Americans living in rural areas would still only have Dish
and DirecTV as live-TV options, safeguards can be put in place
to prevent price gouging, Ergen said.  The company could offer so-called “national pricing,”
where rural customers get the same offers as in more competitive
urban areas, Blair Levin, a fellow at the Aspen Institute, who
previously worked for the FCC as the executive director of the
Omnibus Broadband Initiative, said in an interview.  Dish’s wireless aspirations could be the catalyst to
getting a deal approved, Ergen said. Combining DirecTV’s 19.9
million subscribers with Dish’s 14.1 million customers would
create the largest U.S. video provider. The combined 34 million
households translate into “75 million potential handset users
day one” if they also become Dish wireless subscribers, Ergen
said.  While Ergen says he hasn’t spoken with DirecTV Chief
Executive Officer Michael White about renewing deal talks, both
have previously said a combination would be pro-consumer.  Presidential Election  Content providers, such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Viacom Inc.,
may ask for lower price increases on their programming out of
concern of being blacked out, Ergen said. DirecTV and Viacom had
a 10-day-blackout in July over affiliate fee increases before
reaching a deal. DirecTV says its content fees rise almost 10
percent each year.  “There are clearly long-term synergies there which tell
you where Mike’s long-term interests are,” David Dillon, Kroger
Co.’s CEO and a DirecTV board member, said in an interview about
White.  A deal could be approved by regulators no matter who wins
next month’s U.S. presidential election, Ergen said.  “I would be relatively optimistic you could put a deal
together if there was a desire with DirecTV that makes sense for
the government to approve,” Ergen said. “You’ve got a whole
different dynamic than 10 years ago.”  Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for El Segundo, California-
based DirecTV, declined to comment on whether a combined company
would be interested in pursuing wireless.  Broadband Choice  Dish’s spectrum isn’t “a factor one way or the other”
regarding a future combination, White said last month. Ergen
says the wireless component may make a deal even more friendly
to a Democratic administration than a Republican one, given
President  Barack Obama ’s stance on the need for more
competition. Moffett disagrees, predicting a  Mitt Romney  victory
will be the most probable pathway to a deal.  “Charlie’s core selling point is knowing that unlike last
time, increased choice in broadband is more important than
reduced choice in pay-TV,” Moffett said. “If Romney wins in
November, I think DirecTV and Dish are back in front of the
Department of Justice within 12 months.”  Romney and White worked together at Bain & Co. in the
1980s. White has said he is supporting Romney for president.  Still, an acquisition would decrease pay-TV competition in
regions without cable from two competitors to one, and that’s
typically a difficult obstacle to overcome, no matter what the
circumstances, Aspen Institute’s Levin said.  “The odds are still slightly against it,” Levin said.
“But unlike last time, if they play their cards right, they can
get this deal through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  