-- Esteves-Agnelli Venture Targets Copper as Timing Perfect
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-24T19:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/esteves-agnelli-venture-targets-copper-as-timing-perfect.html
B&A Mineracao SA, the mining venture
between  Andre Esteves ’s BTG Pactual SA and former  Vale SA (VALE3)  Chief
Executive Officer Roger Agnelli, said it’s seeking to raise its
stake in a Latin American copper explorer as a slump in metals
prices makes it a “perfect” time for acquisitions.  B&A wants to gain control of  Cuprum Resources Corp. , a
closely held company with assets in  Chile , by year-end, CEO
Eduardo Ledsham said in an interview. B&A is undergoing five
other due diligence processes for potential acquisitions as it
seeks to expand in metals, fertilizers and logistics, he said.  “We have the advantage of looking for opportunities at a
moment when those in the development phase are lacking
resources,” Ledsham, 50, said yesterday from Sao Paulo. “We
have a strong acquisition drive in advanced projects.”  Acquisitions of Latin American mining companies worth $3.77
billion have been announced this year, less than half the $8.03
billion of deals in the same year-ago period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average deal size shrank to $85.7
million from $109 million after global metal prices fell for the
first time in three years last year, the data show. The pace has
picked up in the past three months with 26 deals worth a
combined $2.45 billion announced compared with 14 totaling $318
million in the prior three months, the data show.  Tough Conditions  Manabi SA, backed by Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan,
 canceled  in August plans to become the first Brazilian iron-ore
company to go public since 2006, citing “economic
uncertainties” in the international and domestic markets.  Mining asset prices have declined as exploration and pre-
operational companies face tougher conditions to access
financing amid the  European debt crisis  and declining metal
prices, said Ledsham, a former executive director at Vale.  Prices are now “much more” reasonable than six months
ago, he said. “The crisis brought assets prices back to
reality.”  Prices of iron ore,  Brazil ’s main export, slid 16 percent
in the past year and reached a three-year low on Sept. 5 as
economic growth slowed in  China , the world’s biggest consumer.
Nickel prices  declined  about 18 percent in the same period.  ‘Scanning Brazil’  B&A was started in July to invest as much as $520 million
in projects including copper, iron ore, phosphate and titanium
in Latin America and  Africa . BTG Pactual, the investment bank
controlled by Brazilian billionaire Esteves that went public
this year, and AGN Agroindustrial, Projetos & Participacoes
Ltda, a company controlled by Agnelli, each hold 50 percent.  Cuprum, in which B&A has a 30 percent stake, is expected to
start production in December 2013 at an annual rate of about
15,000 metric tons of copper, Ledsham said. The company plans to
add neighboring mines to take output to 200,000 tons “in the
mid term,” he said.  “We are looking at a way to have control of the company
this year,” Ledsham said. “We are analyzing all the
opportunities, we are scanning Brazil as a whole,” he said,
describing conditions for acquiring assets as “perfect.”  Canada Buys  B&A said Sept. 13 that it bought 11.5 percent of Toronto-
based  MBAC Fertilizer Corp. (MBC) , which has phosphate, potash and
rare-earth projects in Brazil. That follows the purchase of 29.8
percent of  Rio Verde Minerals Development Corp. (RVD) , also based in
Toronto, which is developing a potash project in the Brazilian
state of Sergipe.  The company is studying “the best strategies” for these
investments, Ledsham said when asked if B&A could boost its
stakes in the Canadian companies.  About 60 percent of B&A’s 20-person workforce are former
officials of Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, the world’s largest
iron-ore producer, Ledsham said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  