-- Euro-Area Recession Deepens as Manufacturing Shrinks: Economy
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-10-24T11:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/euro-area-services-manufacturing-shrink-more-than-forecast-1-.html
Euro-area  services and manufacturing
output  contracted more than economists forecast in October and
German business confidence dropped to the lowest in more than 2
1/2 years as Europe’s recession deepened.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area  purchasing
managers  in services and manufacturing fell to 45.8, the lowest
in more than three years, from 46.1 in September, London-based
Markit Economics said today. Economists had forecast a reading
of 46.5, according to a Bloomberg News survey. A separate
factory index in  China  rose. In Germany, the Ifo institute’s
business climate index unexpectedly dropped to 100.0 from 101.4
in September.  The  European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary
Fund  have both lowered their forecasts for the euro-area economy
as governments cut spending to plug budget gaps, eroding
consumer and export demand. Even so, the region’s debt burden
rose to a record in the second quarter, reaching 90 percent of
gross domestic product, another report showed today.  “The  euro-zone  recession is still getting worse,” said
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London.
“In a disappointing set of data, the fact that the Ifo
expectations index did not decline further offers the only ray
of hope. In this sense, the survey results today do not dispel
the hope that the euro economy could turn the corner early next
year.”  Ifo Expectations  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations was unchanged at
93.2, while a gauge of the current situation dropped to 107.3
from 110.3.  The euro extended losses on the Ifo and PMI reports and
ahead of the  Federal Reserve ’s policy decision later today. It
traded 0.3 percent lower at $1.2943 at 11:45 a.m. in London.
European stocks, which slumped 1.7 percent yesterday, advanced
as technology companies rallied, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
up 0.4 percent at 269.61.  In the U.S., the Fed Open Market Committee will decide on
monetary policy at the conclusion of a two-day meeting later
today, the last before the presidential election. Data on
mortgage applications and new-home sales are also due.  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing dropped to 45.3 in
October from 46.1 in the previous month, today’s report showed.
That’s the lowest in two months. An indicator of services output
rose to 46.2 from 46.1.  Germany’s manufacturing gauge dropped to 45.7 from 47.4,
while the service indicator slipped to 49.3 from 49.7.  Euro-area governments may find it difficult to reduce
deficits and lower their debt burdens, with at least five of the
17 nations using the single currency already in recession.  ‘Steeper Fall’  The ECB said in its quarterly projections published on
Sept. 6 that the euro-area economy may contract 0.4 percent this
year instead of a previously estimated 0.1 percent. That’s in
line with the IMF’s latest forecast. Both institutions cut
growth projections for next year.  “The euro zone has slid further into decline at the start
of the fourth quarter,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist
at Markit, in the statement. “While gross domestic product may
decline only modestly in the third quarter, a steeper fall looks
to be on the cards for the fourth.”  German economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the first. “There are increasing
signs that a perceptible expansion of economic growth in the
third quarter of 2012 will be followed by stagnation or even a
slight decrease in gross domestic product in the final quarter
of the year,” the Bundesbank said in its monthly report on Oct.
22.  Earnings Forecast  German truckmaker MAN SE said on Oct. 12 that next year
will be even tougher than 2012 after third-quarter orders
slumped. The Munich-based company lowered its 2012 earnings
forecast in July as weaker demand in  Brazil  added to woes in
Europe.  Some companies are seeking to tap faster-growing markets to
bolster sales.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , will invest 200 million euros ($259 million)
into a Brazil factory,  Ian Robertson , head of sales and
marketing told reporters on Oct. 22. German rival  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand plans to produce cars at a plant in Mexico.  In China, an October manufacturing index rose and
economists have pared forecasts for cuts in  interest rates  as
confidence grows that the world’s second-biggest economy is
stabilizing. The preliminary, or flash, reading was 49.1 for a
purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit, after a final level of 47.9 in September.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  last month announced the details
an unlimited bond-purchase program to regain control of interest
rates in the euro area and fight speculation of a currency
breakup. It’s now up to governments such as  Spain  to apply for
aid from the region’s bailout fund to activate purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  