-- Yen Drops to Four-Month Low Versus Dollar; Rand Climbs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-25T21:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/euro-stays-lower-before-german-french-consumer-confidence-data.html
The yen reached the weakest level in
four months against the dollar as investors speculated the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  will expand monetary stimulus next week.  The dollar pared losses against major peers after weaker-
than-forecast data on the economy and amid speculation  Fitch
Ratings  would cut the U.S. credit ranking.  South Africa ’s rand
rallied as the nation got a new budget that for the first time
since 1998 didn’t raise three-year spending targets. The pound
jumped versus the euro as Britain emerged from its recession
more strongly than economists forecast.  “Markets tend to price easing in beforehand and if it
comes in as expected, it’s a situation where you buy the rumor,
sell the fact,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist
at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York . “Easing is a good reason
to sell the yen going into the BOJ meeting. The U.S. data today
was weaker than expected, and the trend doesn’t look great.”  The yen dropped 0.6 percent to 80.30 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time and reached 80.34, the weakest level since June
25. It depreciated 0.3 percent to 103.86 per euro. The 17-nation
currency lost 0.3 percent to $1.2934 after rising 0.4 percent
earlier. It slid yesterday to $1.2921, the lowest since Oct. 15.  Japan ’s currency dropped versus the greenback as yields on
U.S. Treasury two-year notes yielded the most since April
compared with their Japanese counterparts, making the American
securities more attractive. U.S. two-year notes yielded 0.31
percent, 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, more than
comparable Japanese government debt.  Appetite Ebbed  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose as the U.S. currency’s haven appeal
increased amid speculation on Fitch and as U.S. stocks pared
gains. The gauge, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major trading
partners, advanced 0.3 percent to 80.116 after declining 0.3
percent earlier.  There was “a Fitch-related spike into the dollar as risk
appetite came off,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. LLC in New York.  Fitch said subsequently its negative outlook on the U.S.’s
AAA credit ranking is still unlikely to change before late 2013
as it waits to assess any deficit-reduction plans following this
year’s elections.  Brian Bertsch, a Fitch spokesman in New York, said in an e-
mail today to Bloomberg News that anyone who has questions about
the status of the rating should review the statement put out by
the company in July, when it made the forecast.  Trailed Forecasts  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  was up 0.3 percent after
climbing as much as 0.9 percent earlier amid better-than-
estimated financial results from companies including  Procter &
Gamble Co ., the world’s largest consumer-products maker, and
Aetna Inc., the third-biggest U.S. health insurer.  U.S. reports on pending home resales and capital-goods
orders trailed estimates in Bloomberg News surveys. The home
sales rose 0.3 percent in September from August, National
Association of Realtors data showed, versus a forecast gain of
2.5 percent. Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding
aircraft were little changed, the Commerce Department said. The
forecast was for a 0.8 percent increase.  America’s gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent
annualized pace in the third quarter after expanding at a 1.3
percent rate in the second, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast before the Commerce Department issues the data
tomorrow. It would be the first back-to-back readings below 2
percent since the U.S. was emerging from the recession in 2009.  Rand Climbs  South  Africa ’s rand rallied 0.5 percent to 8.7425 per
dollar after Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  announced a budget
designed to restrain spending over the next three years to help
restore confidence in Africa’s largest economy.  The finance chief ordered government departments to cut
back on wasteful expenditure as rising debt levels put the
nation under increased scrutiny from rating companies following
the first downgrades since the end of apartheid.  The Bank of Japan will release a forecast for the nation’s
consumer prices and growth on Oct. 30, when it holds its second
policy meeting this month.  “We’re seeing yen weakness today because there is this
expectation of easing from the BOJ,” said Eimear Daly, a
currency market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. in  London  who
expects the yen to trade at 80 versus the dollar by year-end.
“However, I don’t think that will bear out.”  Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara , who has been calling for
more action from the central bank, said earlier this week he may
attend the meeting. He was present at the central bank’s
previous gathering, the first minister to do so for more than
nine years.  Purchase Target  Nikkei said the BOJ may increase its asset-purchase target
by 10 trillion yen ($125 billion) to 90 trillion yen.  The euro may continue to appreciate against the Japanese
currency after holding above a support level of 102.83 yen to
102.99, Cilline Bain, a London-based technical analyst at the
Credit Suisse AG, wrote today in a client note. If the euro
exceeds the 104.62- and 105.43-yen levels, it may climb to
107.74, which would be its highest since April 23, Bain said.  Support is an area on a technical chart where buy orders
may be clustered.  The yen weakened 2.9 percent in the past month, the biggest
decline among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro climbed 1.1
percent and the dollar appreciated 0.6 percent.  Sterling added 0.5 percent to $1.6118 and strengthened 0.8
percent to 80.24 pence per euro.  U.K. gross domestic product rose 1 percent from the three
months through June, the fastest expansion in five years, the
 Office for National Statistics  said in London today. That
exceeded the highest estimate in a  Bloomberg News  survey for
growth of 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  