-- Euro Weakens Versus Peers on Signs Economy Shrank; Krona Falls
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-24T16:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/euro-extends-drop-against-dollar-after-german-ifo-european-pmi.html
The euro dropped versus most major
peers, touching the lowest level in more than a week against the
dollar, after data showed services and manufacturing in the
region contracted in October more than economists predicted.  The 17-nation currency fell against the yen as the Ifo
institute in Munich said German business confidence sank to its
lowest level since February 2010. The euro pared losses after
reports on talks between  Greece  and international-aid officials.
Federal Reserve policy makers end a two-day meeting today.
Sweden’s krona slid for a fourth day against the dollar after
data showed consumer confidence worsened.  “For the German Ifo, the current assessment was weaker and
expectations did not rise, which might’ve been a bit
surprising,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “That’s one of the
main things leading to weakness in the euro today.”  The shared currency weakened 0.2 percent to $1.2956 at
12:49 p.m. New York time after falling earlier to $1.2921, the
lowest level since Oct. 15. The euro lost 0.3 percent to 103.41
yen and reached 102.99 yen, the weakest since Oct. 17. The yen
was little changed at 79.83 per dollar.  The euro trimmed its decline after a report that officials
of the European Union, European Central Bank and International
Monetary Fund rejected a German proposal to tighten Greek access
to an aid account. ECB President Mario Draghi said the so-called
troika has made no proposals yet on Greece. The officials have
discussed an agreement that would pave the way for the next
payment of aid funds to the debt-stricken country.  Next Payment  “It seems extremely likely Greece will be getting its next
tranche of aid,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “That’s what drove this spike.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fluctuated after a report showed sales of
new homes in the U.S. rose to a two-year high in September.
Sales climbed 5.7 percent to a 389,000 annual pace, the most
since April 2010, following a revised 368,000 rate in August,
Commerce Department data showed.  The index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, was little changed at 80.027 after rising for
the past four days.  Fed Meeting  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues on the
Federal Open Market Committee conclude a meeting in  Washington 
today and release a statement on policy, including their current
plan to buy $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities each month
for an indefinite period as they seek to nurse the economic
recovery.  Sixty-eight percent of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News said the Fed chairman’s third round of asset purchases
under quantitative easing will last until January 2014.  The euro weakened 4.7 percent in the past year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained 2.8 percent.  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars held near
the lowest in a week, with the three-month cross-currency basis
swap, the rate banks pay to convert euro interest payments into
dollars, slipped to 25.3 basis below the euro interbank offered
rate after touching 30 basis points below, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has traded between 24 and 30 basis
points below euribor since Oct. 15.  “I’m quite impressed with the resilience of the euro,”
 Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The last time equities were trading at these type
of levels, the euro was trading at the $1.26 area.”  German Confidence  The Ifo institute said its German business climate index
dropped to 100 this month, from 101.4 in September.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in manufacturing and services industries in the euro area
declined to 45.8 from 46.1 in September, London-based Markit
Economics said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast an
increase to 46.5. A number below 50 indicates contraction.  The krona dropped versus its major peers after the National
Institute of Economic Research said Swedish  consumer confidence 
index declined to minus 2.9 in October from 2 the previous
month. The median prediction of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was 1.7.  The krona lost 0.8 percent to 6.6978 per dollar and fell
0.5 percent to 8.6727 per euro.  Koruna, Aussie  The Czech koruna weakened for a fifth day against the euro
as concern rose the country will fail to cut the budget deficit.
The currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 25 per euro, extending
its five-day retreat to 1 percent.  The Australian dollar gained versus all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts after an industry report signaled a slowdown
in Chinese manufacturing was abating, and as local data showed
consumer prices rose more than economists forecast last quarter.
It appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.0338 and strengthened 0.7
percent to 82.52 yen.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics said a preliminary
reading of a purchasing managers’ index for  China  climbed to
49.1 in October from 47.9 last month. China is  Australia ’s
biggest trading partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  