-- Leverage Ratios Alone Won’t Curb Bank Risk, Basel Official Warns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-24T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/leverage-ratios-alone-won-t-curb-bank-risk-basel-official-warns.html
Global banking regulators shouldn’t
see debt limits, known as leverage ratios, as a panacea for how
to prevent excessive risk-taking at lenders, according to the
chief official at the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  “Despite its apparent simplicity, an internationally
comparable leverage ratio is anything but simple to design,”
Wayne Byres, the Basel Committee’s secretary general, said in a
speech in  Portugal . “Believe me, it is not easy.”  Byres’s warning of the limitations of the debt limits
follows a growing push from regulators to simplify capital rules
for banks, with more reliance on leverage ratios. U.S. Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. board member  Thomas Hoenig  called last
month for most Basel rules to be scrapped in favor of an
indebtedness limit. Andy Haldane, the Bank of England’s
executive director for financial stability, has also said that
Basel rules may be too complicated to function effectively.  Leverage ratios force banks to hold a minimum amount of
capital against their assets, with the capital requirement
measured as a percentage of the assets’ total value. This
restricts how far lenders can finance their activities through
debt.  An overhaul of the Basel group’s bank rules in 2010
included a leverage ratio alongside other capital rules that
require lenders to assess the riskiness of the assets they hold.  Byres defended this approach, saying that relying only on a
leverage ratio might encourage banks to increase, rather than
reduce, their risk taking.  “A simple capital-to-assets ratio will, on its own, create
incentives for banks to undertake riskier activities,” he said.
Banks may also find ways to get around the measure, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  