-- Ex-Psychotherapy Institute Administrator Sentenced in Theft
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-24T18:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ex-psychotherapy-institute-administrator-sentenced-in-theft-1-.html
A former administrator of a  New York 
psychotherapy institute was sentenced to at least 3 1/3 years in
prison for stealing $2.5 million from the organization.  Jeffrey Bernstein, 62, the former director of
administration for the Albert Ellis Institute on East 65th
Street in  Manhattan , was sentenced today by New York State
Supreme Court Justice Gregory Carro to an indeterminate sentence
of 3 1/3 to 10 years.  Bernstein pleaded guilty last month to one count of first-
degree grand larceny. Prosecutors said he made almost 80
unauthorized wire transfers to two business accounts that he
controlled from January 2010 to February 2011 and used the
stolen money to pay personal and business expenses, including
loan repayments, legal and accounting fees and credit card
bills.  “‘Follow the money’ is a familiar saying in  law
enforcement ,” Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance said
in a statement. “In this case, we followed the money through
numerous accounts, all of which led back to the defendant. The
financial well-being of nonprofits depends on earning the trust
of donors to support the goals and missions of the organization.
Those who violate that trust not only harm themselves, they harm
the entire organization.”  Institute ‘Devastated’  The institute is a not-for-profit psychotherapy
organization founded in 1959 by its late namesake, Dr. Albert
Ellis. It is “committed to promoting emotional well-being
through the research and application of effective, short-term
therapy with long-term results,” according to its website.  The theft has “devastated” the institute, which is
“fighting to stay alive” and is unlikely to recover the stolen
funds, director Kristene Doyle told Carro before today’s
sentencing and asked the judge to impose the maximum sentence.  “Jeff Bernstein saw vulnerability in us and took advantage
of our good nature,” Doyle said, her voice cracking and her
hands shaking.  Bernstein, a divorced father of two, declined to speak
before his sentencing. Carro also ordered him to pay full
restitution and urged victims of the case to tell the parole
board, which will ultimately determine the length of Bernstein’s
sentence, if they aren’t fully compensated.  Accepted Responsibility  “He accepted his responsibility by means of the plea
agreement,” Bernstein’s attorney, Aaron Goldsmith, said after
the sentencing. “He’s working to do everything to ensure that
the institute will receive as much as possible.”  The institute sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in federal court in
Manhattan over the theft in August 2011, saying the bank let it
happen. JPMorgan asked for the complaint to be dismissed, saying
that the institute had given Bernstein the authority to make the
transfers and transactions.  The two sides have had settlement talks and the case was
assigned to a U.S. magistrate judge for settlement on Oct. 17,
according to court filings.  Bernstein was first elected to the institute’s board of
trustees in March 2006 and was chosen as president of the board
in July 2006, the institute said in the lawsuit.  He was named acting director of administration in January
2010 and appointed to the permanent post the following month,
according to the lawsuit. Bernstein resigned from all offices he
held after the fraud was discovered in February 2011.  Bernstein also resigned as head of the  Manhattan Chamber of
Commerce  in August 2011 after the institute filed the suit
against JPMorgan.  The criminal case is New York v. Bernstein, 00045/2012, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The civil
case is Albert Ellis Institute v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 11-cv-
5504, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  