-- Mexico Senate Reinstates Union Transparency in Labor Bill
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-10-24T06:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/mexico-senate-reinstates-union-transparency-in-labor-bill-1-.html
Mexico ’s Senate altered a bill that
eases the process of hiring and firing workers, approving
greater union transparency, and sent it back to the lower house
for a final vote.  Parties reinstated some union oversight measures, such as
secret voting and periodic expense reports from leaders, while
the nation’s two largest parties argued about other provisions
that had been stripped by the lower house last month. President
 Felipe Calderon  presented the original proposal Sept. 1 under a
fast-track mechanism that gives both the lower house and the
Senate 30 days each to approve or reject the bill.  Supporters of the bill say it will foster  job creation  and
lure businesses out of the informal sector, where about a third
of workers currently labor.  Differences between Calderon’s  National Action Party , or
PAN, and President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto’s  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , or PRI, show there will be tensions
negotiating future economic overhauls, according to Eurasia
Group.  “It’s likely to create a much more fractious
environment,”  Carlos Ramirez , an analyst with the Washington-
based research group, said in a telephone interview. While
economic bills may still pass in diluted form, the dispute over
the labor bill “adds an additional factor of uncertainty of
what’s coming in future reforms.”  The PRI could freeze the bill in the lower house if it
disapproves of the changes made by the senate. The party
probably won’t do so and risk a “failure” at the start of Pena
Nieto’s term, Ramirez said.  Parties Disagree  “Union members that can’t vote freely or demand information
from their leaders and directors don’t know the content of their
contracts and therefore can’t oppose them,” PAN Senator Javier Corral said during the legislative session.  PRI Senator Humberto Mayans said the union measures violate
international treaties and requiring a secret vote goes against
laws that give unions “the right to create their own statutes
and regulations.”  In addition to revamping  labor laws , Pena Nieto has pledged
to boost tax collection and increase private investment in the
energy sector. If all three overhauls pass, Mexico could lift
growth by as much as 1.5 percentage points, Nomura Latin America
strategist Benito Berber said in a Sept. 25 report.  The labor bill would allow temporary and trial-basis
contracts and hourly wages, while regulating outsourcing and
limiting the amount of back-salaries employers must pay if they
lose legal disputes with workers. Thousands protested in Mexico
City against the initiative in weeks leading up to the vote,
saying it erodes workers’ rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  