-- Mexico Hedges 2013 Oil Against Steep Price Falls
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-10-24T17:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/mexico-hedges-2013-oil-against-steep-price-falls-correct-.html
(Corrects Rodriguez’ job title in second paragraph in a story
originally published on Oct. 15)  Mexico , the third-largest supplier of
oil to the U.S., is hedging some crude exports for 2013 to ensure
the government’s revenue if prices drop sharply.  Next year’s hedging program will cover enough “so that when
it falls below the price in the economic package you don’t have to
cut spending,” Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said
Oct. 13 in an interview in  Tokyo , where he was attending annual
meetings of the  International Monetary Fund . Reports of Mexico
being partly exposed if prices fall below $60 a barrel next year
are incorrect, he said.  Mexico’s hedging contracts are included in annual budget
discussions when government officials estimate oil revenue, which
accounts for about a third of the budget. Mexico’s hedging program
is usually the world’s largest of its type. The Financial Times
reported on Sept. 25 that Mexico will be exposed if 2013 oil
prices drop “much below $60” a barrel after buying so-called put
spreads for the first time.  Investors buy and sell put options on a commodity in a so-
called collar strategy using put spreads. The tactic enables them
to avoid losses if spot prices for the commodity fall within a
range. While setting a floor in the range lowers the hedging costs
for the investor, it exposes the holder to further risks if the
prices drop below that level.  Locking in Prices  Reports of Mexico buying collar structures “aren’t true,”
Rodriguez said.  Last year Mexico paid $1.17 billion to lock in prices for
2012 exports at $85 a barrel, a 44 percent increase from the
previous year, when the country paid $812 million to buy hedges
for 222 million barrels of oil.  The Mexican  mix  of oil for export has traded at an average of
$103.65 a barrel this year, 22 percent higher than the estimate of
$84.90 a barrel for this year’s annual budget, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada  and  Saudi Arabia  are the two largest suppliers to the
U.S., according to the  Energy Information Administration .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net . 