-- Fewer Cylinders Mean More in $211,000 Bentley’s New V-8
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/fewer-cylinders-mean-more-in-211-000-bentley-s-new-v-8.html
Driving the new V-8 version of
Bentley’s best-selling Continental GT, I could think of only one
thing: It’s about time.  The Continental coupe is the “small,” more modern
Bentley, and over the years I’ve tested all of its variations:
the GTC convertibles, the peppier Speed versions and the
Supersports model (which has a $270,000 base sticker price).  They were all powered by versions of the W-12 engine, a
big, heavy lump weighing down the front nose.  This new one runs on a  4.0-liter V-8  and, for a Bentley, it
feels like a flyweight. It’s as if the world has just fallen
from its shoulders and the car is ready for a WeightWatchers
sponsorship deal. This is a lighter, freer machine.  And cheaper? Sort of. The V-8 still starts at a boggling
$174,000. And my test car came to a wallet-singeing $211,300.
Perhaps this is a car meant for medium-worth moguls, not mega
ones.  The W-12 engine, both noble and unusual, is central to the
company’s character. Bentley proudly proclaims that its Crewe,
England-based factory is the largest producer of 12 cylinders in
the world. Abandoning the W-12 entirely would be like McDonald’s
forgoing its Golden Arches.  Twelve Cylinders  To be sure, the W-12 delivers power in a very particular
way: Smoothly and surely, with a subtle burr of refined sound.  With cylinders arranged in a W formation, it isn’t
explosive or bone rattling, but it does deliver more than 600
horsepower from the most potent, twin-turbocharged version.
Almost the stiff-upper-lip version of a powerful motor -- keep
calm and carry on.  I fully understand and respect owners who adore the
engineering and history behind a 12 cylinder. They’re the ones
who understand the complicated features on their chronometer
watches, and whose suit-sleeve buttons actually work.  Still, most drivers prefer a car that feels better
balanced, turns more easily and requires fewer stops at the gas
station.  With national miles-per-gallon regulations getting ever
tighter, automakers are in a race to make smaller, more
efficient engines. Mercedes-Benz and BMW are both offering four-
cylinder motors for the first time in more than a decade.  Improved Mileage  Efficiency is especially crucial to smaller companies like
Bentley (owned by the Volkswagen Group), which only offers a few
models. To survive, it has to get those Environmental Protection
Agency mileage numbers down across its fleet.  The EPA rates the new Continental V-8 at 15 miles per
gallon city, 24 highway. That gives it a possible driving range
of some 500 miles. Nice for road trips. The 6.0-liter W-12 gets
only 12 and 19.  To keep things in perspective, we’re still talking about a
hefty V-8, with 500 horses and 487 pound-feet of torque. It is
direct injected and turbocharged. And it gives a roaring good
drive. More anima, more attitude.  Rolling around  New York City , the car is all poise and
polish. It slips easily down Park Avenue, nearly silent until I
encounter a wave of yellow taxis trying to cut me off. The car
bounds forward when I shove down the gas pedal, erupting in a
grunt of low-end torque. Like an extremely well-bred muscle car.  Crisp Turning  The lighter front end is most noticeable on roads uncurling
through rolling hills, where you get the rather un-Bentley sense
that the tires are actually connected to the road. It turns
crisply. Grip is helped by the all-wheel-drive system, which
sends 60 percent of the power to the rear wheels.  My model was outfitted with carbon-ceramic brakes, a bit of
technological overkill, especially considering the additional
$13,600 price. But they sure brought the car to a sound halt.  The V-8 model looks more youthful, too. The regular
Continental GT and the convertible GTC both got recent design
overhauls. The changes were incremental but pleasing, with a
gentle refashioning of the exterior shapes.  The V-8 model builds on those re-designs, with athletic
alterations to the grill (here the mesh is glossy and black),
and the rear bumper.  Bucket Seats  The leather bucket seats on my test car had a bespoke-
looking cross-hatch pattern, and were quite comfortable. The
rear seats are fine for storage, but I wouldn’t want to actually
clamber back there.  One of the biggest issues with Bentleys has been the utter
uselessness of the infotainment and navigation systems. You
wouldn’t, or simply couldn’t, program in an address and expect
to arrive there.  This new version gets a new system with a touch screen, a
detail which excited me beyond measure. Finally, this luxury
coupe should be able to do the same things as, say, a fully
loaded Honda Accord.  The map worked well enough, and I could find satellite
 radio stations  with ease. My happiness ended when my passenger
tried to program in a destination. The system would freeze for
10 or more seconds at a time -- calling for repeated finger
taps.  The problem may have been only with my test car, I’m not
sure. But we were halfway to our destination before the correct
address was inputted.  It proves that the Continental is still a machine in
progress. Without doubt it is improving with age. As for the
elegant and refined W-12, I salute you. But the simpler, lighter
and meaner V-8 is the Bentley I’d want.  The 2013 Bentley Continental GT V-8 at a Glance  Engine: Turbo-charged V-8 with 500 horsepower and 487  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 15 city, 24 highway.  Price as tested: $211,300.  Best features: Feels better balanced, lighter and turns in  more readily.  Worst feature: That touch screen still isn’t up to snuff.  Target buyer:  The more youthful Bentley buyer.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on opera and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 