-- FIL, Apple, Nobel Prize, Haaretz: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-24T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/fil-apple-nobel-prize-haaretz-intellectual-property.html
FIL Ltd. , the holding company of the
Fidelity group that manages $233 billion of assets, sued
 Singapore  and  Hong Kong  companies for using the Fidelity name
without its permission.  FIL accused Fidelity Trust & Wealth Pte in Singapore of
using the name “Fidelity” to take unfair advantage of the
distinctiveness of the mark and said in a lawsuit filed at the
Singapore High Court that it creates confusion. A closed hearing
is scheduled for Oct. 30.  In a separate lawsuit filed in Hong Kong in August, FIL is
seeking a court order to stop Fidelity International Group Ltd.
from claiming that it’s authorized or licensed by FIL  FIL, known as Fidelity Worldwide Investment, is partly
owned by the billionaire Johnson family, which founded  Boston ’s
 Fidelity Investments .  “We always take action to protect our trademark rights,”
said Tomoko Aikawa, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for FIL.
“Fidelity Worldwide Investment takes any infringement of its
 intellectual property  very seriously.”  The Singapore firm’s two shareholders are Agus Salim and
Edwin Wong Mun Chieh, FIL said in court papers, citing Fidelity
Trust’s company records filed with the city’s accounting
regulator.  Calls to Salim’s and Wong’s homes as listed in Singapore’s
public phone directory weren’t answered. Fidelity Trust hasn’t
filed its defense and its lawyers removed themselves from the
case earlier this month after they were paid with a dishonored,
check, according to court papers. No contact details were
publicly available in Hong Kong for Fidelity International
Group.  FIL asked for unspecified damages from both the Singapore
and Hong Kong firms, accounts of their profits and to stop using
Fidelity in their names, according to the complaints.  Fidelity Trust, incorporated in September 2010, had
advertised itself as a part of Fidelity International Group,
which provides financial services worldwide, according to the
Singapore complaint.  FIL’s sales in Singapore under the Fidelity trademark fell
67 percent to $619 million for the year ended June 2012,
according to court papers.  The Singapore case is FIL Ltd. v Fidelity Trust & Wealth
Pte. S705/2012. Singapore High Court. The Hong Kong case is FIL
Ltd v Fidelity International Group Ltd. HCA1519/2012. Hong Kong
Court of First Instance.  Tiffany Seeks $2 Million Damages for Each Infringed Trademark  Tiffany Inc. (TIF) , the luxury jeweler, sued the operator of two
websites for trademark infringement.  Olga Sanchez, a  Texas  resident, is accused of selling fake
Tiffany items through her websites, bagfashionnmore.com and
 bagfashionnspa.com . According to the complaint filed Oct. 22 in
federal court in  Dallas , Sanchez is accused of selling fake
bracelets, earrings, and necklace marked with copies of the  New
York  jeweler’s trademarks.  Tiffany claims Sanchez and 10 unidentified defendants are
selling the fakes “with knowledge that such goods will be
mistaken for the genuine high-quality products” sold by the New
York company.  The defendants are accused of misappropriating Tiffany’s
“advertising ideas and business styles.” Tiffany claims it’s
harmed by these actions that are undertaken “knowingly and
intentionally or with reckless disregard for or willful
blindness” to the jeweler’s rights.  Potential customers are likely to assume falsely that some
connection exists between the merchandise the defendants are
selling and genuine Tiffany articles, according to court papers.  The defendants didn’t respond immediate to an e-mail
request for comment sent through one of the retail websites.  Tiffany asked the court to order the defendants to quit
infringing the marks, and for money damages that include $2
million for each counterfeit Tiffany mark per type of goods
sold. The company is also seeking triple damages and an award of
the defendants’ profits related to the alleged infringement as
well as attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Tiffany (NJ) LLC v. Olga Sanchez, 3:12-cv-
04266-M, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Apple Gets Patent on Voice-Command Data Processing Technology  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, received a patent
on a method of voice command data processing related to the Siri
virtual assistant that is part of the Cupertino, California-
based company’s 4s mobile phone.  Patent 8,296,383, issued yesterday, covers the voice
command and contextual data processing capability. According to
the patent, the contextual data that responds to the voice
command can reside in the device itself and also exist within a
desktop computer or a remote server.  The remote server or the desktop computer can transmit
information to the device so that it can respond to the voice
command.  Apple acquired Siri Inc. in April 2010. According to the
database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office , Apple’s patent
application was filed in May 2012 with the assistance of
Philadelphia’s Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP.  Instead Technologies Patents Robot to Aid Stroke Rehabilitation  A robot aimed at helping rehabilitate stroke patients has
been patented by a spin-off from  Spain ’s Universidad Miguel
Hernandez de Elche, EE Times  reported .  Instead Technologies Ltd.  of Elche, Spain, has two
different robots, one that helps patients move in two
dimensions, and another that can work if the patient is seated
or lying flat, according to EE Times.  The company said it is now seeking financing to develop the
prototypes, which will be given trials in public and private
hospitals, EE Times reported.  Although the robots are designed for use with stroke
patients, the company is working with associations representing
patients with other disorders that limit movement and muscle
control, including multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  15 Publishers Claim Rights to Nobel Laureate Mo Yan’s Work  After Mo Yan, author of “Red Sorghum Clan,” was named the
winner of the  Nobel Prize  for literature this year, 15 different
publishers claimed the right to his works,  China Daily  reported .  Shao Hu of the  Beijing H&J Law Firm  said the confusion has
developed over the rights to Mo’s work because when the author
started publishing 30 years ago, writers, readers and publishers
did not have a very sophisticated understanding of copyright
law, according to  China  Daily.  Wantt Zhicheng of China’s State Copyright Administration
told China Daily that one of the benefits of the competing
claims to Mo’s work could be a heightened awareness of
copyright.  The Beijing Genuine and Profound Culture Development Co.
said it signed an agreement with the author in May and that he
has asked the company to help enforce his rights to his work,
China Daily reported.  Medvedev Says Both Government and Society Must Fight Piracy  Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said anti-piracy
efforts must go behind legal enforcement and address questions
related to economics and manufacturing, the Moscow Times
 reported .  Medvedev, speaking at an anti-counterfeiting conference in
Moscow, said the responsibility for upholding the protection of
intellectual property rights belongs to both government and
civil society, according to the newspaper.  Speaking at the same conference Frances Moore, chief
executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic
Industry -- a music-industry advocacy group -- said that piracy
is one of the biggest barriers to her industry’s entry into the
Russian market, the Moscow Times reported.  Moore said Russia needs to enact copyright laws related to
Web content and the responsibilities of  Internet service
providers , according to the Times.  Princeton Receiving Fewer Complaints About Student Infringement  Last year 123 students were brought before the Princeton
University’s Committee on Discipline for violations of school’s
copyright-infringement policies, the Daily Princetonian
 reported .  First-time offenses, while they result in what is known as
a “Dean’s Warning,” don’t affect student status, the newspaper
reported. Second offenses win a disciplinary probation, and
students who get a third strike have their campus Internet
access off for a period of time, the newspaper said.  While Princeton doesn’t search for violators, copyright
owners do, and have filed copyright complaints against students.  Although the school has previously received subpoenas from
the content-industry groups, seeking identification of students
whose Internet protocol numbers are associated with illegal
downloading, the newspaper reported that no such subpoenas were
served on the school in the past two years.  Haaretz Ordered to Pay Damages in Copyright Infringement Suit  Haaretz,  Israel ’s oldest daily newspaper, was ordered to
pay money damages to the Hebrew-language newspaper Ma’ariv for
copyright infringement, the Jerusalem Post  reported .  The Central District Court awarded Ma’ariv 6 million
Israeli shekels ($15,600) instead of the 15.7 million shekels
the newpaper had sought for the unauthorized use of some of its
content on the website of Haaretz’s business-oriented
publication, TheMarker, according to the Jerusalem Post.  TheMarker had used economic updates from Ma’ariv and, while
it credited the newspaper, had failed to name the authors, the
Post reported.  Ma’ariv got fewer damages than requested because it had
failed to complain about the alleged infringement for an
extended period, according to the newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 