-- Finland Eases Stance on ESM Bank Aid
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-10-25T09:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/finland-says-esm-deployment-will-follow-case-by-case-assessment.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said any decision on using  Europe ’s rescue fund to
recapitalize banks directly will be on a case-by-case basis,
signaling Ireland and Spain may yet be able to tap the facility.  The comments follow remarks by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande , who have sought
to calm concern sparked by the German leader’s statements last
week ruling out retroactive bank recapitalizations by the
European Stability Mechanism.  “The ESM can be used in direct recapitalizations when the
supervisor is up and running, fully functional and naturally
when other conditionality is fulfilled,” Katainen said in an
interview in Helsinki yesterday. Asked whether that excludes
funds being made available to Spain and Ireland, Katainen said
leaders meeting in Brussels last week “didn’t go over any
countries. That will be done case by case. During next year when
it’s fully functional, we can consider whether to use it.”  Katainen has spent much of the year trying to strike a
conciliatory tone at crisis summits after  Finland ’s insistence
on collateral -- pushed by his finance minister Jutta Urpilainen
-- frayed relations with other  euro-zone  governments. Katainen,
who heads a six-party coalition, said last week’s summit in
Brussels was characterized by more unity than seen at previous
talks, marking a step forward in crisis resolution efforts.  ‘No Reservations’  “We have every reason to be happy about what was discussed
and decided at the summit,” Katainen said. “We have no
reservations.”  Germany has indicated a renewed determination among
Europe’s leaders to keep the euro zone intact and provide the
support needed to prevent the crisis spreading.  Merkel said Oct. 21 that Ireland is a “special case,”
comments that were echoed by Hollande on Oct. 22.  Confusion over how the ESM will be used flared on Sept. 25
after the finance ministers of  Germany , the Netherlands and
Finland issued a statement in which they said “legacy assets”
would be excluded from the bailout facility. Wolfgang Schaeuble,
Urpilainen and Jan Kees de Jager didn’t expand on what
constitutes a legacy asset.  Door Open  Katainen is leaving the door open to which countries can
use the ESM after his finance minister, who heads Finland’s
Social Democrats, said Sept. 27 the fund “shouldn’t be used to
recapitalize banks to deal with existing and old problems.”  Katainen, who heads Finland’s pro-Europe National Coalition
party, said officials will probably have completed the “legal
framework by the end of the year” for a single bank supervisor.
“The operationalization into a fully functional entity” will
be finalized “during next year,” he said.  Europe’s plans to create a banking union dominated talks at
the bloc’s 20th crisis-fighting summit on Oct. 18-19. Nations
agreed to target Jan. 1 for making the European Central Bank
Europe’s main financial supervisor, raising the prospect of
direct aid to  Spain ’s banks during 2013.  The system will be phased in and could cover all 6,000
euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2014. Leaders sidestepped questions
of when and how Spain might secure further assistance. Instead,
there was a pledge to ensure that the single supervisor won’t
put countries outside the euro area at a disadvantage.  Finland must take part in crisis-fighting for its “own
sake,” Katainen said in an election debate last night ahead of
the country’s Oct. 28 municipal vote. He reiterated Finland’s
opposition to pooling liability for sovereign debt.  “The Finnish welfare society is under severe threat,” he
said. “No matter how much it irritates me to clean up the mess
other countries have made, it’s still better to fix the European
economy to ensure we fare better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  