-- FMC Technologies Declines After Lowering Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-10-24T20:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/fmc-technologies-declines-after-lowering-forecast.html
FMC Technologies Inc. (FTI) , the largest
U.S. provider of subsea equipment to the oil and natural gas
industry, fell the most in more than a year after lowering its
earnings projection.  FMC Technologies, based in Houston, fell 7.9 percent to
$39.70 at the close in  New York , the most since Aug. 4, 2011.  The company lowered its prediction for this year’s earnings
to a range of $1.85 to $1.95 a share, from an earlier forecast
of $2.10 to $2.20, according to a statement the company released
yesterday after the market closed. Activity in the company’s
North American surface technology unit, which sells hydraulic
fracturing equipment and services, is declining faster than
anticipated, according to the statement.  “The surface is bad and that gave it a 2.5 percent move
down,”  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities in
Houston who rates the shares at neutral and owns none, said
today in a telephone interview. “The discussion on how subsea
is not going to improve drastically throughout all of 2013 is
what gave it that second leg down.”  The company expects its subsea operating profit margin for
all of this year to be 11 percent to 12 percent, Chief Financial
Officer Maryann Seaman told analysts and investors today on a
conference call.  FMC Technologies may see a “modest” improvement next year
in its margin, Chief Executive Officer John Gremp said on the
call.  “We’ve said the pricing improvement we expect is not going
to really occur until 2014,” Gremp said.  Once-surging profits from hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, are fading as oil and gas producers become more
cautious about spending amid lower energy prices and global
economic troubles that are damping demand.  Equipment now exceeds demand by 30 percent, measured by the
amount of horsepower available to drive the fracturing process,
with about 15.6 million horsepower competing to meet demand for
12 million, according to PacWest Consulting Partners LLC, a
Houston-based industry adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  