-- France Tops U.S. Wheat With Premium Seen at Record
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-25T16:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/france-tops-u-s-wheat-with-premium-seen-at-record-commodities.html
Surging demand for European Union
wheat is reducing stockpiles to a 14-year low and driving prices
in  France , the biggest exporter, to a record premium over U.S.
grain after drought withered supply from the Black Sea region.  EU licenses to ship wheat in the six weeks to Oct. 23 were
51 percent higher than a year ago, data from the bloc showed
today. French grain for March delivery trades at a premium of 39
cents a bushel to  Chicago  futures, from a 78-cent discount in
July. That will widen to 50 cents by the time the contracts
expire, the highest since they began trading, according to the
median of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Global consumption will be the second-highest ever this
marketing year, at a time when output in  Russia ,  Ukraine  and
 Kazakhstan , the  Black Sea region ’s three biggest exporters, is
falling to a nine-year low, the U.S. government estimates.
Egypt, the largest importer, bought at least 540,000 metric tons
from France in the past six weeks and nothing from the U.S. Once
shipping is included, U.S. wheat is still too expensive, said
Nomani Nomani, vice chairman of Egypt’s state grain buyer.  “The entire story in wheat is one of location,” said
Chris Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London .
“Right now the exportable surplus in Russia and most of the
former  Soviet Union  is running out. The French  seaborne  supply
will get tight into the first quarter, so this will be
supportive of prices in Paris versus Chicago.”  Wider Spread  The March contract traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris rose 37
percent to 264.50 euros a ton ($9.32 a bushel) this year as its
equivalent on the Chicago Board of Trade advanced 22 percent to
$8.925 a bushel. The widening spread is one of five trading
recommendations being made by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
commodity analysts, led by  Jeffrey Currie  in  New York .  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture gauge of eight
commodities gained 12 percent since the start of 2012 as U.S.
farmers endured the worst drought since 1956. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities added 9.8 percent. Treasuries
returned 1.7 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  France will send 9.5 million tons of soft wheat outside the
27-nation bloc in the year to June, from 8.4 million tons a year
earlier, the national crops office said Oct. 10. FranceAgriMer’s
estimate was 500,000 tons higher than a month earlier. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  cut its prediction for U.S. shipments
by 1.36 million tons to 31.3 million tons the following day,
while forecasting a 13 percent increase in the harvest.  Shipping Grain  U.S. wheat is about $20 a metric ton (54 cents a bushel)
more expensive than the competition, Nomani said. Shipping grain
to  Egypt  from  New Orleans  was about $11.50 a ton more than from
Rouen, France’s biggest grain-shipping hub, as of Oct. 22, said
Nick Higgins, an analyst at Rabobank International in London.  EU inventories will drop 5.7 percent to 9.9 million tons of
soft wheat by the end of the season as dry weather cut output
from  Spain  to  Romania , according to the European Commission, the
EU’s regulator. The bloc issued licenses to ship 2.38 million
tons of soft wheat in the six weeks ended Oct. 23, from 1.58
million tons a year earlier. Licenses in the week to Oct. 2 were
the highest since January 2011. U.S. exporters sold 9.9 percent
less in the six weeks through Oct. 18, government data show.  The surge in French prices may be curbed by weaker demand
from some of the biggest buyers after gains in local production.
Egypt will import 2.65 million tons less this marketing year and
Algerian purchases will decline by more than 1 million tons, the
USDA estimates. Egyptian farmers will reap 8.5 million tons and
those in Algeria 3.25 million tons, both the second-largest
harvests on record. The USDA is forecasting a 16 percent drop in
global exports.  Curbing Shipments  While the U.S. may be losing out to the EU now, demand for
its grain may accelerate as European  stockpiles  drop. Combined
EU wheat output will shrink 4.2 percent this year, the USDA
estimates. The agency’s forecast for U.S. sales still implies a
9.6 percent gain on 2011-2012. Shippers also face less
competition from  Argentina , the sixth-biggest exporter, after
the government predicted a 16 percent drop in output on Oct. 18.  “We still have big quantities in France, but once the flow
starts it will vanish rather quickly,” said Pierre Raye, a
Paris-based analyst at InVivo Group, the largest exporter of
French wheat. “We will need big exports from the U.S. during
the second part of the season.”  When Russia and Ukraine curbed exports two years ago after
droughts, U.S. sales surged 47 percent to an 18-year high, USDA
data show. Shipments from the EU gained 3.6 percent, the agency
estimates. Paris futures still jumped 92 percent that year,
twice the gain in Chicago.  ‘Better Position’  Russia, the third-largest exporter last season, may harvest
40 million tons this year, the government said Oct. 9. That’s
1.5 million tons less than after the drought in 2010. There is
no need to limit shipments this time because there is ample
supply to meet domestic demand, President  Vladimir Putin  said
Oct. 10.  “If the Russians halt exports, I will have the choice of
Argentinian and French wheat,” Nomani of Egypt’s state grain
buyer said in an interview Oct. 18. “The French are in a better
position to export since they have a surplus.”  Ukraine may decide to restrict shipments next month after
demand accelerated faster than available supplies, Volodymyr
Klymenko, the head of the country’s Grain Association, said in
an interview Oct. 19. Sales may reach 5.3 million tons by Nov.
15-20, which could exhaust the exportable surplus, First Deputy
Agriculture Minister Ivan Bisyuk said the same day. Ukraine
hasn’t made a decision to ban wheat exports, Vitaliy Lukyaneko,
a spokesman for Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov , said yesterday.  Egyptian Purchases  Russia and eastern European countries including Ukraine and
Romania, which dominated Egyptian purchases earlier in the year,
sold no wheat to the North African country in its most recent
tender Oct. 3. Wheat shipments from Rouen, which accounted for
41 percent of France’s  seaborne  exports last season, reached
439,704 tons in the past three weeks, 24 percent more than last
year, port data show.  “There’s going to be massive demand,” said Laurent
Martel, the director general of Senalia, the biggest grain-
storage company in Rouen. “Demand is above availability in
terms of wheat, and world stocks are very low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 