-- Japan, China Envoys Met Last Week for Talks on Island Feud
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-10-24T03:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/fujimura-confirms-japan-china-envoys-met-last-week-for-talks.html
Senior Japanese and Chinese
diplomats met last week in an attempt to improve ties damaged by
rival claims to uninhabited East  China  Sea islands that have
hurt Asia’s two biggest economies.  Japan ’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura today
confirmed reports that Vice Foreign Minister Chikao Kawai met
with Chinese officials in  Shanghai , declining to give details on
the talks. Kawai met Chinese counterpart Zhang Zhijun, the
Nikkei newspaper said, citing unidentified diplomatic sources.  The two sides agreed this month to hold vice-ministerial
discussions at a unspecified date after Japan’s purchase of the
islands, called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese,
sparked violent protests in China and hurt Japanese companies
doing business there. At stake is sovereignty over an area rich
in fish, oil and natural gas.  “This was part of our effort to continue to communicate
with China at various levels about the current situation
surrounding the Senkaku islands,” Fujimura told reporters at a
regular press conference in  Tokyo .  In an Oct. 10 interview, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda called for talks, saying “both countries lose out” if
relations deteriorate. China is Japan’s biggest trading partner
and bilateral trade has tripled to more than $340 billion in the
last decade.  Noda’s government agreed in September to purchase the
islands for 2.05 billion yen ($25.7 million) from their private
Japanese owner, heading off a plan by Tokyo Governor Shintaro
Ishihara to buy and develop them. China denounced the move and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nissan Motor Co. suffered their biggest
one-month drop in Chinese sales since at least 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  