-- Fukushima Still ‘Precarious,’ Japan’s New Regulator Says at IAEA
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-10-24T12:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/fukushima-still-precarious-japan-s-new-regulator-says-at-iaea.html
Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant is still in a “precarious” state of alert, a
commissioner at Japan’s new atomic regulator said today during a
visit to the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  “A lot of precaution, a lot of care, a lot of attention is
still needed,” Kenzo Oshima, a commissioner at Japan’s Nuclear
Regulatory Authority, told reporters in Vienna. “The situation
remains precarious.”  Three of the plant’s reactors went into meltdown and parts
of a spent-fuel pond at a fourth unit partially collapsed
following an earthquake and tsunami in March last year. The
disaster contaminated the surrounding environment, forced
thousands of people to abandon their homes and led the
government to take over plant-owner Tokyo Electric Power Co.  The risk that a further quake could aggravate the spread of
radiation has prompted nuclear engineers and politicians abroad
to urge Japan to take additional measures. A loss of containment
at the fuel pond “could result in an even greater release of
radiation than the initial accident,”  Ron Wyden , a senator in
the U.S. state of  Oregon , said in an  April letter  to the
Japanese government.  “I am aware there are a lot of concerns expressed,
including by the U.S. senator,” Oshima said. Tepco
“considerably reinforced measures so that it can withstand the
earthquakes that might happen again.”  Oshima met today with fellow Japanese national Yukiya
Amano, who heads the IAEA. The country plans to draft a
framework for nuclear safety standards by the end of March. It
will then seek public comments and have the policy in place by
July, Nuclear Regulation Authority head Shunichi Tanaka said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  