-- LG Electronics Posts 3rd-Quarter Profit on Phone Earnings
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-10-24T10:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/lg-electronics-posts-3rd-quarter-profit-on-mobile-phone-earnings.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  South Korea ’s
second-largest mobile-phone maker, posted a profit in the third
quarter on earnings from handset sales and higher demand for
home appliances such as washing machines and refrigerators.  Net income  was 157.1 billion won ($142 million) in the
three months ended Sept. 30, compared with a loss of 413.9
billion won a year earlier, Seoul-based LG said in a statement
today. The average of 22 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
was for a profit of 158.6 billion won.  LG Electronics  shares rose  to the highest level in more
than a month in Seoul after the phone business, which slipped to
the world’s No. 5 this year, unexpectedly posted a profit in the
quarter. The company is counting on its Optimus line of
smartphones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system to
compete with Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy devices, while cutting production of cheaper handsets.  “The biggest factor was their handset business returning
to profit,” Park Kang Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at Daishin
Securities Co., said by phone. “We thought their mobile
business would at best break even. The overall product mix has
improved and margins got better.”  LG rose 1.4 percent to 74,000 won at the close of trading
in Seoul trading at the close of trading, while South Korea’s
benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index lost 0.7 percent.  Mobile Profit  LG’s mobile division had a third-quarter profit of 21.5
billion won, compared with a 138.8 billion won loss a year
earlier, the statement said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast a median loss of 14.2 billion won.  The company sold 7 million smartphones in the last quarter
and the volume will probably increase further in the fourth
quarter, exceeding the shipments of basic phones for the first
time, Chief Financial Officer David Jung said at a briefing in
 Seoul  today. Much of that will be from the Optimus G model, Jung
said.  “We’re trying to step up our marketing efforts to make
sure our product competitiveness will lead to revenue growth,”
he said.  The company, which aims to sell as many as 35 million
smartphones this year, last month began selling the Optimus G
smartphone. It features a 4.7-inch screen and a processor made
by Qualcomm Inc. to operate on the faster fourth-generation Long
Term Evolution, or LTE, networks.  Nexus Phone  Still, the improvements may not translate into sales
because of competition with Apple and Samsung, Lee Seung Woo, a
Seoul-based analyst at IBK Securities Co., wrote in a Sept. 24
report. LG is developing a Nexus smartphone based on the Optimus
G for Google. LG will become the third manufacturer to build
phones for the U.S. company, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The home-entertainment division, which makes TVs, had an
operating profit of 88.6 billion won, unchanged from a year
earlier. The median of four analyst estimates compiled by
 Bloomberg News  was profit of 105.4 billion won.  A sharper-than-expected drop in TV prices in September cut
into LG’s margins on set sales by more than 1 percentage point,
Lee wrote in his Sept. 24 report.  Global TV shipments last year fell for the first time since
2004, according to  DisplaySearch , part of NPD Group. Worldwide
TV shipments fell 8 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, the research company said Sept. 11.  OLED TV, Washing Machines  To beat the industrywide slowdown, LG is introducing new
sets featuring 3-D screens and Web-based services. The company
is also developing TVs using the organic light-emitting diode,
or OLED, technology, which measure as thin as 4 millimeters and
produces sharper images than LCD sets.  The company’s home-appliance division had an operating
profit of 128.5 billion won, a 73 percent increase from a year
earlier, on 2.9 trillion won in sales. That compares with the
119.8 billion won median of the four analyst estimates.  The business is benefiting from rising demand for large
washing machines and refrigerators amid a recovery in the U.S.
housing market, Kwon Sung Ryul, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu
Securities Co., said in an Oct. 19 report.  The air-conditioner business had a profit of 11.8 billion
won, compared with a 1.7 billion won profit a year earlier. The
median of four analyst estimates was for a profit of 10.5
billion won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  