-- Gamco’s Ward Says He’s Fully Invested in Equities: Tom Keene
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-10-24T16:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/gamco-s-ward-says-he-s-fully-invested-in-equities-tom-keene.html
Gamco Investors Inc.’s Howard Ward
said he is fully invested in equities and sees the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index surpassing 1,500 in the next year, helped by a
recovery in consumer spending and housing.  The S&P 500 is down 1.9 percent in October, poised to end
four straight months of gains, after disappointing results at
companies from 3M Co. to DuPont Co. About 60 percent of
companies that have reported  third-quarter sales  have missed
analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ward said the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks was due to
decline after being up as much as 15 percent from  this year’s 
low. Investors should focus on earnings estimates for 2013
rather than short-term retreats, he said.  “The key is what are earnings going to be next year,”
Ward, chief investment officer of growth equities at Gamco in
Rye, New York, said in a television interview on “ Bloomberg
Surveillance .” His firm oversees $36 billion in client assets.
“The consumer is spending. In fact, the consumer is doing
pretty well.”  Analysts project  combined profit  at companies in the S&P
500 will be $104.64 this year and increase 11 percent to $115.80
in 2013, Bloomberg data show. Retail sales in September and
August had the best back-to-back showing since late 2010. Data
from the Commerce Department showed today that purchases of new
U.S. homes rose in September to the highest level in more than
two years.  Recovering Markets  “Housing after a six-year bear market is recovering,”
Ward said. “The data right now is overwhelming that housing is
doing better.”  Ward said on Sept. 10 U.S. stocks may rally to record highs
in the next four months as consumers increase spending and help
drive up corporate earnings.  The S&P 500 has fallen 3.5 percent since reaching a more
than four-year high of 1,465.77 on Sept. 14. Ward said today
that S&P 500 will not suffer a 10 percent decline as long as the
economy can avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, or the $600
billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect
automatically at the end of the year unless Congress acts.  “You should not be reactive to these impulses in the
market that can really be in the hands of the high-frequency
traders,” Ward said to investors. “Ignore it. There’s a lot of
noise. There were a lot of occasions in the last year where we
had big swings in the market on any given day, only to see the
market rally the next day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at   tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  