-- Gasoline Losing Streak Hits Longest in 26 Years on Supply
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-10-24T19:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/gasoline-losing-streak-hits-longest-in-26-years-on-supply.html
Gasoline fell for a 10th consecutive
day, extending a losing streak to the longest since the start of
New York futures trading in 1986, as  fuel supplies  surged to the
highest level in almost two months.  Futures slipped after the Energy Department reported
stockpiles rose 1.44 million barrels to 198.6 million, the
highest level since Aug. 31. The median forecast by 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase of 500,000 barrels.
The fuel is down 22 percent this month as refineries, including
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s Trainer plant, started units.  “We’ve seen the restart of the Trainer refinery and
restart of a number of other units that could supply the East
Coast, so the supply situation has improved,”  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC, an energy consulting firm
in Houston,  Texas , said by phone. “In conjunction with the
supply improvement, this is the time of year we expect this type
of pressure on gasoline.”  Gasoline for November delivery dropped 0.2 cent to settle
at $2.603 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange, a four-
month low. This is the longest down streak since futures began
trading in May 1986.  Demand for the motor fuel sank 2.7 percent to 8.49 million
barrels a day, the lowest level since March 16, department data
show. Over the past four weeks, consumption was down 1.8 percent
from a year ago.  ‘Terrible’ Demand  “Gasoline demand has been terrible all year and the
negative demand this week is not a good thing, and with gasoline
numbers continuing to be disappointing there’s been a downward
bias to prices,” David Pursell, managing director and head of
securities at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co., said by phone from
Houston today.  Gasoline’s decline has been part of a broader drop in
energy and other commodities. Crude oil is down 13 percent on
Nymex since settling at $99 a barrel on Sept. 14. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI  index  is down 8.3 percent in that period.  “There has been a wide nervousness overall about economic
health -- demand concerns, crude has been falling and a basket
of broader commodity weakness,” Pursell said. “The overarching
theme is that there is a lot of uncertainty around the world
right now and gasoline is getting caught up in that.”  Delta expects its 185,000-barrel-a-day Trainer refinery in
 Pennsylvania , which is now processing jet fuel, to be fully
operational during this quarter, according to a company
 statement  released today.  Trainer Refinery  Trainer is the third-largest plant on the East Coast and
has been shut since former owner ConocoPhillips took it offline
in September, 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refiners including Exxon Mobil Corp., Valero Energy Corp.
and Citgo Petroleum Corp. are also starting units after repairs,
indicating supplies will increase and prices may drop more as
the U.S. approaches the Nov. 6 presidential election, where
incumbent President  Barack Obama  faces Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney .  Obama supports increasing fuel-efficiency standards for
vehicles, while Romney accuses him of impeding oil producers.
The International Energy Agency, adviser to 28 advanced
economies, said oil prices are too high and threaten to derail
the global economic recovery.  The futures contract traded in the 1980s and 1990s was
phased out in 2006 and replaced with one that allowed blending
with ethanol, after several states banned the use of methyl
tertiary butyl ether because of groundwater contamination.  The average nationwide price for  regular gasoline  at the
pump declined 2.3 cents to $3.625 a gallon yesterday, AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization, said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since Aug. 5. The pump price reached a
2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  By election day, the national average will slide to about
$3.40 to $3.50, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA  said  on Oct. 22.  Heating oil  for November delivery declined 0.4 cent to
settle at $3.0394 a gallon on the exchange, a two-month low. It
was the ninth straight decline for the fuel, the longest since
January 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  