-- Netanyahu Says Israel May Broaden Response to Gaza Rocket Fire
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-10-24T15:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/gaza-launched-rockets-hit-israel-damaging-homes-wounding-three.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  warned today that “much more extensive” military
action is possible following rocket attacks from Palestinian
militants in the  Gaza Strip  today and in the past week.  Four Palestinians were killed in the past 24 hours by
Israeli air strikes in Gaza, as more than 75 rockets were fired
today at the south of Israel by militant groups from the Hamas-
controlled territory.  Violence between Israel and Palestinian militants has been
increasing over the past week, with both sides blaming the other
for the escalation.  “We neither chose nor initiated this escalation but if it
continues we are prepared for much more extensive and deeper
action,” Netanyahu said today, during a visit to an Iron Dome
anti-missile battery near the coastal city of Ashkelon. “In any
case, we will continue with preventative operations,” the
premier said, according to a text message from his office.  Hamas said the Israeli air strikes were aimed at punishing
it for the “diplomatic victory” from yesterday’s visit of
Qatar’s Emir Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani. He was the first head
of state to enter the territory since Hamas took control five
years ago. “Israel’s embarrassed,” Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Rockets wounded at least three foreign workers in Israel,
two seriously, and damaged three homes, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said by phone. “Israeli security forces are being
bolstered in the south amid a deterioration,” he added.  Rocket Intercepts  At least one Palestinian died today in Gaza in an Israeli
airstrike, according to Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman for the Hamas
Ministry of Health. Two Palestinians were killed in separate
strikes last night, and another died from injuries sustained in
an air attack earlier yesterday, al-Qedra said.The Israeli army
said the strikes were launched against groups firing rockets. At
least seven of the Palestinian projectiles were intercepted by
Israel’s anti-missile system, according to the army.  “This escalation is a consequence of the inherent
fragility of the situation in Gaza, with Hamas unwilling to
crack down on the more extreme Islamic and al-Qaeda-linked
groups firing the rockets,” said Jonathan Spyer, a political
scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya. “The
violence is likely to die down, as it has in the past, because
both Hamas and  Israel  have a vested interest in not letting it
get out of hand.”  Sudan Claim  The Islamic Hamas movement seized control of Gaza from
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party in
2007, ending a partnership government a year after winning
parliamentary elections. The group refuses to recognize Israel
or any prior agreements signed with it and is considered a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union.  Sudanese Information Minister Ahmed Belal Osman accused
Israel of carrying out an air attack earlier toady on an arms-
manufacturing plant in his country, Al Jazeera television
reported. The Israeli army declined to comment on the report.
Last year,  Sudan  accused Israel of strikes on arms conveys bound
for Gaza.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  