-- HgCapital Seeking $2.8 Billion for European Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-10-24T15:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/hgcapital-seeking-2-8-billion-for-european-buyout-fund.html
HgCapital LLP, the London-based firm
that separated from Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2000, is seeking 1.75
billion British pounds ($2.79 billion) for its next fund that
will make private-equity investments in Europe.  HgCapital 7 can raise as much as 2 billion British pounds,
according to a summary of terms, a copy of which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The firm’s prior fund gathered about 1.9 billion
pounds in 2010.  The firm is entering a market in which a number of European
buyout shops are competing for a limited pool of investor cash.
Sweden’s Nordic Capital is seeking 25 percent less than the 4
billion euros ($5.2 billion) it originally targeted for its
latest buyout fund. London-based Permira Advisers LLP, which has
been fundraising for more than a year, is targeting 6.5 billion
euros. Cinven Ltd., also based in  London , is 80 percent of the
way toward a 5 billion-euro target for its latest fund.  Steven Batchelor, a member of the firm’s client-services
team, declined to comment.  HgCapital’s new fund will typically invest in European
companies with enterprise values of 80 million to 500 million
British pounds. The fund, mostly focused on Northern  Europe ,
will charge a 1.75 percent management fee on committed capital
during the investment period, and 1.5 percent on invested
capital after that, according to the summary. The general
partner will take 20 percent of the profit.  Mercury Pharma  The firm primarily makes buyout investments in the U.K.,
 Germany , Benelux, the Nordic region and selectively across
Western Europe, according to its website. Sectors of
focus for the new fund include health care, industrials,
services, technology, media and telecom. The firm invests in
renewable energy through a separate dedicated fund.  HgCapital has generated recent exits including the sale in
August of Mercury Pharma, a U.K.-based specialty pharmaceutical
company, to Cinven Ltd. for 465 million pounds. It sold SHL, a
provider of psychometric testing, in July to  Corporate Executive
Board Co. (CEB)  for $660 million, a 3.1 times multiple and 26 percent
gross internal rate of return, according to the firm’s website.  The firm’s fifth buyout fund, which raised 950 million
pounds in 2006, is generating a 2.8 times realized multiple,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  HgCapital began as Mercury Private Equity, an arm of U.K.-
based Mercury Asset Management Plc. Mercury Asset Management was
acquired by Merrill Lynch in 1997, followed by the spinout of
the private-equity unit in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  