-- GE Said to Have Weighed Hudson City Bank Takeover
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-25T20:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ge-said-to-have-weighed-hudson-city-bank-takeover.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  held takeover
talks with  New Jersey ’s  Hudson City Bancorp Inc. (HCBK)  shortly before
the lender agreed to a $3.7 billion sale to  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  in
August, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  GE pursued talks to secure long-term financing for its  GE
Capital  unit, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the discussions were private. Two companies besides M&T held
negotiations and examined Paramus-based Hudson City’s books in
2011, and both did so again in June and July, M&T said in a
regulatory filing last week that didn’t name the suitors.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has hunted for ways
to reduce GE’s reliance on short-term funding since 2008, when
the commercial-paper market that financed many of the lending
unit’s assets collapsed and threatened the entire company. The
U.S. government subsequently propped up the commercial-paper
market as part of a broader rescue of the financial system.  “Investors would totally understand their desire to have a
more stable deposit base to call upon,” said Scott Davis, a New
York-based analyst at Barclays Plc. Still, he said, shareholders
don’t want the company to “invest substantially in GE Capital
and grow the overall asset size.”  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for GE Capital, declined to
comment on speculation about the company’s involvement. Susan Munhall of Hudson City’s investor relations department didn’t
return a phone message or an e-mail.  ING Deal  GE was unchanged at $21.26 p.m. at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 19 percent this year,  outpacing  a 12
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  In June 2011, GE lost a bidding contest with  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S. online bank with $81.6
billion of deposits, people with knowledge of the matter said at
the time. GE also is planning to buy about $7 billion of bank
deposits from  MetLife Inc. (MET) , which is seeking to exit the banking
business.  Hudson City bills itself as the “Most Efficient Bank” in
the U.S. and the largest savings bank headquartered in New
Jersey. Hudson City had about $24 billion in deposits as of
Sept. 30. Some of Hudson City’s talks with potential bidders
this year took place while Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Hermance was on medical leave for a blood disorder.  Immelt has pledged to curb GE Capital’s reliance on the
commercial paper and corporate bond markets as he pares the
unit’s size. The division suffered about $32 billion in credit
losses when financial markets froze in the aftermath of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 failure.  Immelt’s Timetable  Immelt’s efforts to shrink GE Capital are ahead of the
schedule he laid out this year. Ending net investment, a measure
of the unit’s assets that excludes non-interest-bearing
liabilities and cash, fell to  $425 billion  at the end of the
third quarter, three months sooner than expected, the company
said. That’s a 17 percent decline since January 2009, when it
reached $513 billion, according to regulatory filings.  By adding  bank deposits , GE Capital would reduce risk and
cut its funding costs, which may be more than 100 basis points
higher than competitors, Davis said.  “You could make a pretty strong argument that GE’s
funding-cost disadvantage right now is the highest it’s been in
a very long time because they’re generally under pressure to
issue longer-term debt,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  