-- Genetic Diseases May Be Fixed Pre-Conception in Eggs, Study Says
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-10-24T17:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/genetic-diseases-may-be-fixed-pre-conception-in-eggs-study-says.html
Scientists have shown it may be
possible to correct certain inherited diseases before conception
using a technique that replaces unhealthy DNA in one human egg
with disease-free genetic material from another.  The finding, reported today in the journal  Nature , is the
first to suggest gene therapy can be done before an egg is
fertilized, sidestepping some ethical issues. The researchers,
at Oregon Health and Science University in  Portland , did their
work using donated human eggs.  The experiment produced early cells, called blastocysts, as
well as embryonic stem-cell lines, according to the report.
While the procedure is legal in the laboratory, the resulting
embryos can’t be implanted in women without U.S. regulatory
approval, said Shoukhrat Mitalipov, the study’s lead author. His
team is seeking clearance to take that next step, he said.  “It’s safe enough at this stage to proceed to clinical
trials.” Mitalipov said during a conference call yesterday.  A previous study, published by Nature in 2010, by
researchers at Newcastle University in northern  England  proved
it was possible to transfer DNA from a fertilized human egg to
another. This new study takes the process a step earlier,
Mitalipov said.  “That technique is always associated with destruction of
the donor embryo, and that ethically is problematic, especially
in the U.S.,” he said.  Cell Fuel  The switch affected mitochondrial DNA, where mutations can
lead to severe genetic diseases. Mitochondria are tiny
structures found in every cell that produce the chemical fuel
needed for life. Mutations in the mitochondrial DNA, which are
passed on from the mother, can disrupt the functioning of these
energy generators.  Scientists say the procedure could one day be used to
prevent genetic disorders such as learning disabilities, heart
disease and diabetes. Serious forms of mitochondrial disease
affect as many as one in every 5,000 children, and no cures
exist, according to the study.  Using a procedure called spindle transfer, researchers
swapped DNA from 65 healthy human oocytes, or eggs, and then
attempted to fertilize and grow them, compared to 33 control
oocytes. Both groups had similar levels of fertilization, while
half of the transferred oocytes displayed abnormal levels of
development. The normally developing oocytes continued to
advance as well as the unaltered embryos.  “Mitochondrial DNA has been implicated in wide range of
diseases -- including Alzheimer, Parkinson’s and Huntington’s
disease,” said Marco Conti, director of the  Center for
Reproductive Sciences  at the University of  California , San
Francisco. “There are great opportunities here, it’s completely
uncharted territory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  