-- Germany Presses to Buy EADS Stake From Daimler to Guard Balance
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-10-24T14:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/germany-presses-to-buy-eads-stake-from-daimler-to-guard-balance.html
Germany’s government should expedite
the purchase of a stake in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. from  Daimler AG (DAI)  to avoid the shares falling to private
investors and unsettling a Franco-German balance of interests.  Germany’s finance ministry has asked parliament for the
release of 1.6 billion euros ($2.07 billion) that had been set
aside earlier to back the stake purchase, according to an Oct.
23 letter document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Negotiations to sell the Daimler stake to German state-
owned bank KfW had progressed until merger talks between EADS
and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  froze discussions. Daimler has promised
shareholders a windfall from the sale, and the carmaker had
taken measures to sell half of its 15 percent stake into the
market this year to book the gain, the document said.  That alternative scenario requires the previously conceived
transaction to go ahead in a “timely fashion” to maintain the
Franco-German equilibrium, the document said. A key part of
those negotiations involved Germany asking EADS’s core French
owners, publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  and the French state, to approve
the transferred EADS stake’s keeping special rights accorded
when EADS was first formed in 2000.  The planned merger between  Europe ’s largest civil aviation
company and the region’s largest defense company fell apart this
month after four weeks of public attempts to win government
support. Germany was particularly reluctant to back the deal on
concern its interest would get marginalized in a new entity run
out of  France  and the U.K.  Constructive Talks  “We are in constructive talks with the German
government,” said Daimler spokesman Florian Martens. He
declined to comment specifically on the document.  Germany had originally planned to buy half of the stake
owned by Daimler, equal to 7.5 percent. It later topped up its
budget to buy shares in order to include another stake owned by
a group of regional savings banks and other investors. Under
that expanded mandate, KfW would end up with about 13 percent.  When EADS was created in 2000, investors from France and
Germany were required to hold balanced  voting rights , with each
side now controlling 22.5 percent. Upon EADS’s formation, each
side controlled 30 percent, though the stakes were cut when
Lagardere and Daimler agreed to each sell 7.5 percent in 2006.  Daimler today directly owns 15 percent, and manages the 7.5
percent held by the group of public and private financial
institutions that includes Deutsche Bank AG and KfW. Lagardere
owns 7.5 percent and has management control over the French
government’s 15 percent.  KfW share purchases are viewed financially as temporary
allocations of public money and do not appear on the federal
government’s budget accounts. At the same time, the sovereign
debt crisis and Germany’s constitutional “debt brake” mean
 Germany  must tame growth in spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  