-- German Stocks to See Short-Term Slump; Technical Analysis
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/german-stocks-to-see-short-term-slump-technical-analysis.html
German stocks  will decline by 5.4
percent before resuming the rally that started in June, as
short-term moving averages signal bearishness, while long-term
averages are bullish, a technical analyst at ING Groep NV said.  The Moving Average Convergence-Divergence, or MACD, chart
has fallen below a supporting trend line that held since early
July, indicating the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  will slide to meet its
200-day moving average, Roelof-Jan van den Akker said in a
telephone interview from Amsterdam.  “I’m not bearish but short-term, I expect some further
selling pressure before prices could be bottoming and rallying
to the upside again,” Van den Akker said. “This is just a
pullback in the uptrends. Looking at this MACD, it makes sense
that current support levels will not hold.”  The gauge yesterday slipped below 7,210, where the most-
recent support line and the gauge’s 50-day moving average meet,
triggering the slump, he said.  The measure may fall to 6,915 and extend losses to 6,785 --
5.4 percent below yesterday’s close of 7,173.69 -- before
rallying again to a new high above 7,480, Van den Akker said.  The  DAXK Index (DAXK) , the price gauge using the same weightings
as the DAX while not adjusting for dividends, made a golden
cross yesterday, with a rising 100-day moving average crossing
above a bullish 200-day moving average. This signaled advances
in German stocks will continue, he said.  The DAX has gained 20 percent from its 2012 low on June 5
as  Greece  formed a new government, European leaders agreed to
address flaws in their bailout programs and central banks
announced further stimulus measures.  MACD is a plot of values obtained by subtracting the 26-day
exponential moving average from the 12-day average. The signal
line is a nine-day exponential moving average of the MACD, and
provides buy and sell signals.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  