-- Germany Seeks to Gain From Property Boom by Closing Tax Loophole
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-10-24T09:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/germany-seeks-to-gain-from-property-boom-by-closing-tax-loophole.html
The German government, which is
selling offices, shops and apartments valued at 1.9 billion
euros ($2.5 billion) to cut its  budget deficit , has another way
to tap the nation’s property boom: collecting more transfer tax.  Germany ’s parliament tomorrow will vote on closing a
loophole that allows companies to avoid the transfer tax on
certain types of property transactions. The typical amount of
the levy is from 3.5 percent to 5 percent of the value of the
land and buildings that change hands.  “The planned regulations would have a serious effect not
just on real estate companies, but also on industrials such as
manufacturers and energy companies, which typically have a lot
of property,” said Karl Hamberger, a real estate partner at
Ernst & Young in Munich. “The tax would probably come right out
of the sale price,” he said.  German real estate has been a target of investors this year
as they seek a safe place to put their money amid  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis. Expanding the property transfer tax base
will make it more expensive for buyers and sellers of large
portfolios to complete deals. The tax change would also make it
more difficult for banks to sell properties as they try to meet
stricter capital rules going into effect under the Basel III
regulations, Hamberger said.  The government will propose that transactions become
subject to the transfer tax if 95 percent or more of the
property changes hands, instead of the current 99.7 percent.
German property deals are often structured to give owners a
stake of less than that to avoid tax liability, said Hamberger.  Increased Investment  Investors including Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Blackstone (BX)  Group LP bought 6.4 billion euros ($8.4 billion) of
German residential property in the first half, compared with 5.8
billion euros in all of 2011, according to data compiled by
Chicago-based broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   The government is selling TLG Group, a property company
valued at about 1.9 billion euros. TLG attracted offers from
investors such as Blackstone and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   The new rules would affect so-called share deals, in which
stakes in property holding companies change hands. Share deals
allow companies to buy real estate without signing separate
deeds for each property unit, and are often used in residential
transactions, Hamberger said.  The year’s biggest residential deal, in which a group of
investors including Patrizia Immobilien AG bought groups of
apartments from LBBW Immobilien GmbH for 1.4 billion euros, was
a share deal.  “Large residential portfolio deals simply couldn’t happen
without a share deal,” said Hamberger. “The lawyers would have
to notarize 20,000 contracts.”  The German government collected 5.5 billion euros of
transfer tax in the first nine months of 2012, a 19 percent
increase from a year ago, according to the  Finance Ministry ’s
monthly budget report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  