-- German Ifo Business Confidence Unexpectedly Fell in October
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-24T09:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-falls-for-a-sixth-month.html
German business confidence
unexpectedly fell to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in
October as the sovereign debt crisis damped growth in  Europe ’s
largest economy.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 100.0
from 101.4 in September. That’s the sixth straight decline and
the lowest reading since February 2010. Economists predicted an
increase to 101.6, according to the median of 39 forecasts in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  Financial markets have rallied since the  European Central
Bank  pledged to do whatever is needed to preserve the euro and
unveiled a plan to buy  government bonds . Still, the German
economy may contract in the fourth quarter as euro-area and
global demand for its exports wanes, the Bundesbank said on Oct.
22.  Germany ’s manufacturing and service industries shrank more
than economists forecast this month, another report showed
today.  “These drops in the Ifo and the manufacturing and service
industries are significant,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist
at Nomura International Plc. in London. “We take it as an
indication that the German economy is heading into a contraction
in the fourth quarter.”  Expectations Index  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations was unchanged at
93.2, while a gauge of the current situation dropped to 107.3
from 110.3. The euro fell more than quarter of a cent after the
report to $1.2936.  While exports to faster-growing markets outside Europe and
domestic spending have helped insulate Germany from the turmoil
in the euro area, the debt crisis is leaving its mark.  German truckmaker MAN SE said on Oct. 12 that next year
will be even tougher than 2012 after third-quarter orders
slumped. The Munich-based company lowered its 2012 earnings
forecast in July as weaker demand in  Brazil  added to woes in
Europe.  German growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second quarter
from 0.5 percent in the first. “There are increasing signs that
a perceptible expansion of economic growth in the third quarter
of 2012 will be followed by stagnation or even a slight decrease
in gross domestic product in the final quarter of the year,”
the Bundesbank said in its monthly report.  PMIs Decline  A gauge of activity in the German manufacturing sector
based on a survey of  purchasing managers  and published by Market
Economics today fell to 45.7 from 47.4 last month. In the
service industry it eased to 49.3 from 49.7. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  A composite index for both industries in the euro area fell
to 45.8, the lowest in more than three years. At least five of
the 17 euro nations are in recession, including Spain and Italy.  “The euro-zone recession is still getting worse,” said
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London.
“In a disappointing set of data, the fact that the Ifo
expectations index did not decline further offers the only ray
of hope. In this sense, the survey results today do not dispel
the hope that the euro economy could turn the corner early next
year.”  Stocks Gain  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , will invest 200 million euros ($259 million) in
a Brazil factory to boost sales, it said on Oct. 22. The
company’s global nine-month sales through September increased
8.6 percent to 1.11 million vehicles.  The benchmark  DAX share index  has rallied 9 percent since
ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged on July 26 to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro.  “The risk of a euro-area member bankruptcy is
significantly lower now than it was two months ago,” said
Lothar Hessler, an economist at  HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (TUB)  in
Dusseldorf. “Germany’s economy might stagnate in the second
half of the year. But it will grow in 2013 because the worst
part of the  European debt crisis  is behind us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  