-- Girardi Sees Alex Rodriguez as Yankees’ Third Baseman in 2013
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-24T18:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/girardi-sees-alex-rodriguez-as-yankees-third-baseman-in-2013.html
Joe Girardi  said he expects  Alex Rodriguez  to be the  New York  Yankees’ starting third baseman
next season and rebound from a postseason in which the 14-time
All-Star was benched for three games while batting .130.  The Yankees’ manager pointed to the performance of two
other veterans on the squad, 38-year-old  Derek Jeter  and 39-
year-old  Ichiro Suzuki , to underscore his belief that the 37-
year-old Rodriguez will again be a force at the plate.  “You’ve seen players who have made adjustments and who
have gone back to be extremely productive,” Girardi said today
at a news conference. “There was talk about Derek Jeter. There
was talk about Ichiro Suzuki, and look what he did for the last
two months of the season. Can Alex be a very good player again?
Absolutely. I don’t have any question in my mind because the
desire is there.”  Jeter hit .316 with 15 home runs last season, his highest
average and most homers in three years. Suzuki hit .322 in 227
at-bats with the Yankees following the July trade from  Seattle .
The two-time American League batting champion was hitting a
career-low .261 before the trade.  Rodriguez,  Major League Baseball ’s highest-paid player, was
left out of the starting lineup three times and also taken out
in favor of a pinch-hitter on three occasions in the Yankees’
nine postseason games. It was a precipitous fall for a player
who won three AL Most Valuable Player Awards and ranks fifth in
Major League Baseball history with 647 home runs.  Girardi said he hasn’t second-guessed his decisions to sit
or pinch-hit for Rodriguez during the playoffs and that he
doesn’t think it will hurt their relationship.  ‘Rewrite Things’  “I’m sure that will be talked about a lot in the coming
months, but as a player you always have a chance to rewrite
things and make adjustments,” said Girardi.  He said he hasn’t spoken with Rodriguez since the Yankees’
season ended last week with a four-game sweep against the
 Detroit Tigers  in the AL Championship Series.  Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  said in an Oct. 21
ESPN radio interview that the team plans to have Rodriguez as
its third baseman next season, yet would consider trade offers.
Rodriguez has five years remaining on the 10-year, $275 million
contract he signed in December 2007. He hit .272 with 18 home
runs this season.  “Despite the contract that we had committed to him, he’s
an asset at this stage still,” Cashman said. “I don’t see us
doing anything there. If someone wants to make phone calls,
we’re more than willing to do all that stuff with any of our
players. You can run into something that way.”  Doctors Visits  Girardi said he expects Jeter, the team’s shortstop and
captain, and pitcher CC Sabathia to be healthy by the start of
spring training. Jeter had surgery on Oct. 20 after fracturing
his left ankle during the playoffs and may need five months to
recover. Sabathia, a 32-year-old left-hander who went 15-6 this
season and lost the team’s final playoff game, is set to have
his pitching elbow examined by specialist James Andrews.  Girardi also said he reliever  Mariano Rivera , whose 608
saves are the most in major-league history, will probably play
next year after tearing a ligament in his right knee before a
game in May and missing the rest of the season. Rivera, who
turns 43 next month, has said he plans to return.  “I think he’ll sit down with family and evaluate where he
is in this process, see how his arm feels and see if he still
thinks he can compete at the level he’s accustomed to,” Girardi
said. “I don’t think you push a rehab the way he has unless he
has an interest in coming back.”  Girardi said while the Yankees will have difficult
offseason decisions about whether to bring back free agents such
as Suzuki,  Andy Pettitte ,  Nick Swisher  and  Hiroki Kuroda , he
expects the team to contend for the  World Series  next year. He
also said he probably won’t watch much of the World Series,
which begins tonight with Tigers facing the  San Francisco
Giants .  “It’s not easy for me to turn on a baseball game right
now,” Girardi said. “I feel if we played to our capabilities
one of those teams should be us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  