-- Goldman Leaks Could Scare Staff, Ex-Employee Smith Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-24T19:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/goldman-performance-review-leaks-may-scare-staff-smith-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s decision
to provide information about former employee  Greg Smith ’s pay
and promotion requests to the media may scare staff at the firm
about the privacy of their own reviews, Smith said.  “What are people at Goldman thinking? Are they thinking
‘Is this going to be leaked out to the public?’” Smith, 33,
said in an interview today with  Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said
Smith was denied a raise and a promotion he sought in the months
before he quit the firm with a  New York  Times  op-ed piece  that
criticized how the company treated employees. Documents provided
by the company to  Bloomberg News  showed one of Smith’s managers
calling him “off the charts unrealistic” in his demands.  Smith, whose book “Why I Left Goldman Sachs: A Wall Street
Story” went on sale this week, said the information provided by
the firm about him in a nine-page document withheld positive
reviews he’d received.  Goldman Sachs should have “released all of my reviews from
my entire career and read them out on air,” Smith said. “I’m
disappointed that instead of shooting the messenger that Goldman
Sachs doesn’t address the issues.”  Performance reviews and comments made in those reviews
“are kept in strictest confidence,”  Andrew Williams , a
spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Our people can and do rely on the confidentiality
of that process.”  Changing Room  The book, which includes a description of Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, walking naked through the
company gym’s changing room, undermines Smith’s call for
privacy, Williams added.  “It’s hard to imagine that someone who writes a book
describing the company CEO coming out of the shower, calling a
female colleague the ‘Black Widow’ and detailing a close
friend’s bachelor party has much standing on the issue of
privacy,” Williams said in the statement.  “In the wake of Mr. Smith’s abrupt resignation, we had an
obligation to our employees, shareholders and regulators to
determine whether he had raised issues internally, and the
performance reviews and a wealth of other evidence demonstrated
that he had not,” Williams added. “This was a unique
situation, and our employees recognize that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 