-- Greece, Troika Reached Final Labor Agreement, Stournaras Says
-- B y   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-10-24T14:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/greece-troika-reached-final-labor-agreement-stournaras-says.html
Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said he reached a final deal with the country’s
lenders on labor reforms and urged lawmakers to vote for an
austerity package required to release bailout loans.  Labor market changes and other “prior actions” demanded
by the so-called troika of the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  will be brought to
parliament next week, separately from a 13.5 billion-euro ($17.5
billion) package of budget measures for the next two years,
Stournaras told reporters in  Athens  today. The budget measures
needed would be 18.5 billion euros without a two-year extension
to  Greece  for meeting its budget targets.  “All the scenarios being worked on with the troika are
being worked on with the assumption that there will be an
extension,” Stournaras said. “This morning, after an all-night
effort, the troika retreated on two basic issues, on severance
pay and notice periods,” he told lawmakers earlier in comments
televised by state-run Vouli TV.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s race to secure a 31
billion-euro bailout installment primarily aimed at supporting
the country’s banks and putting needed liquidity into the
economy ran into renewed opposition yesterday from his coalition
partners as they balked over demands from the country’s lenders
for labor law changes.  Greece has no alternative to relying on bailout loans as it
still has an external current-account deficit and is not even
self-sufficient in  food production , Stournaras said today. The
country is trying to create a safe investment climate and state
asset sales will boost growth, he said.  Stournaras will brief officials from the euro area on the
agreements reached with the troika at meetings on Oct. 26 and
Oct. 29, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  