-- Gupta to Learn Today Whether He Goes to Prison or Rwanda
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/gupta-to-learn-today-whether-he-goes-to-prison-or-rwanda.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director Rajat Gupta will learn today whether his conviction for
insider trading will lead to years in prison or merely a loss of
reputation and months of community service in  Africa .  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is set to
come before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan at 2
p.m. to be sentenced for leaking stock tips to Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Prosecutors say Gupta, convicted in
June of securities fraud and conspiracy, deserves as long as 10
years in prison. Gupta, 63, seeks probation and community
service, and his lawyer has proposed that he work with needy
children in New York or the poor in Rwanda.  The sentencing marks the downfall of a man who rose to the
top of corporate America after being orphaned as an 18-year-old
in Kolkata. He has served on the boards of  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , won praise for his charity from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
Chairman Bill Gates and former United Nations Secretary-General
Kofi Annan and, as McKinsey’s youngest managing director, almost
tripled firm revenue.  “Rajat Gupta has lived an exemplary life of uncommon
accomplishment, compassion and generosity,” defense attorney
 Gary Naftalis  wrote in a legal brief to Rakoff last week.  Gupta “was at the pinnacle of a profession built on
protecting client confidences,” prosecutors said in reply.
“Yet, time and time again, over the span of nearly two years,
Gupta flouted the law and abused his position of trust.”  Gupta, who owns a $9 million waterfront home in Westport,
 Connecticut , and remains free on bail, is the most prominent of
70 people convicted since a nationwide insider-trading crackdown
by U.S. prosecutors began four years ago. Rajaratnam, whose case
will come before an appeals court tomorrow, is serving 11 years
after his own conviction last year.  Diamondback Capital  Former Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager
Todd Newman and Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony
Chiasson are scheduled to go on trial Oct. 29 for insider
trading. Both deny wrongdoing.  Gupta was convicted by a jury of leaking tips to
Rajaratnam, his friend and business partner, about New York-
based Goldman Sachs, including information about a $5 billion
investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  on Sept.
23, 2008, and a tip on a quarterly loss.  The jury acquitted Gupta of charges that he leaked
information that Cincinnati-based P&G’s organic sales growth
would fall below estimates and that he tipped Rajaratnam, 55,
about Goldman Sachs’s  earnings  in the first quarter of 2007.  Private Line  Unlike the Rajaratnam prosecution, which was based on
dozens of wiretaps of his mobile-phone conversations, the case
against Gupta was circumstantial and built on trading records,
business relationships and comments by Rajaratnam or others
about Galleon’s sources of information. The jury heard one
wiretapped conversation between Gupta and Rajaratnam.  At the trial, Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein told jurors that he briefed his board over the phone
on the Buffett investment beginning at 3:15 p.m. Within a minute
after the call with the directors concluded at 3:53 p.m.,
Rajaratnam answered a call on his private line from a McKinsey
conference room being used by Gupta, according to phone records
and testimony.  “I got a call at 3:58, right?” Rajaratnam said on a
wiretapped conversation with another trader that was played at
the trial. “Saying something good might happen to Goldman.”  In his bid for leniency, Naftalis said Gupta’s crimes were
limited to a two-month span in 2008 and presented some 400
letters to the judge chronicling what he said was Gupta’s
lifetime of good works.  Rural Poor  One letter came from Tharcisse Karugarama, minister of
justice and attorney general of  Rwanda , who backed a defense
proposal that Gupta work with the rural poor fighting AIDS,
malaria and extreme poverty. Gupta previously served as chairman
of the  Global Fund , a public-health advocacy group for the
developing world.  Prosecutors, citing non-binding federal guidelines, urged
Rakoff to send Gupta to prison for 97 months to 121 months. They
said he deserves a stern sentence because he violated
confidences and breached his duty as a senior official.  If he imposes a prison term, Rakoff must also decide
whether Gupta will report to an institution in coming weeks or
may remain free until the outcome of his appeal. The U.S. Bureau
of Prisons would decide where Gupta serves his time.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  