-- Li’s ARA Cancels Dual-Currency IPO, Citing Sluggish Demand
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-10-25T05:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/li-s-ara-cancels-dual-currency-ipo-as-religare-drop-hurts-demand.html
ARA Asset Management, the manager of
property trusts backed by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , canceled what
would have been Singapore’s first dual-currency initial public
offering amid sluggish demand for new equity.  ARA suspended the IPO of  Dynasty Real Estate Investment
Trust (DYREIT) , which is backed by commercial real estate in China and
was set to trade in both  yuan  and Singapore dollars, according
to a stock exchange statement yesterday.  Dynasty’s forecast yield of as much as 7.1 percent wasn’t
enough to sway investors deterred by Europe’s credit crisis and
the poor performance of recent IPOs including  Religare Health
Trust (RHT)  and  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO)  Li’s Hui Xian Real
Investment trust, which last year completed the first yuan IPO
outside China, is down 22 percent from its offer price.  “I’m a bit surprised the IPO didn’t go through because
right now, dividend-yield companies are experiencing quite a
strong performance,” said  Alan Richardson , who helps oversee
about $82 billion for Samsung Asset Management. “In this
current easy liquidity scenario, there is money around
but investors want to make sure they are comfortable with what
they are buying.”  At as much as 5.4 billion yuan ($864 million), Dynasty’s
IPO would have been Singapore’s largest since Li’s  Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust (HPHT)  raised $5.5 billion in March last year. ARA
said yesterday it may consider a China-focused REIT later, and
will continue to manage the properties in its private funds.
Dynasty is backed by commercial properties in Shanghai, Nanjing
and Dalian, according to the IPO prospectus.  IPO Drought  Singapore’s surging dollar may also have hurt the appeal of
a yuan-denominated offering. The city-state’s currency has
gained 6.2 percent against the U.S. dollar this year, the
second-best performance among major currencies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  IPOs have dwindled in Singapore and Hong Kong as turbulent
global markets and Europe’s credit crisis weakened investor
appetite for risk. In July,  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) 
withdrew a $1 billion IPO of its undersea cable unit in
Singapore, citing market conditions.  Astro Malaysia and Religare Health have fallen since
completing IPOs in Kuala Lumpur and Singapore this month. Seven
of this year’s 10 biggest first-time offerings in Hong Kong have
been priced at the low end of price ranges marketed to
investors, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There has been a marked change in investor sentiment
given the recent after market performance of several IPOs and a
gradual worsening of the overall market conditions,” ARA said
in the statement.  ARA shares traded little changed at S$1.555 a 1:11 p.m.
today in Singapore. The stock has risen 27 percent this year,
outperforming the 15 percent gain in the benchmark Straits Times
Index.  Standard Chartered Plc, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and
Macquarie Group Ltd. were managing the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  