-- IAC Forecasts 2013 Unit Operating Loss at Newsweek Unit
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-24T21:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/iac-beats-third-quarter-estimates-on-growth-in-internet-search.html
IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , the Internet
company founded by Barry Diller, forecast a 2013 operating loss
for units that include  Newsweek , while third-quarter earnings
beat analysts’ estimates.  The loss at media and other segments will be $28.2 million
to $33.2 million, the New York-based operator of websites such
as Ask.com and Match.com said today in a regulatory filing.  Third-quarter revenue almost tripled at IAC’s media unit
because it began including its Newsweek Daily Beast unit in its
results. The division’s operating loss widened to $13.2 million
in the period. IAC announced plans to stop publishing Newsweek
as a print magazine last week.  IAC fell 8.4 percent to $48 at the close in New York, the
most in four years. The stock had dropped as much as 14 percent
earlier in the day. The company blamed the drop on a report from
StreetAccount, a financial news service owned by  FactSet
Research Systems Inc. (FDS) , which IAC said in a statement
inaccurately attributed projected losses to the entire company
instead of to just its media unit.  The company said the media group, which includes Newsweek,
is its smallest business unit. IAC pointed out the error during
a conference call today, it said.  To grow faster than Google Inc., IAC is luring users to its
online properties with its own content instead of just links,
helping boost queries to websites such as Ask.com by 52 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier. The company, under
founder and Chairman Barry Diller, bought About.com from New
York Times Co. in September for $300 million to add more
information for searches.  Third-quarter net income fell 37 percent to $40.7 million,
reduced by a $27.6 million income-tax provision. Earnings per
share, excluding the effect of restricted stock units, rose to
71 cents, beating the 66-cent average  estimate  of 16 analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 38
percent to $714.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  