-- Iceland Lenders Still Face Risks and Uncertainty, Watchdog Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-10-24T22:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/iceland-lenders-still-face-risks-and-uncertainty-watchdog-says.html
Iceland’s banks, the state-created
successors of failed lenders  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank hf 
and  Landsbanki Islands hf , face risks and uncertainties only
four years after their creation, according to the island’s
Financial Supervisory Authority.  The three banks collapsed in a matter of days in October
2008, leaving bondholders struggling to recoup $85 billion in
debt. The failure prompted the island to seek a $4.6 billion
bailout led by the  International Monetary Fund . Iceland
completed a 33-month IMF program in August last year.  “There are certain factors which may create uncertainty
and have a negative impact on their operating results,” the
financial watchdog said in an  annual report  posted on its
website today. The primary uncertainty factors relate to the
lenders “loan portfolios, legal uncertainty regarding loans in
foreign currencies, long-term financing, instability in foreign
markets and uncertainty related to the anticipated removal of
 capital controls .”  Following the 2008 failure of the three banks, the
country’s government stepped in and moved domestic accounts into
the state-created  Arion Bank hf ,  Islandsbanki hf  and
 Landsbankinn hf . Kaupthing creditors were later handed an 87
percent stake in Arion, while creditors of Glitnir received a 95
percent stake in Islandsbanki. The government holds 81.33
percent in Landsbankinn, while the creditors own the remaining
shares in the state-created offshoot.  “Another matter which is cause for concern is the banks’
high cost ratios by an international comparison,” according to
the report. That high ratio “indicates that the banks have a
considerable room for streamlining their operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 