-- Iconix Brand Buys Nike’s Umbro Soccer Unit for $225 Million
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-10-24T20:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/iconix-brand-buys-nike-s-umbro-soccer-unit-for-225-million-1-.html
Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON)  agreed to
acquire  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s Umbro sports apparel and footwear unit for
$225 million in cash.  The deal is expected to close by the end of the year, New
York-based Iconix said in a statement. Nike bought Umbro, which
was founded in 1924, in 2008 for about 302 million pounds
($483.7 million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale is part of Nike Chief Executive Officer  Mark Parker ’s push to focus on the business units with the most
growth potential and profitability. Nike, based in Beaverton,
 Oregon , previously announced it’s also trying to sell its Cole
Haan unit of dress-shoe stores.  Nike  rose  0.1 percent to $92.89 at the close in New York.
The shares have lost 3.6 percent this year.  The deal will end one of the many acquisitions that hasn’t
panned out for the world’s largest maker of sporting goods. Nike
has also bought and then sold the Starter apparel brand and
Canstar Sports Inc., maker of Bauer hockey gear. The one bright
spot has been Converse, which has flourished under Nike’s
control.  Back in 2008, Umbro appeared to be a good fit because it
gave Nike more customers in  Europe  as it tried to reach its goal
of surpassing  Adidas AG (ADS)  as the world’s largest soccer company.  Umbro also had a long-standing deal with the  England 
national soccer team to supply its uniforms. In a statement
announcing the deal, Parker touted the new relationship as a
“dynamic alignment” that would make Nike the world leader in
soccer.  Hopes Faded  Those hopes faded when the England squad failed to qualify
for the 2008 European Championships finals, prompting a decline
in sales. From there, results didn’t improve, forcing Nike to
write down the value of the unit by $240.7 million in 2009.  Before making the deal Nike did retain some of Umbro’s most
valuable assets when it moved Umbro’s sponsorship deals with
England and Premier League champion Manchester City to the Nike
brand. Nike will be discussing next steps with other teams
sponsored by Umbro and some may transfer, Mary Remuzzi, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Umbro also makes the uniforms
for the national teams from  Sweden  and the  Republic of Ireland .  Umbro’s sales in the fiscal year ended May 31 grew 17
percent to $262 million after being little changed in the
previous year. When Nike announced it planned to sell Umbro in
May, analyst Chris Svezia of Susquehanna Financial Group said it
wasn’t profitable.  The Umbro and Cole Haan units had a combined loss of $43
million before interest and taxes in fiscal 2012 and would lose
as much as $75 million if owned for all of fiscal 2013, Nike has
said.  Iconix bought the Starter brand from Nike in 2007 and also
owns the Candie’s, Joe Boxer and Rocawear brands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  