-- Microsoft Surface a Dual-Personality PC: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-10-24T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/microsoft-surface-a-dual-personality-pc-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Is Microsoft’s new Surface your next
iPad, or is it your next personal computer?  It isn’t an idle question. The company is touting the
 Surface , its shiny new tablet-PC hybrid, as something of an
iPad-killer. After a week of using it, I’m not so sure. But it
may just be the slickest laptop I’ve used in a very long time.  Technically, the Surface isn’t a PC at all, since it
doesn’t run on the  Intel (INTC)  microprocessors that are the industry
standard. Instead, it uses an  Nvidia (NVDA)  chip of the kind commonly
found in tablets and wireless phones, and its operating system
is a variant of Microsoft’s new Windows 8 called Windows RT.  To many users, though, that may be a distinction without a
difference. The Surface, which goes on sale Oct. 26, is
preloaded with new versions of  Microsoft (MSFT)  Word, Excel, PowerPoint
and Internet Explorer and has a desktop mode that feels a lot
like traditional Windows. Outfitted with one of Microsoft’s
snazzy new $120 keyboard covers, and perhaps a USB thumb drive
to expand the storage, it becomes a powerful, lightweight
productivity tool.  The Surface starts at $499 for a Wi-Fi-only model with 32
gigabytes of storage. In theory, that’s $100 cheaper than a
comparable iPad. But only in theory.  For one thing, not all that space is accessible to the
user; only 44 GB of my 64 GB test model was actually available
for my own stuff.  Expensive Accessories  Moreover, the accessories needed to use it as a PC are
expensive and available only from Microsoft: that colorful cover
that doubles as a flat, pressure-sensitive keyboard, or -- my
favorite -- a $130 model with actual keys. (A bundle with a
black flat keyboard is $599 for 32 GB, $699 for 64 GB.)  There are a few big differences between the Surface and the
flood of new Windows 8 PCs hitting the market. One is the
limited storage; the other is the absence of Outlook,
Microsoft’s e-mail and calendar client.  The biggest difference, though, is that it can’t run
existing software written for previous versions of Windows, like
 Adobe (ADBE) ’s Photoshop or  Intuit (INTU) ’s QuickBooks. (A costlier Surface
that will run Windows 8, use Intel chips and handle legacy
software is due early next year.)  The Surface’s split personality is evident as soon as you
pull it out of the box. It’s a sleek black rectangle weighing
1.5 pounds with a 10.6 inch widescreen touch display -- both
slightly more than the current-generation iPad -- and front- and
rear-facing cameras. Turn it on, and you’re greeted with the new
Windows Start screen, full of big, colorful tiles that display
updated information and launch apps.  Beautiful Bauble  Then you’re asked to give your beautiful new bauble a name.
You might want something friendly, like maybe “Rich’s
Surface.” Oops, sorry, you’re not allowed to use a space, an
apostrophe or other “special characters.” Same old Microsoft.  In tablet mode, the Surface is swift and responsive,
whether you’re launching new apps or scrolling between open
ones. Though not quite in the iPad’s league, the screen is nice
enough -- and the integrated kickstand allows you to prop it up
at a comfortable angle, perfect for viewing, say, a movie on an
airline tray table. The kickstand snaps shut with a pleasing
click, indicative of the overall solid feel of the device.  But while I generally like the touch interface, and give
Microsoft props for not aping the iPad, it simply isn’t as clean
and intuitive as  Apple (AAPL) ’s iOS. As just one small example, it took
me a very long time to figure out how to change the default
location for the Weather app, followed by multiple steps and
swipes.  App Selection  Nor can the Surface compete with the iPad on the number and
variety of available apps, at least until existing Windows
programs get rewritten for the new environment.  I also had issues with its power system, ranging from the
awkward placement of the connector to a mysterious episode in
which a nearly full battery on Saturday drained to completely
empty by Monday morning.  Depending on what I was doing, I sometimes coaxed
Microsoft’s promised eight hours of battery life out of the
Surface. But it isn’t as long-lived as the iPad, even with its
overly aggressive default screen-dimming settings.  The biggest question is how users familiar with previous
versions of Windows adapt to the new interface, whether on the
Surface or the other Windows RT and Windows 8 devices to follow.  Something like the traditional Windows desktop environment
still exists. But it’s now, essentially, an app launched via a
tile on that colorful Start screen.  Seeing Double  The potential for confusion is considerable. For instance,
there are now two separate versions of Internet Explorer 10: one
in the new style, for when you’re using the Surface as a tablet,
and a separate, more traditional one for when you’re working on
the desktop.  The Start screen also behaves inconsistently: Some tiles
launch new-style apps while others, such as those for the
preview versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote, toss
you into the desktop environment.  While I initially regarded the desktop as a kind of penalty
box, I found myself gravitating towards it. In some ways, using
it on the Surface reminded me of netbooks, those cheap little
Windows PCs that enjoyed a brief vogue a couple years ago. But
this is what a netbook should have been: versatile, with a
modern design and an appealing, well-made look and feel.  Microsoft is taking several enormous gambles with the
Surface. Are users willing to embrace a Windows so different
from what they’ve known for nearly 20 years? How will Intel and
computer makers react to the fact that their software partner is
now a direct competitor?  It may just be that the company didn’t have a choice if it
wanted its flagship software to remain relevant. With the world
moving inexorably toward mobile devices, the Surface is the
first Windows PC of the post-PC era.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Philip
Boroff on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 