-- Middle East Unrest a Boon to Elbit Systems Beating Defense Peers
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-10-24T15:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/middle-east-unrest-a-boon-to-elbit-systems-beating-defense-peers.html
Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) , Israel’s largest
non-government defense company, is beating global peers after
sinking to a six-year low in August on prospects the developer
of unmanned aircraft and night vision systems will receive more
contracts as violence in the Middle East escalates.  The company, which  depends  on its home country for 25
percent of revenue, has rallied 21 percent since Aug. 28,
compared with a 1.5 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Aerospace & Defense Index and 8.5 percent increase for Israel’s
benchmark TA-25 Index. The gains pushed valuations to 9.8 times
estimated profits from 7.4, still a 23 percent discount to the
average multiple for companies on the S&P Defense Index.  Increasing orders from the Israeli government will help
Haifa-based Elbit compensate for falling revenue in the U.S. and
Europe amid growing security threats on  Israel ’s borders as well
as heightening tensions with Iran and the possibility of an
Israeli strike, according to Citigroup Inc. Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu cited “security and economic”
upheavals as his reason for calling early elections on Oct. 9.  “Tensions with Iran and the Arab spring are causing a rise
in Israel’s defense budget and Elbit is well positioned to
benefit from this,” Michael Klahr, a Tel Aviv-based analyst at
Citigroup who has been recommending investors buy shares since
May, said by phone on Oct. 10.“Even after the recent move, I
see an upside to the shares.”  A Defense Ministry committee recommended on Aug. 19
increasing the defense budget by about 3.5 percent a year to
76.2 billion shekels ($19.8 billion) in 2017 from 64 billion
shekels this year.  $420 Million Contract  Elbit received on Sept. 10 a $420 million contract from the
Israeli Defense Ministry, as part of a larger $603 million deal
to supply avionic services and systems.  The contract is “evidence of a strong local defense
market,” Klahr, who has a 170-shekel target price for the
shares, 19 percent higher than the closing price, wrote in a
report dated Sept. 13.  Netanyahu displayed at the United Nations General Assembly
in New York last month a drawing of a cartoonish, short-fused
bomb to challenge the international community to shut down what
he says is  Iran ’s effort to attain nuclear weapons.  “I can say that as long as I am the Prime Minister of
Israel, Israel will not allow Iran to reach a military nuclear
capability,” Netanyahu said in an Oct. 21 e-mailed statement.  Border Attacks  In  Egypt , President Mohamed Mursi met with senior Hamas
leaders earlier this year about an easing of the Gaza border
restrictions, efforts that were stymied after an August attack
on Egyptian guards near the Israeli border.  More than 65 rockets from Gaza hit Israel and the Israeli
air force struck the Hamas-controlled territories four times
today amid escalating violence in the past week. Netanyahu
yesterday blamed Iran for being behind the escalating rocket
attacks on Israel’s south. An Israeli soldier and three
militants were killed in a firefight on the Egyptian border last
month.  Elbit, which got 50 percent of revenue from the U.S. and
 Europe  last year, is also hunting for new markets as American
lawmakers plan to cut defense spending by at least $487 billion
over 10 years and as gross domestic product in the 17-nation
euro region stagnates amid a deepening debt crisis.  The company said today a unit in Brazil won a $25 million
order to supply the Brazilian army with remote controlled weapon
stations. The company said on Oct. 2 that it will supply
technology to the Royal Australian Navy and announced on Sept.
23 that it will set up a training center for a Latin American
air force.  ‘Overshooting’  Elbit fell 0.3 percent to 142 shekels, or the equivalent of
$36.77 at the close in Tel Aviv today. The New York-traded
shares lost 1.1 percent to $36.46 at 11:06 a.m.  “There has been an overshooting of the stock and this is a
good entry point for investors,” Tsahi Avraham, an analyst at
Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd., said by phone on Oct. 10. “The
last win in  Australia  is just a tip of the iceberg of their
potential.”  While Elbit’s Israeli shares rallied 7.5 percent in
September, the stock is down 8.6 percent in 2012 after the
defense sector worldwide was hurt by budget cuts. The company’s
stock was dropped from the MSCI World index at the end of
August.  Shares slumped to 117.50 shekels on Aug. 28, the lowest
level in six years, sending valuations to 7.4 times next year’s
estimated earnings, a 19 percent discount to its one-year
historical average.  ‘Very Low’  Elbit said net income in the second quarter fell to $38.3
million from $38.9 million as revenue declined to $676 million
from $692 million.                            “Growth is expected to be very low because of budget cuts
in Europe and the U.S.,” Ilanit Sherf, an analyst at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv who reinstated a hold rating
on the shares this month, said by phone Oct. 16. “Even if the
company has managed to diversify sales to countries like  India ,
 Brazil  and Australia, these markets could also see a slowdown.”  Elbit’s  sales  to Asia and South America rose 51 percent in
the second quarter and accounted for 35 percent of total sales,
up from 23 percent in the same quarter a year earlier.  The company said today that it received a $25 million
contract for its remote controlled weapon systems from the
Brazilian army, according to a PRNewswire statement.  Elbit’s focus on  defense electronic systems , as opposed to
defense platforms, such as aircraft or ships sold by the largest
defense companies, gives it an advantage over peers, Avraham
said.  Computer Terrorism  Israel’s National Cyber Bureau is developing a system to
protect the nation from computer terrorism as attempts to attack
the country’s systems have risen, Netanyahu said on Oct. 14.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , maker of the Global Hawk
surveillance drones, reported on July 25 a decline of 7.7
percent in second-quarter profit a week after  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , the world’s biggest defense contractor, said it may have
to dismiss about 10,000 of its 120,000 employees if Congress
doesn’t avert defense budget cuts.  “The major defense cuts are in platforms and not
electronic systems,” Avraham said. “There is a nice upside
that can come from both product and geographical segmentation”
for Elbit, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  