-- Idearc, AMR, ResCap, Circus & Eldorado, K-V: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-10-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/idearc-amr-rescap-circus-eldorado-k-v-bankruptcy.html
A witness for  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  from  JPMorgan Securities Inc. (JPM)  testified that yellow-page
unit Idearc Inc. was a “very good ongoing company” when it was
spun off from the parent in 2006.  Yesterday’s testimony came in the second week of a trial
where Idearc creditors are suing New York-based Verizon for $9.8
billion, contending the spinoff entailed fraudulent transfers
that left the unit insolvent immediately.  Jennifer Nason, head of  JPMorgan Securities ’ technology,
media and telecom unit, said that the bank committed to lending
$250 million and still held $125 million in debt when Idearc
filed for bankruptcy. Nason said she believed Idearc was
properly capitalized, with about $3.5 billion in equity and $9
billion in debt.  On cross-examination, Nason told lawyers for Idearc
creditors that JPMorgan made $36 million in fees on the
financing transaction.  An expert witness for creditors testified last week that
Idearc was insolvent by more than $1 billion when it became
independent. Earlier this week, an expert witness for Verizon
testified that Idearc was “completely stable” at the time of
the spinoff.  The trial is scheduled to run through the end of the week
in U.S. District Court in  Dallas , where Idearc was based. The
case will be decided by the judge without a jury.  Now named  SuperMedia Inc. (SPMD) , Idearc went bankrupt 28 months
after the spinoff and completed a Chapter 11 reorganization with
a plan creating a creditors’ trust that brought the suit.  Idearc, formerly the second-largest U.S. publisher of
yellow-page directories, in January 2010 implemented a
reorganization plan that was mostly worked out before the
Chapter 11 filing in March 2009. The plan reduced debt to $2.75
billion from $9 billion.  The creditors’ lawsuit is U.S. Bank National Association v.
Verizon Communications Inc., 10-01842, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The bankruptcy case was In
re Idearc Inc., 09-31828,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Updates  Marathon Wants Examiner for AMR’s Embraer Settlement  Marathon Asset Management LP is trying to block or delay a
settlement under which AMR Corp. and lenders agreed to cut the
costs of operating 216 smaller-capacity regional jets
manufactured by  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)   The jets are operated by American Eagle Inc., the feeder
airline for  American Airlines  Inc.  Marathon, based in  New York , points to the period between
June and November 2011, when AMR was trying to avoid bankruptcy
and attempting to spin off American Eagle to shareholders. To
spruce up American Eagle’s balance sheet, ownership of 263
smaller jets was transferred to AMR from the regional airline.  Marathon contends there may be fraudulent transfer claims
to bring against lenders because AMR may have received less in
value that it gave up when it assumed about $2.3 billion in
liability on the planes. The lenders targeted by Marathon are
 Brazil ’s Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial and Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social.  Marathon filed papers yesterday objecting to approval of
the settlement with the financing parties. The  bankruptcy court 
in New York will hold a hearing on Oct. 30 to consider approval.  Marathon also asked the bankruptcy judge to appoint an
examiner. Marathon says it’s not advocating for lawsuits yet and
only wants an examiner to say before the settlement is approved
that no valuable claims are being lost.  The papers filed by Marathon cite AMR as saying that the
aircraft transferred to the parent were worth $1.8 billion at
the time, or about $400 million less than the debt AMR assumed.
AMR said that American Eagle canceled some of the debt owing to
the parent, so that it would be an even exchange without
fraudulent transfers.  Marathon’s request for appointment of an examiner is on the
Nov. 8 calendar for the New York bankruptcy court.  For details on proposed refinancing of the Embraer
aircraft, click here for the Oct. 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  AMR, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, listed assets of $24.7
billion and debt totaling $29.6 billion in the Chapter 11
reorganization begun in November. American Airlines entered
bankruptcy with 600 aircraft in the mainline fleet and another
300 with American Eagle.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  ResCap Won’t Have Borrower-Homeowner Official Committee  Whether Residential Capital LLC should have an official
committee representing homeowners was a “very close question,”
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said. He nonetheless
concluded in his 16-page opinion yesterday that borrowers hadn’t
shown another committee is required.  A lawyer representing 30 homeowners filed papers in late
August seeking appointment of an official committee to represent
borrowers. ResCap is the mortgage-servicing subsidiary of non-
bankrupt  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   Aside from the one homeowner on the creditors’ committee,
the borrowers contended that everyone else on the panel has
interests adverse to homeowners.  Rather than the expense attendant to having another
official committee where ResCap would pay professional fees,
Glenn said he favored an initiative by the creditors’ committee
to hire special counsel “with expertise in homeowners’
foreclosure issues.”  Glenn said the creditors’ panel will notify homeowners and
borrowers about the availability of the special counsel. Even if
there was an official borrower’s committee, Glenn said it would
be ethically improper for an official group to represent the
interests of individual homeowners in disputes with ResCap.  The homeowners contend they have claims against ResCap for
fraud, violation of state and federal consumer protection laws,
civil claims for violation of the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act, fraudulent foreclosure and servicing
misconduct.  Auctions began yesterday, with  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG)  making the first bid for the mortgage-servicing business.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is to be the stalking horse for the
remaining portfolio of mortgages. A hearing to approve the sales
is set for Nov. 5.  The $2.1 billion in third-lien 9.625 percent secured notes
due 2015 traded yesterday for 102.75 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $473.4 million of
ResCap senior unsecured notes due April 2013 traded on Oct. 22
for 27.063 cents on the dollar, according to Trace.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Circus & Eldorado Casino Confirms Reorganization Plan  Circus & Eldorado Joint Venture, the operator of the Silver
Legacy Resort Casino in Reno,  Nevada , can exit  bankruptcy
protection  after a judge signed a confirmation order yesterday
approving a Chapter 11 reorganization plan.  Confirmation without a fight was made possible when the
casino’s owners reached a settlement this month with noteholder
Black Diamond Capital Management LLC.  Negotiated before the Chapter 11 filing in May with some of
the noteholders, the plan restructures $142.8 million in 10.125
percent senior secured notes that matured March 1. The casino is
a joint venture between  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and Eldorado
Resorts LLC.  With Black Diamond in opposition, the noteholder class
originally voted down the plan. A spate of litigation ensued
between the casino and Black Diamond. Ultimately, both sides
dropped most claims, except Black Diamond agreed to pay the
casino $325,000 for legal expenses incurred in the effort to
knock out Black Diamond’s opposition vote.  With noteholders voting for the plan, it gives them about
$92.8 million in cash along with a new second-lien note for
$27.5 million, for a predicted 88.8 percent recovery, according
to the disclosure statement.  Unsecured creditors are being paid in full on about $5
million in claims. The owners are making new capital
contributions.  The notes traded on Oct. 17 for 86 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The casino listed assets of $264.1 million against
liabilities of $174.4 million. Debt owing to trade suppliers was
estimated to be $4.3 million, according to a court filing.  The case is In re Circus & Eldorado Joint Venture,
12-51156, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  K-V Pharmaceutical’s Cash Set to Increase by $6.5 Million  K-V Pharmaceutical Co. is generating another $6.5 million
in cash from the generic pharmaceutical business that was sold
in June 2011.  When Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. and Nesher
Pharmaceuticals USA LLC bought the business, $7.5 million was
placed in escrow to cover the buyers if they were sued by users
of the products. The escrow was to end one year after the sale.  The buyers made claims against the escrow. K-V and the
buyers agreed to a settlement under which $6.5 million will be
released to K-V, $475,000 goes to the buyers and $500,000
remains in escrow.  This week, the bankruptcy court in Manhattan scheduled a
Nov. 16 hearing to approve the escrow settlement.  The settlement will augment K-V’s cash, which stood at
$29.6 million at the end of September, according to a monthly
operating report filed with the bankruptcy court. The company
has another $9.6 million in restricted cash.  K-V, a distributor of branded pharmaceuticals, filed for
Chapter 11 protection in August. The main business is the sale
of Makena, a drug reducing the risk of premature birth.  There will be a pivotal hearing beginning Nov. 13 with
 Hologic Inc. (HOLX) , which sold the Makena business to K-V in 2008 and
is owed about $95 million plus royalties. Hologic has a lien on
the right to distribute the product to recover the remaining
payments. Hologic wants the bankruptcy judge to grant permission
to foreclose rights to Makena.  K-V, based in  St. Louis , is operating with use of cash
representing collateral for $225 million in senior notes. At the
outset of bankruptcy, K-V had $40.1 million in cash, including
$8.7 million in restricted cash, according to court papers.  K-V listed assets of $236.6 million against debt totaling
$728 million. It ceased manufacturing and distributing almost
all drugs in January 2009 after the discovery that some tablets
were oversized. Liabilities include $30 million on a mortgage
loan.  Liabilities include $455.6 million in long-term debt,
including $225 million on the senior secured notes due in 2015.
The first-lien notes traded yesterday for 45 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  There is $200 million owing on 2.5 percent contingent
convertible subordinated notes due in 2033. The notes traded
yesterday for 6.875 cents on the dollar, according to Trace.  The case is In re K-V Discovery Solutions Inc., 12-13346,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Solar Millennium Schedules Dec. 20 Plan Confirmation  Solar Millennium Inc. (S2M)  sold two of its solar power projects
and scheduled a Dec. 20 confirmation hearing for approval of the
liquidating Chapter 11 plan.  The bankruptcy court in  Delaware  approved disclosure
materials yesterday so creditors can begin voting on the plan.  Opening the door to completion of the Chapter 11 case, the
company sold the two projects under an arrangement that
eventually may generate $110 million in value. The plan calls
for paying creditors in the order of priority called for in
bankruptcy law, taking settlements into consideration.  General unsecured creditors with $42.5 million in claims
were told to expect a recovery between 14 percent and 20
percent.  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  bought the 1,000-megawatt facility in
Blythe,  California , in July. On completion, it will be the
world’s largest solar power plant. In August, Solar Millennium
sold the 500-megawatt project under development in Desert
Center, California, to  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE)  for a price that
may reach about $30 million, if all contingent payments are
made.  For the larger project, Solar Millennium initially said
NextEra would pay $10 million in cash plus as much as an
additional $40 million when the project is completed.  The company has been unable to sell the 500-megawatt
project planned for Amargosa Valley, Nevada. Global Finance
Corp. started a lawsuit in bankruptcy court in June contending
that Solar Millennium lost its ownership interest in the project
by not moving forward with development.  Solar Millennium is a U.S. subsidiary of  Germany ’s Solar
Millennium AG. The Oakland, California-based company filed under
Chapter 11 in April when rent was coming due the 7,000-acre
Blythe project.  The company’s solar-power projects were all in the
development stage and generated no income. There was only
$200,000 in secured debt at the outset.  Financing had been provided by the German parent and
Ferrostaal AG, the owner of a 30 percent interest in the joint
venture developing the U.S. projects. Ferrostaal provided no
financing for two years and the German parent suspended
financing in late 2011 after initiating its own insolvency
proceedings in Germany.  The case is In re Solar Trust of America LLC, 12-11136,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Trident Microsystems Has Dec. 13 Confirmation Hearing  Approval of the  Trident Microsystems Inc. (TRIDQ)  reorganization
plan will be the topic for a Dec. 13 confirmation hearing. The
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware approved the explanatory
disclosure statement on Oct. 22.  Support for the plan by the two official committees was
made possible by a settlement. One committee represents
creditors and the other is for shareholders.  After filing for Chapter 11 protection in January, Trident
sold the businesses and generated $90 million, leaving $71
million at the end of June, according to the disclosure
statement.  Before a settlement, the largest impediment to distribution
was disagreement over the $73.2 million claim that Trident has
against affiliate Trident Microsystems ( Far East ) Ltd., which is
now represented by liquidators appointed by a court in the
Cayman Islands.  The settlement provides for the liquidators to receive as
much as $14.9 million in cash, allowing unsecured creditors of
TMFE to have a recovery of 55 percent to 81 percent on $96.4
million in claims.  Other unsecured creditors with claims against TMFE will be
paid 90 percent on claims of $16.6 million.  Unsecured creditors with claims of about $3 million against
Trident will be paid in full, allowing a distribution of as much
as 28 cents a share for stockholders.  Announcement of the settlement caused a 35 percent decline
in Trident’s stock. It closed yesterday at 25 cents, unchanged
in over-the-counter trading.  Trident’s television business was sold for about $22.5
million in cash to  Sigma Designs Inc. (SIGM)   Entropic Communications
Inc. (ENTR)  purchased the set-top box business for $65 million.  Before filing under Chapter 11 in January, Sunnyvale,
California-based Trident was developing multimedia semiconductor
products for the digital home entertainment market. The company
and creditors together decided on selling the assets.  The petition listed assets of $310 million and debt of
$39.6 million. The consolidated balance sheet contained in a
regulatory filing listed assets of $236.8 million and total
liabilities of $112.8 million as of Sept. 30.  For the nine months ended Sept. 30, revenue was $238
million, resulting in a $113.2 million operating loss and a
$106.1 million net loss.  The case is In re Trident Microsystems Inc., 12-10069, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Digital Domain’s Post-Sale Bonuses Approved by Court  Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ)  received court sanction for
a $350,000 incentive bonus program when the U.S. bankruptcy
judge in Delaware signed an approval order on Oct. 22.  The company modified the program in response to objections
from the U.S. Trustee and representatives of former workers who
weren’t given requisite notification before mass firings.  The changes aren’t public information because they were
filed under seal.  The company originally sought authorization to pay bonuses
so long as the business was sold for a price that was no less
than the amount contained in a contract signed before the
Chapter 11 filing on Sept. 11. The sale was approved by the
judge on Sept. 25 and completed two days later.  The main part of the business was bought by a joint venture
between Galloping Horse America LLC, an affiliate of Beijing
Galloping Horse Co., and an affiliate of  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT) ,
based in  Mumbai .  The opening bid at auction on Sept. 21 was $15 million. The
eventual price was $36.7 million, including $3.6 million to cure
defaults on contracts and $2.9 million to reimburse payroll
costs.  Digital Domain listed assets of $205 million and
liabilities totaling $214 million. Debt includes $40 million on
senior secured convertible notes, plus $24.7 million in
interest.  There is another issue of $8 million in subordinated
secured convertible notes. Debt to trade suppliers and accounts
payable totals $27.4 million, according to a court filing.  The company reported a $40.2 million operating loss and a
$50.7 million net loss in the first half of 2012 on total
revenue of $64.9 million. In 2011, there was a $75.1 million
operating loss on total revenue of $98.6 million.  The case is In re Digital Domain Media Group Inc.,
12-12568, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Saab’s U.S. Affiliate Has November Disclosure Hearing  Saab Cars North America Inc., the U.S. unit of bankrupt
Swedish automaker Saab Automobile AB, filed a disclosure
statement telling unsecured creditors with $77 million in claims
why they might receive from 7 percent to 58.5 percent from the
bankruptcy begun in January.  The disclosure statement explains the liquidating Chapter
11 plan filed last week. A Nov. 16 hearing is scheduled for
approval of disclosure materials.  Creditors are told their eventual recovery depends on
success in either knocking out, reducing or subordinating the
parent’s claims, which total about $50 million.  A Sept. 30 balance sheet among the disclosure material
shows the U.S. company as having $26.5 million cash.  The Swedish parent set up a new subsidiary to take over the
distribution of parts in the U.S. The parent filed for
bankruptcy in  Sweden  in December after running out of cash.
Production first halted in March 2011.  Forty dealers filed an involuntary bankruptcy petition
against the U.S. unit in January. Saab Cars didn’t oppose the
petition and went officially into Chapter 11 in February.  The case is In re Saab Cars North America Inc., 12-10344,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filing  Oxford, Alabama, Hotel Owner Files in Chapter 11  The owner of a  Marriott Courtyard  hotel in Oxford,  Alabama ,
filed a petition for Chapter 11 protection on Oct. 16 in
Decatur, Alabama.  Devi LLC’s petition listed assets of $8.4 million and
liabilities totaling $11.4 million, almost all representing
secured debt.  Branch Banking & Trust Co. (BBT)  is owed more than $7.2 million,
the mortgage lender said in a court filing. The hotel is worth
less than the debt, the bank said.  The case is In re Devi LLC, 12-41973, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Decatur).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  