-- IIF Says Sovereign Restructurings Benefit From Early Planning
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-24T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/iif-says-sovereign-restructurings-benefit-from-early-planning.html
Sovereign debt issuers should start
to work early with creditors if it appears a restructuring is
unavoidable, the Institute of International Finance said in a
report on best practices for public debt swaps.  Countries need to keep an open dialogue with their
borrowers and do their best to prevent a debt crisis from
emerging, said the report, presented to IIF members earlier this
month and made public today. The document was compiled against
the backdrop of the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area, said
the IIF, a Washington-based trade group that represented
creditors in  Greece ’s landmark restructuring earlier this year.  The IIF report, prepared in collaboration with European and
North American government officials, doesn’t recommend
restructuring for any particular country or region. It assembles
lessons learned from the Greek debt crisis and makes
recommendations for designing sovereign restructurings,
including in countries that are part of currency unions.  “Many countries still suffer from high indebtedness and
large deficits against a backdrop of slowing growth,” Hung Tran, the IIF’s deputy managing director, said in a telephone
interview today. “It is prudent to strengthen the framework for
crisis prevention and resolution.”  The report recommends that countries identify restructuring
needs early, treat creditors equally and take steps to prevent
holdouts from blocking a voluntary agreement. It also endorsed
collective action clauses once enough investors have signed on
to meet participation thresholds.  Blocking Positions  Collective action clauses, provided they are accompanied by
aggregation targets, “can facilitate voluntary debt
restructuring by reducing the chances of a small minority of
bondholders acquiring blocking positions in a bond series and
imposing demands for preferential treatment,” the report said.  The IIF committee that prepared the paper was led by Thomas Wieser, president of the Eurogroup Working Group, a panel of
experts from euro-area nations that lays the groundwork for
meetings of finance ministers; Jean Lemierre, senior adviser to
the chairman at BNP Paribas SA; David Mulford, vice-chairman for
international at Credit Suisse Group AG; and Gerardo Rodriguez,
 Mexico ’s undersecretary of finance and public credit.  The IIF said the committee works with a trustees group that
includes Mexican Central Bank Governor Agustin Carstens, Bank of
France Governor Christian Noyer, People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  and former Bank of  Japan  Governor Toshihiko Fukui.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 