-- Military Exports to Iran Gets Woman Two Years in U.S. Prison
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-24T22:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/military-exports-to-iran-gets-woman-two-years-in-u-s-prison-1-.html
A Taiwanese woman was sentenced to
two years in prison after pleading guilty to illegally exporting
military-sensitive parts for  Iran  in violation of a trade
embargo, U.S. prosecutors said in a statement.  Susan Yip, 35, admitted in July to one count of conspiracy
to violate the Iranian Transaction Regulations in a scheme
involving an Iranian man and a native of the  United Arab
Emirates , both of whom remain at large, according to the
statement. A seven-count indictment against the three issued in
2011 was unsealed today in San Antonio.  From October 2007 to June 2011, the defendants obtained or
attempted to obtain from companies worldwide more than 105,000
parts, valued at about $2.6 million, in more than 1,250
transactions, according to the statement.  “The parts in this case had dual-use military and civilian
capability,” U.S. Attorney Robert Pitman in  San Antonio  said in
the statement. “When companies or individuals sell or otherwise
facilitate the shipment of certain categories of goods to other
countries in violation of the law or turn a blind eye to the end
user, they are subjecting the  United States  to potential risks
to its national security.”  Yip’s Lawyer  Yip’s lawyer, Kurt May, with the San Antonio Federal Public
Defenders Office, didn’t immediately return a phone message
seeking comment on today’s sentencing or the unsealed
indictment.  Yip admitted as part of her guilty plea to acting as a
broker and conduit for one of her co-defendants to buy items in
the U.S. and have them unlawfully shipped to Iran, according to
prosecutors. She used seven companies she owns in  Taiwan  and
 Hong Kong  to carry out the scheme, prosecutors said in the
statement.  Prosecutors said the three defendants failed to apply,
either individually or through any of their companies, for the
required export licenses issued by either the U.S. Commerce
Department or the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control.  Iranian Transaction Regulations prohibit U.S. citizens and
companies from exporting, selling or supplying –- either
directly or indirectly –- any U.S. goods, services or technology
to Iran or its government. Violations can lead to prison
sentences of as long as 20 years, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Yip, 5:11-cr-0516, U.S. District Court,
Western District of  Texas  (San Antonio).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  