-- India Rate-Cut Odds Climb as Policy Revamp Aids Rupee
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-10-25T08:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/india-rate-cut-odds-climb-as-policy-revamp-stems-rupee-plunge.html
India ’s central bank will consider
reducing  interest rates  for the first time since April after
government efforts to pare the  budget deficit  stemmed a slide in
the rupee, boosting scope to stimulate the economy.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will cut the  repurchase rate  to
7.75 percent from 8 percent, 11 of 28 analysts said in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of an Oct. 30 decision. One
predicted a reduction to 7.5 percent and the rest no change. A
majority of respondents in another poll forecast Subbarao will
lower banks’ reserve ratios to spur lending.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Oct. 12 that
India needs cheaper credit, following a revamp of economic
policy that included fuel-subsidy curbs and helped make the
rupee one of Asia’s best-performing currencies in the past three
months. While Subbarao has signaled that a narrower budget gap
may provide more room to join nations from  Brazil  to  Thailand  in
extending rate cuts, he also faces inflation of almost 8 percent.  “There is blatant pressure from the government to ease and
it’ll be hard for the central bank to ignore it,” said  Rajeev Malik , a Singapore-based senior economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets. “Our case for cutting rates rests on the RBI making a
reciprocal gesture to the government following its initiatives
in the last one month. But more needs to be done on the fiscal
deficit.”  The  Reserve Bank of India  unexpectedly reduced the amount
of deposits lenders must set aside as reserves last month to
boost growth, even as it kept interest rates unchanged as
expected by the majority of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Rupee Appreciation  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration unveiled an
increase in diesel prices on Sept. 13 and limited the supply of
subsidized cooking gas to cap a  budget shortfall  that has raised
the odds of a credit-rating downgrade to junk status.  The next day, it opened industries such as retail to more
foreign investment, snapping months of gridlock over how to
bolster a struggling economy.  The rupee has risen about 3.5 percent versus the dollar
since Sept. 13, when the first elements of the overhaul were
announced, paring its one-year fall to 7.5 percent. It is up 4.9
percent in the past three months, the biggest gainer in a basket
of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The BSE India
Sensitive Index of stocks has climbed more than 11 percent in
the same period, outperforming the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index.  Stocks Gain  Asian stocks advanced today for the first time in five days
after the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it will maintain
stimulus, while a report showed sales of new U.S. homes rose at
the fastest pace in two years.  New Zealand’s new central bank chief kept the official  cash
rate  at 2.5 percent as a stronger housing market offset a
fragile global economy. In contrast, the  Philippines  lowered
borrowing costs for the fourth time this year to 3.5 percent.  Other reports showed  Singapore ’s industrial output
unexpectedly fell for a second month in September and Thailand’s
production slumped more than economists estimated.  In  Europe ,  Sweden  left its key interest rate at 1.25
percent. The U.K. reported 1 percent economic growth in the
three months through September from the previous quarter.  U.S. durable goods orders probably rose in September and
initial  jobless claims  may have eased to 370,000 in the week
ended Oct. 20 from 388,000 the previous week, a survey showed.  Fastest Inflation  Further rupee appreciation will help to damp India’s
inflation, Chidambaram said earlier this month, adding that “if
the fiscal policy steps that we are taking encourage the central
bank to take  monetary policy  action which will result in lower
interest rates, I think that will be good.”  Inflation quickened to 7.81 percent in September, the
fastest in the BRIC group of major emerging nations that also
includes Brazil, Russia and  China . Food and fuel costs and
costlier imports have kept the pace of price gains above the
central bank’s comfort level of about 5 percent.  Asia’s No. 3 economy has the widest BRIC budget deficit at
5.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March.
 Standard & Poor’s  predicts the imbalance may widen to about 6
percent in the current fiscal year, compared with the
government’s goal of 5.1 percent.  The country’s trade shortfall widened to $18.1 billion in
September, the biggest in more than a year, as faltering global
growth contributed to a drop in exports.  India’s  economy  expanded 5.5 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, holding near the three-year
low of 5.3 percent in the previous quarter.  World Outlier  Subbarao has said the combination of elevated inflation and
weaker economic expansion makes India “somewhat of an outlier
in the world.” The  Reserve Bank  has refrained from adding to a
50 basis-point repurchase-rate cut in April.  Price pressures may prompt the monetary authority to leave
the policy rate unchanged and instead cut the  cash reserve ratio 
for the fourth time this year, according to Madan Sabnavis,
chief economist at Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. in Mumbai.  Fifteen of 26 economists in Bloomberg’s survey said the
Reserve Bank will lower the ratio to 4.25 percent from 4.5
percent. Two predict 4 percent and the rest expect no change.  Monetary policy will be guided partly by the outlook for
the fiscal gap, Subbarao said Oct. 4, adding “the effort will
be to rein in inflation but support growth to the extent
possible.”  India would join countries including Brazil, Thailand,
 South Korea  and  Australia  in cutting borrowing costs this month
if it lowers the repurchase rate.  “The RBI will ease policy on Oct. 30 as a pat on the back
for the government’s recent reforms,” said Robert Prior- Wandesforde, an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  