-- This Election Is All About Health Care
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-10-24T22:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/this-election-is-all-about-health-care.html
According to the latest Wall Street
Journal/NBC News  poll , 55 percent of registered voters say the
outcome of this election will make “a great deal of difference”
in their lives. That’s a 10 percentage point increase over the
2004 election, and more than double the percentage of voters who
felt that way about the elections of 1996 or 1992. The stakes
this year are higher -- and most voters know it.  That’s not always the case. In fact, any given presidential
election is usually less consequential than the competing
campaigns suggest. Candidates have every incentive to promise
you the sun, moon and stars, and so they do. But no sooner does
the winner adjust his chair in the Oval Office than the White
House budget director tells him they can only afford the moon
and a few stars. Then the moon gets taken out by a filibuster,
and the rule-writing process makes it so hard to get a star that
pretty much no one ever does. And that’s a good-case scenario.
The Moon, Stars and Sun Act may never even make it out of the
House Ways and Means Committee.  This year isn’t like that. The most important fact of the
2012 election is that the  Affordable Care Act  was passed in
2010; it just hasn’t been fully implemented yet. If President
 Barack Obama  is re-elected, the bulk of it will roll out on
schedule in 2014.  Essential Fact  That’s the essential fact because, unlike  Mitt Romney ’s tax
reform proposal or Obama’s  deficit-reduction  plan, voters can
truly count on it. If Obama is re-elected, every American making
less than 133 percent of the poverty line will receive Medicaid
(sorry, but I don’t buy that even the reddest of states will
long resist a 9-to-1 ratio of federal-to-state Medicaid
funding); every American making between 133 percent and 400
percent of the poverty line will get tax credits to help them
buy private insurance; and there will be an expectation --
reinforced by a tax penalty -- that Americans who can buy
quality health insurance for less than 8 percent of their income
will do so.  If Obama is re-elected, Americans who lose their jobs
needn’t fear that their families will lose their health
insurance. Discrimination based on pre-existing conditions will
be a thing of the past and every state will have a health
insurance exchange where  insurers  compete for business and where
regulators can expel shoddy health plans. Medicare will
transition from its fee-for-service model toward a system of
value-based payments in which providers are compensated for
maintaining healthy patients. Expensive employer-based health
plans will be slapped with a hefty tax beginning in 2018.  If Obama is re-elected, in other words, we will see the
first iteration of a uniquely American universal health-care
system. If history is any guide, it will become effectively
permanent soon after it is introduced. The reforms will be
reformed, of course, as experience teaches us what works (and
what doesn’t) and as future politicians put their stamps on the
system. But the basic guarantee -- that the state will provide
health insurance or subsidies to purchase it for those in need -
- will likely prove immutable.  If Romney wins, by contrast, the Affordable Care Act will
probably be fully or largely repealed, with no clear prospect of
a replacement. Admittedly, that’s a somewhat more tenuous
prediction, as President Romney might well need to negotiate
with a Democratic Senate that’s not much interested in
overturning its signature  health-reform law . But if Romney wins
and Democrats still hold the Senate, they’re unlikely to have a
cushion of more than a vote or two. It’s possible that the
Senate’s most conservative, endangered Democrats will resist
Romney’s call for repeal or insist on a genuine replacement for
the law, but I wouldn’t bet much money on it.  Safety Structure  In addition to being the central policy at stake in this
election, the Affordable Care Act is the centerpiece of Obama’s
legacy. If he’s reelected, he will go down in history as the
president who finally provided almost every American with health
insurance. That’s enough to elevate him to the pantheon of
transformative presidents. “Obamacare” will join Medicare and
Social Security as essential struts in the nation’s social
safety structure.  If he loses, he will go down in history as a one-termer who
gambled and lost on universal health care. As often happens when
history revisits failed legislative initiatives, the law will
look more bungled and reckless in retrospect. Historians will
criticize the Obama administration for pursuing health-care
reform in the midst of an economic crisis. Republicans, who will
likely benefit from a stronger economy as deleveraging subsides
-- which will also aid Obama if he wins -- will argue that the
repeal of Obamacare lifted uncertainty and ignited a recovery.  It seems absurd that the line between a transformational
presidency and Jimmy Carter II might be a sliver of one percent
of the vote in  Ohio . That doesn’t mean it isn’t true.  Which is all to say that yes, this election matters more
than most. It matters more politically because the party in
power will probably see its agenda affirmed by a cyclical
 recovery . But it matters more to actual people because the
Affordable Care Act is poised to reshape American health care in
two years. A vote for Obama is a vote for the law to take effect
and for 30 million Americans to get health insurance they won’t
get otherwise. A vote for Romney is a vote for the law to be
repealed. There are few elections in which the stakes are so
clear.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the  candidates’ tax plans
are converging  and on the  economics of immigration ;  Caroline
Baum  on the  economic and political landscapes in 2015 ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s way with words ; Jonathan Mahler on
 Scott Fujita ’s  battle against the NFL ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  Obama
was wrong to trash the 1920s ;  Richard Thaler  on why
entrepreneurs aren’t thinking about  tax rates .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 