-- Isakson Predicts Fiscal Cliff Deal After U.S. Election
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-10-24T17:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/isakson-predicts-fiscal-cliff-deal-after-u-s-election.html
Georgia Senator Johnny Isakson said
Congress will avert an end-of-the-year fiscal collision of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases that could trigger a
recession in 2013.  Isakson, a Republican, predicted lawmakers will strike a
last-minute deal in the session of Congress following the Nov. 6
election to extend the income tax cuts first enacted under
former President George W. Bush and put off at least part of the
spending reductions in federal programs. The automatic cuts,
half of which will affect defense, are set to start in January.  “I don’t think we’re going off that cliff,” Isakson said
at a breakfast with Bloomberg reporters and editors in  New York 
City. “When it’s 48 hours from going home for Christmas we can
do about anything.”  A 2011 deficit-reduction agreement between President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders created the so-called fiscal
cliff of $607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases
starting in January unless Congress acts to stop it.  Within the next 14 months, Congress must reach a broader
compromise to tackle the nation’s debt, with spending cuts and
revenue from “cleaning up the tax code,” Isakson said.  “The current code we have was passed in 1986 and decorated
like a Christmas tree for 27 years,” he said.  Far Apart  Republicans and Democrats are far apart on a broader
agreement on taxes.  Republicans want the Bush-era tax cuts, scheduled to expire
at the end of this year, to be extended for everyone. Democrats
want top earners to pay more. The only way to reach a deal is
through a  tax  overhaul that lowers income tax rates and ends
often-used deductions and credits, said Isakson.  “You’ve got to have the intestinal fortitude to put
everything on the table,” he said. “And I do mean
everything.”  “We can’t get there any other way,” he said. “If you
just take one tax treatment and say ‘I’m going to repeal it,’
you don’t get a solution to your problem.”  Isakson cited some of the most-used tax breaks including
those for mortgage interest, charitable giving and employer-
provided health care, without specifying whether he would
support a net increase in tax revenue through such changes.  Means-Testing  On entitlements, Isakson said charging wealthier seniors
more for their Medicare co-payments, known as means-testing, was
one proposal that may gain bipartisan support.  Isakson, who voted for the 2011 budget law that created the
automatic spending cuts, also said it’s clear the legislation
hasn’t forced Congress to strike a broader deal on curbing the
debt.  “I thought it was such a great poison pill that nobody in
their right mind would swallow it,” he said. Instead of forcing
a deal, as Congress intended, the spending cuts will probably be
delayed, said Isakson.  “The solution is going to be some kind of deadline next
year for Congress to cut $1.2 trillion,” or Congress will
assign federal agencies to make specific cuts, he said.  During an Oct. 22 presidential debate, Obama said the
automatic spending cuts “will not happen.”  Threat of Cuts  Isakson said the White House has played down those remarks
because Democrats want to use the threat of spending cuts to
press Republicans to agree to higher tax rates. Many Republicans
have expressed concern that the cuts would cut too deeply into
defense programs.  “That’s a bargaining chip for the lame-duck session that
all of a sudden slipped off the table” because of Obama’s
remarks, Isakson said. “By his inferring that wasn’t going to
happen it lessened negotiations on the tax rate issue.”  Isakson, who has criticized the role of subprime lending in
the collapse in the housing market, said that even with the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street regulation changes, U.S. banks are
getting bigger and smaller banks are unable to compete.  “The biggest mistake I probably made in my career in
Congress was voting to repeal the firewalls that existed in the
financial mechanisms,” he said.  In 1999, Congress eliminated Depression-era restrictions on
combining commercial banking, investment banking and insurance
businesses into a single company. Unlike some former bank
executives, such as former Citigroup Inc. Co-Chief Executive
Officers John Reed and Sandy Weill, Isakson said he believes it
would be too hard to try to reinstate those restrictions now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  