-- Italy Bans Novartis Flu Vaccines, Citing Side Effects
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-10-24T22:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/italy-bans-novartis-flu-vaccines-citing-side-effects.html
Italy  and Switzerland halted sales
of  Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  flu vaccines after the company informed Italian
authorities of a buildup of particles in the shots. Novartis
said the products are safe.  Novartis didn’t provide enough information for officials to
know the exact makeup of the proteins found in the Agrippal and
Fluad shots, or their impact on the quality and safety of the
vaccine, Italy’s Health Ministry said today in a statement.
There have been no reports of illness because of the particles,
officials said.  The vaccines present “quality defects that are potentially
dangerous for public health,” the ministry said. Italy’s
medicines agency AIFA “has established the need for further
tests regarding the quality and security” of the vaccines,
according to an earlier statement from the ministry.  The suspension adds to Novartis’s manufacturing woes. The
company in January temporarily closed a factory in Lincoln,
 Nebraska , that makes the Excedrin headache remedy, the Lamisil
gel for athlete’s foot, and Sentinel, an anti-flea product for
dogs, because of quality concerns.  Novartis has given Italian authorities “an assessment
which supports the quality, efficacy and the safety of the
vaccines,”  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for the Basel,
Switzerland-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
company will continue to work with the Italian minister of
health and AIFA to understand the reasons for their decision.”  While particles can occur in the manufacturing process, the
company “is confident that there is no impact on safety or
efficacy of the vaccine,” Novartis said in a statement released
later today. “To date, data from the ongoing seasonal
vaccination campaign have revealed no safety signals.”  488,000 Doses  About 488,000 doses are subject to the ban, the Italian
health ministry said.  Novartis notified Italy of the vaccine issues verbally on
Oct. 18, and followed up with a written notification the next
day, Anna Rosa Marra, an official with AIFA, said at a news
conference in  Rome . The company knew of the particle buildup
since July 11, officials said.  Renato Balduzzi, the health minister, said he or members of
his staff will meet with Novartis executives tomorrow for
explanations, including of why there was a delay in notifying
authorities of the problem. Novartis was due to supply 3 million
doses of flu vaccine to Italy, and the country will sign
contracts with other producers, Balduzzi said.  Swiss Action  Swissmedic, the Swiss drug regulator, suspended
distribution of the vaccines as a precaution after the Italian
decision, the agency said in a statement today. There’s no
danger to recipients of the vaccine, the agency said. It’s
unclear if shots distributed in Switzerland have the same
problem, according to the statement.  Vaccines generate 5 percent of Novartis’ total sales,
according to a report by Helvea SA analysts including Odile Rundquist. Seasonal flu shots make up about a quarter of that
revenue, the report states.  Novartis fell 0.7 percent to close at 57.20 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading. The company reports quarterly earnings tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  