-- ITC Rating at 2-Year Low as Shares Near Record: Corporate India
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-10-25T10:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/itc-rating-at-2-year-low-as-shares-near-record-corporate-india.html
Analysts are the most bearish on  ITC
Ltd. (ITC)  in two years as  Asia ’s second-biggest tobacco company by
market value prepares to sell cheaper cigarettes, risking
margins already under pressure from slowing sales at its hotels.  The  consensus rating , or the average of recommendations
updated by analysts in the past year, dropped to 4.28, with 5
denoting a buy and 1 a sell, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge is the lowest since October, 2010. Shares
rallied to an all-time high last week on record profit, making
the stock more expensive than Japan Tobacco Inc., Asia’s biggest
cigarette maker by market capitalization.  The 45 percent surge in ITC this year is overdone because
the maker of Gold Flake and Wills cigarettes has limited room to
raise prices should the government levy higher taxes, said
Krishnan Sambamoorthy, an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers
India Ltd. in Mumbai. ITC’s stock is priced 31 times its
estimated earnings, the second highest among the 30 members that
constitute the BSE Ltd.’s benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  or Sensex.
 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the nation’s biggest consumer company,
had a ratio of 39, while Japan Tobacco was priced at 13.  “We don’t see further room for upside,” said
Sambamoorthy, who advises holding the stock. “What has driven
this rally is primarily the lack of investible opportunities in
other sectors.”  Price to Earnings  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s recent push to end a policy
paralysis and attract investment into the $1.8 trillion economy
may boost prospects for stocks other than ITC and Hindustan
Unilever, he said.  Still, 37 of the 50 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend
buying ITC, with nine rating it a hold and four a sell. That
compares with 44 advising purchasing the shares at the beginning
of the year.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and Religare Securities Ltd.
are among brokerages that have cut ITC’s rating after it
announced its earnings for the quarter to Sept. 30.  ITC is adding new businesses to cut dependence on
cigarettes as the government cracks down on the use of tobacco
in the world’s second-most populous nation, with bans on smoking
in public places and on advertisements. Cigarettes accounted for
64 percent of its revenue in the year ended March 31, down from
70 percent in 2006  India ’s health ministry on Oct. 22 notified a new set of
warnings to be printed on packs of tobacco products, including
images of cancer-ridden mouths and lungs, to discourage
consumption, effective April 1, 2013. An August ruling in
 Australia  banned company logos from cigarette packs, spurring
concerns that India may follow with such rules as well.  Shorter Sticks  The Kolkata-based company has increased cigarette prices in
the past to offset taxes. It started selling sticks less than 65
millimeters in length in most markets across the country “to
counter exponential growth in illegal and tax-evaded
cigarettes,” spokesman Nazeeb Arif said in an e-mailed response
to queries.  The measures resulted in a 14 percent jump in  revenue  last
quarter from the tobacco products, while volume stayed
unchanged, analysts including Abneesh Roy, Hemang Gandhi and
Pooja Lath of Edelweiss Securities Ltd., and Sanjay Manyal of
ICICIdirect wrote to investors in separate  reports  after the
earnings announcement.  “Another hefty tax in the upcoming budget can moderate
ITC’s performance, but isn’t priced in,” Sanjay Singh and
Pratik Biyani, analysts at  Standard Chartered  wrote in a report
dated Oct. 20. “Implementation of plain packaging is also a
risk” though it may not happen immediately, they wrote, cutting
their rating to “in-line” from “outperform.”  Beating Estimates  As a matter of policy, ITC doesn’t offer guidance or
discuss pricing strategy, Arif said in his e-mail.  Net income  for the maker of Bingo snacks rose 22 percent
from a year ago to 18.4 billion rupees ($341 million) in the
three months, ITC said Oct. 19, beating the median 17.6 billion
rupee estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 24 analysts.  Shares touched a record 299.20 rupees the same day and
gained 0.7 percent to 292.05 rupees in Mumbai trading today. The
Sensex has gained 21 percent this year, lagging behind ITC.  The 14-day  relative strength index  rose to 79 on Oct. 19,
above the 70 level that indicates to some traders that a decline
is likely. The RSI level was 65 on Oct. 23.  Revenue from  hotels  as a share of total sales declined to
2.9 percent from 3.5 percent a year earlier because the
“hospitality sector continued to be adversely impacted by the
weak conditions prevailing in key international source
markets,” ITC said in a statement on Oct. 19.  ‘Remarkable’  ITC may benefit from the government crackdown on tobacco
consumption as consumers move from chewable varieties to the
lower-end short cigarettes, said Ruchita Maheshwari, a Mumbai-
based analyst at Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt., who rates the
stock a hold with a 12-month target of 317 rupees.  “ITC shows remarkable performance every quarter,” she
said. “I think the company has the ability to move up from
here.”  Net sales for the company rose 20 percent to 71.5 billion
rupees in the three months ended Sept. 30, from 59.7 billion
rupees a year earlier, ITC said in a statement to the stock
exchange on Oct. 19. The so-called Ebitda margin, a gauge of the
company’s profitability, averaged 33.4 percent in the five
financial years through March 31.  Limited Potential  Stocks in capital goods, power and real estate industries
may offer higher returns over a year than ITC because Prime
Minister Singh has initiated measures to kick start Asia’s
third-biggest economy after two years of political gridlock
stalled legislation, said Ronald Siyoni, a Mumbai-based analyst
with K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.  Net purchases  of stocks by foreign funds have jumped 41
percent to $18.1 billion since Sept. 13, when Singh raised
diesel prices to cut subsidies amid protests from opposition
parties, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Whenever there’s a turnaround in the economy, money would
get reallocated to cyclical industries, which would again show
the limited upside potential for ITC,” said Siyoni. “We are
not comfortable at this level because of high valuation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  