-- Mitt Romney vs. the English Language
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-10-24T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/mitt-romney-vs-the-english-language.html
My favorite moment of the 2012
presidential debates came at the beginning of the  final
confrontation  Monday night.  The moderator, Bob Schieffer, invited both candidates to
“give your thoughts” on the Middle East. Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  went first and began with a typical stumbling attempt to
be charming, almost successful in its very failure: Something
about an earlier “humorous event” (it was the annual  Al Smith
dinner  for the archdiocese of  New York , at which politicians
tell jokes) and how “it’s nice to maybe be funny this time, not
on purpose. We’ll see what happens.” Huh?  Then he moved into the mode where he sounds like a college
freshman padding a term paper. “This is obviously an area of
great concern to the entire world, and to America in particular,
which is to see a complete change in the structure and the
environment in the  Middle East .”  (The other way to pad a term paper -- which Romney and I
 both learned  at Cranbrook School in suburban  Detroit  in the
1960s -- is to stud it with irrelevant but impressive factoids,
“ swotted up ,” as the Brits say, for the occasion. On Monday we
got little lectures about power sharing in  Pakistan , the number
of centrifuges in  Iran , and -- already legendary -- the terror
situation in North Mali.)  Disturbing Developments  Back to the debate. Romney then tried out his Eisenhower
parody, noting “a number of disturbing events” caused by
“terrorists of some kind,” aka “al-Qaeda-type individuals.”
( Oliver Jensen ’s  famous parody  of Eisenhower delivering the
 Gettysburg address  begins: “I haven’t checked these figures but
87 years ago, I think it was, a number of individuals organized
a governmental set-up here in this country, I believe it covered
certain Eastern areas. . . .") “Disturbing” is not the adjective
you choose if you’re actually disturbed.  Then came the stunner: “But we can’t kill our way out of
this mess,” Romney said. This was startling -- a rare vivid turn
of phrase, coming from a man whose palette generally runs to
gray. Not only that, but it sounded unscripted, as if it had
popped into his head seconds before he said it. I’m not saying
that it actually was unscripted; I’m just saying that whoever
scripted it is awfully good.  “We can’t kill our way out of this mess” also happens to be
profoundly true, and we do not look to Mitt Romney for excessive
displays of either profundity or truth.  Of course, Romney being Romney, he almost immediately
contradicted himself. After saying we need a “comprehensive
strategy” (hard to argue with that), he reverted to Clint Eastwood mode (the pre-empty-chair Eastwood, champion of
individual courage against the limp bureaucracy, not symbol of
premature senility): “Well, my strategy is pretty
straightforward, which is to go after the bad guys, to make sure
we do our very best to interrupt them, to kill them, to take
them out of the picture.” Then he explained, “But my strategy is
broader than that,” and went on to recommend the report of “a
group of Arab scholars” that was “organized by the UN” and talks
about creating a civil society, giving rights to women, and
suchlike liberal goody-goody stuff.  At times, Romney seemed to be channeling George McGovern,
the 1972 Democratic presidential nominee,  who died  the day
before the debate. “McGovernism” was a term used exclusively by
people who disagreed with it. It was shorthand for the alleged
takeover of the  Democratic Party  by its extreme left wing, just
as “ Tea Party ” has come to be shorthand for the takeover of the
 Republican Party  by its extreme right wing.  Trust Matters  On Monday evening, Romney’s job was to convince people that
he could be entrusted with the nation’s security and wouldn’t
get us all blown up unless Bibi Netanyahu wants it. So Romney
sounded like a McGovernite -- except when he sounded like Caspar Weinberger, the bottomless maw for defense spending who was
secretary of defense under President Reagan. A favorite point of
McGovernites was the folly of embracing corrupt dictators. (A
favorite point of conservatives back then was the folly of not
embracing corrupt dictators.)  Here was Romney on the Arab spring: “I wish that, looking
back . . . we’d have recognized that there was a growing energy
and passion for freedom in that part of the world, and that we
would have worked more aggressively . . . to have them make the
transition toward a more representative form of government, such
that it didn’t explode in the way that it did.”  In other words: We should have dumped  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak 
sooner rather than later. And we should now be a more
enthusiastic conspirator against  Syria ’s Bashar al-Assad. This
used to be called “getting on the right side of history.” In
fact, it was called that Monday evening -- by President  Barack Obama , whose policy it more or less describes.  Romney’s apostasy doesn’t stop there. He is also for peace.
I mean he is really, really for peace, if you can believe what
he says, which unfortunately you can’t. Peace is what it’s all
about, he says. “Our mission” in the world, he said, is “to make
sure the world is more -- is peaceful. We want a peaceful
planet. We want people to be able to enjoy their lives and know
they’re going to have a bright and prosperous future, not be at
war. That’s our purpose.” In his closing remarks, just in case
no one got the message, Romney reiterated the point: “I want to
see peace. I want to see growing peace in this country. It’s our
objective.”  Yes, he had a few kind words for freedom as well, but
“freedom” is old hat for Republicans. “Peace” is highly
suspicious.  Most foreign policy controversies can be boiled down to
peace versus freedom. What do Romney’s neoconservative advisers
and supporters think about their man taking McGovern’s side of
this ancient argument? They believe that when freedom is at
stake, America must act. And freedom always seems to be at
stake. Do they think their man is only talking peace for
campaign purposes, and will revert to Eastwood mode if elected?
And do they know something we don’t?  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the  candidates’ tax plans
are converging  and on the  economics of immigration ;  Caroline
Baum  on the  economic and political landscapes in 2015 ;  Ezra
Klein  on the  most important issue in the presidential race ;
Jonathan Mahler on  Scott Fujita ’s  battle against the NFL ;  Amity
Shlaes  on why  Obama was wrong to trash the 1920s ;  Richard Thaler 
on why entrepreneurs aren’t thinking about  tax rates .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 