-- KDDI Offers $2.7 Billion to Buy Out Jupiter With Sumitomo
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-10-24T23:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/kddi-offers-2-7-billion-to-buy-out-jupiter-with-sumitomo-1-.html
KDDI Corp. (9433) ,  Japan ’s second-biggest
mobile-phone company, and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  offered as much as 216
billion yen ($2.7 billion) for the remaining shares of  Jupiter
Telecommunications Co. (4817)  to create a cable TV provider with more
than half the country’s subscribers.  The carrier and Sumitomo, which already own a combined 71
percent stake, offered to buy out the company at 110,000 yen a
share, the companies said in a  statement  yesterday. The offer is
33 percent higher than Jupiter’s price Oct. 19, the last trading
day before the Nikkei newspaper published a report about the
plan announced yesterday.  The deal values Jupiter at 759 billion yen and will also
fold KDDI’s Japan Cablenet Ltd., which controls 12 percent of
the country’s cable TV market, into Jupiter, giving the merged
operator a 53 percent share, according to the companies’ joint
presentation yesterday. Jupiter has boosted subscribers 11
percent to 3.7 million in two years to Sept. 30.  “Competition for subscribers is increasing and this gives
us stability to manage the business,” Yoshio Osawa, Sumitomo
managing director, told reporters yesterday in  Tokyo . “The deal
will also speed up management decisions.”  The offer values Jupiter at about 2.1 times 2011 revenue,
compared with the 2.6 times average of 32 global cable TV deals
over the past 5 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jupiter, also known as JCOM, had an operating margin of
19.3 percent in 2011, higher than KDDI’s 13.4 percent and
Sumitomo’s 6.7 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating profit at JCOM is targeted at 90 billion yen in 2015
from 71.1 billion yen last year, the companies said.  Higher Margins  “The acquisition will help KDDI improve how its income
statement looks because of Jupiter’s higher margin,” Hitoshi
Hayakawa, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo, said.
“Still, it isn’t clear whether KDDI can create positive
synergies that will match up with the additional investment.”  KDDI will invest 70.9 billion yen, and a venture being set
up by the Tokyo-based phone company and Sumitomo will pay about
145 billion yen, bringing each company’s stake to 50 percent,
according to the companies’ joint statement. The venture will be
delisted between July and September 2013 after the buyout is
completed, and the tender offer will start in February.  KDDI will finance the acquisition with cash and borrowing,
according to the statement. The carrier had about 100 billion
yen in cash, near cash and short-term investments as of June 30,
while Sumitomo had about 833 billion yen.  Revenue Growth  Jupiter’s net income fell 1.1 percent to of 37.3 billion
yen last year on sales of 369 billion yen, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue growth averaged about 11 percent
at Jupiter over the past five years, compared with 1.5 percent
for KDDI and 2 percent for Sumitomo, the data show.  Jupiter, also known as JCOM, will eventually help Sumitomo
sell entertainment content and cable TV infrastructure in  Asia 
and will take advantage of the rising popularity of phones and
other mobile devices that can download or stream videos and
entertainment content, Osawa said.  “We see JCOM and its operational know-how as a way to
enter the Asian media market,” Osawa told reporters yesterday
in Tokyo. “JCOM will also seek to expand offerings for new
devices such as smartphones.”  KDDI paid about 363 billion yen in 2010 to buy 38 percent
of Jupiter from billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  in
the phone company’s biggest investment, a stake it has sought to
boost. Sumitomo founded the cable TV operator in 1995 with
Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty, and has also bid for control
of the company.  Sumitomo, the least dependent of Japan’s trading houses on
mineral resource earnings, has been bringing in partners to help
it share the costs of expanding in media.  Shopping Channel  Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based private-equity firm co-
founded by  Mitt Romney , in June agreed to pay more than $1
billion for 50 percent of Sumitomo’s Jupiter Shop Channel Co.  Jupiter Telecom was Sumitomo’s biggest single earner among
media and lifestyle  businesses  last year.  Sumitomo also controls 30 percent of Japan’s TV shopping
via the Shop Channel and plans to expand it in  Thailand ,  China 
and  Malaysia .  Sumitomo currently owns about 40 percent of Jupiter, while
KDDI’s holding amounts to about 31 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Jupiter fell 1.3 percent to close at 111,200 yen
yen as of the close on the Jasdaq Securities Exchange yesterday.
The stock  surged  36 percent in the previous two trading days
after an Oct. 20 report by the Nikkei newspaper about the
planned acquisition, which didn’t include an offer price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  