-- Kerviel Loses Appeal on EU4.9 Billion SocGen Trading Loss
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-24T17:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/kerviel-loses-appeal-on-4-9-billion-euro-socgen-trading-loss-1-.html
Jerome Kerviel lost his bid to
reverse a 2010 guilty verdict holding him solely responsible for
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.35 billion) trading
loss.  Judge Mireille Filippini today upheld the verdict finding
Kerviel guilty of abusing the bank’s trust, faking documents and
entering false data into computers. Kerviel argued the bank knew
he was exceeding his mandate and used him as a scapegoat for
losses on subprime mortgages.  The 2008 trading loss was one of the biggest ever, wiping
out almost two years of pretax profit at Societe Generale’s
investment-banking unit. Kerviel, 35, was called a “terrorist”
by then-Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Bouton , a comment he
refused to apologize for during Kerviel’s June appeal trial.  “It is clear that Societe Generale was a victim of these
crimes, of which  Jerome Kerviel  was the sole conceiver,”
Filippini said, upholding a three-year prison sentence and an
order for him to repay the bank. “Societe Generale is entitled
to recover the full amount of the financial harm from unwinding
this position.”  Kerviel said in an interview on  RTL  radio that he was
“distraught” over the decision and will appeal it to  France ’s
highest court, the Cour de Cassation.  “Clearly, I didn’t expect this at all,” Kerviel said. “I
don’t understand this decision at all. I think the decision
protects Societe Generale.”  Remains Free  His lawyer, David Koubbi, who appeared on the radio program
with him, said that he expects the appeal may take as long as a
year-and-a-half. By going to the Cour de Cassation, Kerviel will
remain free at least until that court rules.  “He would be crazy not to,” said Christopher Mesnooh, an
American lawyer practicing in Paris. “He doesn’t lose anything
in doing so and it’ll keep him out of jail.”  In France, the initial appeal is almost always a retrial,
with the judges hearing the case essentially from scratch. The
Cour de Cassation considers legal issues involved in the
decision. The bid for a hearing at the top appellate court is
automatically accepted, unlike in the U.S. or U.K., said
Stephane Bonifassi, a French criminal lawyer.  “Appeals in cassation have very, very little chance in
criminal matters,” Bonifassi said.  Jean Veil , a lawyer for the Paris-based bank, said Societe
Generale is realistic about the chance of Kerviel repaying
4.9 billion euros.  Cult Hero  “Societe Generale is ready to forget Jerome Kerviel, but I
don’t think the damage he did to the bank and to its employees
can easily be forgotten,” Veil said.  Kerviel’s story -- a native of Brittany, who rose through
the ranks to Societe Generale’s trading floor without having
attended any of France’s elite schools -- made him a cult hero
in the aftermath of the 2008 loss. There was a comic book, fan
clubs and t-shirts supporting his cause. A poll taken after news
of the loss broke showed 77 percent of French respondents saw
him as a “victim.”  He told the appeals court that he left his job at a
computer consultancy last year to focus on his appeal.  Societe Generale ’s 2008 announcement echoed through the
financial world, as testimony yesterday at the London trial of
former UBS AG trader Kweku Adoboli showed. The bank sent two e-
mails warning its staff to be on alert for suspicious activities
that might indicate a “rogue trader,” prosecutors said.  UBS E-Mails  Adoboli, 32, is on trial for fraud and false accounting
dating back to October 2008. He is accused of causing a
$2.3 billion loss at the Swiss bank. He’s pleaded not guilty
and, like Kerviel, his lawyers have sought to show coworkers
knew about his trading. Adoboli’s trial is scheduled to conclude
early next month.  Kerviel changed defense teams and pursued an aggressive
strategy on appeal, filing criminal complaints against the bank
in the weeks before the trial began. Societe Generale retaliated
with defamation claims and Filippini openly clashed with Koubbi
during the hearings, threatening at one point to refer him to
the bar association over his treatment of witnesses.  Prosecutors asked Filippini to increase Kerviel’s sentence
to the maximum five years, from the three years.  “Given how the hearings went, one wasn’t expecting much of
an improvement for Mr. Kerviel,” said Bonifassi. “If there was
any suspense, it was whether the punishment would be harsher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  