-- Knight Capital CEO Joyce Had Talks on Leaving Firm, WSJ Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-10-24T21:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/knight-capital-ceo-joyce-had-talks-on-leaving-firm-wsj-says.html
Thomas Joyce, the  Knight (KCG)  Capital
Group Inc. chief executive officer whose tenure was shaken by
the firm’s $457.6 million trading loss in August, told directors
he has discussed taking a job elsewhere, the Wall Street Journal
said, citing people close to the negotiations.  Joyce, whose contract expires at the end of the year, said
he had preliminary talks with New York-based brokerage E*Trade
Financial Corp., according to the story on the newspaper’s
website. Knight’s board doesn’t discuss confidential matters,
spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons said in an e-mail to Bloomberg.
 Katie Spring , a spokeswoman for Citadel, declined to comment.  “I’m looking forward to continuing discussions with the
board and working for Knight over the next few years,” Joyce
said, according to the statement e-mailed by Fitzsimmons. He
declined to comment on the Journal story.  Joining E*Trade would unite Joyce with a company that tried
and failed to acquire Knight as it veered toward bankruptcy in
August -- Citadel LLC. The Chicago-based hedge fund is E*Trade’s
largest shareholder and its founder,  Ken Griffin , is leading the
search for a CEO, the company said in August 2011.  On an Oct. 17 conference call with analysts following the
firm’s earnings report, Joyce said employee retention was “good
to great” in the aftermath of the trading mishap. In a Sept. 21
interview on Bloomberg Television, he said any changes at Knight
will be decided in cooperation with the board when the firm
discusses strategy later in the year.  Lost Value  Joyce has been the “point man on Knight’s strategy,” Rich Repetto, a New York-based analyst for Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP, said in an e-mail. “If he left, that would likely signal a
significant change from the diversification strategy he put in
place.” Repetto also said  E*Trade (ETFC)  needs “someone who knows
retail brokerage and can reduce costs but it would also be
helpful to understand banking and credit issues and be able to
work with bank regulators.”  Knight grew over the last decade from a market maker that
mainly handled orders from individuals sent by brokers to a
financial services company with institutional clients,
electronic trading services and businesses in fixed income and
currencies. The company provides research and asset management
and got into the reverse mortgage business in 2010.  Joyce held 1.3 percent of Knight’s common stock as of Jan.
31, a stake that fell by $17 million during the first week of
August as the shares slid below $4 from as much as $13.53
earlier in the year. Knight shares haven’t traded above $3 since
Aug. 15 after the sale of convertible securities diluted holders
by more than 70 percent.  Computer Malfunction  Knight was taken over by six Wall Street firms including
Jefferies Group Inc. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in August after
losses associated with a computer malfunction depleted its
capital. The investors, who paid $400 million for securities
convertible into more than 70 percent of Knight’s equity, are
represented by three new Knight directors.  Last month, the trading firm consolidated oversight of its
finances and operations under a single executive and reassigned
its technology chief. Steven Bisgay, Knight’s chief financial
officer since August 2007, was named to the additional post of
chief operating officer. Steven Sadoff, the executive who had
been in charge of operations and technology, moved to a role
with Knight’s clearing, prime brokerage and futures businesses.  Knight bombarded U.S. equity exchanges with erroneous
orders on Aug. 1 after software that had been installed
improperly malfunctioned, according toJoyce. The trading caused
volume to surge and prices to swing in dozens of securities.  In its 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission filed on Feb. 29, Knight said Joyce is the only key
executive with an employment contract.  “Our success will be dependent to a large degree on our
ability to retain the services of our existing key executives
and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the
future,” it wrote. “Competition for such personnel is
intense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  