-- N.Z. Holds Benchmark Rate at 2.5% as Wheeler Term Begins
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-10-24T21:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/n-z-holds-benchmark-rate-at-2-5-as-wheeler-term-begins-1-.html
New Zealand ’s new central bank chief
extended a period of record-low borrowing costs as a stronger
housing market offset a fragile global economy, boosting the
currency as traders pared bets on interest-rate cuts.  “For now it remains appropriate for the official cash rate
to be held at 2.5 percent,” Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement today after a meeting in Wellington.
The decision was the first for the former  World Bank  official
who took over from Alan Bollard in late September.  Slowing global growth is hurting demand for New Zealand’s
exports, which make up about 30 percent of country’s gross
domestic product. Sluggish domestic demand and the strongest
Group of 10 currency this year have pushed inflation below the
central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  “The high  New Zealand dollar  is undermining export
earnings and encouraging substitution toward imported goods and
services,” Wheeler said. “GDP continues to expand at a modest
pace. Housing market activity is increasing as expected and
repairs and reconstruction in Canterbury are boosting the
construction sector.”  Today’s decision was  forecast  by all 17 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. New Zealand’s dollar rose as traders
reduced wagers on a rate cut. It bought 81.97 U.S. cents at
10:33 a.m. in Wellington compared with 81.51 cents immediately
before the statement.  Rate-Cut Calls  The chance of a rate cut by March fell to 57 percent from
71 percent yesterday, according to  interest-rate swaps  data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The doves are left empty handed,”  Annette Beacher , head
of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore , said in
a research note after the decision. “The hurdles for easing are
even higher.”  Wheeler resisted pressure to counter the New Zealand
dollar’s 5.5 percent gain this year by cutting borrowing costs
today. Calls for easier monetary policy mounted after the
 consumer price index  rose 0.8 percent in the 12 months through
September, the slowest pace since 1999.  “The bank continues to expect inflation to head back
toward the middle of the target range,” Wheeler said, adding he
will be watching gauges of inflation expectations and pricing
intentions closely.  Inflation is forecast to average 2.4 percent next year amid
rising demand for capital and labor from the rebuilding in
Christchurch and the surrounding Canterbury region, according to
a Bloomberg survey of nine economists this month.  Inflation Focus  “The focus is firmly on medium-term inflation,” said
Dominick Stephens, chief New Zealand economist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland, adding that Wheeler “doesn’t seem
fazed by the latest blip in the CPI.”  A series of temblors struck the country’s third-biggest
city since 2010, including a February 2011 quake that killed 185
people and destroyed the city center.  Eleven of 17 economists forecast the cash rate will stay
unchanged until at least July. Five expect an increase in the
first half and one expects a quarter-point cut in June.  “The global economy remains fragile with further
improvement heavily dependent on policy implementation,”
Wheeler said. “That said,  market sentiment  has improved from
earlier in the year suggesting the risks to the global outlook
are more balanced.”  Global Outlook  The  International Monetary Fund  this month cut its global
growth forecasts as the euro area’s debt crisis intensifies, and
said it saw “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown.  The Federal Reserve yesterday said the U.S. is still
growing modestly and repeated that  interest rates  are likely to
stay near zero “at least through mid-2015.” Policy makers in
 Australia  cut borrowing costs this month, and most economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expect another cut in November.  New Zealand’s push toward a  budget surplus  is constraining
demand growth, Wheeler said.  Wheeler, 60, succeeded Bollard on Sept. 26, returning to
New Zealand after 15 years that included being co-managing
director of the World Bank from 2006 to 2010. Under New Zealand
law, the central bank governor alone makes the decision on
interest rates after taking advice from a staff panel that
doesn’t vote and doesn’t publish its minutes.  Before starting, he signed an agreement with Finance
Minister  Bill English  that included a requirement to focus on
keeping annual price changes near 2 percent to help anchor
inflation expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  