-- N.Z. Holds Benchmark Rate at 2.5% as Wheeler’s Term Begins
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-10-24T20:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/n-z-holds-benchmark-rate-at-2-5-as-wheeler-s-term-begins.html
New Zealand ’s central bank extended
a period of record-low borrowing costs that began in March last
year as the nation faces slowing economic growth and weaker
demand for exports.  Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler left the official cash
rate at 2.5 percent, according to a statement today after a
meeting in Wellington. The decision was the first for the former
World Bank official who took over from Alan Bollard in late
September.  Slowing global growth is hurting demand for New Zealand’s
exports, which make up about 30 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product. Sluggish domestic demand and a rising currency
have pushed inflation below the central bank’s 1 percent to 3
percent target range, leading economists to predict Wheeler may
consider a rate cut.  “We see the softer domestic data and the firmer  New
Zealand dollar  increasing the chance of a cash rate cut down the
track,” Doug Steel, economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington, said ahead of the statement. “The odds of a cut
over coming quarters we would put as high as 40 percent.”  Today’s decision was forecast by all 17 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. New Zealand’s dollar gained, buying 81.72
U.S. cents at 9:01 a.m. in Wellington from 81.51 cents
immediately before the statement.  Wheeler resisted pressure from the Council of Trade Unions
to counter the New Zealand dollar’s 4.7 percent gain this year
by cutting borrowing costs today. Calls for a rate cut mounted
after consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the 12 months through
September, the slowest pace since 1999.  Bollard held the cash rate at 2.5 percent to allow the
economy to recover after the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80
years. The February 2011 temblor struck Christchurch, New
Zealand’s third-largest city, and the surrounding Canterbury
province, killing 185 people and closing the central city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  