-- Nasdaq Earnings Fall as Revenue From Equity Trading Drops
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-10-24T15:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/nasdaq-earnings-fall-as-revenue-from-equity-trading-drops-1-.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s (NDAQ)  quarterly
earnings declined 15 percent from the year-earlier period as the
second-largest U.S. equity exchange operator reported a decrease
in revenue from stock and derivatives trading.  Profit in the three months ended Sept. 30 fell to 52 cents
a share from 61 cents in the third quarter of 2011. Excluding
some costs, New York-based Nasdaq OMX said it earned 62 cents a
share, beating the 60-cent average  estimate  of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The stock, which closed yesterday at $24.13, down
1.6 percent in 2012, slipped 0.5 percent to $24 as of 11:30 a.m.
in  New York .  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld , his leadership
criticized following the botched initial public offering of
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  in May, is competing for market share as revenue
from trading shrinks around the world. The company said today
that operating expenses in 2012 will be lower than it previously
estimated.  “Despite the low level of trading activity, we remain
focused  on the factors that allow us to continue to win in our
markets, and position us ideally for when a higher level of
trading  activity resumes,” Greifeld said in the statement.
“We continued to exercise disciplined expense control.”  Market Revenue  Revenue excluding rebates, clearing and other fees fell 6.2
percent to $409 million, according to a statement. Total net
cash equity trading revenue was $47 million, down 30 percent
from $67 million a year ago. Access and broker services  revenue 
totaled $66 million, up $1 million from a year ago. Market data
revenue was $84 million,  Nasdaq  OMX said.  The company lowered its forecast for total 2012 operating
expenses to $922 million to $935 million, down from a previous
forecast of $935 million to $965 million. The range excludes
expenses related to cost reduction plans and the payout program
for Facebook.  Average daily volume for equities listed on all U.S.
exchanges was 6 billion shares in the third quarter, down 24
percent from 8.7 billion a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Nasdaq OMX’s share of  stock trading  fell
to 20.4 percent, from 22.1 percent in the second quarter, Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc. said in an Oct. 18 report.  Volume Traded  KBW raised its estimate for Nasdaq OMX’s third-quarter
earnings per share to 62 cents from 59 cents because of a
“better rate per volume traded” than expected,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst, said in an Oct. 11 note to clients.  Nasdaq OMX received 38 cents per 1,000 shares changing
hands in U.S. equities during the third quarter, up 4 cents from
the prior three months, for the highest level since the first
quarter of 2011, the company said in a statement on Oct. 9. Its
so-called revenue capture for each U.S. options contract traded
was 18 cents, a decline from 19 cents in the second quarter.  “We continue to like Nasdaq’s predominantly recurring
revenue mix, its solid cost management and active capital
distribution program in an environment where trading volume
growth and absolute levels remain challenged,” Alexander, who
has a share forecast of $29 on the stock, said in the report.  Nasdaq OMX plans to start a derivatives trading platform in
 London  to compete with  Europe ’s two biggest futures exchanges
early next year and will seek to get at least 10 percent of the
market in its first year, Greifeld said in an interview in
London on Oct. 10. Plans for the venue, known as NLX, were
announced in June, four months after the European Union blocked
 Deutsche Boerse  AG’s takeover of  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   Derivatives Products  NLX, led by  Charlotte  Crosswell, will offer six interest-
rate derivatives products, including futures on the German bund,
Euribor futures and short sterling. It will offer medium-term
German government debt known as Bobl, so-called Schatz short-
term German debt, and a U.K. government bond.  NYSE Euronext’s London-based Liffe dominates the market for
short-term interest-rate derivatives in Europe while Eurex in
 Frankfurt  handles long-term products. Deutsche Boerse owns
Eurex, Europe’s largest futures exchange. CME Group Inc., the
world’s largest exchange operator by market value, also plans to
open a market for currency futures in London next year.  Almost $900 million was erased from Nasdaq OMX’s market
value in the second quarter after Facebook’s debut in May burned
investors, spurred losses on  Wall Street  and prompted lawsuits
against the exchange. The bourse boosted its compensation plan
in July for brokers that lost money on the IPO, the biggest
share sale since General Motors Co. in November 2010, to $62
million cash.  Facebook, NYSE  The Securities and Exchange Commission hasn’t yet approved
the payout proposal.  As of yesterday’s close, the stock is up 6.4 percent since
the May 18  Facebook IPO , compared with a 49 percent  slump  for
the social-networking service.  NYSE Euronext, the largest U.S. stock-exchange operator, is
scheduled to issue its quarterly report on Nov. 6. The average
analyst projection is for 42 cents a share in profit, down from
the 71 cents in the year-earlier period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the Frankfurt-based
exchange, will post  earnings  results on Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  