-- Nationstar Fights Ocwen for Servicer Supremacy: Mortgages
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-10-24T16:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/nationstar-fights-ocwen-for-servicer-supremacy-mortgages.html
Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  won a $3
billion auction for Residential Capital LLC’s loan-servicing
unit, outbidding  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  as it aims to
become the largest non-bank home-loan servicer.  The two firms traded bids yesterday in a bankruptcy auction
in a midtown  Manhattan  hotel, according to two people familiar
with the matter, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations were private. Nationstar fell as much as 21
percent, while Ocwen rose 1.6 percent.  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  didn’t participate after losing the lead
bidder role to Nationstar, whose stalking horse bid was about
$2.3 billion.  The winner will become at least the fifth-largest U.S.
mortgage servicer, a business that becomes more profitable with
greater scale, Wilbur Ross said yesterday. He sold his Homeward
Residential Holdings Inc. to Ocwen this month for $750 million
in cash and convertible preferred stock that gives him a
continuing stake in the firm.  “In terms of scale, it will be a huge win,” Bose George,
an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods in New York said before the
results. “There’s a barrier to entry in this industry, because
it is so specialized and there are so many compliance issues --
you need scale to make it work.”  Nationstar dropped 12 percent to $30.64 as of 12:16 p.m. in
New York trading.  Cash Cow  The two bidders, which have seen their share prices more
than double this year, were betting they could profit as banks
retreat from the $9.6 trillion mortgage servicing industry. Once
a cash cow that generated monthly revenue of 0.25 percent to 0.4
percent of loan balances. Federal and state probes of
foreclosure practices led to new regulations that are driving up
costs, and a pending change in bank capital requirements also
made the business less desirable.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a Detroit-based auto lender majority
owned by U.S. taxpayers, allowed ResCap to file for bankruptcy
in May to distance itself from the mortgage lenders’ losses and
help repay its 2008 bailout following the U.S.  housing  crash and
subsequent credit crisis. Ally was previously owned by General
Motors Corp.  ResCap, coupled with Ally’s much smaller business, was the
fifth-largest mortgage servicer in the U.S. in the second
quarter, handling the billing and collections on about $329
billion of mortgages, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a
trade journal. ResCap, once among the largest originators,
reduced its assets to $15.7 billion in the first quarter from
more than $130 billion in 2006.  Mortgage Liabilities  Mortgage liabilities at ResCap from faulty home loans made
before the housing bubble burst helped derail Ally’s initial
public offering. A successful sale of the unit would allow Ally
Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter to separate the auto
lender from its money-losing unit.  Ocwen has already bolstered its home-loan business,
including the purchase of WL Ross & Co.’s Homeward, which
services about 422,000 mortgages with an unpaid principal
balance exceeding $77 billion, according to a statement from
Ocwen.  Its  shares  had gained 25 percent since the announcement of
the Homeward acquisition through yesterday.  The purchase of Homeward gives Ocwen a much more robust
origination business, making home loans to consumers, that will
provide for a “sustainable source of future growth,” the
company’s CEO William Erbey said in the statement announcing the
deal. Homeward has been originating loans at a rate of about $10
billion a year, he said.  ‘Strongly Favorable’  “Market reaction to the Ocwen deal has been strongly
favorable, just as we had hoped, because it repositioned Ocwen”
and will immediately add to earnings, Ross said.  Ocwen had teamed up for the ResCap bid with  Walter
Investment Management Corp. (WAC) , according to a person familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified because negotiations
are private.  Nationstar, majority owned by  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG) , wins, has said it was aiming to be the largest non-bank
residential loan servicer by the end of 2012. It added servicing
on $93.3 billion in loans in the second quarter, including
acquisitions from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Aurora Bank FSB, a
unit of defunct Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which accounted
for more than $60 billion. The company’s servicing portfolio
stood at $193 billion at the end of June, Nationstar said in an
Aug. 14 statement.  Since it sold  shares i n an initial public offering on March
7 they’d gained 149 percent through yesterday making it the
best-performing U.S. IPO this year.  ‘Moneymaker Industry’  Ocwen is currently the largest independent servicer with
$5.4 billion in assets. Nationstar, based in Lewisville,  Texas ,
has $4.9 billion. Revenue at Ocwen rose to $211 million in the
second quarter, about double the year earlier, as it bought
servicing rights from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and sub-contracted
with other institutions to handle their most troubled loans.  “It’s a moneymaker industry, but what’s really gotten
people excited is growth,” said  Paul Miller , managing director
at FBR Capital Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia. “These
companies could double and triple in size in the next year.”  Winning the business gives more than just servicing rights.
Servicing also provides a pool of potential borrowers for whom
it may then “capture the financing needs” when they decide to
refinance, Ross said.  “You don’t have to be a servicer to become an originator
nor do you have to be an originator to become a servicer,” Ross
said. “Origination is the most efficient way to create
servicing but buying in bulk is the quickest way to achieve
major scale.”  Overcome Objections  Before completing the purchase, the winning bidder must
overcome objections from ResCap customers, including its two
biggest,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The government-controlled
companies have demanded in court filings that the winner take on
the legal liability that ResCap currently faces for loans it
originated.  Nationstar’s $2.3 billion stalking horse bid for the right
to service mortgages owned by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
others, was based on not accepting any potential legal
liabilities for the loans, according to court documents.  Once the auction is over, New York-based ResCap and the
winner will have until Nov. 19 to resolve the dispute with the
mortgage owners, which are demanding at least $394 million in
payments in addition to the liability guarantees. Should they
fail, the fight would be decided by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan, who is overseeing ResCap’s case.  Buffett Seeks  Berkshire wasn’t represented at yesterday’s auction.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant. Susan Fitzpatrick, ResCap’s director of
communications, declined to comment. Nationstar’s head of
investor relations Marshall Murphy and Ronald Faris, CEO of
Ocwen, didn’t return calls.  Buffett said in July, a month after his company sought to
be the lead bidder for ResCap’s servicing business, that the
U.S. housing market was rebounding, even as the overall economy
stalled. The billionaire has increased Berkshire’s bet on the
real-estate market by investing $5 billion in Bank of America
Corp. last year and boosting his company’s stake in  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  Wells Fargo is the largest U.S. mortgage servicer,
followed by Bank of America.  Berkshire also owns a real-estate brokerage, a maker of
manufactured homes and units that construct roofs and sell
bricks and carpet.  The housing market has improved “noticeably in the last
few months,” Buffett told Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  in a
July 13 interview. “It was just a question of getting
households in balance with housing units.”  Shunned Participating  The competition for ResCap’s servicing assets may have
increased the price beyond what the billionaire’s firm was
willing to pay, said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder and
author of “Secrets in Plain Sight: Business & Investing Secrets
of Warren Buffett.”  Buffett has shunned participating in auctions when making
acquisitions and warns potential sellers against the practice in
Berkshire’s  annual report .  “Buffett always says if you want to make a killing, be the
only buyer,” Matthews said in a phone interview. “If he
doesn’t get the right deal, he’s not interested.”  Berkshire Hathaway is the stalking horse bidder for a
separate auction of ResCap’s mortgage portfolio, which will
follow the servicing auction.  ResCap’s $2.1 billion of 9.625 percent, third-lien
securities, which represent almost two-thirds of its outstanding
bonds and fell to as low as 57 cents on the dollar last year,
have traded above face value for a month. They rose 1.25 cents
to 104 cents today, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  