-- Netflix Tumbles After Subscriber Growth Trails Estimates
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-10-24T20:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/netflix-tumbles-after-subscriber-growth-trails-estimates.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
online video service, fell the most in almost three months after
reducing its forecast for domestic growth and predicting larger
losses from international expansion.  The shares tumbled 12 percent to $60.12 at the close in  New
York  following the company’s third-quarter report yesterday that
showed domestic streaming growth missed analysts’ projections.
The decline was the second biggest among Standard & Poor’s 500
Index stocks.  Netflix is counting on its profitable U.S. streaming and
mail-order DVD businesses to pay for overseas growth, a plan
analysts question with dwindling gains at home. Chief Executive
Officer  Reed Hastings  forecasts 1.3 million to 2 million new
U.S. streaming customers this quarter, reaching 27.1 million at
most by year end, according to a  website  statement.  “It’s very smart for us to invest as we are,” Hastings
said yesterday in an interview. “Internet video is the way of
the future. It’s what gives us the confidence to make these big
and aggressive bets.”  The  Los Gatos , California-based company has no plans to
change its strategy or raise prices, Hastings said. Establishing
early brand leadership globally will create a “multi-decade”
profit stream, he said.  With $5 billion in obligations to buy movies and TV shows
for online customers, including $2.1 billion due over the next
12 months, the company’s current plan can’t be sustained, said
 Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los
Angeles  who rates the stock underperform.  ‘A Crawl’  “Streaming growth is slowing to a crawl, while their DVD
business is generating 90 percent of all profit -- and that’s
declining super fast,” Pachter said in an interview.  Netflix signed 1.16 million new U.S. streaming subscribers
in the third quarter, according to the statement. Analysts had
predicted 1.43 million, the average of 10 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. For the full year, the company expects to add
as many as 5.43 million, fewer than the 7 million Hastings had
predicted earlier.  “We’re feeling our way along as the streaming market
grows,” Hastings said on a conference call. “I would call it
more of a forecasting error than anything else.”  Caught between slowing domestic growth and the overseas
push, Netflix will be “stuck in an investor no-man’s land”
until it can show progress, said  Michael Olson , an analyst with
Piper, Jaffray & Co. in  Minneapolis  who rates the stock neutral.  The company finished the quarter with $798 million in cash
and short-term investments and expects several quarters of
negative free cash flow as a result spending on original
programming and other content, according to the statement.  TV Everywhere  Netflix is investing in original series to fend off growing
competition for content and customers from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Hulu
LLC and TV Everywhere options such as Time Warner Inc.’s HBO Go.  “We have enough cash on hand to fund our planned originals
in addition to our ongoing expenses, maintain an adequate
reserve, and then return to positive free  cash flow ,” Hastings
said in the statement.  Third-quarter net income fell 88 percent to $7.68 million,
or 13 cents a share, from $62.5 million, or $1.16, a year
earlier, as Netflix bore costs to pursue its expansion outside
the U.S. Analysts had forecast profit of 5 cents, the average of
29 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Quarterly Sales  Sales rose 10 percent to $905.1 million from $821.8 million
a year earlier, beating the $904.9 million average of 29
analysts’ estimates. In July, Hastings had suggested competition
for viewers with the summer Olympics might temper new signups.  This quarter, Netflix forecasts sales of $919 million to
$943 million, shy of analysts’  projections  of $943.5 million.
The company said results may range from a loss of $13 million,
or 23 cents a share, to a profit of $2 million, or 4 cents.  Analysts forecast a loss of 8 cents, the average of 29
estimates.  Worldwide, the company has 29 million streaming customers
and 8.61 million on its mail-order DVD plans.  Netflix’s declining DVD business is becoming another
barometer of the company’s health. It’s the most profitable
business, with $131 million in income last quarter, and helps
finance the overseas growth. The number of users may drop by
760,000 this quarter, after shrinking 2.56 million so far this
year, Netflix said.  The company predicts the mail-order business will generate
$117 million to $129 million in profit this quarter. The
domestic streaming business is forecast to earn $94 million to
$102 million. Losses from international streaming will widen to
$107 million to $119 million from $92 million in the third
quarter. Hastings began offering service in Scandinavia last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  