-- Kiwi Rises to Near Six-Month High Versus Yen After RBNZ
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-10-25T05:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/new-zealand-dollar-gains-after-central-bank-keeps-rate-unchanged.html
New Zealand’s dollar rose to a near
six-month high versus the yen after the central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged and said market sentiment has improved.  The so-called kiwi gained for a second day against the  U.S.
dollar  after newly installed Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Governor Graeme Wheeler said inflation is expected to
accelerate. Australia’s dollar advanced to the highest in a
month versus the yen as swaps traders reduced bets that central
bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  will cut the nation’s benchmark
borrowing costs next month.  “Wheeler disappointed those in the market who had been
expecting an easing signal,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in
Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The market was fully priced
for a January rate cut, and that pricing will be at least
partially unwound.”  The New Zealand dollar reached 65.89 yen, the highest since
April 30, before fetching 65.86 as of 4:40 p.m. in Sydney, 0.6
percent higher than yesterday’s close in New York. It climbed as
much as 0.4 percent to 82.35 U.S. cents, a level unseen since
Oct. 9, and later traded at 82.25.  The Australian dollar rose 0.5 percent to 83.06 yen, the
strongest since Sept. 14. The so-called Aussie added 0.1 percent
to $1.0367.  Inflation Outlook  The RBNZ expects annual inflation to head back to the
middle of its 1 percent to 3 percent target range from 0.8
percent in the third quarter, Wheeler said in a statement.
Improved  market sentiment  suggests that risks to the global
outlook are “more balanced,” he said.  Wheeler left the official cash rate unchanged at 2.5
percent, the highest among major developed economies after
Australia.  There had been “growing concern that the shift in
leadership at the RBNZ could see a more dovish turn in policy,”
 Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy for
Asia excluding Japan at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore, wrote in a
research note today. “Since the RBNZ did not live up to these
dovish expectations, the door may now be open for more New
Zealand dollar participation in a further rise in risk
sentiment.”  New Zealand Economic Development Minister Steven Joyce said
today that the  exchange rate  is challenging for some exporters.
It will be no surprise if economic growth slows in the second
half, he said in parliament.  Australia’s Policy  Australia’s statistics bureau said yesterday the trimmed
mean  inflation rate  accelerated to 2.4 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, surpassing the 2.2 percent rate estimated
by economists.  Overnight-index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show
traders see a 64 percent chance Australia’s central bank will
lower its key rate to 3 percent at its Nov. 6 meeting from its
current level of 3.25 percent. That compares with a 95 percent
likelihood signaled on Oct. 23, the day before the inflation
report was released.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond yield rose as much as
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point to 3.26 percent,
surpassing the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s cash target for the
first time since August.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares advanced 0.3 percent,
snapping a four-day decline and boosting the allure of higher-
yielding currencies. Shares extended gains after the Nikkei
reported the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will consider increasing its asset-
purchase program by 10 trillion yen ($125 billion) at its policy
meeting on Oct. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  