-- New York Times CEO Defends BBC Tenure Amid Sex Scandal
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-24T21:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/new-york-times-ceo-defends-bbc-tenure-amid-sex-scandal.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  incoming Chief
Executive Officer Mark Thompson is going public to defend his
leadership at the British Broadcasting Corp. amid calls for the
newspaper company to reevaluate its CEO choice.  The  BBC  has been roiled by allegations that the popular
presenter Jimmy Savile sexually abused dozens of children while
he worked at the broadcaster and questions about why a BBC news
program’s investigation into Savile was killed. Thompson, who
led the BBC for eight years until September, said he wasn’t
aware of the abuse allegations and didn’t participate in
stopping the show “Newsnight” from airing its Savile segment.  “I was not involved in any way in the decision-making
about the ‘Newsnight’ investigation into Savile,” Thompson said
in an interview. “Our model is, unless there are exceptional
circumstances, we let the editors make up their minds.”  Thompson’s comments come as some observers urge Times Co.
to reexamine whether he is the best choice for CEO. The 55-year-
old, scheduled to take charge the week of Nov. 12, signed an
employment agreement in August valued at as much as $10.5
million, including a $4.5 million signing bonus.  Margaret Sullivan, public editor for the New York Times,
 openly questioned  whether the company should reassess its choice
on the newspaper’s website yesterday.  “His integrity and decision-making are bound to affect The
Times and its journalism -- profoundly,” she wrote. “It’s
worth considering now whether he is the right person for the
job, given this turn of events.”  ‘Ideal Person’  In a statement, Times Co. reiterated Thompson’s start date.  “We believe his experience and accomplishments make him
the ideal person to take the helm of the Times Company as we
focus on growing our businesses through digital and global
expansion,” the company said.  Douglas Arthur, an analyst with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  who
has covered the company for two decades, said Thompson would
start in a weak position at Times Co. if he took over next month
as planned.  “The Times should at least delay his start date until they
know what’s going on,” Arthur said in an interview. “The Times
is about to have a CEO who starts on soft ground.”  Evercore, an investment bank based in New York, works with
newspaper companies. Times Co. isn’t currently a client.  Falling Advertising  Thompson’s pending arrival coincides with an advertising
decline at the New York Times, the third-largest daily U.S.
newspaper by circulation, and protracted negotiations with the
Newspaper Guild of New York over a new contract representing
around 1,100 employees at the newspaper.  “This kind of unfavorable publicity has to shine on the
Times, and it’s at least got to be an embarrassment for them,”
 Edward Atorino , analyst with Benchmark Co. in New York, said in
an interview.  Times Co., which reports financial results tomorrow, is
projected to post its lowest quarterly revenue in more than 10
years, according to Bloomberg data. Sales are estimated to fall
11 percent to $479.4 million, while profit excluding some items
is projected to rise to 8 cents a share from 5 cents a share a
year ago, according to the average of analysts’ estimates.  In the past week, bearish options wagers against the Times
Co. have climbed to the highest level ever. The ratio of
outstanding puts to sell the stock versus calls increased almost
30-fold in two days to 4.1-to-1 on Oct. 22, an all-time high,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A block of 8,500
January $10 puts changed hands that day after 10,000 traded at
the end of last week, the data show.  Times Co. rose less than 1 percent to $10.65 in New York at
the close. The shares have climbed 38 percent this year.  Eight Years  Thompson has come under pressure to provide more
information about what he knew about the canceled report from
the BBC show “Newsnight.” Last December, reporters for the
show prepared a broadcast featuring interviews with women saying
they had been sexually abused by Savile as children. Savile died
in October 2011 at 84.  The Savile scandal has caused a firestorm in Britain. U.K.
Prime Minister David Cameron said he wouldn’t rule out the
possibility of a public inquiry into allegations of child abuse
by Savile and added the BBC needs to ask itself “some very
searching questions.” Other lawmakers have called on BBC
executives, including Thompson, to provide more information on
why the Savile report was canceled.  Journalistic Reasons  In a letter responding to questions from U.K. lawmaker Rob Wilson, Thompson said he was never formally notified about the
“Newsnight” investigation and wasn’t briefed on the
allegations about Savile. He did say in the letter that a
journalist mentioned a “Newsnight” investigation to him at a
cocktail reception late last year and he raised the issue with
the senior management of BBC News. He said he was told the
program had been canceled for journalistic reasons.  In the letter, Thompson also said that he never worked with
Savile and never heard any allegations about him.  “I had no reason to believe that anyone in the BBC was
withholding controversial or incriminating material” related to
the “Newsnight” investigation, he said.  Top editors at the BBC knew of the pending report,
including BBC News Director Helen Boaden, according to people
with knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is under investigation. Boaden reported to
Thompson, who in addition to his title as director general of
the BBC was also its editor-in-chief.  Andrew Neilson, a BBC spokesman, declined to comment.  Editorial Process  The BBC’s editorial process has been altered in recent
years to allow for greater scrutiny from top editors following
the suicide of David Kelly, a government scientist who was a
source for a BBC report on British intelligence regarding Iraqi
weapons. In 2003, a government inquiry into the broadcaster’s
practices concluded that the BBC report was incorrect, the
result of “defective” editorial controls.  In response, the BBC under Thompson’s leadership instituted
new mechanisms whereby sensitive stories would be vetted by the
top editors, according to two people with direct knowledge of
the editorial workings of the BBC. The new structure has led to
more centralized editorial decision-making, according to these
people.  “This is the biggest scandal involving the BBC in terms of
what I’ve witnessed,” Claire Enders, chief executive of Enders
Analysis, said in an interview. “And why this wasn’t drawn to
the attention of Mark Thompson -- this is going to cast a very
very serious shadow on his last year of his leadership.”  The BBC recently appointed former Court of Appeal judge
Janet Smith and former  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
journalist Nick Pollard to head investigations into both Savile
and the canceled “Newsnight” investigation.  Pollard will examine why the “Newsnight” program,
reported by Liz McKean, was canceled. Smith will probe the
culture and practices of the BBC during the 30 years when Savile
worked at the broadcaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  