-- NFL’s Vilma Opposes Tagliabue as Bounty Appeal Arbitrator
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/nfl-s-vilma-opposes-tagliabue-as-bounty-appeal-arbitrator.html
Jonathan Vilma, the New Orleans
Saints player fighting a full-season suspension for his alleged
role in a bounty-hunting scheme, asked a federal judge to
disqualify ex-National Football League Commissioner Paul Tagliabue from acting as an appellate arbitrator in the dispute.  Vilma’s lawyers told U.S. District Judge Helen G. Berrigan
in New Orleans in court papers filed yesterday that Tagliabue
has a conflict because he is associated with the same  law firm 
that is defending incumbent NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell , whom
Vilma sued for defamation earlier this year.  Vilma and three other NFL players who are challenging
related punishments handed down by Goodell this month filed
papers with Berrigan on Oct. 15 arguing he is biased against
them. The league announced Tagliabue’s appointment as appellate
arbitrator four days later.  “Goodell has now perpetuated, and indeed exacerbated, the
defective process by appointing a hearing officer who could not
be more conflicted,” Vilma’s attorneys said in yesterday’s
filing.  The NFL has said about two dozen Saints players, led by
former defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , paid each other as
much as $1,500 at a time from 2009 to 2011 for targeting
opponents such as Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Kurt Warner 
and  Brett Favre .  Head Coach  Sean Payton  was barred for a year and Williams
was suspended indefinitely.  Similar Filing  The National Football League Players Association yesterday
made a similar filing on behalf of the other three players, the
Saints’  Will Smith  and former teammates  Scott Fujita  and Anthony Hargrove, asserting the commissioner “had no intention of
turning the arbitration over to an impartial decision-maker.”  The players’ union asked Berrigan to order the parties to
agree upon a neutral arbitrator within seven days or appoint one
herself.  Hargrove faces a seven-game ban, Smith four, and Fujita
one, under the punishments Goodell imposed after a separate
panel of arbitrators ruled he previously exceeded his authority
when he initially punished them for taking money outside of
their contracts.  It said the commissioner could punish the players for
conduct detrimental to the game.  ‘No Basis’  “We have advised the union that we believe there is no
basis on which former Commissioner Tagliabue should recuse
himself and we will oppose any request that he do so,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the New York-based league, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “There is no question that Commissioner Tagliabue is fully
qualified to hear these appeals,” and his appointment is
consistent with the terms of the parties’ collective-bargaining
agreement, Aiello said.  Berrigan has ordered the 32-team league to file its
responding papers no later than Oct. 26.  Tagliabue is  senior counsel  at the Washington-based law
firm Covington & Burling LLP.  The case is Vilma  v. Goodell, 12-cv-1283, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  