-- NHL’s Islanders Moving to Brooklyn Barclays Center in 2015
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-24T19:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/nhl-islanders-to-move-to-brooklyn-s-barclays-arena-ny-post-says.html
The  New York Islanders  will relocate
to Barclays Center in  Brooklyn  when the National Hockey League
team’s lease at Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum expires in
2015. The team won’t change its name.  The Barclays Center, reachable by 11 subway lines and the
Long Island Rail Road, is about 25 miles west of the team’s
current home in Uniondale,  New York , where fans have no public
transportation option to reach the second-oldest building in the
NHL.  The announcement of a 25-year agreement was made today at
the $1 billion arena in Brooklyn and attended by Islanders owner
Charles Wang, arena majority owner Bruce Ratner, New York City
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman.  “Charles got offers to move the team out of our state,
very good offers,” Ratner said today. “Charles wouldn’t do
that.  Charles Wang  is the real hero today. He has kept this team
in New York State.”  The move might be a precursor to a change in team
ownership, according to former Madison Square Garden President
Bob Gutkowski. It makes the most sense for Nets majority owner
 Mikhail Prokhorov  to buy the hockey team known for its four
consecutive Stanley Cup championships from 1980-83, he said in a
telephone interview.  “The best deal is for the owners of the Nets and Barclays
to buy the Islanders,” Gutkowski, a partner in Lake Success,
New York-based Innovative Sports & Entertainment, which advises
private equity in sports, entertainment and media company
investment. “And if they can’t do that, they need to work out
some kind of equity deal.”  One Owner  Today, Wang said he would remain the sole owner of the team
and he signed an “ironclad” lease with the arena.  Richard Peddie, the former chief executive of Maple Leaf
Sports & Entertainment, which operates basketball’s Raptors,
hockey’s Maple Leafs and the Air Canada Centre, said via
telephone that the Brooklyn arrangement would make better
financial sense under a single owner.  “What they’re missing is synergies,” he said. “One sales
force, one marketing force. They’re missing opportunities by not
having the same owner. It’s obviously better than where the
Islanders were. I understand why they’re doing it, but it’s not
all that it could be.”  Isles Dynasty  The Islanders dynastic teams of Mike Bossy, Denis Potvin,
Bryan Trottier and Bobby Nystrom are a distant memory for fans
of the club, which has finished last in the  Atlantic Division 
the past five seasons and had the league’s worst attendance in
three of the past five years.  “What a dark day for Nassau County NY politicians and
residents.” Jiggs McDonald, a play-by-play television announcer
for three of the championships, said in a Facebook post. “Shame
on you!!!!”  Wang for years has unsuccessfully lobbied for a new arena
to replace the coliseum, which opened in 1972. Only New York’s
Madison Square Garden, which houses basketball’s Knicks and
hockey’s Rangers and is in the midst of a $1 billion renovation,
is older.  Dream Ends  “We have tried very hard to keep the Islanders in their
original home,” Wang, a 1962 graduate of Brooklyn Technical
High School, said during the announcement. “Unfortunately, we
were unable to achieve that dream.”  The Barclays Center has a seating capacity of 18,000 for
basketball and 14,500 for hockey, which would make it the
smallest building in the NHL. Twenty-seven of the NHL’s 30 teams
averaged more than 14,500 fans last season. Bettman said changes
would be made to add at least another 500 seats.  “It’s not an issue,” the commissioner said, referring to
the seating capacity.  Andrew Zimbalist , a sports economist at  Smith College  in
Northampton,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview the
Islanders’ difficulties are two-fold.  “They’ve had a lousy team for a long time and no lousy
team is going to perform well at the gate and other revenue
areas,” he said, referring to the coliseum as the hinterlands.
“They were stuck in a loser’s trap. Wang didn’t want to go much
above the bottom of the salary cap because he wasn’t generating
revenue, and because the team wasn’t good the revenue never got
off the floor.”  Fenway Precedent  Zimbalist said the seating isn’t a concern. Like the  Boston
Red Sox , whose Fenway Park has the smallest capacity in  Major
League Baseball , there will be a perception of scarcity in the
marketplace.  “If demand exceeds supply, you raise prices,” he said.  The Islanders and  New Jersey Devils  were scheduled to play
an exhibition game at Barclays Center on Oct. 2. The game was
canceled due to the NHL-imposed player lockout. So far, 135
regular-season games have been dropped through Nov. 1. No talks
were scheduled.  The closure of the coliseum in 2015 would cost the county
$7.8 million in lost sales, hotel and entertainment tax revenue
and result in 1,942 direct job losses costing $64.4 million in
earnings, according to 2011 economic analysis prepared for the
Nassau County Industrial Development Authority.  Nets Move  Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano said in a statement
that he intends to ensure taxpayers benefit from the
redevelopment of the arena site and its surrounding area, known
as the Hub.  Kevan Abrahams, the county’s Democratic Party leader, said
in a statement that the team’s leaving is a “sad day” for
Nassau County and “another crippling hit to our local
economy.”  “To lose the Islanders, Nassau’s only professional sports
franchise, is an epic failure of leadership at all levels,” he
said. “We must start working on new ideas for the Hub so that
the Coliseum does not sit as a crumbling eyesore for
generations.”  The Nets, who opened the Coliseum with a 1972 exhibition
game, relocated from  Newark ,  New Jersey , this season into the
Barclays Center, part of a $4.9 billion, 22-acre project next to
Brooklyn’s main public transportation hub. The arena has hosted
concerts and preseason basketball since its opening last month.  Fewer Dates  Thad Sheely, the former executive vice president of stadium
development and finance for the  New York Jets , said luring the
Islanders is a “big win” for Barclays Center with one caveat.  “The only downside for the arena is that it leaves fewer
open dates during the season to attract family shows and
concerts from Madison Square Garden,” Sheely, founder of New
York-based GridWorks LLC, a real estate and sports advisory
firm, said in a telephone interview.  Wang bought the Islanders in 2000 for about $190 million.
The team hasn’t made the playoffs since 2007. Last season’s
average home attendance was 13,191, second-worst in the league
to the  Phoenix Coyotes .  NHL spokesman John Dellapina didn’t immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment on whether the Rangers have territorial
rights over Brooklyn. Stacey Escudero, a spokeswoman for Madison
Square Garden, said the company had no comment on the Islanders.  “Who said the rivalry between the Rangers and Islanders
couldn’t get any bigger?” said Bloomberg, the majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg News . “Well, it just did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  