-- Nigeria’s Oil Output Cut 500,000 Barrels by Flood, Agency Says
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-10-24T11:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/nigeria-s-oil-output-cut-500-000-barrels-by-flood-agency-says.html
Nigeria , Africa’s top crude
producer, lost as much as 500,000 barrels a day of output during
two months of flooding that deluged  oil fields  in the Niger
River delta and is now restarting some of the platforms.  Production dropped to 2.1 million barrel a day from 2.6
million at the height of the floods “in the last couple of
weeks,” Osten Olorunsola, head of the Department for Petroleum
Resources, the oil industry’s regulator, said in Lagos, the
commercial capital. Output is gradually being restored to 2.3
million barrels as the water recedes and producers reopen wells
and other affected facilities, he said.  “A lot of oil firms were hit; actually some companies were
completely out,” Olorunsola said yesterday. “Even the big
players got seriously hit.  Total SA (FP)  was completely out in Oil
Mining Lease 58, which produces 90,000 barrels. Agip was
seriously hit at Obiafo, Mbede and Oguta fields.”  Nigeria is facing its worst flooding in decades after its
two biggest rivers, the Niger and the Benue, overflowed their
banks as dams let out water following a year of heavy rains.
Farms, homes and roads have been washed away and at least 148
people killed by the floods, according to the country’s
emergency agency. The nation depends on oil exports for more
than 80 percent of its revenue.  Total confirmed that production at OML 58 has been halted.
The company also declared force majeure, a legal clause that
allows it to miss scheduled shipments because of circumstances
beyond its control, on natural gas deliveries from the field to
Nigeria LNG, Anastasia Zhivulina, a company spokeswoman in
Paris, said today by e-mail.  Shell on Oct. 22 declared force majeure on exports of its
Bonny Light and Forcados crudes citing damage to its pipeline by
oil thieves and production deferment from a third-party producer
because of flooding.  At least 90 percent of the country’s crude is pumped by
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total
and  Eni SpA (ENI) , via its Agip unit, in joint ventures with the
state-owned  Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  