-- Nordea Profit Misses Estimates as Bank’s Loan Losses Swell
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-24T07:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/nordea-profit-misses-estimates-as-bank-s-loan-losses-swell-2-.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  posted third-quarter
profit that missed analyst estimates after the Nordic region’s
largest lender said impairments more than doubled from a year
earlier on continued losses in shipping and Danish real estate.  Net income rose to 686 million euros ($891 million) from
404 million euros a year earlier, the Stockholm-based bank said
in a statement today. That failed to reach the 751 million-euro
average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net
interest income rose 4.5 percent to 1.44 billion euros, while
costs fell 8.5 percent to 1.29 billion euros. Net loan losses
grew to 254 million euros from 112 million euros.  Nordea, like most of its peers in  Europe , is struggling to
generate income growth as  interest rates  hover close to record
lows amid central bank efforts to stimulate demand. At the same
time,  Sweden ’s  four biggest lenders  need to meet stricter
 capital requirements  than those set elsewhere as the government
pushes through a regulatory overhaul it says will protect
taxpayers from losses.  “The third quarter was affected by declining growth and
corresponding low interest rates in our home markets,” Nordea
Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said in today’s
statement. “The slowdown in economic activity continues to
hamper consumption and investments thus reducing the demand for
loans and other banking services in the Nordic market.”  Shares Fall  The central bank lowered its benchmark repo rate a quarter
of a percentage point last month to 1.25 percent, citing the
need to protect Sweden from the fallout from Europe’s debt
crisis. Nordea’s third-quarter net interest income declined 1
percent from the second quarter and its net fee and commission
income also dropped 1 percent. Net loan losses rose 17 percent
to 254 million euros in the three months through September from
the second quarter, driven by impairments in  Denmark .  “The report is a little disappointing on almost all
fronts,” Mads Thinggaard, an analyst at Nykredit Markets in
Copenhagen, said in a note. “The bank’s return on equity,”
which reached 10.1 percent, “may well prove to be the lowest
level among Sweden’s banks in the third quarter,” he said.  Nordea shares lost 3 percent, or 1.85 kronor, to trade at
59.85 kronor as of 9:48 a.m. in  Stockholm . The 38-member
Bloomberg index of European financial stocks slipped 0.6
percent. Nordea shares have risen 12 percent this year, versus a
14 percent increase in the Bloomberg index of European banks.  Danish Losses  Loan losses in Denmark, which is teetering on the brink of
its second recession in less than a year after  house prices 
collapsed 25 percent since their 2007 peak, jumped 93 percent to
145 million euros last quarter from a year earlier. Impairments
at Nordea’s shipping unit, which is trying to contain losses in
a container industry battling overcapacity, more than doubled to
54 million euros.  Sweden, whose bank industry assets are four times the size
of the economy, requires its lenders to target 10 percent core
Tier 1 buffers of their risk-weighted assets from next year and
12 percent from 2015. That compares with the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision ’s core capital target of at least 7 percent,
while the European Banking Authority has set a temporary 9
percent target for some banks.  Sweden’s banks have largely steered clear of the  European
debt crisis  and their balance sheets aren’t weighed down by
assets linked to the region’s most indebted nations, giving them
better access to funding than many European peers and allowing
them to increase lending to their Nordic clients.  Capital Buffers  Nordea had a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.2 percent at
the end of September, up from 11.8 percent at the end of June,
excluding so-called transition rules to new regulation.
Including the transition rules, the ratio was 9.8 percent at the
end of the third quarter, the bank said.  The bank “can of course keep increasing” its capital
ratio if needed, Clausen said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. While Nordea’s capital buffer is lower than
reserves at its main rivals in its home market, Clausen said
that is offset by the fact that the pan-Nordic bank only has 20
percent of its business in Sweden.  While Nordea had the sixth-highest core Tier 1 capital
ratio among the largest banks in the European Union in the
second quarter, it is lagging behind its Swedish rivals.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  had core Tier 1
ratios of 17.9 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively, at the
end of September, making the two the best capitalized banks
among 21 major EU lenders.  Swedbank and Handelsbanken also saw higher third-quarter
profit, driven by lower costs and higher net interest income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  