-- Norway Tells Largest Sovereign Wealth Fund to Buy on Dip
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-10-25T11:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/norway-tells-world-s-biggest-sovereign-wealth-fund-to-buy-on-dip.html
Norway ’s $650 billion wealth fund,
the world’s largest, now has to buy stocks as they slump.  The government this month codified that the fund, which
goes by the official name of the Government Pension Fund Global,
has to buy stocks when  markets  are falling as part of a strategy
it calls rebalancing. The process will be triggered when the
fund’s stock weighting deviates more than 4 percentage points
from its 60 percent mandated level at the end of a month.  “We can stomach buying more equities in falling markets,”
Paal Haugerud, head of the Finance Ministry’s asset management
unit, said in an Oct. 18 interview in Oslo. “Short-term
volatility is of lesser importance for a truly long-term
investor.”  The move will open up for the managers of  the fund , headed
by Chief Executive Officer  Yngve Slyngstad , to make more active
choices in investing Norway’s oil wealth as the investor
struggles to meet its 4 percent return target. The fund argues
it can take different risks than other managers since it doesn’t
have any immediate obligations and a steady inflow of capital.  Norway is also shifting the fund’s strategy to capture more
global growth to safeguard the nation’s wealth. It’s moving
 asset allocation  away from  Europe  as emerging markets in  Asia 
and  South America  gain a bigger share of global output.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.6 percent to 271.15 as of
12:46 p.m. in  London . The index is up 11 percent this year.  Real Returns  Norway’s wealth fund has generated a real return of 2.57
percent on average since 1998, and an average annual loss of
0.63 percent over the past five years. In the second quarter
this year, the fund saw its assets decline 2.2 percent as it
lost 77 billion kroner. Equity investments slipped 4.6 percent.  After losing a record 633 billion kroner following the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and global market
losses, the fund responded to the rout by boosting equity
purchases. Transactions of 136 billion kroner at the start of
2009 helped to increase the annual return by about half a
percentage point since 1998,  according to the website of the
central bank , which manages the fund.  In the second half of last year, the fund also bought more
than 150 billion kroner in stocks as part of the strategy to
invest in assets that have fallen in price.  “If you want to be a countercyclical investor, what should
happen is that when equities look cheap you buy more of them,”
Elroy Dimson, a professor emeritus at the  London Business School 
and an adviser to Norway’s Finance Ministry on investment
strategy, said in an interview last week. “It’s right for a
large, long-horizon investor. Whether it pays off in the end
depends on skill and, to some extent, on luck.”  Larger Deviation  In a  Jan. 26 letter  to the government, Slyngstad and
central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen called for a rebalancing
trigger of 3 percentage points. The ministry set a wider target
because the larger deviation will result in fewer rebalancing
events and “somewhat” lower costs, it said in the 2013 budget.  According to Dimson, rebalancing allows for more active
management of Norway’s wealth.  The rule is “an opportunity to allow the manager to make
more decisions about performance and costs,” he said. “This
allows the manager to engage in active management at the asset-
class level.”  The fund, which has an average holding of 1 percent of the
world’s listed companies, has been taking on more risk as it
expands globally, raising its stock portfolio to 60 percent from
40 percent in 2007. It added stocks in 1998,  emerging markets  in
2000 and real estate in 2011. The fund is mandated to hold 35
percent in bonds and 5 percent in real estate. It’s not allowed
to own more than 10 percent in any individual company.  Real Returns  Norway, a nation of 5 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
the country’s largest energy company. The Nordic nation is
Europe’s second-largest oil and gas exporter. The oil fund
invests outside Norway to avoid stoking domestic inflation.  The fund will report third quarter results on Nov. 2.  “Rebalancing has served us well,” Hilde Singsaas, state
secretary at the  Finance Ministry , said in an Oct. 18 interview.
“We need a rule so we don’t deviate too much from the equity
portion of 60 percent. We can get a higher premium from
rebalancing because we can sell when prices are high and buy
when prices are low, so it has been good for the real returns.”  The rule will trigger portfolio rebalancing every other
year on average, according to national budget documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  