-- NYC Rallying Most Since ’08 Refutes Budget Concern: Muni Credit
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-10-24T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/nyc-rallying-most-since-08-refutes-budget-concern-muni-credit.html
New York’s debt is rallying the most
in four years as investors bet the most-populous U.S. city will
overcome a midyear deficit and cope with health costs projected
to grow 35 percent by 2016.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  will say next month how he will
bridge a $635 million hole in his $68.5 billion  budget  created
when a judge blocked a plan to sell 2,000 taxi medallions. Yet
investors this week accepted as little as  0.41 percentage point 
of extra yield to hold 10-year New York general-obligation bonds
rather than AAA municipal bonds, the smallest spread since
August 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors are unfazed by the city’s looming fiscal crunch
because of its diverse economy and stable financial management,
said Joseph Pangallozzi, a managing director with New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager.  “They respond decisively to budget gaps, and there is a
lot of longevity of key managers that have served successive
mayoral administrations and those folks are very good
managers,” said Pangallozzi, whose firm oversees $105 billion
of municipal debt. “New York’s economy is very diverse, broad
and has a very strong real-estate property base.”  New York, rated two steps below AAA by the three major
rating companies, is benefiting from demand for riskier assets
with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  pledging to keep the
central bank’s key overnight rate near zero through mid-2015.
For the city, it’s a reversal from the mid-1970s, when it was on
the brink of bankruptcy and banks stopped buying its debt.  State Oversight  That crisis led to a state law creating the  Financial
Control Board  to oversee New York’s fiscal policies. The board
this year certified the budget as balanced while raising
questions about how the mayor and City Council did it.  Board members cited as a risk the mayor’s reliance on the
sale of the taxi medallions for $1.5 billion over three years.
That plan went awry in June when a judge blocked it, forcing the
mayor to seek $635 million in agency spending cuts by the June
30. The city has appealed the ruling.  The board expressed even more concern about pension
contributions, which have ballooned to about $8 billion this
year from $1.3 billion in 2002, and health costs for current and
retired employees, which are forecast to grow to $2.7 billion by
2016 from $2 billion.  Pension Returns  The board’s focus on pensions was heightened after the
mayor and council adopted a plan by Chief Actuary Robert North
to reduce the assumed rate of return on the city’s $120 billion
in pension-fund assets to 7 percent from 8 percent. The new rate
still must be approved by the state legislature.  The reduced assumption, combined with increased  life
expectancy , work longevity and compensation, means the city
would have had to pay at least $2 billion more a year to meet
its pension obligations, North said. Instead, he devised a plan
to spread some of those payments over 22 years.  While such tactics may balance the spending plan,
“pensions and health-care costs threaten the long-term
financial viability of the city,” said Jeffrey Halis, president
of the New York-based investment company Tyndall Management LLC,
who serves as the board’s public representative.  Marc LaVorgna , Bloomberg’s spokesman, said the mayor shares
the Financial Control Board’s concerns. The mayor, 70, whose
third and final four-year term ends next year, is the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Union Cooperation  “The mayor will walk out of office with the budget in
balance,” LaVorgna said. “He’s spent his entire tenure talking
about rising pension and health-care costs, but pensions can’t
be reduced without state approval and health costs can’t be
reduced without unions’ cooperation in collective bargaining.”  The city has benefited by adapting to the highs and lows of
 Wall Street , said Joe Darcy, who helps manage $15 billion as
head of municipal fixed income for  Hartford Investment
Management Co.  The financial industry’s cash bonus pool is
likely to fall for a second straight year as it grapples with
market turmoil, economic weakness and new rules, New York state
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said Oct. 9.  City officials are “taking the steps to not get overly
generous during periods of strength, which would leave one over-
extended during periods of downturn,” Darcy said.  Three Upgrades  The city’s credit ratings have been raised three times by
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s in the past
seven years, and twice by Fitch. The upgrades came during times
when New York endured two of its most serious fiscal challenges
since the 1970s: the recovery from the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks and the 2008 financial collapse.  Fitch restated its AA rating and stable outlook in an Oct.
18 statement ahead of a $325 million sale of variable-rate
bonds, saying  New York  has a “sound approach to budget
development,” featuring “conservative revenue and expenditure
forecasting and effective budget monitoring.”  In the broader tax-exempt market yesterday, yields on
benchmark 10-year munis were little changed at 1.7 percent, the
highest since Oct. 1, a Bloomberg  index  shows.  Following are pending sales:  COLORADO HEALTH FACILITIES AUTHORITY plans to sell $1.5
billion in taxable revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow on behalf
of Catholic Health Initiatives, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. (Updated Oct. 24)  NEW JERSEY plans to sell $2.6 billion of general-obligation
tax-and revenue-anticipation notes through competitive bid as
soon as Oct. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s the
state’s largest short-term note deal, the data show. Proceeds
will repay a loan from Bank of America Merrill Lynch and boost
 cash flow . (Updated Oct. 24)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  