-- Oaktree Seeks Money for Emerging Markets Distressed Debt
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-10-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/oaktree-seeks-money-for-emerging-markets-distressed-debt.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, will seek capital for
its first fund dedicated to emerging-market distressed and
dislocated debt, according to an investor letter.  Oaktree Emerging Market Opportunities Fund LP is designed
to take advantage of the growing prevalence of corporate and
sovereign credit in developing nations. Outstanding corporate
debt in  emerging markets  totals almost $1 trillion, Los Angeles-
based Oaktree wrote in the letter, a copy of which was obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  The firm previously invested in such debt in an
“opportunistic and sporadic” way after the regions’ financial
crisis in the late 1990s, according to the letter. The fund will
be managed by Julio Herrera, who joined the firm in July to lead
the new strategy after 15 years as president of Fintech Advisory
Inc., a Latin American family office.  Andrea Williams , a spokeswoman for Oaktree Capital,
declined to comment.  The firm, in a separate marketing document, doesn’t
specify a target size for the fund, which is expected to hold an
initial close in the first quarter of 2013. The general partner
commitment must be at least $20 million, or 2.5 percent of the
total capital pledged, according to a summary of terms. That
would indicate a minimum size of about $800 million.  The new fund may invest in performing stressed and
distressed secondary corporate debt, defaulted or nonperforming
securities, direct lending to corporate borrowers and rescue
financings, according to the summary of terms.  Management Fee  Areas of focus also include debt-for-equity transactions,
event-driven deals, recapitalizations, deeply discounted equity
and real estate. Oaktree, which can actively participate in a
company’s reorganization, typically avoids taking part in day-
to-day management.  Oaktree may also seek to raise capital via separate
accounts to invest alongside the main vehicle, the summary of
terms indicates. The fund will charge a 1.75 percent annual
management fee, with discounts possible for investors making
large commitments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  