-- Obama Slanders the 1920s to Justify His Failures
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-10-24T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/obama-slanders-the-1920s-to-justify-his-failures.html
“When it comes to our foreign
policy, you seem to want to import the foreign policies of the
1980s, just like the social policies of the 1950s and the
economic policies of the 1920s,” President  Barack Obama  told
 Mitt Romney  in their final debate.  Obama got sloppy here. Presumably, the president was
suggesting  the 1920s  represent economic failure. The decade
represents just the opposite, as measured by the very goals on
which the Democrats base their 2012 presidential campaign.  Growth: Obama has spoken often and forcefully about
economic growth. In just one debate, the second one, the
president  used  the term “grow” when discussing the economy 13
times, whereas Romney said “grow” or “growth” eight times.
The 1920s had strong growth: Real gross domestic product
increased an average of 4 percent per annum.  Higher wages for skilled workers: “I want high-wage, high-
skill jobs,” Obama has  said . Weekly wages  increased  in the
1920s, especially in the president’s preferred area -- higher-
skilled jobs. Overcoming joblessness, Obama has said, matters
hugely to our future.  “We’ve seen 30 consecutive, 31 consecutive months of job
growth, 5.2 million new jobs created,” the president  said  in
the second debate. The actual  unemployment rate  currently sits
at 7.8 percent, and the Obama case remains that more stimulus
and support are necessary. Contrast that with the 1920s.
Confronting a jobless rate of 11.7 percent in 1921, policy
makers acted by cutting the  federal budget . Unemployment slipped
to 6.7 percent and then to 2.4 percent by 1923, according to the
 Historical Statistics  of the  United States .  Inventions Soared  Innovation is important to Obama. As he  said  earlier this
year: “We are inventors, we are builders, we’re the makers of
things. We’re Thomas Edison and the Wright brothers and  Steve Jobs .” In the 1920s, patent applications for inventions, the
barometer for innovation, averaged more than 80,000 a year, a
level they didn’t reach again until the 1960s. Such newer
inventions made Edison’s light bulb and the Wright brothers’
airplanes common in our society. The 1920s roar was loud and
real.  The 1920s did suffer several problems. Unit banking
(meaning no branches) and poor management of savings and loans
made small financial institutions weak. Many failed. So did many
farms, as a result, some argue, of excessively tight monetary
policy.  The stock market rose too high too fast,  hitting  381 when
it stood at only 100 less than a decade before. Some scholars
believe the market leap resulted from  interest rates  that were
too loose.  In any case, overall, the 1920s data are estimable.
Americans got telephones, fans and Model T’s and A’s. Even
 income distribution  relative to taxes, a favored Democratic
metric, became more favorable: The rich paid a greater share of
the income tax by the end of the decade.  One can hazard two guesses as to why Obama slams the 1920s.
The first is that the 1920s were followed by the 1930s, a decade
of high unemployment when  policies  of federal intervention were
closer to his own. The easiest way to protect the 1930s programs
from criticism is to argue that the 1930s Depression was caused
by 1920s policies.  This argument is a stretch; to hang a whole decade of
trouble on, say, President  Calvin Coolidge , or the 1929 crash,
is hard to do. Economists themselves have long since concluded
that the troubles of the 1930s had many causes. The stock-market
crash of 1929 could have been like those of 1987 or 2000 --
rough but quick. Other factors, including foreign monetary
policy, did damage.  Deeper Depression  Additional domestic programs, mostly the responsibility of
 Herbert Hoover  and  Franklin Roosevelt , the presidents from the
1930s, made the Depression deeper, as well. Especially damaging,
as the scholar  Lee Ohanian  has shown, was a then-new policy of
placing upward pressures on wages through either presidential
exhortation (Herbert Hoover) or law: the Davis-Bacon Act
(Hoover), the Wagner Act, the  Fair Labor Standards Act  ( Franklin D. Roosevelt ).  The second reason the president might want to slam the
1920s is that the policies responsible for such strong
performance in that decade are ones of which Obama, Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and perhaps Romney disapprove. Today, all
politicians avoid  recession  at all cost. The Fed and Treasury
raised interest rates sharply after World War I, even though
everyone knew a recession would result.  Combating inflation and stabilizing the dollar seemed more
important than avoiding a recession. Today, politicians like
stimulus. Back then, over a matter of just a few years, the
federal government cut its size in half. In the 1920s,
presidents and Congress  cut tax rates  often. The top rate on the
income tax, which Obama would like to raise, was cut to 25
percent from more than 50 percent.  Why not allow the president his cheap conceit? For the same
reason we want to call Romney on his lazy argument that Chinese
currency manipulation, rather than our own lack of relative
competitiveness, causes U.S. troubles.  The 1920s are crucial. If we don’t know what really
happened then, then we can’t know what is possible now. Recently
Romney produced a commercial announcing that he and Obama saw
“two very different paths for the country.” In the coming
days, Americans must choose between those paths. That’s
especially hard to do when the country’s past -- the paths
behind -- are kept in the dark.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. Her biography, “Coolidge,” will be published in
February 2013. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the  candidates’ tax plans
are converging  and on the  economics of immigration ;  Caroline
Baum  on the  economic and political landscapes in 2015 ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s way with words ;  Ezra Klein  on the  most
important issue in the presidential race ; Jonathan Mahler on
 Scott Fujita ’s  battle against the NFL ;  Richard Thaler  on why
entrepreneurs aren’t thinking about  tax rates .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  