-- Obama Has Edge in Record Presidential Campaign Ads
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-24T21:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/obama-has-edge-in-record-presidential-campaign-ads.html
The number of presidential election
ads on broadcast and national cable television has increased by
more than 40 percent over 2008, and viewers in Las Vegas, Denver
and Tampa,  Florida , saw the most spots over the last three
weeks, according to a study released today.  President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign outspent
everyone else, though his advantage was eroded by outside groups
backing Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , many of which are
nonprofit organizations that keep their donors hidden, according
to the report by the Wesleyan Media Project, based at Wesleyan
University in Middletown,  Connecticut .  The study found that the campaigns and outside groups aired
more than 915,000 ads through Oct. 21, a 45 percent increase
over the 637,000 TV commercials that ran through the same period
four years ago.  “When all is said and done, 2012 will go down as a record
pulverizing year for political advertising,” said Erika Franklin Fowler, co-director of the Wesleyan Media Project,
which analyzed the data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  In the last three weeks, the ads were concentrated on media
markets in the swing states that political analysts say will
decide the winner on Election Day. All 15 markets with the most
ads from Oct. 1-21 reached viewers in  Colorado , Florida,  Nevada ,
 Ohio  and  Virginia . Denver, Las Vegas and Tampa, home of the 2012
Republican National Convention, led the list.  More Obama Ads  Obama and outside groups supporting his re-election ran
more spots in 13 of those 15 markets than Romney and his allies,
the study found. Romney and the Republicans had an advantage in
just two: Norfolk, Virginia, and Columbus, Ohio.  In each of those 15 markets, Obama’s campaign ran more ads
than anyone else. That advantage was partially offset by the
help Romney received from the Republican National Committee,
super-political action committees supporting his candidacy and
outside groups.  During Oct. 1-21, Obama was on the air in 57 markets, seven
more than Romney, and spent $65.3 million, while Romney, by
himself or jointly with the RNC, spent $37.5 million. At the
same time, eight of the 10 biggest-spending outside groups
backed Romney.  Cash on Hand  Obama, who brought in more than $567 million through Sept.
30 for his re-election, entered October with $99 million in his
bank account, compared with $63 million for Romney, who raised
more than $361 million.  Combined with the Republican National Committee and super-
PACs Restore Our Future and American Crossroads, the Romney side
had more to spend than Obama, the Democratic National Committee
and the super-PAC Priorities USA Action.  Obama’s money went further than did that of Romney and his
allies, because campaigns can buy TV ads for less than outside
groups.  The Obama campaign “is funding most of its own
advertising, which entitles his campaign to the lowest rate,”
said Travis Ridout, another Wesleyan co-director. “By contrast,
many ads supporting Romney are paid for by outside groups, which
must pay whatever the market will bear to get their ads on the
air.”  The biggest outside spender for the general election, the
report found, was American Crossroads and its sister nonprofit
Crossroads GPS, both founded with the help of Karl Rove, former
chief political adviser to President George W. Bush, and former
Bush aide Ed Gillespie, an adviser to Romney. The two groups
spent $90 million, behind only the two presidential nominees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 