-- Lockheed Joins Northrop Seeing Computer Services Decline
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-10-24T20:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/lockheed-joins-northrop-seeing-computer-services-decline.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC)  reported weak sales at their information
technology units and predicted the operations will drag down
revenue next year, especially if automatic U.S. budget cuts take
effect.  Sales of computer services to U.S. agencies, including the
Pentagon, “would probably be impacted sooner” than
traditional, longer-term military contracts, especially if
across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration, aren’t
averted, Wes Bush, chairman and chief executive officer of
Northrop, said today on a conference call with analysts.  Lockheed said in a statement that the company’s revenue
next year would decline “at a low single-digit rate from 2012
levels” because of weak sales anticipated in its Information
Systems & Global Solutions unit, which provides computer-
services to clients including agencies such as  NASA .  Defense contractors renewed their warnings about budget
cuts as they announced third-quarter results today. Lockheed and
Northrop beat analysts’ profit estimates, while  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD)  fell short.  Lockheed rose 2.1 percent to $93.92 at the close in  New
York  trading, the biggest gain since June 29. General Dynamics
climbed 2.4 percent to $67.79, the most since Sept. 6. Northrop
rose less than 1 percent to $69.33.  The U.S. government faces sequestration, automatic budget
cuts of about $1 trillion over a decade starting in January,
unless Congress and the president can agree on alternative
deficit reduction measures. About $500 billion will come from
the defense budget in addition to the $487 billion the Pentagon
already plans to cut from its previously planned budgets over 10
years.  Civilian Agencies  Defense contractors expanded in information services to
government agencies to diversify their revenue sources beyond
the Pentagon. Now, civilian agencies with smaller budgets than
the Pentagon’s may be especially hard-hit by the budget cuts,
Bush said.  The information technology business is “one sector where
everybody feels the competitive pressure, whatever the budget
scenario,”  Byron Callan , a defense industry analyst in
Washington with Capital Alpha Partners LLC, said in a phone
interview today. “I wouldn’t be surprised if that sector goes
through more restructuring in 2013 and 2014,” such as mergers
and acquisitions, he said.  Lockheed’s Profit  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, said
third-quarter profit rose 9.3 percent and raised its full-year
profit forecast.  Net income from continuing operations for the quarter rose
to $727 million, or $2.21 a share, from $665 million, or $1.99 a
share, a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
The  average estimate  of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a profit of $1.85 a share. Sales declined 2.1 percent to
$11.9 billion.  Full-year profit will be $8.20 to $8.40 a share compared
with the forecast of $7.90 to $8.10 a share made in July, the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company said. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast profit of $8.18 a share.  Sales at Lockheed’s Information Systems & Global Solutions
unit fell 1.3 percent to $2.3 billion. Profit at the unit fell
1.9 percent to $209 million.  Earlier this month Lockheed dropped plans to issue layoff
notices to its employees after warning that it may have to fire
as many as 10,000 workers if the automatic budget cuts go into
effect in January.  WARN Act  The company changed its intention to issue notices after
the White House Office of Management and Budget on Sept. 29 said
the government will cover legal and compensation costs if
defense and domestic cuts take effect in January and contractors
are held liable in court for not giving enough notice under the
federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act.  Lockheed decided not to issue layoff notices after the
Pentagon reassured the company that no contract disruptions
would occur on January 2 or for several months after as a result
of sequestration, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert Stevens told reporters today on a conference call.  “We will comply with the law and issue WARN Act notices at
the appropriate time” if sequestration-related actions are
likely to affect the company’s contracts, Stevens said.  ‘Grand Bargain’  Stevens said on a conference call with analysts later in
the day that “it would be hard to get a grand bargain in the
lame-duck session of the Congress,” when lawmakers return after
the Nov. 6 elections, to call off the sequestration.  A grand bargain “tends to have value ranges of $4 trillion
to $5 trillion and involves significant amount of work looking
at taxes, entitlements and spending,” said Stevens. He said one
alternative would be for Congress to delay the automatic cuts
until March, when a stopgap spending measure now in effect
expires and it must be extended or a budget approved.  Lockheed is under pressure as it negotiates a contract with
the Pentagon for the next lot of its F-35 Joint Strike Fighter,
the Pentagon’s single biggest weapons program. Officials
including Air Force Major General Christopher Bogdan, the deputy
program executive officer, have criticized the company for poor
relations, delays in software development and problems with
helmets worn by the plane’s pilots.  F-35 Talks  The company has received 75 percent of the funds toward
that fifth lot of F-35 trial production orders, pending
completion of contract talks, Bruce Tanner, Lockheed’s chief
financial officer, told reporters today.  Lockheed has 94 F-35 jets on its production line from
various lots, and the lack of a completed contract for the fifth
lot won’t affect this year’s profit, Tanner said.  General Dynamics, the maker of Abrams tanks and Gulfstream
business jets, said third-quarter profit fell 9.7 percent on
weaker sales and profit at its information technology unit.  Net income from continuing operations was $600 million, or
$1.70 a share, compared with $665 million, or $1.83 a share, a
year earlier, the Falls Church, Virginia-based company said
today in a statement. It missed analysts’ forecast of $1.78 a
share, the average of 20 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 1 percent to $7.93 billion.  Gulfstream Jets  While the company has said the prospect of cuts in defense
spending already is slowing contract awards at some of the
company’s units, sales in its aerospace operation, the maker of
Gulfstream business jets, rose 30 percent and profit increased
20.3 percent during the quarter.  “We remain encouraged by Gulfstream’s sizable large-cabin
backlog and healthy order pipeline,” Jay Johnson, chairman and
chief executive, said on a conference call. “We continue to
believe that we will realize several multi-aircraft
international orders in the coming months.”  Northrop today boosted its full-year profit forecast to
$7.35 to $7.40 a share from a previous estimate of $7.05 to
$7.25 a share. The average of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
is for $7.25.  Northrop’s income from continuing operations for the third
quarter was $459 million, or $1.82 a share, compared with $520
million, or $1.86, in the same period last year, the company
said in a statement. The average of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for profit of $1.69 a share. Sales fell 5.1
percent to $6.27 billion.  Sales at the company’s Information Systems unit fell 9.2
percent to $1.78 billion, and profit at the unit declined 9.1
percent to $170 million.  Bush, the Northrop CEO, said the uncertainty about defense
cuts is compounded because Congress has failed to pass a
spending measure for fiscal 2013, which began on Oct. 1. Interim
funding restricts how money can be used, limiting new contracts
in areas such as information technology, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  