-- Ocwen Said to Win $3 Billion Rescap Bankruptcy Auction
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-24T17:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ocwen-said-to-win-3-billion-rescap-loan-servicing-auction.html
Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  won a $3
billion auction for Residential Capital LLC’s loan-servicing
unit, beating  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , to become at
least the fifth-largest U.S. mortgage servicer.  Ocwen will become the biggest non-bank in the mortgage-
servicing industry, a business that becomes more profitable with
greater scale, according to  Wilbur Ross , who sold his Homeward
Residential Holdings Inc. to Ocwen this month. He paid $750
million in cash and convertible preferred stock and has a
continuing stake in the firm. Ocwen teamed up for the ResCap bid 
with  Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC)   “The ResCap Board of Directors has given its preliminarily
approval of the bid by the team of Ocwen and Walter Investment
for $3 billion as the highest and best bid,” said Susan Fitzpatrick, ResCap’s communications director, in a statement.  Ocwen rose as much as 7.5 percent to $38.91 on news of the
bid and fell 35 cents to $35.85 as of 1:10 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange trading. Nationstar fell as much as 15 percent
and was down $5.44 to $29.42 at 1:10.  The bidders were betting they can profit as banks retreat
from the $9.6 trillion mortgage servicing industry, a business
that used to generate monthly revenue of 0.25 percent to 0.4
percent of loan balances. Federal and state probes of
foreclosure practices led to new regulations that are driving up
costs, and a pending change in bank capital requirements also
made the business less desirable.  Nationstar’s head of investor relations Marshall Murphy
didn’t return a call for comment. Katarina Wenk-Bodenmiller, an
outside spokeswoman for Ocwen at Sommerfield Communications
Inc., didn’t immediately have a statement from the company.  Auto Lender  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a Detroit-based auto lender majority
owned by U.S. taxpayers, allowed ResCap to file for bankruptcy
in May to distance itself from the mortgage lenders’ losses and
help repay its 2008 bailout following the U.S.  housing  crash and
subsequent credit crisis. Ally was previously owned by General
Motors Corp.  ResCap, coupled with Ally’s much smaller business, was the
fifth-largest mortgage servicer in the U.S. in the second
quarter, handling the billing and collections on about $329
billion of mortgages, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a
trade journal. ResCap, once among the largest originators,
reduced its assets to $15.7 billion in the first quarter from
more than $130 billion in 2006.  Mortgage liabilities at ResCap from faulty home loans made
before the housing bubble burst helped derail Ally’s initial
public offering. A successful sale of the unit would allow Ally
Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter to separate the auto
lender from its money-losing unit.  Bolster Business  Ocwen has also bolstered its business, including the
purchase of WL Ross & Co.’s Homeward, which services about
422,000 mortgages with an unpaid principal balance exceeding $77
billion, according to a statement from Ocwen.  Its  shares  had gained 25 percent since the announcement of
the Homeward acquisition through yesterday.  Ocwen is currently the largest independent servicer with
$5.4 billion in assets. Nationstar, based in Lewisville,  Texas ,
has $4.9 billion. Revenue at Ocwen rose to $211 million in the
second quarter, about double the year earlier, as it bought
servicing rights from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and sub-contracted
with other institutions to handle their most troubled loans.  Customer Objections  Before completing the purchase, the winning bidder must
overcome objections from ResCap customers, including its two
biggest,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The government-controlled
companies have demanded in court filings that the winner take on
the legal liability that ResCap currently faces for loans it
originated.  ResCap’s $2.1 billion of 9.625 percent, third-lien
securities, which represent almost two-thirds of its outstanding
bonds and fell to as low as 57 cents on the dollar last year,
have traded above face value for a month. They rose 1.25 cents
to 104 cents today, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Stalking Horse  Nationstar’s $2.3 billion stalking horse bid for the right
to service mortgages owned by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
others, was based on not accepting any potential legal
liabilities for the loans, according to court documents.  Once the auction is over, New York-based ResCap and the
winner will have until Nov. 19 to resolve the dispute with the
mortgage owners, which are demanding at least $394 million in
payments in addition to the liability guarantees. Should they
fail, the fight would be decided by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan , who is overseeing ResCap’s case.  Berkshire Hathaway is the stalking horse bidder for a
separate auction of ResCap’s mortgage portfolio, which will
follow the servicing auction.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  