-- Berkshire to Lead Bidding for ResCap’s Loan Portfolio
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ocwen-wins-3-billion-auction-to-lead-mortgage-servicing.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is the
opening bidder today for a portfolio of Residential Capital
LLC’s whole loans, a day after ResCap auctioned its mortgage
servicing business to  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  for $3 billion.  Berkshire will start the auction for the loan portfolio,
competing against a consortium of financial investors,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Yesterday Ocwen beat  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  in
an auction that would create at least the fifth-largest U.S.
mortgage servicer. It’s a business that profits from making
sales beyond servicing, said Rick Sharga, an executive vice
president at Carrington Mortgage Holdings, in a phone interview.  The wisdom of this deal “will depend on Ocwen’s ability to
drive incremental revenue beyond the servicing,” Sharga said.
“If you were just looking at how much money you would make
servicing the loans, it would be tough to justify the money they
spent. But once you start thinking about the incremental
revenue, it starts to make a lot more sense.”  Servicing a loan pool the size of ResCap’s can feed other
related businesses such as asset management, real-estate
brokerage or loan originations, Sharga said. “A pool this size
can feed all those businesses,” he said.  Banks Retreat  The bidders were betting they can profit as banks retreat
from the $9.6 trillion mortgage servicing industry, a business
that can generate monthly revenue of 0.25 percent to 0.4 percent
of loan balances. Federal and state probes of foreclosure
practices led to new regulations that are driving up costs, and
a pending change in bank capital requirements also made the
business less desirable.  The acquisition serves to “add high return servicing
assets to our portfolio,” Ocwen’s Chairman William Erbey said
in a joint statement. The firm plans to keep much of ResCap’s
servicing infrastructure, according to the statement.  Under the agreement, Ocwen’s partner in the bidding,  Walter
Investment Management Corp. (WAC) , will add the servicing rights on
more than $50 billion in unpaid balance on loans owned, insured
or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, as well as ResCap’s origination and
capital-markets businesses, according to the statement. Neither
Ocwen nor Walter will have to raise capital to complete the
transaction, they said.  Auto Lender  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a Detroit-based auto lender majority
owned by U.S. taxpayers, allowed ResCap to file for bankruptcy
in May to distance itself from the mortgage lenders’ losses and
help repay its 2008 bailout following the U.S.  housing  crash and
subsequent credit crisis. Ally was previously owned by General
Motors Corp.  ResCap, coupled with Ally’s much smaller business, was the
fifth-largest mortgage servicer in the U.S. in the second
quarter, handling the billing and collections on about $329
billion of mortgages, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a
trade journal. ResCap, once among the largest originators,
reduced its assets to $15.7 billion in the first quarter from
more than $130 billion in 2006.  Mortgage liabilities at ResCap from faulty home loans made
before the housing bubble burst helped derail Ally’s initial
public offering. A successful sale of the unit would allow Ally
Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter to separate the auto
lender from its money-losing unit.  Before completing the purchase, Ocwen must overcome
objections from ResCap customers, including its two biggest,
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The government-controlled companies
have demanded in court filings that the winner take on the legal
liability that ResCap currently faces for loans it originated.  New York-based ResCap and Ocwen will have until Nov. 19 to
resolve the dispute with the mortgage owners, which are
demanding at least $394 million in payments in addition to the
liability guarantees. Should they fail, the fight would be
decided by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan , who
is overseeing ResCap’s case.  Morrison & Foerster LLP is the law firm handling the
bankruptcy case. Centerview Partners LLC and FTI Consulting Inc.
are ResCap’s financial advisers.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  