-- Molina Jumps as Texas Health Plan Rebounds: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-24T20:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/molina-jumps-as-texas-health-plan-rebounds-los-angeles-mover.html
Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH) , the insurer
specializing in Medicaid plans for the poor, jumped the most in
almost four months in  New York  trading after reporting a profit
on improved results from its biggest market.  The insurer rose 14 percent to $25.81 at the close of
trading, for its biggest one-day gain since July 9. The  Long
Beach , California-based administrator of coverage for Medicaid,
the government-funded program for low-income patients, yesterday
said it had third-quarter  net income  of 7 cents a share after a
“rapid turnaround” in  Texas .  The net income contrasts with results of the second
quarter, when high medical costs in Texas, which generates about
a fourth of Molina’s revenue, led to a net loss of 80 cents a
share and the withdrawal of the company’s full-year forecast. A
rate increase and reduced costs in Texas helped fuel the
rebound, said Scott Fidel, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in New
York, in a note to clients today.  The Texas result “shows sharp improvement in the third
quarter, which puts Molina firmly on track to return to
profitability here in the fourth quarter,” Fidel wrote. The
improvement outweighed a rise in medical costs in  California ,
the company’s fourth-largest market, he said.  The California figures may be a warning sign for earnings
at  Health Net Inc. (HNT) , the Woodland Hills, California-based insurer
that partners with Molina in that state, Fidel wrote. Health Net
collects a fifth of its insurance premiums from California
Medicaid contracts, he said. Its shares fell 4 percent to
$21.26.  Health Net is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on
Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  