-- Monti Endorses Radical Policy Stance as Italy Prepares for Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/monti-endorses-radical-policy-stance-as-italy-prepares-for-vote.html
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti,
facing resistance from parliamentary backers over his 2013
budget proposal, said government policies need to be radical to
step up the pace of change.  “There’s definitely not a need for moderate policies,”
Monti said yesterday in a speech at a book presentation in  Rome .
“There’s need for radical political reform.”  Monti, who imposed austerity in his 11 months in power, is
fending off calls to change a budget plan that in its current
form would raise the value-added tax, cut income-tax deductions
and reduce rates on the lowest earners. The premier is dealing
with discord as his coalition partners prepare for elections
next year in which he has said he won’t seek a second term.  “We need a transformation that is much more radical than
what’s been done” by the current government, Monti said.  Monti’s supporters are seeking to assert themselves after
giving ground in opinion polls to opposition voices like the
euro-skeptic, comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo. Monti met
this week with partners including former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and Pier Luigi Bersani, head of  Italy ’s Democratic
Party. Bersani said yesterday after speaking with the premier
that the budget required changes.  Budget ‘Modifications’  “Some modifications are needed,” Bersani told reporters
outside of Monti’s offices in Rome. “We considered some
possible corrections, but we have to talk to the other political
forces.”  Bersani’s group and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party,
traditional rivals prior to joining forces to support Monti,
will run against each in next year’s vote. Monti has said that
while he won’t run in the election, which must be held by April,
he will be available to serve again if needed.  Grillo’s 5 Star Movement rose to more than 20 percent in an
opinion poll for the first time, SWG Institute said last week.
Grillo’s group is second to the Democratic Party, which took
25.9 percent, according to the Trieste, Italy-based pollster.
People of Liberty fell to 14.3 percent from 15.1 percent, SWG
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  