-- Moody’s Says ‘Likely’ Solvency II Delay Is Negative for Insurers
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-10-24T12:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/moody-s-says-likely-solvency-ii-delay-is-negative-for-insurers.html
Moody’s Investors Service said a
“likely further delay” of a new risk-based regulatory regime
for European insurers such as  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS)  will have
“broadly negative” implications.  A later start of Solvency II, which has already been
postponed to 2014 and may now be further delayed until 2016,
would defer a “stronger, credit-enhancing regulatory regime”
the ratings company said in a report today. It would also allow
insurers to “incur more risk than regulators would allow under
the new regime” and favour companies that are less advanced
with the rules’ implementation, it said.  While the European Commission had planned to start
introducing Solvency II  from next year ,  delays  in getting
approval from the European Parliament have led to discussions
about further postponements. EU lawmakers  rescheduled  a plenary
vote on the so-called  Omnibus II Directive  needed to agree on
the final criteria for calculating  capital requirements  under
the new regime from Nov. 20 to March 11 next year.  The EU’s top insurance regulator, the Frankfurt-based
European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, or
 Eiopa , may “ask insurers to participate in an evaluation
exercise, the Long Term Guarantee Assessment, and we believe
this assessment to be a likely contributor to the push-back of
the Omnibus II vote and the project overall,” Moody’s said.  Gabriel Bernardino, chairman of Eiopa, told the Wall Street
Journal in an  interview  on Oct. 17 that “under the best
scenario, Solvency II could start to be implemented either 2015
or 2016.” His comments were echoed by  Carlos Montalvo , Eiopa’s
executive director, in Baden-Baden,  Germany , earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  