-- Moody’s, Fitch May Cut Rosneft on $45 Billion Cost of TNK-BP
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-10-24T15:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/moody-s-may-cut-rosneft-tnk-bp-as-45-billion-needed-for-deal.html
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings may reduce the debt ratings of OAO Rosneft as  Russia ’s
largest oil producer needs to raise $45 billion to acquire TNK-
BP from  BP Plc (BP/)  and its billionaire partners in the venture.  Rosneft’s Baa1 and TNK-BP’s Baa2 ratings are under review
for possible downgrade on a lack of information on the structure
of $28 billion of the funding for the deal, Julia Pribytkova, a
Russia oil and gas analyst at Moody’s, said today by phone. The
size of the deal also makes Rosneft more reliant on  oil prices .  “The company could come under pressure when or if oil
prices weaken,” Pribytkova said. Rosneft would be “fine” at
$95 a barrel, Moody’s estimate for next year, she said, while a
$60 a barrel rate may affect its immediate access to funds.  Fitch also placed the state-owned company on a negative
rating watch after the TNK-BP deal, it said in a statement.  Rosneft on Oct. 22 agreed to buy BP’s 50 percent stake in
TNK-BP for $17.1 billion in cash and a 12.84 percent holding in
the Russian oil producer. It also announced a deal to purchase
the other half of the venture from the billionaires.  The company will be able to use cash currently on TNK-BP’s
balance sheet to pay its borrowings, Rosneft’s Chief Executive
Officer  Igor Sechin  said yesterday. TNK-BP didn’t pay dividends
this year after a dispute between BP and its venture partners.  Cutting Interest  Rosneft was able to reduce the interest it’s offering to
pay on about $15 billion of loans to buy BP’s half of TNK-BP
after banks oversubscribed to the deal, two people with
knowledge of the terms said this month.  The company’s 2011 sales would have been $152.2 billion if
it held TNK-BP and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization would have been $36.6 billion, the Moscow-based
oil producer said in a presentation posted on its website today.  Rosneft debt would rise to about 2 times Ebitda after the
deal, compared with 1 times at OAO Gazprom, Pribytkova said.  “If the transaction closes Fitch would expect no more than
a one-notch downgrade, leaving Rosneft’s ratings as investment
grade,” the ratings company said today in its statement. Fitch
now rates Rosneft BBB, its second-lowest investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  