-- Tori Shin’s $50 Chick-On-A-Stick Rocks Yakitori: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-10-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/tori-shin-s-50-chick-on-a-stick-rocks-yakitori-review.html
Serving a 10-course tasting menu for
$50, Tori Shin is surely one of  New York ’s most affordable
restaurants. Paradoxically, this Upper East Side Japanese spot
also is among the most expensive.  How’s that? The $50 sampler includes no truffles, no
langoustines, no caviar. Guests sit at a cramped counter in a
tiny room smelling of aromatic charcoal. They’re served a few
small vegetable plates and seven “three bite” skewers of
chicken, some of them cooked to a deliciously pink medium rare.
(Don’t worry, it’s safe. A city health inspector dropped by
during one visit. Suffice it to say Tori Shin is still open).  Such is the minimalism practiced at New York’s only
Michelin-starred yakitori bar, a tasty temple dedicated to
chicken-on-a-stick. In the U.S., its ho-hum ubiquity shouts
wedding buffet or cocktail reception. But the Japanese adore it.
Here, I’ll side with the Japanese, at least when it’s made with
such devotion to quality.  Chicken oysters are a must. They’re a part of the bird
you’ve doubtless never sampled, because cooks like to save them
for themselves; there are only two per chicken.  ‘Kobe’ Chicken  A chef cuts the round knob of meat from a pocket of the
backbone near each thigh and grills them over mild, subtle
bincho-tan charcoal. The gently crisped skin gives way to a
sphere of meat that’s only slightly firmer than a scallop. The
flavor is concentrated, salty, luscious.  Call it “Kobe” chicken and order a la carte instead of the
Wagyu beef ($18), a forgettable Australian product with none of
the melt-in-the-mouth marbling that one expects.  It’s common these days to fawn over fowl as chicken becomes
one of the pricier items on menus. Momofuku Noodle Bar’s fried
birds cost $100 and book up to a month out. Then there’s the
foie gras and truffle stuffed chicken at The NoMad, an absurdly
delicious dish that serves two for $79.  On a price-per-ounce basis, Tori Shin’s $50 chicken tasting
for one might be the most expensive of them all.  The ideal meal at Tori begins with foie gras. And by foie
gras I mean chicken liver. Not your grandmother’s chicken liver,
though.  No, Tangs  Dollops of liver dissolve in the mouth like a savory
panna cotta, with none of the usual sharp tang. It’s less about
the flavor, which is neutral, and more about the texture, which
is slippery and sublime.  Heighten the experience with a glass of Harada junmai ginjo
($19). The rounded texture and mouth-filling flavor of the rice
wine provide the perfect complement.  Kidneys are sweet and tender. The meat is delicately bound
by sinew that melts in the mouth. Indeed, Tori Shin is a good
place to bring friends with an aversion to offal, because the
flavors are all entry-level and not as gamey as organ meat more
typically can be.  Hearts are only vaguely more distinct than a good chicken
thigh, while gizzards, often tough and stringy, chew with a
delicate snap. Tamer diners can take comfort that almost every
meal includes juicy skewers of breast meat.  Rubber Bands  Repeat visitors can have a bit more fun by ordering from
the page of “special skewers,” which details a variety of
chicken parts that even advanced eaters might not recognize as
edible, such as the soft bone or knee gristle. If a chef offers
you the “main artery,” accept without condition, as it will be
your rare opportunity to taste what will essentially be chicken-
flavored rubber bands. It’s pretty rad, once you get used to it.  My most adventurous endeavor was a tasting of three
different chicken skins: crispy skin; obscenely silky belly
skin; and somewhat blubbery neck skin.  Chicken meatballs seem tame enough. They’re not. The salty
spheres pack a curious crunch. What is it? Cartilage. If your
dining companions ask for an explanation, lie and say it’s
crushed nuts. Another bonus: One of your three vegetable plates
might include soft eggplant with gossamer sheaths of bonito
flakes. This is a vegetable course for carnivores.  There’s also a $55 tasting option, which includes fewer
skewers, a cup of chicken broth, and a chicken rice dish; it’s a
burdensome amount of food. Stick with the $50 offering and be
firm about no duck (because it’s mediocre) and no pork belly
(because it’s blubbery). Chicken is king here.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Set menus at $50, $55. A la carte also available.  Sound Level: Sometimes boisterous but usually around 75.  Date Place: Can get a little warm inside, so yes.  Special Feature: Excellent grilled cod roe appetizer ($10).  Inside Tip: The $20 omakase lunch is a bargain.  Back on My Own Dime: From time to time, yes.  Tori Shin is at 1193 First Avenue. Information: +1-212-988-
8408 or  http://torishinny.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and Upper
East Side  galleries .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 