-- Hormone Use After Menopause Start May Reduce Dementia
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-10-24T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/hormone-use-after-menopause-start-may-reduce-dementia.html
Women who begin taking hormone
therapy within five years of starting menopause cut their risk
for Alzheimer’s disease, a study found.  Those who took treatments such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s estrogen
pill Premarin within five years of menopause lowered their
chance of Alzheimer’s by 30 percent, according to research
released today in the journal  Neurology .  While some prior observational studies have shown that
hormone therapy helps lower the chance of developing Alzheimer’s
disease, an earlier randomized trial showed an increase risk,
the authors said. Today’s data also found that those who started
the pills later than five years saw no benefit, adding to the
debate and suggesting more analysis is needed before doctors can
recommend women take hormone therapy right after menopause to
prevent Alzheimer’s, said study author Peter Zandi.  “This is just another piece of evidence that suggests
timing might be important,”  Zandi , an associate professor in
the Department of Mental Health at the  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health  in Baltimore, said in an Oct. 22
telephone interview. “As a result of our study, I don’t think
women should change their behaviors just yet. They shouldn’t
think that they’re going to take hormone therapies to protect
against Alzheimer’s disease.”  Menopausal women take hormone treatments to relieve hot
flashes, night sweats and vaginal symptoms. The  hormone
replacement therapies  should be taken at the lowest dose and for
the shortest duration needed to relieve symptoms, according to
U.S. recommendations. Some of the treatments may increase a
woman’s risk of breast cancer, heart disease and stroke.  Health Concerns  More than 6 million women took New York-based Pfizer’s
Premarin and Prempro, a combination of estrogen and progestin,
to treat their menopausal symptoms before they were linked in
2002 to health concerns such as breast cancer. The drugmaker has
paid about $1.1 billion to settle lawsuits and set aside another
$532 million to resolve the remaining cases, according to an
August filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Researchers in today’s study followed 1,768 women ages 65
and older for 11 years. The women provided their use of hormone
therapies and the date when their menopause began. In the study,
1,105 women used estrogen or estrogen in combination with
progestin.  Of the women taking hormone therapy, 87 developed
Alzheimer’s disease, while 89 of 663 who didn’t take the
treatments got the disease.  The researchers found that women who started hormone
therapy within five years of menopause had a significantly lower
risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease, while those who started
the treatments later in life had no such benefits. Women who
took hormone therapies for 10 or more years saw the most
benefit, the authors said.  Protecting Neurons  Estrogen  may be helpful to neurons in the brain, protecting
them and helping them to grow, Zandi said. It may also help with
blood flow in the brain. Preventing a sudden drop in estrogen
around menopause by taking hormone therapies may be why the
treatments help prevent Alzheimer’s disease, he said.  Victor Henderson , who wrote an accompanying editorial, said
that women should be somewhat relieved by these findings if they
are taking the treatments for menopausal symptoms. He said
though that more studies are needed before changes to hormone
therapy recommendations are made.  Today’s findings give “additional evidence that hormone
therapy use close to the time of menopause may not be associated
with the same risks seen with later initiation of hormone
therapy,” said Henderson, a professor of health and policy and
neurology and neurological sciences, at Stanford University in
 California , in an Oct. 22 telephone interview.  The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health is
named for Michael Bloomberg,  New York  City’s mayor and the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  