-- Emerging Stocks Drop to Two-Week Low as Earnings Curbed
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-24T21:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/most-emerging-stocks-decline-as-earnings-overshadow-china-data.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
two-week low after German manufacturing and business confidence
unexpectedly declined and company earnings reports stoked
concern that the global slowdown is curbing profits.  Brazilian oil company OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes
dropped to the lowest level since January 2009, the steepest
decline on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s
second-biggest oil producer, also fell as crude dropped for a
fifth day.  Honam Petrochemical Corp. (011170) , South Korea’s second-
biggest maker of petrochemical products by market value, dropped
the most since July after third-quarter profit tumbled.  The benchmark index dropped 0.2 percent to 994.55 at the
close of trading  New York , its lowest close since Oct. 10. About
62 percent of companies on the MSCI gauge that reported
 quarterly earnings  have trailed analysts’ estimates, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. A German index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in the manufacturing industry fell to 45.7
this month from 47.4 in September and business confidence fell
in October, according to data from Markit Economics and the Ifo
institute in Munich today.  “The market continues to gravitate between risk-on and
risk-off,” Geoffrey Ng, who helps oversee $1.8 billion as chief
executive officer at Hong Leong Asset Management Bhd., said by
phone from Kuala Lumpur. “There will be continued weakness in
results in the fourth quarter.”  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.7 percent.  Russia, Brazil Sink  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.3 percent, Dubai’s DFM General
Index fell 0.5 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa fell 0.9 percent.
Hungary’s BUX Index and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  slipped at least 1 percent
as trading resumed after holidays.  Gauges of energy, industrial and consumer discretionary
shares led declines among 10  industry  groups. Telecommunication
services stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.3
percent, the biggest gain, on speculation earnings will be more
sheltered from the global slowdown.  South Korea’s Kospi index sank 0.7 percent to its lowest
close since Sept. 6. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.1
percent, erasing an earlier loss of 0.5 percent, after data
signaled a Chinese manufacturing slump is easing.  Poland’s zloty, the biggest loser among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, weakened 0.7 percent against
the euro.  Higher Yields  Russia’s ruble-denominated bonds due in February 2019 slid
for a second day, driving the yield up one basis point to 7.23
percent. The government scrapped a sale of seven-year bonds for
the first time since May as investors demanded higher yields
than the government offered after Urals crude dropped.  German business confidence fell to the lowest since
February 2010. The Ifo institute said its business climate index
dropped to 100.0 from 101.4 in September, the sixth straight
decline. Economists predicted an increase to 101.6, according to
the median of 39 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations index send
about 30 percent of their exports to the European Union on
average, data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  MSCI’s measure of developing-nation equities has climbed
8.5 percent this year, trailing a 9.8 percent increase in the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The emerging-markets
gauge trades at 11.5 times estimated profit, compared with the
MSCI World’s 13.1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings  BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3)  tumbled 4.9 percent in  Sao Paulo 
after the company reported same-store sales increased 6.2
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, below the 7
percent growth seen in the last quarter. OGX slumped 7.8 percent
to the lowest level since January 2009.  Honam Petrochemical lost 5.2 percent in  Seoul  after third-
quarter net income sank 51 percent to 163.3 billion won ($148
million). Its unit  KP Chemical Corp. (064420)  slid 6.3 percent, the
second biggest decliner on the benchmark index, after reporting
a net loss of 1.53 billion won compared with a profit of 62
billion won a year earlier.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  slumped 4.4 percent to a 14-month low on
concern the automaker may report weaker-than-expected quarterly
profit, Lee Hyun Soo, an analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co., said
by phone. Kia is scheduled to release results on Oct. 26.  Lukoil declined 1.1 percent and OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
biggest natural-gas exporter, lost 0.4 percent.  Emaar, UEM  Emaar Properties (EMAAR)  retreated 1.9 percent, the most since Oct.
8, after third-quarter net income dropped 5 percent to 387
million dirhams ($105 million), compared with analysts’
estimates of 476 million dirhams.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  jumped
5.7 percent to a three-month high in Hong Kong, after the
company got a tender-barge order from a Norwegian customer.  UEM Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB) , a Malaysian property developer,
rallied 11 percent in  Kuala Lumpur , the most since January 2011.
The company announced yesterday a joint venture with Ascendas
Land International Pte. to develop a S$1.5 billion technology
park in Malaysia’s southern state of Johor.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 278, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  