-- U.K. Stocks Advance, Snapping Three-Day Drop; ARM Gains
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-10-24T15:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/most-u-k-stocks-drop-as-german-data-miss-estimates.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for the first
time in four days as reports showed that the slump in Chinese
manufacturing is easing and purchases of new U.S. homes rose to
a two-year high.  ARM Holdings (ARM)  Plc surged to the highest in almost 12 years
as Exane BNP Paribas increased its price target for the stock.
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc rose to the highest since 1988 after
sales beat estimates.  National Express  Group Plc tumbled 13
percent after saying government cutbacks have hurt prospects for
its bus division.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 0.1 percent to 5,804.78 in
London. The equity benchmark has  rallied 10 percent from this
year’s low  on June 1 as European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi pledged to do everything to protect the euro. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index climbed less than 0.1 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.6 percent.  “The market is trying to consolidate a bit,” said
Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities
in  London . “The data from  China  served as a slight ray of
light. Investors don’t want to give up hope.”  In China, the preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
increased to 49.1 in October. The final level in September was
47.9. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Purchases of new U.S. homes rose in September to the
highest level in more than two years, data showed today. Sales
climbed 5.7 percent to a 389,000 annual pace, the most since
April 2010, following a revised 368,000 rate in August. The
median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for sales to rise to 385,000.  U.K. Manufacturing  The Confederation of British Industry’s gauge of  factory
orders  dropped to minus 23 in October from minus 8 in September,
the U.K.’s biggest business lobby said today. The median of 11
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey had called for an increase
to minus 6. A separate quarterly survey said manufacturing
stagnated over the past three months, its worst performance
since 2009.  An index of optimism about the  business situation  declined
to minus 12 from minus 6, while a gauge of export confidence
dropped to minus 19 from minus 3.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said the Monetary
Policy Committee is ready to add supportive measures again as it
assesses the strength of the domestic recovery amid signs that
global economic weakness is spreading.  ‘Positive Signs’  “At this stage, it is difficult to know whether some of
the recent more positive signs will persist,” King said in a
speech late yesterday in Cardiff, Wales. “Should those signs
fade, the MPC does stand ready to inject more money into the
economy.”  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted more
than economists forecast in October, a report showed.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries fell to 45.8, the lowest in more than three
years, from 46.1 in September, London-based Markit Economics
said today.  Measures of German manufacturing, services and business
climate also missed forecasts, according to reports released
today.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  defended his
plan to buy  government bonds  in the German parliament today with
a warning about deflation risks.  ‘Falling Prices’  The ECB’s so-called Outright Monetary Transactions “will
not lead to inflation,” Draghi told lawmakers in Berlin,
according to a text provided by the ECB. “In our assessment,
the greater risk to  price stability  is currently falling prices
in some euro-area countries,” he said.  ARM Holdings  rose 5.6 percent to 675.5 pence, the highest
price since November 2000. Exane raised its price target for the
shares by 6 percent to 670 pence. ARM’s customer Apple Inc.
yesterday unveiled its iPad Mini with prices starting at $329.  Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of Lysol cleaners and Nurofen
painkillers, advanced 3.7 percent to 3,768 pence, the highest
since at least 1988.  Third-quarter (RB/)  non-pharmaceutical sales rose
5 percent on a comparable basis, the company said. The median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 4
percent gain.  The company also said it expects market growth this year to
be at the top end of its forecast range and maintained a
forecast that its sales will rise at a faster pace.  Argos Outlets  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the owner of Homebase do-it-yourself
stores, rallied 1.5 percent to 105.7 pence. The company may
close or relocate 75 of its Argos outlets and add more online
items to revive earnings, which slumped 37 percent in the first
half.  Pretax profit declined to 17.9 million pounds ($28.6
million) in the six months ended Sept. 1. That beat the average
of 13.1 million pounds from eight analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Punch Taverns (PUB)  rose 2.2 percent to 6.55 pence. The company,
which owns more than 4,500 U.K. pubs, said it is in discussions
with shareholders as it prepares to restructure 2.4 billion
pounds ($3.8 billion) of mortgage-backed bonds.  The company reported earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 238 million pounds in the year
ended Aug. 18, lower than last year’s 258 million pounds.  National Express plunged 13 percent to 180.4 pence, the
sharpest decrease in three years. The U.K. coach and train
operator said business in 2013 will be  “challenging” (NEX)  as
government cutbacks in its home market and  Spain  hurt prospects
for its bus division.  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR) , the U.K. explorer focusing on East and
West Africa, declined 5.2 percent to 551 pence. Bank of America
Corp. cut its recommendation on the stock to neutral from buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  