-- Tour de France Heir Says More Doping Offenders Left to Catch
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-10-24T12:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/tour-de-france-heir-says-more-doping-offenders-left-to-catch.html
Tour de France President Jean- Etienne Amaury said organizers will keep fighting the “plague”
of doping in cycling two days after  Lance Armstrong  was stripped
of his record seven titles.  Amaury didn’t mention Armstrong by name at the televised
presentation of next year’s centenary edition.  Cycling’s ruling body Union Cycliste Internationale, or
UCI, on Oct. 22 endorsed a decision by the U.S. Anti-Doping
Agency to strip Armstrong of his titles and banned the American
from the sport.  “There have been dishonest people around the teams and
sometimes inside the teams,” said Amaury, whose family has
controlled the race since 1947. “Some have been caught by
justice, others still have to be and that’s the responsibility
of all the organizations in the sport.”  The Tour has been besmirched by doping scandals since 1998
when Richard Virenque’s Festina squad was thrown off the race
after drugs were found in a team car.  Other Tour winners to lose titles for doping were  Floyd
Landis  in 2006 and  Alberto Contador  in 2010. Twenty of the 21
riders to finish in the top three in the years Armstrong won
between 1999 and 2005 have been “tied to likely doping”
through admissions, sanctions, public investigations or
exceeding the UCI’s hematocrit level, USADA said.  Defending champion Bradley Wiggins and 2011 winner  Cadel
Evans  were among those at the presentation at the Palais des
Congres in Paris. In comments on his  website , Evans said that
doping in cycling was no longer prevalent.  Floodlit Finish  “I hope that people remember that the events being
uncovered mostly occurred seven or more years ago, amongst a
minority of those involved in a sport which has already changed
and moved on,” Evans said.  The island of  Corsica  will host the first three days of the
2013 Tour that starts June 29.  Riders in the three-week race will climb the Alpe d’Huez
twice in one day in the final week. A day before the finish in
Paris, riders will have a stage that scales the Le Semnoz
mountain in the Haute Savoie region.  Breaking from the norm, the finish in the French capital
will be held under floodlights after nightfall.  Armstrong, 41, lost most of his sponsors including Nike
Inc., Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and Trek Bicycle Corp. last week
after USADA published evidence from 11 former teammate that
Armstrong “engaged in serial cheating” during his winning
streak.  In other fallout, Dutch lender Rabobank Groep said last
week it would pull its 15 million euros ($19.4 million) of
annual spending on its Tour de France team.  Race Sponsors  Media company  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  owns 25 percent of Editions
Philippe Amaury, the parent of race organizer Amaury Sport
Organisation. ASO had average annual net income of 30 million
euros in the six years through 2010, according to the group’s
financial reports.  Most race sponsors including Europcar Groupe SA and
Carrefour SA are French companies. The scandal is unlikely to
have a significant impact on Lagardere partly because Armstrong
has retired, Olivier Moral, a French media analyst at HSBC in
Paris said in an e-mail.  “I’m not sure that the troubles experienced by Lance are
really breaking news,” Moral said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  