-- Democrats Seize on Indiana Republican’s Rape Comment
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-10-25T20:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/mourdock-calls-pregnancy-caused-by-rape-intended-by-god.html
Democrats are attacking Indiana
Republican Senate candidate  Richard Mourdock  for saying that
pregnancy caused by rape is something “God intended” and
doesn’t justify an abortion.  The comment two nights ago is roiling a tight race less
than two weeks before the election and threatens to spill over
into the presidential contest. Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney has endorsed Mourdock and appeared in campaign ads
for him. Romney quickly distanced himself from the remarks.  “Governor Romney disagrees with Richard Mourdock’s
comments, and they do not reflect his views,” Romney
spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in an e-mail. Asked whether Romney
will withdraw his endorsement of Mourdock or insist that an ad
that features a joint appearance of the two candidates be taken
off the air, Saul said Romney’s campaign “still supports him.”  Mourdock apologized yesterday for his “less than fully
articulate use of words,” while saying he stands by his
position. At a press conference at the  Indiana  Republican Party
headquarters in Indianapolis, he said repeatedly that he views
life as “precious” and that he abhors violence, including
rape.  ‘Twist’ Comments  “For those who want to kind of twist the comments -- I
believe that’s what’s wrong with Washington these days,”
Mourdock said. “It’s win at any cost. Let’s make up issues when
we can’t find any real ones.”  He said his campaign is “moving on” and that he believes
Indiana voters are, too.  MoveOn.org, which supports President  Barack Obama  for re-
election, plans to fly airplane banners over Republican campaign
events today in Ohio and Virginia. A banner reading “Mitt:
Support Women, Dump Mourdock” will fly over a Romney event in
Cincinnati; another reading “Romney’s GOP: Wrong on Rape and
Women” will fly over an event for vice presidential nominee
Paul Ryan in Bristol, Virginia.  Romney, during a breakfast stop at a Cincinnati diner this
morning before starting a bus tour of  Ohio , refused to answer
reporters’ questions about his support for Mourdock or comment
on the endorsement ad running in the state.  Mourdock’s remark about God’s intentions came in response
to a voter-submitted question toward the end of a debate with
his opponents, Democratic U.S. Representative Joe Donnelly and
Libertarian candidate Andrew Horning.  ‘Gift From God’  “I’ve struggled with it myself for a long time, but I came
to realize that life is that gift from God,” said Mourdock, the
state’s treasurer. “And, I think, even when life begins in that
horrible situation of rape, that it is something that God
intended to happen.”  Mourdock choked up as he spoke about God at the debate, and
again at his press conference yesterday as he said “life is
incredibly precious.” He said he views saving a woman’s life as
the only acceptable reason for abortion.  Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , said rape
victims should have access to abortions. Mourdock said yesterday
that he has a policy difference with some fellow Republicans,
including Romney, on abortion.  Amid the fallout from the debate, Mourdock called New
Hampshire Senator Kelly Ayotte to cancel her planned trip to
Indiana to campaign with him.  “I didn’t want her to be dragged into a situation,” he
told reporters.  Ayotte Disagrees  Ayotte spokesman Jeff Grappone said in an e-mail that the
senator “disagrees with Treasurer Mourdock’s comments, which do
not represent her views.”  South Carolina Senator Jim DeMint was in Indiana
campaigning with Mourdock last night, according to DeMint’s
Twitter account. “In Indiana to support conservative
@richardmourdock over ‘Bailout Joe’ Donnelly,” DeMint wrote at
6:40 p.m. yesterday.  Obama, appearing on NBC’s “Tonight Show With Jay Leno,”
said “rape is rape,” adding, “These various distinctions
about rape don’t make too much sense to me.” He said the
Mourdock remarks show why it shouldn’t be left to only men to
make decisions on women’s issues.  Obama’s campaign aides highlighted Romney’s continued
support for Mourdock’s candidacy.  “It continues to be perplexing to us that  Mitt Romney 
would stand behind an ad that is for a candidate whose comments
were so offensive and outrageous to women,”  Jen Psaki , a
campaign spokeswoman for Obama, told reporters traveling with
the president today.  Romney Support  That message was reinforced by the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee and the Democratic opposition research group
American Bridge. The DCCC asked its 85,580 Twitter followers to
“sign and retweet” a petition telling Romney to “denounce
Richard Mourdock for his disgusting anti-woman views.”  American Bridge cut a video combining Romney’s endorsement
of Mourdock and the Senate candidate’s statements of his own
views, beginning with the “something God intended” remark. The
Democratic National Committee made a similar video.  Following the debate, Mourdock clarified that his point was
“God creates life.”  “God does not want rape, and by no means was I suggesting
that he does,” Mourdock said in a statement, adding, “for
anyone to twist my words otherwise is absurd and sick.”  He echoed those statements at his press conference.  Donnelly issued a statement calling his opponent’s comments
“shocking” and saying, “It is stunning that he would be so
disrespectful to survivors of rape.”  ‘Tepid’ Response  Dawn Laguens, executive vice president of the Planned
Parenthood Action Fund, criticized Romney’s response as
“tepid,” while Nancy Keenan, president of NARAL Pro-Choice
America, called Mourdock’s remarks “callous, insulting and
completely out of touch.” Both groups called on Romney to
rescind his endorsement of Mourdock.  Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee Chairman Patty Murray of Washington described Mourdock’s comments as
“heinous” and called on Romney to demand that the ad in which
Romney backs Mourdock be taken down.  Romney voiced his support for Mourdock in an ad that began
airing Oct. 22 in Evansville, according to Kantar Media’s CMAG,
which tracks advertising.  Roe v. Wade  Obama’s re-election campaign has aired ads saying Romney
would overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision
legalizing abortion nationwide. Romney’s campaign, which wants
to focus on the economy, is running an ad in some  Virginia 
markets featuring a woman who says Romney “doesn’t oppose
contraception at all” and “thinks abortion should be an option
in cases of rape, incest or to save a mother’s life.”  Mourdock made his remark two months after Missouri Senate
Republican candidate Todd Akin said “legitimate rape” rarely
leads to pregnancy. Akin, a U.S. House member seeking to unseat
Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill, later apologized while
rejecting calls from fellow Republicans to withdraw from the
race.  The Indiana contest is among the most closely watched U.S.
Senate campaigns, along with those in Massachusetts, Missouri
and Virginia. Republicans must hold all five of their
competitive seats in the Nov. 6 election and pick up four more
to win a majority in the Senate, which Democrats now control
53-47.  Keeping Distance  Republicans in other close Senate races distanced
themselves from Mourdock’s comments. Nevada Senator Dean Heller
“does not share these views,” Heller campaign spokeswoman
Chandler Smith  told the Las Vegas Review-Journal. Massachusetts
Senator Scott Brown said yesterday at a campaign event that he
too disagreed with Mourdock, according to MassLive.com.  “I’m a pro-choice Republican and that’s not what I
believe,” the website quoted Brown as saying.  An anti-tax Tea Party favorite, Mourdock defeated six-term
Republican incumbent Richard Lugar by 20 percentage points in a
May primary with an anti- Washington  message.  Mourdock’s general election contest with Donnelly is rated
as a tossup by the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  The most recent Howey-DePauw  poll , taken in Indiana Sept.
19-23, showed the race in a dead heat, with Donnelly leading
Mourdock 40 percent to 38 percent among 800 likely voters,
within the poll’s margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  