-- How Congress Prevented the ‘Fiscal Cliff’ of the 1840s
-- B y   A l a s d a i r   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-24T16:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/how-congress-prevented-the-fiscal-cliff-of-the-1840s.html
The U.S. is quickly approaching a
“fiscal cliff,” a combination of scheduled tax increases and
automatic spending cuts that could seriously disrupt the
economy. It’s a grim situation, but not an unprecedented one.  The country has tottered on the edge of a similar budgetary
precipice before -- and barely averted a national calamity.  At the heart of the earlier problem was disagreement
between northern and southern states over tariffs on a wide
array of manufactured goods imported from Europe. Tariffs were
increased sharply after the War of 1812, pleasing the infant
industries of northern states. But southern states, slowly
realizing that there would be little benefit for them from
protectionist policies, became restless.  Matters came to a head in 1832, when South Carolina
attempted to nullify federal tariffs. President  Andrew Jackson 
threatened to use force against the state if it persisted in its
policy, and in 1833 Congress proffered an olive branch, as well:
a promise to southern states that in 10 years, federal tariffs
would be reduced substantially. The target date for reductions
was fixed in law: June 30, 1842.  Deep Depression  Then events intervened. A  speculative boom  ended suddenly
in the late 1830s, causing a major financial crisis. By 1840,
the country was sliding into a deep depression. Northern workers
and manufacturers were pleading for the continuation of high
tariffs. And the Treasury, once flush with revenue, was empty.  Nor was the federal government able to borrow its way out
of trouble. By 1842, one-third of state governments had
defaulted on foreign loans, and European creditors were
outraged. Leading bankers in  London  refused to lend the federal
government a penny. “Let us get rid of that blasted country,”
said Anthony de Rothschild, an influential financier. “It is the
most blasted and the most stinking country in the world.”  By the end of 1841, it was clear that the tariff bargain
struck a decade earlier couldn’t be kept. Yet Congress couldn’t
agree on a replacement. President John Tyler, sympathetic to the
South, urged moderation on a new tariff policy. But northerners
in Congress were in no mood for conciliation. Twice in 1842,
Tyler vetoed bills that preserved high tariffs.  The mood in  Washington  was toxic. Months earlier, Tyler had
also vetoed two bills to overhaul federal banking legislation.
Almost all of Tyler’s Cabinet had resigned in protest. Now, some
in Congress were threatening to impeach him. One newspaper asked
whether legislators “can really possess American hearts -- there
being, apparently, so total an indifference to the interests of
the country.”  One of the bewildered observers of the Washington scene was
 Charles Dickens , who arrived in the capital in March 1842. Tyler
looked “worn and anxious,” Dickens wrote in his diary. “And well
he might, being at war with everybody.” Another British
correspondent wrote that “The condition of the country is most
appalling ... The Treasury is bankrupt to all intents and
purposes.”  By August 1842, Tyler and Congress had patched together a
deal. The bargain struck between North and South a decade
earlier was abandoned. The tariff wall was preserved, but the
taxes on imported goods were lower than many northerners would
have liked. Still, many northern manufacturers were pleased: The
new law, one wrote, “is doing wonders for us.”  ‘Belligerent Parties’  Despite the deal, some southerners still seethed. The
tariff bargain of 1833 had been “a treaty, made between
belligerent parties,” said  South Carolina  Governor James
Hammond. And now it had been broken. Some southern politicians
once again called for secession.  Southern frustrations were somewhat relieved in 1845, when
a new administration led by President James K. Polk lowered some
of the tariffs that had been continued in the law of 1842. But
this also cut government revenue. At the same time, Polk
launched a war with  Mexico , a conflict that proved to be much
more expensive than promised. The combination of tax cuts and
increased military spending plunged the  federal budget  back into
deficit.  This time, however, European lenders were ready to help.
The travails of the U.S. were negligible compared with the
violence that was spreading across Western  Europe . As the
Rothschilds’ American agent said privately, at least the U.S.
wasn’t “subject to the revolutions, the growing radicalism of
Europe.”  And so the money flowed west across the Atlantic once
again. The House of Rothschild became the biggest single
subscriber to the Polk administration’s war bonds, and the U.S.
stepped back, for the moment, from the fiscal precipice.  (Alasdair Roberts is the Rappaport professor of law and
public policy at Suffolk University Law School in  Boston  and the
author of “ America’s First Great Depression ,” published by
Cornell University Press. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post:
Alasdair Roberts at  alasdair.roberts@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  