-- Pakistan Telecom Sees Return to Profit as Workers Retire Early
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-10-24T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/pakistan-telecom-sees-return-to-profit-as-workers-retire-early.html
Pakistan Telecommunications Co. (PTC) , the
country’s biggest phone-service provider, forecast a return to
profit by its fiscal fourth quarter as workers opting for early
retirement cut labor costs.  “We will return to  profitability  after we absorb the cost
of retiring employees,” Naveed Saeed, senior executive vice
president for the Islamabad-based company’s commercial unit,
said in an interview on Oct. 22. “Our revenue  growth  is strong
and we are really trying to contain the costs.”  Pakistan Telecom has struggled to increase  revenue  from its
fixed-line unit as mobile-phone operators including  Telenor ASA (TEL) 
and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  grab market share. The telecommunications
market was deregulated in 2004, and the number of mobile-phone
users jumped more than ninefold in the past seven years in the
country of 180 million people.  Profitability for Pakistan Telecom was hurt in the first
quarter as it absorbed the cost of a voluntary retirement progam
that reduced its workforce by between 5,000 and 6,000 employees,
Saeed said at the company’s headquarters. A similar program in
2008 saw 35,000 of 50,000 employees retire early.  Saeed forecast 7 percent sales growth for the current
financial year, which ends in June. That’s higher than the
6.4 percent average annual revenue growth for Pakistan Telecom
in the past five fiscal years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About half of the company’s revenue goes to paying
salaries for an estimated 25,000 permanent and contractual
employees.  Stock Performance  Pakistan Telecom fell 3.3 percent to 18.57 rupees
yesterday. That pared the stock’s gain this year to 79 percent,
compared with an advance of about 40 percent for the Karachi
Stock Exchange 100 Index.  Pakistan Telecom, controlled by  Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. (ETISALAT) , posted a loss of 8.26 billion rupees ($86.4 million) in
the three months through September, its first quarterly loss in
more than four years. That compared with a profit of 2.23
billion rupees a year earlier.  Fixed-line users fell to 2.9 million last year from the
peak of 5.2 million in Pakistan Telecom’s financial year that
ended in June 2005, as more people switched to mobile phones.  The number of mobile-phone users in the country grew to
119.8 million as of May this year from 12.7 million in 2005,
according to the Pakistan Telecom Authority.  ‘Steady Growth’  “They will be back to profit by the end of this year,”
said Ayub Ansari, a Karachi-based analyst at AKD Securities, in
a telephone interview. “There has been a steady growth in their
core businesses. The cellular segment continues to grow, plus
the broadband segment is also very exciting. That’s the next big
thing for Pakistan and PTCL in particular.”  Pakistan Telecom derives most of its sales from the
broadband unit, which has more than 1 million customers and
contributes about 25 percent to profit, Saeed said. Aqeel
Shigri, a spokesman, said the unit has a market share of 90
percent.  The company, which also owns the country’s third-largest
mobile-phone operator Ufone, plans to bid for 3G bandwidth
licenses the government plans to auction this financial year,
Saeed said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  