-- Palestinian UN Bid in Defiance of U.S. Seeks to Jolt Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-10-24T12:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/palestinian-un-bid-in-defiance-of-u-s-seeks-to-jolt-peace-talks.html
Palestinian leaders plan to shake up
the 19-year-old peace process and proceed with a United Nations
statehood bid next month over U.S. objections, chief negotiator
Saeb Erakat said.  “It’s a moment of truth,” Erakat said in an interview at
his West Bank office in Ramallah. “We’re determined to change
the status quo.”  The move to upgrade the  Palestine  Liberation Organization’s
status to that of a “non-member state” in the UN General
Assembly comes a year after the failed effort to obtain full
membership through the Security Council, a step the Obama
administration blocked.  By forcing the statehood issue Palestinians risk
jeopardizing international aid that accounts for about 14
percent of gross domestic product and inviting retaliatory
measures from Israel, which captured the West Bank, east
 Jerusalem  and Gaza in the 1967 Middle East war.  “We are ready to go directly back to the negotiations once
we return from the UN,” Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas told reporters in Ramallah today.  The Palestinian bid to upgrade its observer status at the
UN is likely to pass the General Assembly, where the U.S. has no
veto as it does in the Security Council, Erakat said.  If the vote succeeds, “Palestine will become a nation
under occupation,” Erakat said. “The moment we get this, every
single thing  Israel  does in east Jerusalem or the West Bank will
become null and void.”  ‘Eternal Capital’  The Palestinian cause has fallen into relative obscurity
since formal peace talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government were frozen two years ago. There was only
one mention of Palestinians during the Oct. 22 U.S. presidential
debate on foreign policy.  Peace talks stumbled over the issue of Jewish settlements
in the West Bank. Abbas said he would not return to negotiations
unless Israel froze all settlement construction in the West Bank
and east Jerusalem. Netanyahu has refused to renew a 10-month
freeze on construction that expired in 2010, and this week said
Israel considered all of Jerusalem its “eternal capital.” The
two sides first started direct peace negotiations with the Oslo
Accords that were signed at the White House in 1993.  More than 327,000 Jewish Israelis live in 121 fortified
West Bank settlements and other scattered outposts amid some 2.6
million Palestinians, according to 2010 census data. Another
193,000 Jews live in east Jerusalem, most in separate areas from
the 281,000 Palestinians, according to 2010 data compiled by the
Jerusalem Institute for Israel Studies.  The settler population has tripled since the 1993 accords.  Sword to Neck  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor, told
campaign donors that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is going
to “remain an unsolved problem” and that the Palestinians are
uninterested in peace. Romney made the comments at a closed
fundraiser in May and they became public when a video of the
event was posted Sept. 18 by Mother Jones magazine.  Upgrading their status in the General Assembly would enable
the Palestinians to join other UN agencies, including the
International Criminal Court, where they could ask for Israel to
be tried for war crimes, Erakat said.  “Israel’s main worry is the ICC,” said Erakat, who
declined to specify whether they would proceed with the action.
“They don’t want me to have a sword on their neck.”  ‘New Onslaught’  Israeli leaders are concerned that a Palestinian victory at
the General Assembly will bring a “new onslaught” against the
Jewish state, Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said in a
telephone interview when asked about Erakat’s comments.  “It will accomplish nothing except for poisoning the
atmosphere so that it will be impossible to resume
negotiations,” he said.  The U.S. ambassador to the UN, Susan Rice, told the
Security Council last week that the Palestinian campaign should
be shelved for now.  “Unilateral actions, including initiatives to grant
Palestinians non-member state observer status at the United
Nations, would only jeopardize the peace process and complicate
efforts to return the parties to direct negotiations,” she said
in an Oct. 15 speech.  Erakat, 57, a native of Jericho, studied political science
at  San Francisco State University  and earned a doctorate in
peace and conflict studies at the  University of Bradford  in the
U.K.  Palestinian Economy  He’s been involved in negotiations since the 1991 Arab-
Israeli peace conference in  Madrid . After suffering a series of
health setbacks, including a heart attack in May, Erakat says he
now runs 8.5 kilometers (5.3 miles) a day on a treadmill, often
while watching television to catch up on overnight news.  The West Bank and Gaza’s $10 billion economy expanded about
5 percent in 2011, down from an average of about 9 percent from
2008 to 2010, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Unemployment rose to 19 percent in the first half of 2012 from
16 percent in the previous year, according to the IMF.  Direct Israeli-Palestinian negotiations were suspended when
Israel began a military operation in the Gaza Strip in December
2008 in what it said was an attempt to stop rocket attacks from
the Hamas-controlled territory on its southern towns and cities.
More than 65 rockets fired from the Gaza Strip hit Israel today,
wounding at least three people and damaging property. The Israel
Defense Forces staged four air raids, killing at least four
Palestinians, according to Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman for Gaza’s
health ministry.  Hamas Rule  Gaza has been ruled by Hamas since 2007 when the Islamist
movement violently ousted Abbas’s Fatah party loyalists. The two
sides have failed in repeated efforts to reconcile and push
jointly for independent statehood. Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union consider Hamas a terrorist organization.  Hamas must “resort to ballots, and not to bullets,”
Erakat said. “If they don’t want to do this, they won’t be able
to hold me hostage to my elections, my democracy and my UN bid.
We’re not going to let them do that.”  Though Netanyahu and Abbas sought to revive Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations in September 2010, the talks broke down
over the settlement issue.  When the Palestinian Authority was accepted last year into
the UN cultural agency UNESCO, best known for its designation of
“world heritage” sites, the U.S. response was to cut off
funding that provides almost a quarter of the agency’s budget.
The U.S. has said that American law would require similar
cutoffs for any UN agency that grants the Palestinians the same
status as member states.  U.S. Funding  The Palestinians receive about $550 million a year in aid
from  Washington , according to the Congressional Research
Service.  “The Elders,” a group of senior international statesmen,
encourage the Palestinians to submit their bid at the UN, former
U.S. President Jimmy Carter was cited as saying by  Egypt ’s
state-run Middle East News Agency today.  If the two-state solution fails, Erakat says Israel will
find itself by 2018 in control of a single “apartheid” state
in which Palestinians outnumber the Jewish population.  “Mr. Netanyahu can’t maintain the status quo,” he said.
“We aren’t going anywhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Ramallah at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Ramallah at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  