-- Partner, Cellcom Decline as Price War Continues: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-10-24T13:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/partner-cellcom-decline-as-price-war-continues-tel-aviv-mover.html
Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and   Partner
Communications Co. (PTNR)  led declines on the benchmark TA-25 index on
bets a recent surge in shares in  Israel ’s two largest mobile
phone providers was overdone amid growing competition.  Cellcom’s  shares  dropped 2.1 percent to 34.43 shekels, the
lowest intraday level since Oct. 14, at 2:50 p.m. in Tel Aviv,
bringing its drop this year to 46 percent. Partner’s  shares 
retreated 2.7 percent to 21.51 shekels. The TA-25 benchmark
index advanced 0.6 percent. Cellcom, Partner and  Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ)  were the three biggest gainers on the
TA-25 index last week.  Israeli mobile virtual network operator YouPhone started
offering monthly wireless packages for 79 shekels ($20.50)
today, the cheapest offered by operators in Israel, according to
a price list compiled by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in an Oct. 22 report.
Calcalist reported yesterday that the mobile operator of  Hot
Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  has enrolled 350,000 customers
since the start of services in May.  “Despite recent gains in telecommunication shares, the
sector remains competitive and operators lack the ability to
raise prices,” Zach Herzog, head of international sales at
Psagot Investment House Ltd., said today by phone.  Cellcom and Partner shares have been the worst performing
on the TA-25 index this year, as new players have entered the
wireless industry amid government efforts to enhance
competition. Hot, Golan Telecom Ltd., and YouPhone entered the
wireless market in May, leading to greater price competition.
Bezeq, which provides mobile-phone services via a unit, has been
the third-worst performing share on the index this year.  “Our view is that the competitive intensity is here to
stay,” Michael Klahr, an analyst at Citi Research wrote in the
Oct. 22 report. “We remain sellers of mobile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  