-- Petrobras Rescue Turns HRT Into Biggest Gainer
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-10-24T15:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/petrobras-rescue-turns-hrt-into-biggest-gainer.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  is
posting the best gain in  Sao Paulo  trading after  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  stepped in to help the oil startup make money from
natural gas deposits deep in the Amazon jungle.  HRT rallied 35 percent this month, the biggest increase on
the  IBrX Index (IBX)  of the top 100 stocks on the Sao Paulo exchange.
It reverses a plunge earlier this year that made it the worst-
performing stock in Brazil. HRT and Petrobras, as the state-run
producer is known, are studying pipelines and other projects to
transport fuel from Brazil’s Solimoes Basin, HRT Chief Financial
Officer Carlos Tersandro Adeodato said yesterday.  “If you don’t have Petrobras involved it goes nowhere,”
Eric Conrads, who manages $1 billion in Latin American equities
for ING Groep NV, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
Petrobras owns the only pipeline in the area capable of
transporting gas to consumers. “The gas monetization of
Solimoes has been a pretty good boost for the story,” he said.  Petrobras and newer oil explorers including HRT, OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3)  raised
at least $76.4 billion in share sales in the past four years
after the Americas’ biggest oil discovery in three decades was
made off the coast of Brazil. The companies have  underperformed 
the benchmark Bovespa index this year as Petrobras delayed
projects, OGX cut output estimates and HRT found only gas and no
oil at its Solimoes Basin blocks.  Stock Declines  Rio de Janeiro-based HRT jumped 6.3 percent to 6.38 reais
at 1:05 p.m. in Sao Paulo, after earlier rising to the highest
since July 3. Today’s gain pares HRT’s year-to-date loss to 44
percent. OGX, controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , declined
63 percent since the start of the year, making it the worst
performer on the Bovespa index. QGEP, which held Brazil’s
biggest initial public offering last year, is down 29 percent,
while the Bovespa gained 1.5 percent.  Petrobras and HRT announced Oct. 15 that they are studying
ways to market gas reserves that HRT found near Petrobras’s
Jurua field in the Amazon, without providing details of the
projects being considered.  HRT’s exploration of Solimos has been in partnership with
TNK-BP, BP Plc’s Russian venture with a group of billionaires.
Kremlin-run OAO Rosneft announced on Oct. 22 it had agreed to
buy TNK-BP from the two groups in a $55 billion cash and shares
deal.  The companies are looking into liquefied natural gas and
gas-to-liquids projects, as well as fertilizer and power plants
that would use the gas produced in the region, HRT CFO Adeodato
said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. HRT plans
to release a report compiled by Degolyer & MacNaughton, an oil-
auditing company, on its Solimoes reserves next year, he said.  HRT and Petrobras will study the technical, economic and
environmental viability of gas projects in Solimoes, Petrobras
said in an e-mailed response to questions Oct. 22. Petrobras
declined to comment further yesterday.  ‘Good Discoveries’  HRT has announced “good discoveries” in the area and the
companies are evaluating ways to collaborate, Petrobras Chief
Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster told reporters on Oct.
16 in  Rio de Janeiro , where the company is based.  “HRT has some proposals for monetizing these reserves,
shipping this gas,” Foster said. “We have an agreement to
evaluate the potential -- it’s not binding.”  Partnering with Petrobras could make HRT’s Solimoes blocks
profitable even if it doesn’t find oil in the area. HRT has so
far made five discoveries of only natural gas, which sells for
less than crude and is more difficult to transport.  Petrobras pumps more than 90 percent of Brazil’s oil and
gas, while HRT hasn’t started production yet. HRT owns 55
percent of the Solimoes Basin blocks and TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-
largest oil producer, holds the rest.  “If the agreement advances, Petrobras’s capacity and
experience in the Solimoes basin are a positive for HRT,” T.J.
Conway, a research and advisory manager at New York-based Energy
Intelligence Group, said by telephone from  Washington .  Low on Cash  HRT, with a market value of $872 million, doesn’t have the
cash to build the infrastructure needed to transport gas from
the Amazon on its own, Itau analysts Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes said in an Oct. 15 research report. HRT may be forced to
accept a below-market price for the fuel should Petrobras offer
to buy the gas rather than allowing the company to use its
pipeline, they said.  “Based on past experience, the offer is likely to come at
low prices,” they said in the report and confirmed the comments
by e-mail. “The fact that HRT’s current cash position is
insufficient to keep up with the needed investments on its own
reduces the company’s bargaining power to negotiate with
Petrobras or any other potential partner at this point.”  HRT declined to comment on the Itau report.  ‘Cash Burn’  HRT said Oct. 2 it may sell a minority stake in the onshore
Solimoes blocks after $804 million of spending since 2011 turned
up no commercial oil. HRT raised about $1.5 billion in an
initial public offering two years ago, estimating at the time
that its blocks in  Brazil  and  Namibia  may hold a combined 1.53
billion barrels of oil and equivalents.  The company has enough cash to fund operations until the
second half of 2014 and is optimistic about finding oil in the
region as it expands exploration to the eastern part of the
basin, Chief Executive Officer Marcio Mello said last month.  Gaining access to Petrobras’s infrastructure may help it
reduce HRT’s “cash burn,” ING’s Conrads said.  “You finally have some positive news,” he said. “It’s a
step in the right direction for this company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net  