-- France Guarantees Peugeot Debt in Exchange for Influence
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-10-24T15:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/peugeot-to-raise-bank-credit-line-with-state-backing.html
The French government stepped in to
rescue  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, by
guaranteeing as much as 7 billion euros ($9 billion) in new
bonds in exchange for greater influence over company strategy.  The state and workers will each receive a seat on the  board
of directors , and an outside committee will be set up with veto
power over any “significant” changes in Peugeot’s operations,
the French Finance Ministry said today.  Peugeot will also not pay any  dividends , repurchase shares
or provide management board members with  stock options  as long
as the government guarantee is in place, the automaker said. The
shares dropped 4.6 percent.  Peugeot needs the French state backing for its banking unit
to keep down borrowing costs and offer customers competitive
financing rates. Underscoring the urgency of the funding need,
the carmaker predicted today that debt is set to increase 20
percent more this year than it forecast in July.  “The state will want to see this business run more in the
interest of government, rather than in the interest of the
shareholders,” said Erich Hauser, a Credit Suisse analyst with
a neutral rating on the shares. “The rising debt of Peugeot
clearly shows that the core things are getting worse.”  Shares Drop  Peugeot  dropped  27 cents to 5.56 euros at the close of
trading in Paris. The stock has plunged 47 percent this year,
valuing the carmaker at 1.97 billion euros.  Peugeot is also working with lenders to increase the
finance arm’s credit line by 1 billion euros and renegotiate
some of the terms of an existing 10.5 billion euros in credit to
secure the funding until 2015, Chief Financial Officer Jean- Baptiste de Chatillon said today.  Banque PSA Finance’s 4.25 percent bonds due 2016 rose 0.6
percent to 98.3 cents on the euro, the highest since Oct. 18,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates
index. Credit-default swaps insuring Peugeot’s debt fell 2 basis
points to 778 at 4:37 p.m. in  London . A fall in credit-default
swaps indicates an improvement in  credit quality .  The European Commission may scrutinize the guarantee plan
under state aid rules if it gives the company an unfair
financial advantage. French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  is
discussing Peugeot today at a meeting with European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia .  “We haven’t received any formal notification of this
issue,” Almunia said at an event in Brussels. “But of course
once we will receive information or communication, we will have
to create a very careful assessment.”  German Objections  The German state of Lower Saxony,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s second-
biggest shareholder, said this week it opposes French aid for
Peugeot and indicated  Germany  would ask for a European Commision
review.  “It is pretty obvious what would happen,”  David McAllister, Lower Saxony’s prime minister and VW supervisory
board member, said when asked by Bloomberg whether he’d request
a review. “VW and  Lower Saxony  see these state loans very
critically because they won’t help solve the problems that
certain European states have with their automotive industry.”  McAllister is a member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ’s
Christian Democratic Union party.  “I see that certain of our competitors don’t see it with a
friendly eye, but when the terms are presented you’ll see that
it’s not state aid, but support,” Chatillon said at a Paris
press conference. “This a very strong support from the state
but not an aid in the technical sense. There is no reason to
have difficulties in Brussels.”  Debt Increasing  Peugeot said net debt at the end of 2012 will rise to about
3 billion euros, up from its July target of 2.5 billion euros,
as the European auto market heads for its biggest drop in 19
years. The carmaker, whose nine-month sales in the region
dropped 13 percent, said in July it will eliminate 8,000 jobs
and close a factory near Paris. Peugeot has also sold assets and
issued 1 billion euros in new shares to raise funds.  “The competitive environment is getting tougher, with
increased pricing pressure and ongoing deterioration in the
markets of southern Europe,” Peugeot said.  The French automaker earlier this year entered into a
strategic alliance with  General Motors Co. (GM)  in which GM became
the second-biggest stakeholder.  Alliance Developments  Peugeot said today it’s making progress with GM on the
alliance and the two have selected four vehicle projects to work
on together. The carmakers have also agreed on the next steps in
their purchasing cooperation. The two aim to sign detailed
contracts for the alliance by the end of the year.  The vehicle projects include a small van for GM’s Opel and
Vauxhall brands and a compact crossover for the Peugeot
nameplate. A small multi-purpose vehicle will be shared between
GM’s European brands and the Citroen marque, Peugeot said.  The two carmakers will also cooperate on a fuel-efficient
small-car platform for future GM and Peugeot vehicles in Europe
and other markets as well as a program for mid-sized cars. The
first vehicles from the cooperation are due to be introduced by
the end of 2016. GM and Peugeot expect the cooperation to
generate savings of $2 billion annually within five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  