-- Philippines Needs to Boost Sin Tax to Win Ratings Upgrade
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-10-25T11:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/philippines-needs-sin-tax-hike-to-boost-ratings-southeast-asia.html
The  Philippines  must pass a law
increasing the excise levy on liquor and tobacco, or sin tax, to
meet its goal of winning an investment-grade rating in four
years, Tax Commissioner  Kim Henares  said.  “This is one of two measures that the three major rating
agencies have identified as important,” Henares said in an
interview in Bloomberg’s  Manila  office yesterday. “We want to
correct a defective system that will increase our revenue and
use the funds for health care. Once passed, we think the measure
will trigger rating upgrades and positive outlook.”  Standard & Poor’s  raised the nation’s credit rating twice
in the past two years, bringing it to one level below investment
grade in July, citing a reduced debt burden and improved public
finances. The bill that seeks to boost annual collections by at
least 60.6 billion pesos ($1.46 billion) and introduce an
inflation-adjustment mechanism will test the resolve of
President  Benigno Aquino , a smoker himself, to battle some of
the country’s biggest companies.  “One of the key ratings constraints of the Philippines is
the low revenue mobilization relative to peers,” Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant vice president at Moody’s
Investors Service, said by e-mail. “It would be an indication
that the Aquino administration can leverage its high approval
ratings and political capital into meaningful progress on
legislative reforms.”  Shares Rise  The Philippines’ benchmark stock index, which has risen 24
percent this year, rose 0.1 percent at the close in Manila. The
yield on the benchmark three-year bonds fell the most in a month,
dropping by 7 basis points to 3.97 percent, its lowest level in
more than two weeks, according to midday fixing prices at
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. The peso rose 0.4 percent to
41.208 per dollar.  When he was elected to office two years ago, Aquino pledged
to fight corruption and tackle an entrenched culture of  tax
evasion  that’s contributed to the  budget deficit  and hampered
growth as neighbors prospered. Aquino, with the highest approval
rating for a president since actor  Joseph Estrada  in 1999, also
received rating upgrades by  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s.  The tiered excise sin tax rates were approved in 1996 based
on cigarette and beer costs at the time, and weren’t raised
until an amendment in 2004 that called for increases every two
years, according to Henares.  The government collected about 26 billion pesos in excise
taxes from tobacco last year. It wants to boost revenue from
smokers by 30 billion pesos in the first year, intending to
collect the rest from alcohol drinkers.  ‘Moderate Smoking?’  “Between the two, we think smoking is more hazardous to
health,” Henares said, explaining the focus on tobacco. “Have
you ever heard of moderate smoking?”  Seven of the 10 leading causes of death in the Philippines,
where 28 percent of people aged 15 and older smoke, are diseases
related to tobacco consumption, according to data from the
 Department of Health .  The Philippines has the fourth-lowest price per pack of
cigarettes worldwide, according to the  World Health Organization ,
and has one of the lowest excise tax rates, Henares said. A
Marlboro pack of 20 cigarettes sells for 40 pesos, about a 10th
of its cost in  Singapore .  The low price has encouraged usage, placing the nation at
the top in the region for per-capita consumption, based on
government data. Smoking costs the economy about 188 billion
pesos, including expenses related to health care, productivity
losses and premature death, according to government estimates.  The Bloomberg Initiative provided a $255,626  grant  to an
advocacy that seeks to reform and increase tobacco taxes in the
Philippines, according to its website. The grant ends in April
2013. The program was started by  Michael Bloomberg , the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Fiscal Boost  The tobacco and liquor levy and the rationalization of tax
incentives can increase fiscal revenue as a percentage of gross
domestic product to at least 16 percent from about 15 percent
now, Henares said.  The tax bill “could broaden the fiscal revenue base, and
potentially increase fiscal space for the government to increase
 capital expenditures , public investment and other discretionary
spending items such as health and education,” Philip McNicholas,
Fitch’s Hong Kong-based director of Asia Pacific Sovereigns,
said in an e-mail. “This could lead to a higher investment rate
for the economy as a whole and potentially higher-trend GDP
growth.”  Corporate Opposition  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the nation’s largest company, has about
90 percent of the beer market. Eduardo Cojuangco, Aquino’s uncle,
is the chairman of  San Miguel . Philip Morris Philippines
Manufacturing Inc. and Fortune Tobacco Corp., controlled by
billionaire Lucio Tan, formed a venture in 2010 that was
projected to control 90 percent of the market.  “We support the president’s reform agenda,” Michael Tan,
son of the billionaire, said in an interview today. “What we
don’t want is to have an increase that is so huge that it will
disrupt what’s working. We are for a reasonable and moderate
increase.”  In March, the companies opposed the 60 billion-peso sin tax
proposal. The Philippine Tobacco Institute, in a paid ad, said
the measure will increase the tax on low-cost brands by more
than 1,000 percent. San Miguel and rival Asia Brewery Inc., also
controlled by billionaire Tan, said in a separate ad that month
that a 140 percent increase in the tax on economy beer brands
will hurt sales and put 8,000 jobs at risk.  Additional revenue from the bill approved by the  House of
Representatives  in June was cut to 31.4 billion pesos, almost
half the Department of Finance target, according to a government
presentation. The Senate ways and means committee under Senator
Ralph Recto endorsed a  version  this month that cut the revenue
goal to 15 billion pesos, according to his sponsorship speech.  Competing Interests  Recto quit as head of the committee on Oct. 15 and withdrew
the measure. A group called Action for Economic Reforms called
on the senator to resign and in an Oct. 12 statement said
“civil society groups describe the ways and means committee
report as Philip Recto or Recto Morris report.”  “In any taxation exercise, you are always caught in a
vise-grip of competing interests,” Recto said in a speech the
day he resigned. “If you try to seek the middle, chances are
you will be crushed in between.”  The Senate will resume discussions on the bill in early
November and the country has enough time to pass the law by
December, Henares said. What’s acceptable to the government is
no less than 40 billion pesos in incremental revenue and the
defects must be addressed, she said.  Face Delay  “We will face delay in getting the upgrades that may
already be in the pipeline if we don’t pass it in a credible
form this Congress,” the tax commissioner said. “Think also of
the poorest of the poor who will benefit from  health services 
that we can provide from the sin tax revenue.”  The  Bureau of Internal Revenue , which collects more than 60
percent of the government’s annual earnings, will “without a
problem” collect a record 1 trillion pesos in taxes this year,
Henares said. She declined to say if the agency’s 1.066
trillion-peso target will be met. Revenue in the first nine
months of the year rose 13 percent to 772.5 billion pesos from a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  