-- Philippine Peso Declines on Spain’s Recession; Bonds Advance
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-10-24T09:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/philippine-peso-bonds-drop-as-spain-s-recession-damps-demand.html
The Philippine peso dropped as a
worsening recession in Spain added to concerns about  Europe ’s
debt crisis, reducing demand for emerging-market assets. Bonds
rose on bets the central bank will cut  interest rates  tomorrow.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares declined for a fourth
day, tracking an overnight drop in European and U.S. equities.
Spain’s gross domestic product fell 0.4 percent in the three
months through September from the previous quarter, matching the
contraction in the period to June, the central bank reported
yesterday. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will reduce its key
borrowing rate by a quarter of a percentage point to a record-
low 3.5 percent tomorrow, according to 14 of 21 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The rest predict no change.  “We’re expecting selling of risky assets including the
Philippine peso as negative news in Europe translates to stock
markets being sold down,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice
president of financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in  Manila .  The peso declined 0.1 percent to 41.363 per dollar as of
the close in Manila, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-
month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings
used to price options, was unchanged at 5 percent.  The yield on the 5.875 percent bonds due March 2032 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.71 percent in
Manila, according to Tradition Financial Services.  The  Philippines  had a budget deficit of 34.85 billion pesos
($841 million) in September, with the nine-month shortfall
widening to 106.06 billion pesos, according to government data
today. Revenue last month rose 0.9 percent while spending
climbed 14.1 percent.  The Philippines has ample liquidity to support economic
expansion, central bank Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla said in
a speech in Manila today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  