-- Pick n Pay Mulls African Growth as Share of Home Market Shrinks
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-10-24T15:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/pick-n-pay-mulls-african-growth-as-share-of-home-market-shrinks.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. , South
Africa’s second-largest grocer, is investigating opportunities
to expand in other African countries as profit and market share
decline at home.  The Cape Town-based retailer may move into Nigeria, Angola
and Ghana after opening stores in Zambia, Mozambique and
Mauritius in its last fiscal year, Deputy Chief Executive
Richard van Rensburg said in a phone interview today.  “The time frame depends on opportunities,” Van Rensburg
said. “Over the next 12 months we want to consolidate in the
countries where we already have a presence, but we’re constantly
talking to developers and looking at retail space.”  Pick n Pay has lost market share to competitors such as
 Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , South Africa’s largest retailer that
posted a 20 percent jump in annual profit for the 12 months
through June, and  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , controlled by  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  The trading environment in South Africa will
“remain tough in the foreseeable future” and performance will
be “under pressure,” the company said in a stock exchange
statement today.  Revenue rose 47 percent in the six months through August in
stores outside South Africa, Van Rensburg said. That compared to
a 5.9 percent rise in total sales.  Net income declined 6.3 percent to 182 million rand ($21
million) in the same period.  Earnings (PIK)  per share, excluding one-
time items, plunged 13 percent to 35.91 cents.  The retailer hired  Richard Brasher , the former head of
 Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s U.K. unit, from Feb. 1 as chief executive officer to
help revive growth at the supermarket chain.  Pick n Pay’s shares gained less than 0.1 percent to 43.06
rand by the close of the stock market in Johannesburg.  The company said on Oct. 5 that first-half sales growth had
been lower than expected and earnings had declined, citing a
competitive market, poor availability of merchandise and
economic pressure on customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  