-- Pick n Pay’s First-Half Profit Drops on Lower Market Share
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-10-24T08:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/pick-n-pay-s-first-half-profit-drops-on-lower-market-share-1-.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. ,  South
Africa ’s second-largest grocer, said first-half profit fell 6.3
percent as it lost market share.  Net income declined to 182 million rand ($21 million) in
the six months through August, the Cape Town-based company said
in a stock-exchange statement.  Earnings (PIK) , excluding one-time
items, plunged 13 percent to 36 cents, while sales rose 5.9
percent to 28.3 billion rand.  Pick n Pay has lost market share to competitors such as
 Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , South Africa’s largest retailer that
posted a 20 percent jump in annual profit for the 12 months
through June, and  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , controlled by Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. The trading environment will “remain tough in the
foreseeable future” and performance will be “under pressure,”
Pick n Pay said today.  The retailer hired  Richard Brasher , the former head of
Tesco Plc’s U.K. unit, from Feb. 1 as chief executive officer to
help revive growth at the supermarket chain.  “Pick n Pay has been losing market share for several years
now driven, very simplistically in our view, by a lack of
reinvestment in its own business given an untoward focus on
paying out dividends,” Jeanine Womersley, an analyst at
Renaissance Capital, said in e-mailed comments before the
results were released.  Pick n Pay’s shares dropped 0.7 percent to 42.75 rand by
9:56 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The company said on Oct. 5 that first-half sales growth had
been lower than expected and earnings had declined, citing a
competitive market, poor availability of merchandise and
economic pressure on customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  