-- Pimco Retreats From Euro Money Market on Negative Yield Risk
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-24T15:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/pimco-retreats-from-euro-money-market-on-negative-yield-risk-1-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, is pulling back
from  Europe ’s short-term money markets because of the risk of
losing investors’ cash.  Pimco closed its 80 million-euro ($104 million) liquidity
fund yesterday because record-low interest rates threatened its
so-called stable net asset value, according to Michael Story,
the firm’s London-based global product manager.  Euro-denominated money funds have been turning away
clients, extending the maturity of holdings or waiving fees
after the European Central Bank cut its deposit rate to zero on
July 5, pushing down yields on the short-term debt to which the
funds are restricted.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. also closed euro money-market funds.  “It was the low-yielding cash environment that was the
driver of the closure,” Story said in a phone interview. “It
was difficult to maintain the stable net asset value considering
that the market began charging negative yields on many cash
instruments.”  The low yields on the safest debt means funds that invest
only in government instruments are generating no surplus cash,
according to research firm iMoneyNet Inc., putting them at risk
of losing their clients’ investments or “breaking the buck” as
it’s known in the U.S.  Fees Waived  Pimco told investors of the decision to liquidate the fund
last month after it waived fees. The fund, which held short-term
agency and government bonds and bank-issued repurchase
agreements, kept a maximum average maturity of 60 days.  The Newport Beach, California-based manager will focus on
its euro short maturity fund that has 278 million euros under
management, and its euro MINT exchange-traded fund that has 78
million euros under management, Story said. Both funds have a
variable net asset value.  “Our other funds can invest in slightly longer-maturity
instruments,” Story said. “That gives us a little bit more of
the yield curve to play with.”  On average, euro money market funds returned 0.04 percent
in the week ending Oct. 19, according to iMoneyNet.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is replacing two stable net-asset
value euro money-market funds with new share classes that
automatically reduce the number of shares if total assets drop,
an action that isn’t allowed under the funds’ current rules.
This means investors may get back less than they originally
invested, the New York-based bank said last week.  “Corporate treasurers need a safe harbor for cash which
money funds offer,” said Michael Eberhardt, a managed funds
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in  London . “Managers are
equipping themselves with the tools to operate funds in a
negative yield environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  