-- Pimco Sours on Financial Bonds in Record Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-10-24T15:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/pimco-sours-on-financial-bonds-in-record-rally-credit-markets.html
Financial bonds worldwide are on
pace for their best annual returns on record, leading investors
from Pacific Investment Management Co. to DoubleLine Capital LP
to see an end to the four-year-old rally.  Debt of lenders from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  is headed for a 15.4 percent gain this year, poised to
exceed the unprecedented 15.2 percent in 2009, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. The bonds are beating
industrial notes by 4.3 percentage points in 2012, the biggest
outperformance ever.  Speculation is growing that the rally has pushed yields
down to levels that fail to compensate for the risk that the
global economy slows further and  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens,
hurting a global banking system that’s increasingly
interconnected.  Pimco (PTTRX) , which 15 months ago said the bonds had
room to rise, now is selling the debt, favoring energy and
building materials instead.  “The rally in financial debt is mostly over,”  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond portfolios at Pimco, said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re taking
profits; we’re reducing our exposure overall.”  The gap in relative yields between dollar-denominated
financial and non-financial bonds is at about the tightest level
since February 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The difference reached 34 basis points on Oct. 17, before
widening to 39 basis points as of Oct. 22.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  has lowered its global
growth forecast to the slowest pace since the 2009 recession.
Concern that Europe may cause an international financial
contagion is mounting as Spain’s economy contracts for a fifth
quarter and  Greece  struggles to obtain international aid.  “It’s difficult to see the catalyst for further tightening
in bank spreads,” said Bonnie Baha, head of global developed
credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, which oversees more than
$45 billion. “They’ve had a terrific run this year.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. increased, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 97.2 basis points as
of 11:10 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Plains Bonds  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate  swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.75 basis point to 10 basis points as
of 11:11 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Plains Exploration & Production Co. are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers following yesterday’s $3 billion offering, with 260
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:14 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Lehman Failure  The company’s $1.5 billion of 6.875 percent securities due
February 2023 sold at par increased to 100.8 cents on the dollar
to yield 6.77 percent, Trace data show.  Financial obligations are on pace for a fourth year of
gains after tumbling 7.4 percent in 2008 as the failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ignited the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. The notes have returned 12.3 percent this year
compared with an 8 percent increase for non-financial borrowers.  Yields on JPMorgan’s corporate bonds have declined by 1.69
percentage points this year to an average of 2.27 percent, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Yields on HSBC have
dropped by 1.92 percentage points to 3.12 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own financial bonds
globally rather than government debt has dropped 185 basis
points since year-end to 183 basis points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. That’s almost three times the
66 basis-point drop to 131 basis points for industrial firms
from AT&T Inc. to Toyota Motor Corp.  Relative yields for financial firms have plunged from as
high as 686 basis points in March 2009, index data show.
Industrial spreads peaked at 494 basis points in December 2008.  Bernanke, Draghi  “Because the valuations have changed, we’re no longer as
excited about the return prospect,” Pimco’s Kiesel said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  Investors have been buying riskier debt with the Federal
Reserve holdings its benchmark interest rate in range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Sept. 13 that
policymakers expected to hold down the target through mid-2015
and committed to buying $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  announced an
agreement on Sept. 6 for an unlimited bond-buying program to
tamp down interest rates and fight speculation of a currency
breakup.  Investment-grade bond fund inflows this year of $105
billion compare with $74 billion in all of 2011, according to
JPMorgan research.  Volcker Rule  Banks are reducing debt as the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker
Rule in the U.S. seeks to limit risk-taking at the biggest
financial institutions and after the 27-country  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  raised minimum  capital requirements  in
2010.  AllianceBernstein LP’s Ashish Shah sees potential for
further gains as banks cut their debt levels, leading to a
shrinking supply of the notes. Relative yields on financial
notes that are wide compared with historical averages also make
the notes attractive, he said.  “There’s still a healthy spread premium versus any
history,” said Shah, head of global credit investments at the
New York-based firm, which oversees about $245 billion in fixed-
income assets.  Bank bonds yielded an average of 33 basis points less than
industrials in the five years before Lehman’s failure on Sept.
15, 2008. Since then, yields on financial notes have been an
average 77 basis points higher than industrial debt.  “It tended to be a higher quality sector back then,” said
Brian Machan, a  money manager  with Aviva Investors North America
in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , who helps oversee $433 billion.  Spain, Greece  “There are scenarios where you could see that happen
again,” he said. “I don’t think at this point though. You
still have Europe as a big concern.”  The IMF is predicting the world economy will grow 3.3
percent this year and 3.6 percent next year, it said on Oct. 9.
That compares with July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and
3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based lender now sees
“alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-
six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  Spain’s gross domestic product fell 0.4 percent in the
third quarter, the Bank of  Spain  said yesterday. Spain’s bonds
have declined since European Union leaders last week failed to
discuss further aid for the nation at a Brussels summit.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis’s race to obtain 31 billion
euros ($40.3 billion) of aid is running into renewed opposition
from his coalition partners who balked over demands from the
country’s lenders for labor law changes.  Bank notes “still offer value, but not as great a relative
value as they did earlier in the year,” said Chris Harms, a
fixed-income money manager at Loomis Sayles & Co., which
oversees $181.5 billion. “We could trade sideways for many
years to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  