-- Pound Rises Amid Bets U.K. Economy Exited Recession; Gilts Fall
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-10-24T15:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/pound-strengthens-against-euro-before-u-k-manufacturing-report.html
The pound strengthened the most in
more than three months against the euro on optimism the U.K.
economy pulled out of recession in the third quarter, boosting
demand for British assets.  Britain’s currency rose against all but two of its 16 major
counterparts even after a report showed the nation’s
manufacturing industry unexpectedly slumped in October. Gross
domestic product expanded 0.6 percent last quarter from the
previous three months, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the data tomorrow.  Bank of England  Governor
Mervyn King said yesterday the data may confirm a “zig-zag”
pattern of recovery in the U.K. Gilts fell.  “The focus for the pound is on the GDP release tomorrow,”
said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and
institutional treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in  London .
“The pound is looking a little bit vulnerable at these levels.
It wouldn’t surprise me if GDP came out below consensus and then
the pound could fall.”  Sterling gained 0.7 percent to 80.89 pence per euro at 4:23
p.m. London time, posting the steepest intraday advance since
July 5, after reaching 81.65 pence on Oct. 22, the weakest since
June 11. Sterling rose 0.4 percent to $1.6023.  The FTSE 100 Index of British shares climbed for the first
time in four days, adding 0.1 percent.  The pound’s strength against the euro is “expected to be
short-lived,” technical analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG,
including  David Sneddon , wrote in an e-mailed note today.
Investors should sell the pound against the euro, they
recommended, targeting a depreciation to 82.63 pence, the
weakest level since April.  CBI Gauge  The Confederation of British Industry’s gauge of factory
orders dropped to minus 23 from minus 8 in September, data
showed today. The median of 11 analyst forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an increase to minus 6.  Sterling extended its advance against the euro as data
revealed euro-region output contracted in October, boosting
demand for alternatives to the euro.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in manufacturing and services fell to 45.8 from 46.1 in
September, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a reading of 46.5. A number below
50 indicates contraction.  Sterling declined 0.6 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro gained 3.9 percent and
the dollar dropped 4.1 percent.  BOE Meeting  Central bank officials meet in two weeks to decide whether
to increase their so-called quantitative easing, or QE, program
to boost the economy. Policy makers kept the target at 375
billion pounds at this month’s meeting.  “At this stage, it is difficult to know whether some of
the recent more positive signs will persist,” King said in a
speech late yesterday in Cardiff, Wales. “Should those signs
fade, the Monetary Policy Committee does stand ready to inject
more money into the economy.”  Nomura International Plc economist Philip Rush increased
his forecast for additional bond purchases, predicting the Bank
of England will expand QE by 50 billion pounds in February.  The 10-year gilt yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.86 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 fell 0.28, or 2.80 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 99.04.  Gilts have returned 2.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds gained 2.5 percent and Treasuries earned 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  