-- QE3, China Revival Spur Longest Hong Kong Rally Since ’05
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-10-25T08:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/qe3-china-revival-spur-longest-hong-kong-rally-since-05.html
The broadest gauge of equity prices
in Hong Kong is posting its longest streak of gains in seven
years, pushed higher by speculation  China’s economy  will rebound
as central banks hold down  interest rates .  The Hang Seng Composite Index yesterday climbed for an  11th
day (HSCI) , the most since July 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Hang Seng Index, the city’s benchmark gauge, rose
0.2 percent today, capping its longest streak since 2006. Shares
have rallied since the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a third
program of asset purchases on Sept. 13. Hong Kong’s de facto
central bank intervened for the first time since 2009 to defend
the city’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  as money pours in.  Hong Kong is the only venue in  China  where foreigners can
freely buy and sell shares of the country’s biggest companies.
Chinese factory output and retail sales accelerated in September
even as growth slowed for a seventh quarter, according to
government data. Mainland companies made up 56 percent of the
city’s market value at the end of  September , bourse operator
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. said.  “The easy monetary policy in the U.S. combined with rising
confidence that China’s economy might be turning the corner has
helped boost sentiment in Hong Kong-traded Chinese shares,”
said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has $100 billion in assets.
“Hong Kong’s currency peg with the U.S. effectively means the
city is running the same loose monetary policy as the U.S.”  $180 Billion  The rally has added almost $180 billion to the city’s
market  capitalization  since Sept. 13, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In the same period, U.S. equities have lost about
$578 billion, the data show. Hong Kong, home to 7.21 million
people, is the world’s fourth-largest equity market and is less
than 5 percent from overtaking the U.K. for third place.  Hong Kong has no taxes on  capital gains  or dividends and
doesn’t restrict capital flows. The currency has been pegged to
the U.S. dollar since 1983, and since 2005 has been allowed to
trade between HK$7.75 and HK$7.85. The peg limits foreign
exchange risk for equity traders using dollars.  Stocks in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , the city’s 49-member
benchmark gauge, yield 2.75 percent on average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.05 percent for
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The Hang Seng
Index trades for 11.5 times estimated earnings compared with
13.5 times for the  S&P 500 .  ‘Hot Money’  “There is some hot money coming into Hong Kong on
expectation there will be a bottoming out of China’s economy,”
said Linus Yip, chief strategist at First Shanghai Securities in
Hong Kong. “We expect there will be at least a certain amount
of that going into the Hong Kong stock market, and it will help
 market sentiment .”  The former British colony’s share market has been rallying
since the Fed committed to buying an additional $40 billion of
mortgage-backed securities a month until it sees a substantial
improvement in the U.S. labor market. The third round of so-
called quantitative easing has coincided with signs that China’s
efforts to engineer a soft-landing are bearing fruit.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , of mainland
companies listed in Hong Kong, has risen 12 percent since Sept.
13, more than any major index in the world’s 40-biggest markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A preliminary purchasing managers’ index reading yesterday
rose to 49.1 after a final reading of 47.9 in September, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said. A level of 50 indicates
expansion. Industrial production, fixed asset investment and
retail sales all expanded at a faster-than-estimated rate in
September, according to reports released last week.  ‘Bottoming Out’  “China’s growth is bottoming out, thanks to the effects of
earlier easing measures,” said HSBC economists Junwei Sun and
Hongbin Qu. “Infrastructure-led investment growth is offsetting
the weakness in other sectors, becoming the key driver for the
rebound of investment growth.”  Weichai Power Co., a diesel-engine maker, and Zoomlion
Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., a crane maker, gained
the most among members of the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index,
rising 22 percent since QE3 was announced. Just three of the 40
members of the H-share index retreated in the period.  Increases among Chinese banks have propelled a measure of
financial stocks to the best advance among the Hang Seng Index’s
four industries. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the
world’s largest lender by market value, has risen 20 percent.
China Construction Bank Co. is up 15 percent. A gauge of
financial shares in the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD0FN)  rose 0.3
percent from Sept. 13 through Oct. 23.  2009 Rally  “There’s some increase in risk appetite back to China,”
said  Alex Au , managing director of Richland Capital Management
Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees over $200 million. “If you
look at the history of hot money flowing in, like in 2009, the
stock market rallied for few months. We should continue to see
investors increasing their weighting in this market.”  The Hang Seng Composite Index  rallied  87 percent from March
9, 2009, when global equity markets bottomed after the crash of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., through the end of that year. The
gauge slipped 0.1 percent to 2,944.51 today, its first decline
since Oct. 8.  China’s ruling Communist Party will execute a once-a-decade
leadership transition next month. Vice President  Xi Jinping  is
forecast to replace  Hu Jintao  as party general secretary and
president next year.  A Shares  Growth in the world’s second-largest economy will probably
accelerate during the next few quarters, Morgan Stanley
strategists including Hong Kong-based  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a
report yesterday. The rebound will probably surprise investors
who have become “increasingly cautious” on China, they wrote.  Hong Kong-listed shares of Chinese companies outperformed
their mainland counterparts for a record 10 straight days
through Oct. 23. Yuan-denominated A shares traded at the  biggest
discount  to H shares since June 2011 on Oct. 23, according to an
index compiled by Hang Seng Bank Ltd. The amount of A shares
that foreign investors can trade is limited by quotas and
restrictions on  yuan  convertability.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest privately owned shipbuilder, has gained 52
percent in Hong Kong since Sept. 13, the largest advance on the
Hang Seng Composite Index.  Kingboard Chemical Holdings Ltd. (148) 
advanced 41 percent.  Industrial-machinery maker Lonking Holdings Ltd., China
National Building Materials Co., which provides  cement-making 
equipment, and lead-acid battery maker Leoch International
Technology Ltd. all climbed more than 30 percent.  Targets Cut  Of the 355 stocks in the Hang Seng Composite Index, 314
advanced from Sept. 13 through yesterday.  Those banking on a rapid return to high rates of growth in
China may be disappointed as the government struggles to keep a
lid on property prices while encouraging the growth of the
domestic economy. China this year lowered its official growth
target to 7.5 percent in pursuit of more sustainable expansion,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March.  “There’s been a lot of expectations that post the
leadership transition there’s going to be a lot of fiscal
stimulus,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund manager 
at Schroders Plc that oversees $300 billion. “It’s still too
early to tell whether the stimulus would actually follow
immediately after the change in leadership. There’s a risk that
the market may be disappointed there.”  ‘Positive Changes’  Growth is stabilizing and the economy will continue to show
“positive changes,” Wen said Oct. 17, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency. China is confident of achieving
economic and social development targets for the year, Xinhua
said yesterday, citing an unidentified National Development and
Reform Commission official.  The central bank will probably keep the benchmark one-year
lending rate at 6 percent through the end of 2012, based on
median estimates in a survey conducted between Oct. 18 and Oct.
22, instead of prior forecasts for a quarter percentage-point
reduction. China may lower the  reserve ratio  for major banks by
a half point this year, the survey showed, compared with the
full point projected in September.  “Chinese stocks will be the main target,” of fund inflows
to Hong Kong, said First Shanghai’s Yip. “There will be more to
come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  