-- Trade Center Rents Will Rival Midtown, Silverstein Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-24T18:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/trade-center-rents-will-rival-midtown-silverstein-says.html
Office rents in the new towers at
lower  Manhattan ’s World Trade Center will rise to levels “very
close” to those for high-quality spaces in Midtown, said  Larry Silverstein , who is building one of the skyscrapers.  “The price at the World Trade Center will become very
close and will become the equivalent of midtown Manhattan,”
Silverstein said today in an interview with Deirdre Bolton on
Bloomberg Television’s “Money Moves.” “The discount is going
to disappear for this quality real estate.”  Silverstein, 81, is developing 4 World Trade Center, a 72-
story skyscraper that is the shorter of the pair under
construction at the site. The Port Authority of  New York  and  New
Jersey  is building the 1,776-foot (541-meter) 1 World Trade
Center. Leasing costs  downtown  have traditionally lagged behind
Midtown, where financial firms have paid some of the highest
office rents in the U.S.  Silverstein has about 1.2 million square feet (111,000
square meters) left to lease in 4 World Trade Center, which is
slated for  completion  by the end of next year. The  Port
Authority , which has teamed with developer Douglas Durst on 1
World Trade, has about 1.4 million square feet unrented and is
scheduled to open in early 2014.  Tenants will be attracted to the state-of-the-art
technology and sustainable architecture of the towers,
Silverstein said in the interview.  While financial companies have been delaying leasing
decisions until they get a better sense of future taxation and
regulation levels following the U.S. elections, Silverstein said
he’s not counting them out.  “The conventional wisdom would be to forget about the
financial firms,” he said. “Conventional wisdom doesn’t always
hold true.”  Asking rents for offices in Midtown averaged $66.42 a
square foot at the end of the third quarter,  Cushman & Wakefield 
reported on Oct. 2. Rents in lower Manhattan averaged $40.06 a
square foot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  