-- South Africa Yields Rise to 2-Week High After Inflation Quickens
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-24T14:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/rand-drops-as-yields-rise-after-prices-gain-faster-than-expected.html
South African bond yields rose to
the highest in two weeks and the rand gained after inflation
accelerated faster than expected, reducing the central bank’s
room to stimulate the economy by cutting interest rates.  Rates on 13.5 percent bonds due September 2015 climbed six
basis points to 5.46 percent at 4:03 p.m. in Johannesburg, the
highest since Oct. 9. The rand advanced as much as 0.4 percent
and traded less than 0.1 percent stronger at 8.7698 per dollar.  The inflation rate  rose  to 5.5 percent last month from 5
percent in August, Pretoria-based Statistics  South Africa  said
on its website today. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey
of 20 economists was 5.2 percent. The  Reserve Bank  left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 5 percent on Sept. 20,
after reducing it by half a percentage point in July, concerned
that rising food and fuel costs will drive up prices in the
economy.  “With everyone thinking that further stimulus for South
Africa could only come in the form of further Reserve Bank
easing, this inflation print is very significant,”  Razia Khan ,
the London-based head of Africa economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in e-mailed comments. “This will make for
uncomfortable reading for the Reserve Bank, given currency-
related risks that must now be factored in as well.”  The central bank’s target is to keep inflation within a
range of 3 percent to 6 percent. Forward-rate agreements
starting in six months, used to speculate on borrowing costs,
jumped 14 basis points to 4.94 percent as traders pared bets on
another interest-rate cut that would reduce the rand’s rate
advantage over the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  