-- RBS to Pay Nevada $42 Million to Resolve Subprime Loan Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-24T16:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/rbs-to-pay-nevada-42-million-to-resolve-subprime-loan-probe-1-.html
RBS Financial Products  will pay
 Nevada  $42 million to resolve an investigation into the firm’s
role in the buying and securitizing of subprime and payment-
option adjustable-rate mortgages, a state official said.  The money will be used for payments to affected borrowers,
mortgage fraud enforcement, foreclosure prevention and
attorneys’ fees and costs, state Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said today in a statement.  The  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  unit also agreed to
only buy, finance or securitize subprime loans in the state
after conducting a “reasonable review” to ensure the loans
comply with Nevada’s Deceptive Trade Practices Act, Masto said.  “I remain committed to enforcing Nevada’s laws against the
players -- including those on Wall Street -- that contributed to
and profited from reckless and deceptive mortgage lending in
Nevada,” Masto said. “The changes to its securitization
process should help make sure that we do not go down this road
again.”  The firm neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter with the
Nevada attorney general,”  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for RBS
Financial, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Nevada probe centered on potential misrepresentations
made by lenders, including Countrywide and Option One, to state
consumers who took out subprime loans and payment option
adjustable-rate mortgages that were bought and securitized by
RBS from 2004 to 2007, Masto said in the statement.  Her investigation examined whether the lenders misled
borrowers about actual interest rates, appraised property
values, and what happened when introductory interest rates on
loans expired, according to Masto’s statement.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group is based in Edinburgh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 