-- Treasury Rejects Request to Stop Using Libor in Bailouts
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/treasury-rejects-request-to-stop-using-libor-in-bailouts.html
The U.S. Treasury Department and the
Federal Reserve defended the use of Libor in rates tied to the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, rejecting a request from the
watchdog of the U.S. financial crisis bailouts.  Neither the Treasury nor the Fed has “the authority to
change unilaterally the interest rate on the small number of
remaining loans that rely on Libor,” Timothy Massad, the
Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial stability, said in
a letter to  Christy Romero , special inspector general for TARP.  “If we sought to renegotiate the rate, it is likely that
borrowers either would not agree to a rate change or would agree
only to a change that would result in a lower payment to the
taxpayers,” according to the Oct. 9 letter obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Romero had asked the Treasury and Fed to use other
reference rates instead of Libor for Treasury’s Public-Private
Investment Program, or PPIP, and the Fed’s Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, or TALF.  U.S. taxpayers “may have been at risk and may continue to
be at risk from the manipulation of Libor,” the London
interbank offered rate, Romero said in an August letter to Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.  Rate Rigging  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc are among the banks under investigation for Libor-
rate tampering.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender by
assets, was fined $450 million in June when it became the first
bank to settle with regulators over the rigging of interest
rates. Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond and Chairman
Marcus Agius resigned in the aftermath.  “The time for Treasury and the Federal Reserve to act is
now, rather than wait for global Libor reform, because there are
$598.6 million in outstanding TALF loans and $5.685 billion in
outstanding PPIP debt with interest rates tied to Libor,” the
special inspector general for TARP said in a quarterly report to
Congress released today.  PPIP was started in 2009 to help revive the mortgage-backed
securities market. The Treasury has estimated that taxpayers
will get a $3 billion profit from the program. Under TALF, a
bailout program that started in March 2009, the Fed lent funds
to investors in highly rated asset-backed securities and
commercial mortgage-backed securities.  Repaid Loans  “About half of the TALF loans extended had interest rates
that were based on Libor,” William Nelson, deputy director in
the Fed Board’s division of monetary affairs, said in a letter
obtained by Bloomberg News and addressed to Romero. “Over 98
percent of those loans have already been repaid.”  TARP was enacted under the George W. Bush administration
amid the 2008 financial crisis and continued under President
 Barack Obama . About $417 billion of taxpayer money has been
spent on bailouts of companies including Citigroup and Bank of
America, insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , and
automakers  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  The Treasury estimates that it will lose $63 billion over
the lifetime of TARP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  