-- U.S. 7-Year Notes Fall Before $29 Billion Auctions
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-24T21:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/treasuries-little-changed-as-fed-says-growth-is-moderate.html
Treasury seven-year notes fell as
the  Federal Reserve  said it would maintain stimulus measures
with the economy growing modestly and investors prepared for the
sale of $29 billion of the securities tomorrow.  Thirty-year bonds declined as the central bank, in its last
meeting before the Nov. 6 presidential election, retained its
program of $40 billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed
debt aimed at spurring the three-year expansion and said
“inflation recently picked up somewhat.” The Treasury’s sale
of $35 billion of five-year notes prior to the Fed’s
announcement was met with lower-than-average demand.  “The market is a bit weaker as the setup is starting for
tomorrow’s auction,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in
 New York  of government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“Between the Fed’s stance, slowing global growth,  Europe  and
fiscal cliff the Treasury market is being underpinned. No one
wants to stick their neck out.”  The current seven-year note yield rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.21 percent as 4:58 p.m. in New York
according Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1 percent securities
maturing in September 2019 fell 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 19/32. Thirty-year bond yields rose five basis
points to 2.95 percent.  Note Sale  The yield on the existing five-year note was little changed
at 0.76 percent. The five-year notes sold today drew a yield of
0.774 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.775 percent in a
 Bloomberg News  survey of seven of the Federal Reserve’s primary
dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount offered, was 2.73, compared with an
average of 2.92 for the previous 10 sales. Direct bidders, non-
primary dealer investors including pension funds and insurance
companies that place their bids directly with the Treasury,
purchased 15.5 percent of the notes, the most since November
2010 and compared with an average of 10.2 percent at the last 10
auctions.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 42.3 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 42.7 percent for the past 10 sales.  Today’s offering is the second of three this week totaling
$99 billion. The government will sell $29 billion in seven-year
securities tomorrow. Yesterday’s auction of $35 billion in two-
year notes yielded 0.295 percent.  Economic Outlook  “We are in the same slow-growth economy that we’ve been in
since the recovery began, and thus, the medicine that the Fed
prescribed still continues to apply,” said  Jay Mueller , who
manages about $2 billion of bonds at Wells Capital Management in
 Milwaukee . “Yields should continue to stay low.”  The Fed has sought to drive down unemployment by keeping
its target rate for overnight loans between banks between zero
and 0.25 percent since December 2008 and purchasing $2.3
trillion of securities in two rounds of a monetary policy known
as quantitative easing.  Frustrated by the slow pace of the recovery, the central
bank announced Sept. 13 that it would likely keep rates at a
record low and also said it would inject more money into the
economy by purchasing $40 billion of mortgage bonds per month in
a third round of QE.  “The statement was bullish for bonds as the Fed retains
the easing bias that the Fed has had, and that and sets a high
bar for the economy to have to hurdle for the Fed to reduce
their accommodation,”  said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The market is waiting
for the election. We could see a pickup in volatility, but there
won’t be a lot of conviction until we know what the outcome will
be.”  Dealer Foercasts  All the primary dealers expect its latest quantitative-
easing measures to be expanded to include  government securities 
when its current program of buying  U.S. debt  expires at year-
end, according to a survey last week by Bloomberg News.  Treasuries fell earlier after figures from the Commerce
Department showed new home sales climbed 5.7 percent to a
389,000 annual pace, the most since April 2010, following a
revised 368,000 rate in August. The median estimate of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for sales to rise to
385,000.  “The stronger U.S. data that we have seen means there’s no
need to add extra stimulus,” Craig Collins, managing director
of rates trading at Bank of Montreal in  London , said before the
Fed’s decision.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
2.48 percentage points. The average over the past decade is 2.17
percentage points.  Treasuries have lost 0.6 percent in October, on track for
their worst monthly performance since March, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  