-- REC Is Merger Candidate as Solar Takeovers Loom, CEO Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-10-24T10:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/rec-is-merger-candidate-as-solar-takeovers-loom-ceo-says.html
Renewable Energy Corp. (REC) , the
Norwegian solar-energy company struggling with falling demand
and excess capacity, said it’s a merger candidate as the
industry gears up for a probable consolidation.  “We won’t be surprised if there are more mergers in the
time ahead” and REC is involved in discussions with possible
partners, Chief Executive Officer Ole Enger said in an interview
in Oslo today after presenting REC’s third-quarter results.
“When results are like now, you must always be open for
solutions that can give better results.”  The Sandvika-based company posted net income of 408 million
kroner ($71 million) in the period after the bankruptcy of its
Norwegian wafer unit, with continuing operations yielding a loss
of 452 million kroner. REC had warned last week its results
would miss analyst estimates.  Just like European peers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV) , REC is
struggling with low prices after Chinese competitors expanded
as demand slowed. Prices for Polysilicon, the material used to
build solar panels, fell 13 percent in the third quarter and
module prices retreated 14 percent, Enger said today, calling
current market conditions “unsustainable” with “all industry
participants losing money.”  About 180 solar manufacturers will fail or get bought by
2015, Boston-based GTM Research said in a report last week.
While half of those companies are based in the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Europe , there are about 54 “solar zombies” in China operating
with government support that will probably close or be bought,
it said.  After 2013  Market balance probably won’t return before “at least”
2014, and the consolidation wave will probably start in  China ,
REC’s Enger said. While he didn’t know when it would reach other
areas of the world, Enger said REC would be a good candidate for
a merger once it did.  “We must be, because REC is one of the only companies left
in Europe. Most others are bankrupt or have been shut down,” he
said. “There aren’t many left in the U.S. and Europe, so were
it to be a non-Chinese company, REC must be one of them.”  While mergers will probably take place in the industry, few
companies have the financial means to buy competitors, said
Andre Holoe Adolfsen, an analyst at  Nordea Markets . “Most are
busy trying to survive for the moment,” he said. Adolfsen, who
has a sell recommendation on REC, said the company would
probably suffer from negative  cash flow  in several quarters to
come and end up in a financial “distress” situation in 2013.
At the end of the third quarter, the company had reduced net
debt by 2.2 billion kroner to 1.9 billion kroner.  REC, which yesterday fell to a record low of 1.16 kroner,
rose as much as 4.9 percent after the company released its
report today. The shares were up 1.3 percent at 1.175 kroner as
of 12:39 p.m. in Oslo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  