-- Reckitt Benckiser Rises to Record as Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-24T13:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/reckitt-benckiser-third-quarter-sales-growth-exceeds-estimates.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  rose to
a record in London trading after the maker of Nurofen posted
revenue that beat estimates, defying a slowdown that has hurt
competitors, boosted by increased sales of health-related
products and a turnaround in developed markets.  The  shares  gained as much as 6.2 percent to 3,858 pence,
the highest price since the company was created by a merger in
1999. They were up 5.1 percent as of 2:34 p.m., extending the
stock’s gain for the year to about 20 percent.  Non-pharmaceutical sales rose 5 percent on a comparable
basis, the Slough, England-based company said today. The median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 4
percent gain. The maker of Cillit Bang cleaners and Veet hair-
removal creams also said it expects market growth this year to
be at the top end of its forecast range and maintained a
forecast that its sales will rise at a faster pace.  “RB’s like-for-like growth is strong and goes against the
grain of most staple stocks, which are seeing a sales
slowdown,” Harold Thompson, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said
in a note to clients.  Outdoing Rivals  Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor has introduced new
products like Durex Performax Intense condoms and boosted
marketing spending to stem declines in slumping European markets
while lifting sales in emerging regions such as Russia.
Consumer-products makers including  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  SABMiller Plc (SAB) 
last week reported sales growth in developing countries that
missed estimates, raising concern of a slowdown in regions that
the companies are relying on.  Total sales declined 1 percent in the third quarter to 2.42
billion pounds ($3.87 billion). At constant exchange rates,
revenue increased 4 percent, the company said.  Reckitt Benckiser maintained a  forecast  for full-year sales
growth in its non-pharmaceuticals businesses to be 2 percentage
points ahead of the market. The growth of the market will be at
the top end of the range of 1 percent to 2 percent that the
company has seen this year, the company said.  “We are doing better in a number of categories, and
health-care has made a difference recently after being a drag in
the first half of the year,” Kapoor said in a phone interview.
Sales of health-related brands such as Durex, Strepsils cold
remedies and Gaviscon heartburn relief rose 7 percent, above the
estimates of analysts such as Liberum Research’s Pablo Zuanic.  The company also kept its forecast for unchanged operating
 profit margins  for the year.  “We long disagreed with management’s 1-2 percent market
growth estimate, so we are somewhat pleased to see management
slightly raising its estimate, even though we still find this
new estimate to be prudent,” Andrew Wood, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein, said in a note to clients today.  ‘Mood Music’  Like-for-like revenue rose 2 percent in  Europe  and North
America, which make up more than half of total revenue and are
reported as one unit. That’s an improvement compared with a 1
percent drop for the first six months of the year.  Danone (BN) , the
world’s biggest yogurt maker, last week said declines in Spain
and  Greece  caused the weakest growth in sales of dairy products
in more than three years.  “Europe was surprising to me,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst
at Investec, said in an interview. “Generally, the mood music
is that Europe in particular is not changing. Yet Reckitt is
exceeding expectations and moving into growth.”  Kapoor said that conditions in southern Europe have “gone
from worse to bad,” and increased marketing spending has
“probably started to bear fruit.” To lift sales, Reckitt
Benckiser is investing an additional 100 million pounds in main
brands such as Harpic cleaners, and shifting more of its
marketing spending from television ads to digital media and
consumer education campaigns.  Durex, Veet  Revenue increased 11 percent in Latin America and Asia,
fueled by brands such as Durex condoms, Dettol cleaners and
Finish dishwashing detergent. Sales rose 7 percent in  Russia ,
the Middle East and  Africa , helped by consumers buying more
Durex, Veet and Gaviscon.  Revenue at the pharmaceuticals division, which Reckitt
Benckiser considers a “non-core” activity, rose 6 percent. The
company said last month it will cease production of the Suboxone
opioid-dependency drug in tablet form within six months as it
weans patients onto a film-strip version that’s less likely to
be taken accidentally by children.  Reckitt Benckiser said the film version of Suboxone that
dissolves under the tongue has now captured a 60 percent volume
share in the U.S., up from 48 percent at the end of 2011.  “The number of patients on the tablet is shrinking,”
Kapoor said. “Six months from now, a vast percentage would have
been on the film anyway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  