-- Retired Miners Sue Over Patriot Coal Medical Benefits
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-10-24T20:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/retired-miners-sue-to-affirm-patriot-coal-medical-benefits-1-.html
Retired coal miners sued in federal
court to affirm medical-benefit coverage in the wake of  Patriot
Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) ’s bankruptcy in July.  Hubert Lowe and other retired workers sued their former
employers, Peabody Holding Co. and  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , on behalf of
more than 10,000 retirees and active miners whose health and
pension benefits were transferred to Patriot Coal, the
plaintiffs said in an e-mailed statement.  “These plans were established through collective
bargaining with the United Mine Workers of America” and should
be maintained, Lowe said in the 32-page complaint made public
today in federal court in Charleston,  West Virginia .  Patriot, which sells thermal coal to electricity generators
and metallurgical coal to steel and coke producers, sought
 bankruptcy protection  in Manhattan in July. The company listed
assets of $3.57 billion and debt of $3.07 billion as of May 31
in its Chapter 11 filing. Patriot has 12 active mining complexes
in Appalachia and the Illinois Basin and controls an estimated
1.9 billion tons of coal reserves, according to court papers.  Aaron Palash, a spokesman for Patriot, said the company has
no comment on the complaint. Kim Link, a spokeswoman for Arch
Coal, also declined to comment.  Peabody spokesman Vic Svec wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the lawsuit.  Spun Off  Peabody spun off Patriot in 2007 and the following year,
Patriot bought Magnum Coal Co., which had acquired three Arch
units in 2005.  Patriot said when it filed for bankruptcy that those
transactions left it responsible for the benefits of three times
as many retirees and dependents as active employees, saddling
the company with liabilities estimated at $1.3 billion or more.  The retirees’ case is Lowe v. Peabody Holding and Arch
Coal, 12-cv-6925, U.S. District Court, Southern District of West
Virginia (Charleston). The bankruptcy case is In re Patriot Coal
Corp., 12-bk-12900,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  