-- Riksbank Burns Option to Cut After Ingves Gambit: Nordic Credit
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-10-24T08:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/riksbank-burns-option-to-cut-after-ingves-gambit-nordic-credit.html
Swedish Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves has tied the bank’s hands after publishing an opinion
piece that rules out an interest rate cut even as unions and
economists argue more easing is needed.  Ingves, who is also the chairman of the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, signaled he’s less concerned about rising
unemployment than he is about imbalances fueled by credit
growth. The comments, published Oct. 18 in an opinion piece in
newspaper Svenska Dagbladet, sent the krona up the most in a
month against the euro and the dollar, and prompted traders to
pare back bets the Riksbank may cut rates. The bank’s six-member
board, which Ingves heads, meets today and announces its
decision tomorrow.  “Ingves has put himself in a very weird corner,” Par Magnusson, chief Scandinavian rates strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Stockholm, said by phone. “If they
publish this type of an opinion piece a week before the decision
and still cut the rate, they will have completely confused the
market.”  Sixteen of the nineteen economists  surveyed by Bloomberg 
predict the bank will leave its benchmark repo rate at 1.25
percent, after lowering it three times since December. Three
predict a cut to 1 percent.  Index Swaps  The day before Ingves’ comments were published, overnight
index swaps showed a 22 percent probability of a rate cut this
week. The swaps showed zero likelihood of a cut the day his
piece ran, and are now indicating a 7 percent probability of a
quarter-point rate reduction. Futures on the Riksbank rate are
trading at 0.94 percent in March, indicating a rate cut by then.  “We changed our view following Ingves’ gambit,” said
Michael Grahn, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in  Stockholm . “It
gives a signal that the board will put a lot of emphasis on
household indebtedness.” Danske expects the Riksbank to wait
with its next rate cut until December, he said.  The yield on Sweden’s 6.75 percent note due May 2014 eased
four basis point to 0.722 percent. The yield on the 10-year note
sank four basis points to 1.59 percent, bringing the spread to
similar-maturity German bunds to one basis point.  “Today’s high unemployment is a problem, but as Riksbank
Governor I can’t just act short-term,” Ingves said in the
opinion piece. “If the Riksbank doesn’t take into account
indebtedness of households and companies it could have very
serious consequences.”  Job Losses  Meanwhile some of  Sweden ’s biggest trade unions are
pleading for monetary easing. IF Metall, a blue-collar union
with 350,000 members, forecasts unemployment will rise to an
average rate of 8 percent in 2013. The Riksbank’s latest
estimate is for joblessness of 7.6 percent for this year and
next.  Manufacturing confidence sank for a third month in October,
with an indicator gauging sentiment in the industry showing
minus 16, versus minus 11 last month, the National Institute of
Economic Research said today. The krona lost 0.2 percent against
the euro and traded at 8.6528 as of 10:54 a.m. local time.  Two of the Riksbank’s six board members have argued in
favor of deeper cuts. Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm said in an
interview last week that Ingves’ comments don’t represent the
whole board. Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson has gone so far
as to criticize the bank for policy moves he says damaged
Sweden’s recovery and kept unemployment too high.  In September last year, Svensson railed against the bank’s
decision to embark on a tightening cycle that delivered seven
rate increases over 12 months starting in July 2010, even as the
global economic crisis continued. The bank reversed course in
December last year and has cut rates three times since.  Disagreement  The disagreement of how to deploy policy comes as Sweden
shows growing signs of succumbing to  Europe ’s debt crisis. The
$500 billion economy exports about half of its output. About 70
percent of its sales abroad go to Europe, where countries are
cutting spending to reduce debt.  Some of Sweden’s biggest companies have resorted to job
cuts to stay competitive. Sweden’s biggest phone company
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  last week said it will eliminate 2,000 jobs as
growth stalls. Truckmaker  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , papermaker Holmen AB and
steel manufacturer SSAB have also in recent weeks said they’ll
cut their workforces to adjust to sluggish markets.  At the same time, the nation’s housing market has shown
signs of imbalance. Residential property prices are 20 percent
overvalued, according to the National Housing Credit Guarantee
Board, or BKN. Bengt Hansson, head of research at BKN, said in
August that Sweden is in the grip of a housing bubble.  Yet economic data overall point more toward a cut than to
unchanged rates, Hallberg at Swedbank said. Ingves’ remarks,
though poorly timed, don’t mark a departure from the Governor’s
stance on credit risks, he said.  Hurdle Raised  While the article “raises the hurdle for rate cuts,” it
“should not be interpreted as a monetary policy signal, but a
contribution to a debate that’s been going on for quite a
while,” Hallberg said.  The last time Ingves pushed through tighter policy than
half his board voted for was in September 2008, when he raised
the repo rate to 4.75 percent. The move, which came less than
two weeks before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
was following by a  cycle of six cuts  that started the following
month.  Sweden’s economy is now struggling to survive a
manufacturing decline as its European export markets sink into
recession.  Swedish unemployment  rose to 7.4 percent last month
from 7.2 percent in August, Statistics Sweden said on Oct. 18.
That means that Ingves will ultimately need to accept more cuts,
according to Hallberg at Swedbank.  “The macro picture has very clearly worsened during the
autumn,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  