-- Rogers Said Would Consider Bidding for Some Astral Assets
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-24T20:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/rogers-said-would-consider-bidding-for-some-astral-assets.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  said it
would consider acquiring parts of  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A) , the target
of a C$3 billion ($3 billion) bid from  BCE Inc. (BCE)  that was
rejected by  Canada ’s telecommunications regulator last week.  BCE has asked the federal government to intervene and
overturn the Oct. 18 decision by the Canadian Radio-television
Telecommunications Commission. Toronto-based Rogers, Canada’s
largest wireless operator, would consider bidding for some parts
of the company if that appeal fails.  “Obviously we know the Astral assets very well,” Keith Pelley, president of Rogers media business, told journalists on
a conference call today after the company posted earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates. If in the coming months “selective”
assets become available that “strategically fit with our
strategy, we would evaluate them at that time,” he said.  The CRTC denied BCE ownership of Astral, saying it was bad
for consumers and would give BCE too much control of Canadian
broadcasting, putting the Montreal-based specialty channel
broadcaster back in play for other potential bidders. Among
Astral’s assets are radio stations and more than 20 television
channels including MusiquePlus and Super Ecran.  Rogers most recent acquisitions include its C$1.32 billion
acquisition with BCE of professional sports conglomerate Maple
Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. in August and its purchase last
week of  Score Media Inc. (SCR)   Rogers advanced 3.3 percent to C$42.43 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto, the highest price since June 2008. Astral rose 2.2
percent to C$39.94, the most since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  