-- Romney’s Stemberg Divorce Testimony to Be Released
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-25T16:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/romney-gave-information-in-staples-founder-divorce-lawyer-says.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s testimony in the divorce case of  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  co-
founder Tom Stemberg will be released, a judge said.  Probate Judge Jennifer Ulwick in Canton, Massachusetts,
also said today in court that while Romney’s testimony will be
disclosed, a confidentiality agreement between the ex-spouses on
details of the divorce remains in effect.  Stemberg’s lawyer, Brian Leary, told the judge today in
Norfolk Probate Court that his client has “no concerns about
the testimony.” He called Romney’s 1991 testimony a “primer”
on Staples’ early development. Leary asked the judge to keep the
confidentiality requirement in force.  “This has been an endless repetitive pattern of trying to
re-litigate divorce proceedings in a public forum,” Leary said.  Stemberg, 63, spoke at the Republican national convention,
where Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , was given
his party’s nomination for president in the Nov. 6 election.
Framingham, Massachusetts-based Staples, an office-supply
retailer, grew with the help of an investment from  Bain Capital 
LLC, the private-equity firm Romney co-founded.  ‘Family Matter’  “We are delighted that the court has upheld the
confidentiality order in this case, which has nothing to do with
Governor Romney,” George Regan, a spokesman for Stemberg, said
in an e-mailed statement. “It is and always has been a private
family matter that should not be subject to public
speculation.”  Lisa Arrowood, a lawyer for Staples, said today the company
doesn’t oppose the release of the testimony.  Gloria Allred, a women’s rights lawyer, appeared yesterday
in probate court with Stemberg’s ex-wife, Maureen Sullivan
Stemberg, and said she was backing a request by the  Boston  Globe
to unseal the documents.  Jonathan Albano, an attorney for the Globe, described the
information the newspaper sought as “expert testimony on a
financial matter.”  Allred told reporters after the hearing that she will
release the documents to the media today.  She told the judge that she wants her client to be able to
talk about Romney’s testimony.  ‘Complete Lockdown’  “She needs to be able to speak,” Allred told the court.
“She apparently is the only person in the United States, maybe
in the world, who cannot speak about Governor Romney.”  “It’s a complete lockdown,” the lawyer said, referring to
the confidentiality order. “It’s the most comprehensive gag
order I have ever seen in my 36 years of practicing law.”  Allred told reporters after the hearing that she felt
betrayed by the  Boston Globe  for not pressing the judge to
cancel the confidentiality order.  “The Boston Globe decided not to pursue the second part of
their motion to modify the confidentiality order,” Allred said.
“I felt that, in my opinion, was a complete double-cross.”  The judge said Sullivan Stemberg could file a new motion
to modify the order.  Allred’s clients have included Sharon Bialek, the woman who
accused  Herman Cain , a Republican candidate for president, of
sexual harassment, which led to his withdrawal from the race.  She also represented Jodie Fisher, who said former  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive Officer Mark Hurd made improper
sexual advances toward her while she was under contract to
handle company events. Hurd resigned from Hewlett-Packard in
2010 after it found he had violated company standards for
conduct  Robert Jones , an attorney for Romney with Ropes & Gray LLP,
told the judge yesterday, “The sooner we get out from this, the
better.”  Stemberg is a co-founder and managing general partner of
Highland Consumer Fund, a venture capital fund based in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, that focuses on retail and consumer
service companies. It is affiliated with Highland Capital
Partners LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 