-- Romney and Obama Can Agree on Taxes. Why Can’t Congress?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-24T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/romney-and-obama-can-agree-on-taxes-why-can-t-congress-.html
Diametrically opposed as the tax
plans of President  Barack Obama  and Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  may be, one area of agreement is emerging: The government
needs to limit the  countless  deductions, exclusions, exemptions
and credits that cost the U.S. more than $1 trillion in revenue
every year.  Although their motivations differ radically, their shared
desire to tackle such tax expenditures is an encouraging sign at
a time of waning confidence in  Washington ’s ability to  handle 
the immense fiscal challenges facing the country. Federal
spending now accounts for about 23 percent of economic output,
while taxes account for about 15 percent -- an imbalance that
won’t correct itself. Absent serious fiscal restraint that
addresses unaffordable tax cuts and spending, the federal debt
is expected to  grow  by as much as $11 trillion over the next
decade.  Closing the gap will require tough decisions and shared
sacrifice. Targeting tax expenditures can help by opening a
lucrative source of  revenue . It can also make the  tax code  more
progressive, because many breaks provide a bigger benefit to
wealthier taxpayers. That’s one reason this solution has been
embraced by several bipartisan deficit reduction panels,
including the  Simpson-Bowles  fiscal commission and the  group 
headed by former Clinton budget director  Alice Rivlin  and former
Republican Senator Pete Domenici.  Buckets  Romney’s  idea  is to cap individual deductions and credits
for all taxpayers at a certain dollar amount -- he’s tossed
around $17,000, $25,000 and $50,000 -- and allow people to
choose which ones to take. “Your home mortgage interest
deduction, charity,  child tax credit  and so forth, you can use
those as part of filling that bucket,” Romney said in his second
debate with Obama this month. The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center
 says  at those three levels, Romney’s plan would increase revenue
by $1.7 trillion, $1.3 trillion and $760 billion, respectively,
over 10 years.  Obama’s  plan , laid out in several White House budgets,
would affect only the wealthiest taxpayers. He would limit the
benefit of deductions for people in the higher tax brackets
(such as his proposed top brackets of 36 percent and 39.6
percent) by treating those taxpayers as if they were in the 28
percent bracket. A top earner who paid $10,000 in mortgage
interest, for example, would reduce his tax bill by $2,800
rather than the $3,960 that would otherwise be allowed. The plan
would increase revenue by $288 billion over the next decade,
according to the  Tax Policy Center .  Both ideas are good starting points for addressing what are
essentially distortive government subsidies. Economic research
 shows  the two biggest tax expenditures -- the mortgage interest
deduction and the employer-provided health-care exclusion --
drive up  home prices  and health-care  costs . Homeowners borrow
too much and buy bigger homes than they need. Employees choose
unnecessarily expensive health-care plans and use medical
services that aren’t cost effective.  Any effort to curb deductions will inevitably hit the
 wealthiest  Americans, who  benefit  most from the breaks. More
than 80 percent of the tax savings from itemized deductions go
to those in the top income quintile, and more than one-fourth
accrue to the top 1 percent. (Higher-income individuals are more
likely to itemize their taxes, and they get a bigger benefit
because they’re in higher tax brackets.)  All three of Romney’s proposed caps would  increase  taxes on
the top 1 percent, with an average increase of about $51,000,
according to the Tax Policy Center. Middle-income taxpayers
would also see an increase ranging from about $707 (under the
$50,000 cap) to $886 (with the $17,000 cap). The tax bite could
be larger for those in the middle if Romney includes employer-
provided health care (though it is technically an exclusion, not
a deduction) in his cap. His running mate,  Paul Ryan , has
indicated he would target the health exclusion.  Big Flaw  One big flaw in Romney’s proposals is that they wouldn’t
increase federal revenue. That’s because he says he would use
the money saved to help pay for a 20 percent across-the-board
cut in tax rates. His campaign has also  challenged  the Tax
Policy Center’s analysis and suggested that no one would see a
tax increase, leaving the electorate to guess how the whole plan
would actually work.  Obama’s proposal would direct the excess revenue toward
deficit reduction. But while the wealthiest Americans can afford
to see their taxes increase, tax expenditures need to be
curtailed more broadly if the U.S. is to make a significant dent
in the deficit. Obama has ill-advisedly promised not to raise
taxes on any individual earning less than $200,000, making it
hard for him to raise the revenue needed.  Still, there’s reason for some optimism. Both candidates
clearly understand the need to get tax expenditures under
control. Rather than eliminate individual deductions, both are
wisely seeking to limit the benefit taxpayers can claim.
Democrats and Republicans in Congress should build on this
consensus to get the U.S. on sounder financial footing,
regardless of who wins in November.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  economics of immigration ;
 Caroline Baum  on the  economic and political landscapes in 2015 ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s way with words ;  Ezra Klein  on
the  most important issue in the presidential race ; Jonathan
Mahler on  Scott Fujita ’s  battle against the NFL ;  Amity Shlaes  on
why  Obama was wrong to trash the 1920s ;  Richard Thaler  on why
entrepreneurs aren’t thinking about  tax rates .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 