-- Trump Plans Latin American Expansion After Panama Hotel
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-10-24T17:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/trump-plans-hotels-in-argentina-brazil-as-regions-economy-grows.html
Donald Trump , the U.S. billionaire
real-estate developer, is seeking to put his name on hotels in
Argentina and  Brazil  as he expands his brand in  Latin America .  Uruguay,  Costa Rica  and Mexico are also possibilities for
hotel development as trade growth for the region equals China,
said Eric Trump, executive vice president of development and
acquisitions at Trump Organization Inc.  The Trump Ocean Club in Panama City, the company’s  first
hotel (2706)  outside the U.S., is attracting guests even after a boom
in hotel construction in Latin America’s fastest-growing
economy, he said in an interview in Panama City yesterday.  “We play at such a different level than all those other
hotels, it’s not really affecting us,” said Trump, who is
Donald’s 28-year-old son. “If you look at the hotel guests,
it’s all executives.”  Newland International Properties, the Ocean Club developer,
is continuing “friendly discussions” with bondholders after
defaulting last year on $220 million of debt to construct the
70-story hotel and apartment complex, he said.  Panama GDP  Panama’s gross domestic product expanded 10.4 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier on construction and a
$5.25 billion widening of the Panama Canal.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its economic growth
forecast for Latin America and the Caribbean for this year and
next as the global environment deteriorates.  The region will expand 3.2 percent this year and 3.9
percent in 2013, compared with the previous estimates of 3.4
percent and 4.2 percent, the Washington-based lender said Oct. 9
in its World Economic Outlook. Brazil will expand 4 percent next
year, compared with a 4.6 percent estimate in July, while
Mexico’s forecast was lowered to 3.5 percent from 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  