-- Russia Stocks Sink to Week Low as Europe Concerns Pare Risk Bets
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-24T15:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/russia-stocks-advance-as-crude-gains-on-chinese-economic-growth.html
Russian stocks  slid to the lowest in
more than a week as oil fell and concern Europe’s economic
crisis is deepening pared investor appetite for riskier assets.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  sank 0.3 percent to 1,451.61 by the close
in Moscow, the lowest since Oct. 15. OAO Lukoil, the biggest
non-state  oil company  with the second-largest weighting in the
gauge, lost 1.1 percent. OAO EON  Russia , a power producer
controlled by  Germany ’s biggest utility, tumbled 5.8 percent.  Emerging-market stocks slid to a two-week low as German
business confidence unexpectedly fell to the lowest in more than
2 1/2 years and a report showed euro-area services and
manufacturing contracted more than economists estimated. Russia
scrapped a planned sale of 30 billion rubles ($956 million) of
seven-year bonds today for the first time since May, after
investors sought higher yields than the government offered.  “Weakness in German business confidence could lead to
lower economic expansion estimates for Russia next year,” Erik DePoy, an equity strategist at Gazprombank, said by e-mail.
 Europe  is Russia’s biggest trading partner.  Oil fell 1 percent to $85.83 a barrel in  New York . Crude
and natural gas contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s state
revenue. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw
materials lost 0.2 percent, dropping for a fourth day.  Stocks advanced earlier after a preliminary reading of
Chinese manufacturing boosted bets that the country’s growth was
picking up.  Rosneft Jumps  OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, surged 3.9
percent to 234.54 rubles, the most in a month, after Bank of
America Merrill Lynch lifted the stock to buy, citing the
company’s planned acquisition of OAO TNK-BP Holding.  Bank of America analysts, led by Karen Kostanian, increased
the price target to $9 from $8 per global depositary receipt,
citing increased earnings per share as a result of the deal and
low valuations, in an e-mailed report yesterday.  The Micex trades at 5.5 times  estimated earnings  after
gaining 3.5 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added
8.6 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  