-- Russian Funds Band Together to Repel Government Cash Grab
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-10-25T12:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/russia-funds-band-together-to-repel-putin-cabinet-s-pension-grab.html
Russia ’s biggest retirement funds
are uniting to scuttle a pension revamp they say would decimate
an industry that’s poised to amass more than $70 billion.  Government proposals would divert taxes from future
 retirement plans  to meet current pension payments and narrow the
state system’s  deficit . The money managers that earn fees for
investing the cash have appealed to President  Vladimir Putin  to
block the plan, which is dividing the government.  The battle pits spendthrifts in the Cabinet against hawks
such as Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, who says the pension
savings are needed to finance investment as an oil-fueled boom
fades. A worst-case scenario under which existing retirement
funds are liquidated may trigger a 1 trillion-ruble ($32
billion) sell-off in  government bonds  and drive yields higher,
according to VTB Capital Asset Management.  “There’s still a chance to convince the authorities,”
said Sergey Mikhaylov, chairman of Kapital Asset Management
Group, which had 109 billion rubles in pension savings June 30,
the most among non-state companies. Opposition from some
ministers “could lay the groundwork for a presidential
decision.”  Russia’s borrowing costs in rubles have tumbled this year
as the government prepares to open the local  debt market  to
global investors. The average five-year yield fell to 6.98
percent on Oct. 17, the lowest since December 2010, according to
an  index  compiled by the Moscow Exchange based on trades. The
rate was 7.0734 percent as of 3:31 p.m. in Moscow.  Deficit Widens  The retirement overhaul comes as this year’s State Pension
Fund deficit is set to reach 1.3 trillion rubles, equivalent to
2.2 percent of gross domestic product, up from 30 billion rubles
in 2005, former Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin estimates.  A Labor Ministry plan backed by Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets would cut the share of payrolls that goes into
individual accounts for future retirees, the so-called funded
part of the system, to 2 percent from 6 percent,  increasing  the
share that pays current retirees to 20 percent from 16 percent.  While that would narrow the pension deficit in the near
term, it would reduce the future cash pool and deplete a source
of long-term capital needed to finance economic growth,
according to Siluanov. GDP rose 4.3 percent in 2011 compared
with 8.5 percent in 2007.  ‘Important Role’  The funded element “should retain an important role in
financing  investment  into the Russian economy,” he said in an
Oct. 12 interview in  Tokyo . “We’re going to defend that
position, and we hope that ultimately we’re able to make the
case for saving this part.”  Russian officials are trying to revamp a pension system
that risks being overwhelmed over the next two to four decades
as the population ages. The number of people eligible for
retirement as a percentage of the working-age population may
rise to 52 percent by 2030 from 33 percent now, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Private pension funds manage about 20 percent of the cash
contained in the funded part of the system, where assets will
reach 2.3 trillion rubles by year-end, the government estimates.
The National Association of Non-State Pension Funds and five
other financial-interest groups wrote to Putin in August asking
him to help save the funded component.  “Stable Base’  ‘‘A stable base of long-term investments is needed for the
development of Russia’s financial market, cutting dependence on
foreign investors,” said  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for
Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow. “Pension savings make up
the long money that could lower the vulnerability of the Russian
financial market.”  Dismantling the system would choke funds that had invested
1.3 trillion rubles in domestic debt by end-2011, according to
Vladimir Potapov, global head of  portfolio management  at VTB
Capital Asset Management, who said that using savings already
housed within the system’s funded component to pay pensions
today would push up bond yields for short- and long-term debt by
a percentage point or more.  “It would be a big blow to the fixed-income market, both
for Russian first-tier and government borrowing,” Potapov said.
“That would definitely push yields much higher than any central
bank action.”  Putin, who’s searching for ways to rein in the pension
shortfall without raising the  retirement age , has ordered Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  to return the Labor Ministry proposals
for public discussion before submitting legislation by Dec. 15.  ‘Complicated Discussion’  Golodets  told  Putin Oct. 16 that the government was caught
up in a “complicated discussion” on revamping the pension
system. The Cabinet proposals are preliminary and key parts are
“under-developed,” said Ksenia Yudaeva, head of the Kremlin’s
expert department and OAO Sberbank’s former chief economist.  Returns of retirement savings over the next decade will
probably outpace annual pension adjustments for inflation,
according to HSBC’s Morozov.  “In the next 10 years, the pension increases will be in
line with or slightly above inflation, while the Finance
Ministry will have to provide a return on state debt that
exceeds inflation,” he said. “We’re going to see an entirely
different situation.”  More than 74 million people had pension savings invested
either with the state or private funds at end-2011, up from 55
million in 2005, according to a  Finance Ministry   report . The
value of Russia’s retirement savings surged 92 percent last year
to 1.76 trillion rubles, from 914 billion in 2010 and 286
billion in 2006, the report showed.  Dismantling the funded part “sounded like a bad idea,”
said Kai Stukenbrock, head of sovereign ratings for the CIS and
 Middle East  at  Standard & Poor’s . “It basically means taking
the money that flows in there to close holes today. That makes
your situation a little easier today but creates more problems
down the road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  