-- Russia Scraps Bond Auction as Investors Demand Higher Yields
-- B y   M a r k   S w e e t m a n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-24T10:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/russia-scraps-bond-as-investors-demand-higher-yield-than-offered.html
Russia  scrapped an auction of bonds
for the first time since May after investors demanded higher
yields than the government offered.  The Finance Ministry had planned to sell 30 billion rubles
($956 million) of notes due in February 2019 at a yield of 7.12
percent to 7.17 percent. The yield on Russia’s seven-year OFZ
notes jumped four basis points to 7.27 percent by 2:01 p.m. in
Moscow, the highest in a week, after a six basis-point increase
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond yields climbed and the ruble weakened after Urals
crude dropped 1.7 percent yesterday, its sixth day of declines.
Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, relies on oil and
gas for 50 percent of its budget revenue. The OFZ’s yield has
tumbled 140 basis points since June to a record-low 7.17 percent
on Oct. 22.  “The rally in OFZs is over,” Egor Fedorov, a credit
analyst at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said by telephone after the
government’s statement today. “Yields started rising very
tangibly yesterday as a reaction to negative global factors.
Local investors want to take profit, as foreign ones will be
more cautious.”  Russia scrapped all its auctions in May as Urals dropped 15
percent, its biggest monthly decline for two years. Today’s
auction was shelved because the bids “exceeded the highest end
of yield guidance,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a website
 statement .  Emerging-market stocks  declined today as concern  Europe ’s
economic crisis is deepening pared investor appetite for riskier
assets. German business confidence unexpectedly fell to the
lowest in more than 2 1/2 years and a report showed euro-area
services and manufacturing contracted more than economists
estimated. Europe is Russia’s biggest trading partner.  “You can get better yields on the secondary market,”
Fedorov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Sweetman in Moscow at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  