-- S. Korea Expands Role in U.K. Carbon Capture as 2Co Sells Stake
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-10-24T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/s-korea-expands-role-in-u-k-carbon-capture-as-2co-sells-stake.html
2Co Energy Ltd., a U.K. carbon-
capture project developer, is selling a stake in its Don Valley
venture to a South Korean utility, adding a second investor from
the East Asian country after bringing in  Samsung Group (102780)  in March.  2Co Energy is offloading a stake in the carbon-capture and
storage, or CCS, project in northern  England , Chief Executive
Officer Lewis Gillies said by e-mail, without identifying the
buyer. Gillies expects South Korea to provide 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) in financing following the deal.  “That level of Korean equity ownership combined enables us
to leverage in order of a billion pounds of debt from Korean
export credit agencies,” Gillies said. The company has
“letters of intent” that may generate about 1.5 billion pounds
from the agencies and the European Investment Bank, he said.  Developers of CCS are tapping Asia for funding as European
lenders, constrained by the financial crisis, shy away from a
technology that’s yet to operate on a commercial scale at power
plants. CCS, which traps carbon emissions from power stations
and factories for permanent burial underground, has attracted
 Korea  as it gathers expertise for possible replication at home.  “Korea is most likely supporting CCS internationally to
help its large technology companies, such as Samsung, gain
market share in the early-stage CCS industry and gain experience
to help build CCS in Korea,” Kieron Stopforth, a London-based
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.  Asian Funds  China  and  Japan  are doing likewise. The Export-Import Bank
of China agreed in September to finance about half of a Summit
Power Group LLC carbon-capture project in  Texas , while  SCS
Energy LLC  will use funds from Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and
the Japan Bank for International Cooperation for its proposed
 Hydrogen Energy California  CCS venture.  “Japan, China and Korea are countries well noted for
standing behind their companies when they procure contracts
abroad with government-backed debt to help the company secure
business,” Gillies said. That CCS funding model is working in
the U.S. and will be successful in the U.K. too, he said.  2Co, a London-based company backed by Texan private equity
firm TPG Capital, agreed to sell a 15 percent stake in the Don
Valley venture to a Samsung subsidiary in March, and in June
sold a further 15 percent to  Linde AG (LIN) ’s U.K. unit.  The project is designed to trap 90 percent of emissions
from a new coal-fired power plant in south Yorkshire, and funnel
them into storage about 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) under the North
Sea, where they can be used to help push out crude from depleted
oilfields.  The onshore portion of the project will cost about 3
billion pounds, and the offshore infrastructure 1 billion
pounds. Including the cost of a 400-kilometer pipeline, the
total investment is 5 billion pounds, according to 2Co.  The company already won 180 million euros from the  European
Energy Program for Recovery  and is first in line to win funds in
the European Commission’s NER300 program. It’s also entered a 1
billion-pound CCS financing competition in Britain, with results
yet to be announced.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  