-- Sales of New Houses in U.S. Probably Climbed to Two-Year High
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-24T04:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/sales-of-new-houses-in-u-s-probably-climbed-to-two-year-high.html
Purchases of  new homes  in the U.S.
probably rose in September to the highest level in more than two
years as the industry that helped bring on the last recession
forged its way toward recovery, economists said before a report
today.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed 3.2
percent to a 385,000 annual pace, the most since buyers took
advantage of a government tax credit in April 2010, according to
the  median  estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 75 economists.  Demand for new homes is being driven by record-low  mortgage
rates  and  population growth , which will help generate business
for builders like  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  A lack of jobs and
strict lending conditions still pose hurdles to a more
pronounced rebound.  “Housing is on a gradual upward slope,” said Tom Simons,
an economist at Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York . “Things are
starting to get better. We still face some headwinds. Incomes
are not rising substantially, credit is still tight, and there’s
the looming specter of foreclosures.”  The Commerce Department will release the sales data at 10
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 370,000 to
410,000 compared with a decline to a 373,000 pace in August.  A jump in housing starts in September was the latest sign
the new-home industry is showing signs of vitality. Beginning
construction rose last month to an 872,000 annual rate, the
fastest pace since July 2008 and exceeding all forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey, Commerce Department figures showed Oct. 17.  Existing Homes  The existing homes market is also improving. Figures from
the National Association of Realtors last week showed previously
owned homes sold at a 4.75 million rate in September and a 4.83
million rate in August, the strongest back-to-back pace since
mid-2010.  Sales of new homes are considered a timelier barometer than
purchases of previously owned dwellings, which are calculated
when a contract closes. Newly constructed houses accounted for
6.7 percent of the residential market in 2011, down from a high
of 15 percent during the boom of the past decade.  “It’s no longer a question of whether the industry is
rebounding,”  Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer of  Red Bank ,
New Jersey-based Hovnanian, the  best-performing  homebuilding
stock this year, told Bloomberg on Oct. 17. “There is clear
evidence that we have bounced off the bottom and are in the
midst of a recovery.”  Cheap borrowing costs are underpinning that recovery. The
average  30-year fixed  rate mortgage was 3.37 percent in the week
ended Oct. 18, near a record-low of 3.36 reported Oct. 4,
according to data from  Freddie Mac  that dates back to 1971.  More Households  Another boon for housing, the number of households in the
U.S. grew 2 percent in 2011, the biggest gain in 10 years, to
119.9 million, according to the most recent Census Bureau data.  Rising demand could further stoke construction, thereby
promoting stronger economic growth. There were enough properties
on the market in August to last 4.5 months at the current sales
pace, matching July as the lowest level in almost seven years,
according to Commerce Department data.  The building environment has made construction companies
less pessimistic. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo builder sentiment index  increased  to 41
this month, the highest since June 2006 and the sixth-straight
gain, figures showed yesterday. Still, readings below 50 mean
more respondents said conditions were poor.  Shares of homebuilders are reflecting the brighter outlook.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME) , which
includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., has climbed 85
percent this year. The broader  S&P 500  has risen 12 percent in
that period.  Record Sales  Nonetheless, the projected level of new-home sales for
September would still be less than a third the pace of the pre-
recession peak, when purchases were running in excess of a 1.2
million annual rate per month.  Federal Reserve policy makers are trying to sustain the
progress in the real-estate market. In September, Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  called housing “one of the missing pistons in
the engine” as he announced the third round of large-scale
asset purchases intended to push down long-term  interest rates 
and spur growth.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will release a statement
on monetary policy at 2:15 p.m. today following the conclusion
of their two-day meeting in Washington.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  