-- San Francisco Diesel Climbs After Tesoro Said to Cut Coker Rates
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-24T20:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/san-francisco-diesel-climbs-after-tesoro-said-to-cut-coker-rates.html
Spot diesel in San Francisco gained
for a second day against futures after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  was said to
cut production from a coker at the Golden Eagle refinery after a
weekend fire.  The 170,000-barrel-a-day plant is working to repair a
compressor associated with the coker that was damaged Oct. 21, a
person with direct knowledge of the incident said yesterday.
Cokers convert heavy refinery streams, such as vacuum bottoms,
into lighter products such as naphtha and heating oil.  Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at Tesoro’s headquarters in San
Antonio, declined to comment on the status of the unit. The
company doesn’t “anticipate any impact to product supply
commitments,” she said by e-mail yesterday.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco gained
0.5 cent to 2 cents a gallon against heating oil futures traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:54 p.m. East Coast
time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  is performing maintenance on hydrocrackers,
which break down heavy feedstocks into light products such as
diesel, at its two California refineries, people familiar with
the schedules said. The company’s Los Angeles-area refinery was
restoring operations after a  power failure  in the Wilmington
section today, a person with knowledge of the incident said.  CARB diesel inventories  dropped 12 percent last week to
2.49 million barrels, the lowest in a month, the state Energy
Commission said on its website.  The fuel in  Los Angeles  fell 1 cent to a premium of 6.5
cents a gallon against futures.  Carbob Falls  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles
tumbled 3 cents to 9 cents a gallon above Nymex gasoline
futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco  also fell 3 cents to a
discount of 0.5 cents a gallon versus futures.  Carbob supplies  jumped 19 percent in the week ended Oct. 19
to 5.78 million barrels, the highest level since March, the
state Energy Commission said. Production of the fuel rose 4.4
percent to 7.05 million, the agency said.  Conventional 84 sub-octane gasoline to be blended with
ethanol in  Portland ,  Oregon , weakened 2.5 cents to 16 cents a
gallon below gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland
slipped 0.5 cent to 2.5 cents a gallon under heating oil
futures, the lowest level since February.  Gasoline inventories on the U.S. West Coast, known as the
Padd 5 region, climbed 6.4 percent to 28 million barrels, the
highest level since April, the Energy Department said. Low-
sulfur diesel fuel supplies in the region slipped 2 percent to
11.7 million barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  