-- Sandy Nears Jamaica, Forecasters Weigh New England Threat
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-24T18:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/sandy-nears-jamaica-forecasters-weigh-new-england-threat.html
Tropical Storm Sandy grew into a
hurricane just south of  Jamaica  as the odds increased for a
brush with the U.S. East Coast next week.  Sandy was about 30 miles (48 kilometers) south of Kingston
with top winds of 80 miles per hour, according to an 2 p.m. New
York time advisory from the  U.S. National Hurricane Center . It
is a Category 1 hurricane, the weakest on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale.  “Conditions appear favorable for additional
intensification until the cyclone moves near or over eastern
Jamaica,” Michael Brennan, a senior hurricane specialist at the
center, said in an analysis.  Winds on Jamaica will build through the day and as much as
6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 centimeters) of rain might fall, which
may trigger landslides and flooding, according to the
Meteorological Service of Jamaica. As much as 20 inches may fall
in isolated areas of Cuba,  Haiti  and the Dominican Republic.  Sandy is expected to strike Cuba later today and then the
Bahamas, and has the potential to bring tropical storm
conditions to southern Florida, including Miami. The system may
threaten the U.S. East Coast next week and eventually go ashore
in New England as a burst of cold air also enters the region.  Northeast’s Odds  Commodity Weather Group LLC President Matt Rogers said he
gives Sandy about a 55 percent chance of hitting somewhere in
the six New England states, which include Connecticut and
 Massachusetts . Other meteorologists in his office have greater
doubts about such a track, he said.  “This is a really tricky situation,” Rogers said in an e-
mail interview from Bethesda,  Maryland .  The storm has the potential to bring snow to the
Appalachians from New England south to the Mid-Atlantic states,
because cold air may mix with the moisture coming off the ocean
as Sandy arrives, Rogers said. Cities on the coast, including
New York, Philadelphia and Boston, wouldn’t see snow in this
scenario, he said.  The hurricane center’s official storm track only extends to
Oct. 29 and shows Sandy edging to the northeast into the
Atlantic.  Tough Prediction  The difficulty for forecasters is that they have to predict
what upper-level air features are going to come into play in
about a week’s time, said Paul Walker, an expert senior
meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,
 Pennsylvania .  In one scenario, Sandy is pulled into the East Coast by
weather systems over the U.S., Walker said. In an alternative,
U.S. weather patterns push the storm away from the coast.  “It is still too early to tell,” Walker said. “The
upper-air features aren’t quite clear on how this storm will
behave.”  The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency said
residents should monitor the storm’s progress.  Hurricane warnings are in effect for Jamaica and eastern
Cuba, meaning “preparations to protect life and property should
be rushed to completion,” the NHC said.  A hurricane watch was issued for Haiti and the northwestern
and central Bahamas, where winds and heavy rain are expected in
about 36 hours. A tropical storm watch is in place for the
southeastern Bahamas and southern  Florida  and the Florida Keys.  A watch means storm conditions are possible in about two
days. Sandy’s hurricane-strength winds of at least 74 mph extend
25 miles from its center while its tropical storm strength
reaches 140 miles.  Walker said wind and rain may reach southern Florida
starting tomorrow. As much as 3 inches of rain may fall in
Florida.  In addition to Sandy, Tropical Storm Tony has formed in the
central Atlantic, making 2012 the third year in a row that 19
storms have developed. That ties 2012 for the third-most active
season, with 2010, 2011, 1995 and 1887.  Tony is expected to remain far from land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  