-- SAP Lifts 2012 Revenue Target as Software Beats Estimates
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-10-24T07:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/sap-lifts-2012-revenue-target-as-software-sales-beat-estimates.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, reported third-quarter software
license revenue that beat analyst estimates and boosted a sales
forecast. The stock rose the most in more than three months.  Sales of new software licenses, an indicator of future
revenue, rose 12 percent to 1.03 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
excluding currency swings, the Walldorf, Germany-based company
said in a statement today. That compares with the 980 million-
euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  The numbers are a sign that SAP’s strategy of taking on
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  in mobile and on-demand
software is working, with co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe saying today that the German company is winning
market share “in all regions.” Edging out rivals may become
more important as a weakening global economy curbs companies’
spending on software and maintenance.  “Walldorf is bristling with power, which is particularly
astonishing given the weaker economic environment,” said Marco Guenther, an analyst at  Hamburger Sparkasse  who has a buy
recommendation on SAP. “Looking at the recent earnings reports
in the  software industry , I wasn’t expecting this strong
performance.”  Shares Gain  SAP shares surged as much as 4.7 percent to 55.34 euros,
the biggest intraday advance since July 12, and were up 4.4
percent as of 9:24 a.m. in  Frankfurt . Through yesterday, the
stock had gained 30 percent this year, valuing the software
maker at 64.9 billion euros. That compares with  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle’s 19 percent increase and San Francisco-
based Salesforce.com’s 47 percent jump.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the biggest
computer-services company, on Oct. 16 reported revenue that fell
short of estimates as clients delayed orders.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
the largest software maker, on Oct. 18 reported profit that
missed estimates on declining sales of Windows, its flagship
operating system.  SAP forecast growth in software and related service sales,
based on non-IFRS accounting rules, will reach the “upper end”
of a range of 10.5 percent to 12.5 percent this year, helped by
contribution from Ariba Inc. and SuccessFactors Inc.  Ariba, the latest acquisition to strengthen SAP’s range of
programs accessed via the Web, is adding 0.5 percentage points
to the previous projection for 10 percent to 12 percent revenue
growth, Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt said on a
conference call.  ‘Strong Pipeline’  “We have a lot of momentum with a strong pipeline going
into the fourth quarter,” Snabe said on the call.  Billings from cloud contracts, a source of revenue for the
next year, rose 14-fold, SAP said. Revenue from software and
related services, based on non-IFRS accounting rules, advanced
13 percent at constant currencies to 3.2 billion euros, topping
the 3.1 billion-euro analyst estimate.  Oracle, whose revenue declined 2.3 percent in the quarter
ended August as a result of slower hardware sales, last month
presented a high-end server with more memory and an updated
flagship database to counter SAP.  Industrywide, global revenue from subscription software
grew 23 percent to $48.3 billion last year, and is expected to
increase at an average 18 percent a year from 2012 through 2016,
according to IDC data.  SAP’s new software sales in Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa declined 1 percent in the three months through September.
License revenue grew 37 percent in the Americas and 18 percent
in the Asia-Pacific region including Japan.  Database Software  “The only flattish region was Europe but we’re expecting
it to pick up in the fourth quarter,” co-CEO  Bill McDermott 
said in an interview on Bloomberg TV, adding that Italy,
Portugal, Greece and Spain are among the weakest markets. “The
pipeline in Europe is a bit lumpy but what’s amazing is that
we’re actually gaining more market share there than anywhere
else.”  SAP announced software contracts with clients including the
 National Basketball Association  and Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  during the period.  As SAP tries to win more clients for its Hana database
software, it is trying to keep costs down. The non-IFRS profit
margin slid to 31.2 percent in the third quarter from 33.2
percent a year earlier.  The company confirmed its full-year profit forecast.
Operating profit, excluding some items, will be in a range of
5.05 billion euros to 5.25 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  