-- Scott Fujita’s Noble Battle Against the NFL
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-10-24T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/scott-fujita-s-noble-battle-against-the-nfl.html
If the NFL’s “Bountygate” scandal
has become too complicated for you to follow -- what with the
appeals, reduced suspensions, recusals and a civil suit --
here’s all you need to know: In Scott Fujita, the league chose
the wrong scapegoat.  When the story first broke last spring, it seemed simple
enough. The  National Football League  claimed to have proof that
several members of the  New Orleans Saints  had created a slush
fund in 2009 and 2010 to reward teammates who injured members of
opposing teams. NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  quickly meted out
some of the toughest punishments in league history, and was  duly
applauded  by  Bob Costas  and other self-appointed guardians of
sportsmanship and fair play.  For Goodell, whose league was already being sued by
thousands of former players or their families for its handling
of their injuries, Bountygate presented the perfect PR
opportunity. It would not only allow him to demonstrate he was
serious about protecting players; it would allow him to do it
without implicating the whole league in the process. This was
just a handful of thugs on a single team.  The problem -- or one of them, anyway -- is that this
handful of thugs included Fujita.  Team Captain  Fujita, who is 33, has an unusual background for an NFL
linebacker: He was a walk-on in college, at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, where he earned a bachelor’s degree in
political science in 2001 and a master’s in education in 2002.
He is also adopted, and his father was born in a Japanese
internment camp in World War II. (Fujita and his adoptive mother
are white.)  Fujita’s NFL career eventually brought him to  New Orleans ,
and three years before the Saints won the  Super Bowl  in 2009,
his teammates named him a captain. In 2010, he signed with the
 Cleveland Browns ; the same year, he joined the NFL Players
Association’s Player Safety and Welfare Committee.  In the face of the NFL’s Bountygate allegations, Fujita
 vehemently denied  ever giving or receiving any money for hurting
opposing players. For that matter, he added, no one on his
Saints team had. Fujita said he would welcome the opportunity to
confront whatever evidence the league had against him.  That opportunity is unlikely to ever arise. It has been
seven months since the so-called scandal was first reported, and
it has held up about as well as the case against President
 Barack Obama ’s U.S. citizenship. Most recently, a grasping
Goodell sent a memo to all 32 teams outing the league’s apparent
whistle-blower, the  Minnesota Vikings ’ Jimmy Kennedy -- who then
 accused Goodell  of spreading “blatant lies” about him.  The only “evidence” the league has produced so far is an
affidavit from the Saints ex-defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams  saying that one of Fujita’s teammates had placed a
$10,000 bounty on quarterback  Brett Favre . This is the same
Gregg Williams who was infamously  caught on tape  in the Saints
locker room goading his team to intentionally target opponents’
heads. (“Kill the head and the body will die,” he said. “Kill
the head and the body will die.”) He is currently unemployed,
having been indefinitely suspended from football, and presumably
wants to work again someday. He has every reason to tell the NFL
what it wants to hear.  As for Fujita, Goodell has been  forced to admit  that he was
innocent -- sort of. He acknowledged that Fujita didn’t
participate in the bounty program, and reduced his suspension
from three games to one. Lest anyone get the idea that he was
absolving Fujita, though, Goodell added that he was
“disappointed” he didn’t do more to stop the program.  Harsh Indictment  The accusation is farcical, given Fujita’s efforts on
behalf of player safety. In response, Fujita issued the harshest
indictment of a sitting sports commissioner by an active player
I’ve ever seen:  “The Commissioner says he is disappointed in me,” it reads
in part. “The truth is, I’m disappointed in him. His positions
on player health and safety since a 2009 congressional hearing
on concussions have been inconsistent at best.” Goodell’s
“actions or lack thereof,” Fujita writes, “are by the league’s
own definition, ’conduct detrimental.’”  Read  the whole thing , as they say. Then remember what a big
deal it was when former Chicago Bears quarterback Jim McMahon,
having just been fined $5,000 by then-NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle for wearing a headband with a corporate logo on it,
suited up for his next game in a headband that read simply,
“Rozelle.”  McMahon was needling his boss. Fujita is impeaching his. He
is hardly alone. Goodell may have been judged the “winner” of
last year’s player lockout, but in the process, he has mobilized
his opposition. The past few months have been all about rolling
back Goodellian overreach -- most notably,  his handling  of the
replacement-referee debacle.  As it happens, Fujita may have played his last NFL game. He
recently suffered a neck injury, and with a wife and three young
daughters, he may not be inclined to put himself at additional
risk.  Fujita is still appealing his one-game suspension, so when
I called him this week, he couldn’t say much about the specifics
of Bountygate. (He intends to continue to seek exoneration, even
if he never takes the field again.) Our conversation turned more
generally to the banality of football violence and the Williams
tape. “I’ve heard at least 100 different variations of the same
language dating back to when I was 8 years old,” Fujita said.  Maybe you think Fujita is a hypocrite for hammering
opponents week after week even as he was advocating for player
safety. I happen to think he was just trying to make a living.
And can you really blame him for not standing up and saying,
“Now hold it right there, sir,” when the defensive coordinator
gives the standard pregame pep talk?  Goodell can try to pin responsibility for the game’s
brutality on a group of “rogue” players. Eventually, however, he
is going to have to confront the reality that violence is
embedded in the culture of football. Strike that: Violence is
football. No fine or suspension, no matter how large or how
long, will make the game safer. As Fujita told me, “This game
played within the rules is what’s dangerous.”  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A long-time contributor to the  New York  Times Magazine, he is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the  candidates’ tax plans
are converging  and on the  economics of immigration ;  Caroline
Baum  on the  economic and political landscapes in 2015 ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s way with words ;  Ezra Klein  on the  most
important issue in the presidential race ;  Amity Shlaes  on why
 Obama was wrong to trash the 1920s ;  Richard Thaler  on why
entrepreneurs aren’t thinking about  tax rates .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 