-- Sharon Stone Minidress Stars in Hollywood Costume Show
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/sharon-stone-minidress-stars-in-hollywood-costume-show.html
Sharon Stone  crosses her tanned legs
on the big screen as you enter a new exhibition at London’s
 Victoria & Albert  Museum.  The white mini-dress she wears in the scene from “Basic
Instinct” (1992) is on display inside: It’s fitted on a
mannequin whose head is a video screen picturing Stone.  “The men always want to know if she has her underwear on,”
sighs Deborah Nadoolman Landis, senior guest curator of
“Hollywood Costume” (through Jan. 27, 2013), a sprawling London
show of movie garb spanning the past century.  “Hollywood Costume” is an exhibition for movie lovers, not
fashionistas. A thrashing soundtrack rumbles all the way
through, giving the show a major-motion-picture feel. Period
gowns get short shrift. Crinolines worn by  Gwyneth Paltrow  in
“Shakespeare in Love” (1998) and Kirsten Dunst in “ Marie
Antoinette ” (2006) are hastily lumped together on a podium.  The more riveting displays are the menswear:  Robert De Niro ’s beige army jacket in “Taxi Driver” (1976),  Bruce Willis ’s
blood-stained wife-beater in “Die Hard” (1988), and  Charlie Chaplin ’s tattered outfit in “Modern Times” (1936).  “It’s not about the clothes: It’s about movies, and what we
love about the movies,” says Landis, professor of costume design
at the University of California,  Los Angeles . “I didn’t want to
have what friends of mine here call dead frocks on dummies.”  Jackson’s Thriller  Landis herself designed the wardrobes for “Raiders of the
Lost Ark” (1981), as well as for “The Blues Brothers” (1980) and
 Michael Jackson ’s 1983 “Thriller” video (the last two were
directed by her husband John Landis).  The most striking male outfit of all is  John Travolta ’s
white disco suit from “Saturday Night Fever” (1977). Looking as
good as new on a mannequin with an upward-pointing arm, it was
bought off the rack.  Costume designer Patrizia von Brandenstein “took the very
young and very hunky John Travolta to Brooklyn, to the hood, to
go shopping for the right polyester suit,” says Landis. “She
remembered thousands of teenage girls beating against the
windows. They had to call the police.”  Of the three suits purchased that day, two were lost.
Travolta gave the third to a film critic whose wife auctioned it
after his death. It now lives in a Plexiglas box in the office
of a Mayfair-based London businessman who loved the movie.  Garland’s Slippers  By far the most precious loan to the exhibition is the pair
of sequined ruby slippers worn by  Judy Garland  in “The Wizard of
Oz” (1939). They’ve never left the Smithsonian in Washington,
D.C., were escorted over by a Federal Marshal, and are due back
by Thanksgiving.  “It’s the equivalent of the Louvre loaning the  Mona Lisa ,”
says Landis with a straight face.  What makes “Hollywood Costume” a lively show is the use of
moving images. Actors, directors and designers speak on camera
while overhead projectors beam sketches, photos and archives
across tabletops.  Martin Scorsese ’s recorded talk on “Gangs of
New York” (2002) is coupled with century-old images of the New
York underclass.  In a filmed tandem, Meryl Streep and Robert De Niro take
turns discussing their costumes on separate screens. Their
outfits sit on mannequins directly behind, including De Niro’s
boxer shorts from “Raging Bull” (1980) and Streep’s frumpy blue
suit and handbag from “The Iron Lady” (2011).  Peeping Douglas  The exhibition comes even more to life when I meet the
designer of Stone’s “Basic Instinct” dress, Ellen Mirojnick. She
says director Paul Verhoeven wanted something Stone could slip
on easily as co-star  Michael Douglas  peeped at her from behind.  Mirojnick just finished dressing Douglas for his role as
Liberace in the TV movie “Behind the Candelabra.” She also
created his slick Gordon Gekko gear in “Wall Street” (1987).  “The Street did not dress like that at the time,” she says.
Mirojnick got the idea for the suspenders from insider-trader
 Ivan Boesky , and otherwise emulated Hollywood aristocracy --
 Cary Grant , Gregory Peck -- and the Duke of Windsor.  Landis laments Hollywood’s failure to preserve film
costumes. Not a single outfit survives from “Citizen Kane”
(1941) or from the Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers movies. Bette Davis’s best-known gowns are now used in a drag revue, and “worn
ragged,” she says.  “We have not done a good job in the film industry of
keeping and safeguarding our history,” says Landis. Hollywood is
“always about tomorrow, never about yesterday.”  The V&A exhibition temporarily corrects that. Even if you
don’t get a fetishistic thrill from seeing the costumes with
your own eyes, you’ll want to see the movies all over again.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  Jason
Harper  on cars,  James Russell  on architecture and  Jeremy Gerard 
on New York theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 