-- Shipping Rally Seen Curbed by Clarkson as Owners Compete for Ore
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2012-10-24T11:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/shipping-rally-seen-curbed-by-clarkson-as-owners-compete-for-ore.html
Shipping rates for hauling  iron ore ,
which more than doubled this month, may be poised to snap the
rally as competition intensifies to load cargoes from Brazil,
said  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Rates for Capesizes moving about 160,000 metric tons of the
raw material jumped to $18,388 a day yesterday from $8,039 on
Sept. 28, according to data from the London-based Baltic
Exchange, a publisher of costs on more than 50 maritime routes.
The price was the highest since January.  The advance may spur more owners with ships in the Atlantic
Ocean to compete to take Brazilian ore to  Asia , causing the
rally to reverse over the next several days,  Guy Campbell ,
managing director of dry cargo at Clarkson, said by phone today.
The “jury’s out” on what will happen after that, he said.
Extra iron ore from  Australia , West Africa and the South
American country caused the rates to increase, he said.  “Generally, the extra iron-ore demand will continue to
December, but in the short term, for the next week or so, we
think rates will look toppy,” Campbell said. Owners who had
previously preferred to keep ships in the Atlantic may seek
charters for them now because rates sometimes decline in the
first quarter, he said. The quickest round-trip between Brazil
and China takes about 76 days, according to sea-distances.com,
an online voyage-durations calculator.  Contracts that traders use to bet on, or hedge, the  Baltic
Exchange ’s daily price assessments declined. November forward
freight agreements fell 7.5 percent to $18,625 a day, according
to data from Clarkson’s securities unit.  Extra Australian cargoes caused more ships to sail to the
country and not to the Atlantic, Campbell said. That meant fewer
were available to load Brazilian ore at a time when its cargo
numbers were expanding, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  