-- Shrieky ‘Tempest’ Washes Up For Late Met Premiere: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/shrieky-tempest-washes-up-for-late-met-premiere-review.html
London  saw “The Tempest” by
composer Thomas Ades in 2004.  On Tuesday, this schizoid adaptation of Shakespeare’s grand
play about a shipwrecked magician and many addled mortals,
finally washed up at the  Metropolitan Opera , in a production by
 Robert Lepage .  You may remember that this is the director who dreamed up
the company’s outrageously expensive, hi-tech “Ring” cycle, a
fiasco dominated by a gargantuan moving machine featuring lots
of video and an ill-tuned Brunnhilde.  By contrast, “The Tempest” looks positively quaint.
Taking our seats, we see the gilded interior of a 19th-century
theater, a grand chandelier and a model ship. It’s framed by a
wooden proscenium with cogwheels and ropes.  Please, not another show featuring a play within a play
concept. Can’t this retro cliche be banished once and for all
from the island of  Manhattan ?  The little stage even has mini-footlights.  Accompanied by much sturm und drang from the orchestra, an
acrobat in a silvery space suit swings and spins on the rising
chandelier as the ship tosses about. The heads of drowning
Italian nobility bob through a billowing sheet representing the
stormy sea.  Usurped Kingdom  These are very underwhelming visuals for a director who
works with  Canada ’s Cirque du Soleil.  Neither was the librettist, Meredith Oakes, inspired by
Shakespeare’s magnificent valedictory work, coming up with
painfully clunking rhymes like “daughter” with “loiter.”
It’s all the cast can do to make the story understood.  Which goes like this: On the island he’s ruled with magic
for the 12 years since his Milan dukedom was usurped, Prospero
and his spirited slave Ariel conjure the storm that washes his
enemies ashore. Also enslaved is the beastly Caliban, who lusts
after Prospero’s pubescent daughter Miranda and chafes at his
imprisonment.  Poor Ariel. For the sprite, Ades composed an unrelenting
series of shrieks and caws so demanding and unintelligible
(think  Yoko Ono  in her Elephant’s Memory period) that I feared
for Audrey Luna’s voice. Toward the end, this limber singer was
finally allowed to sing a few human notes, and they were lovely.  Yes, there are sections of surpassing musical beauty,
particularly in the trios Ades has written for Prospero (Simon
Keenlyside), Caliban (Alan Oke) and Miranda (Isabel Leonard).
Inspired as well is the chorus of courtiers who pop up on the
island.  Scale Tripping  Too often, though, the score sounded like scale-tripping up
and down, willy-nilly. (For this we waited eight years?)  Bare-chested, tattooed and heavily blinged (the costumer is
Kym Barrett), Keenlyside sang with intense authority though not
much emotion, even when Miranda wondered, “Why have you
summoned such sorrow here?”  Leonard brought a silvery, natural charm to Miranda’s love
scenes with Alek Shrader’s guileless Ferdinand, which were among
the tenderest in the show.  Oke’s powerfully sung, deeply felt Caliban (decked out, in
yet another cliche, as the Creature from the Black Lagoon), was
matched in tonal beauty by William Burden’s gorgeously world-
weary King of Naples.  Ultimately, though, the libretto and production sink the
piece as much as the music.  Oakes strips the text of the poignancy that vibrates
through every syllable of “The Tempest.” When Prospero finally
yields his power, even his plaintive begging of Ariel to stay
with him lacks emotional pull.  Working with Jasmine Catudal (sets) and Michel Beaulieu
(lighting), Lepage tenders one banal image after another. Beyond
the trite set-within-the-set, they include Miranda and Ferdinand
walking upstage into a shimmering sunset; leaping sprites and
nymphs and, of course, shadow puppetry for that multi-culti seal
of approval. It’s rough magic indeed.  At the curtain call, Luna received the greatest applause, I
suppose for surviving. Ades, who conducted the performance with
assurance, made do with somewhat more tepid cheering.  At the  Metropolitan Opera ,  Lincoln Center . “The Tempest”
will be performed through Nov. 17. Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metopera.org . Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 