-- Singapore Planning to Build Fourth LNG Tank to Meet Demand
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-10-24T04:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/singapore-to-build-fourth-lng-tank-to-meet-demand-minister-says.html
Singapore  will build a fourth
liquefied natural gas tank as part of its plan to meet growing
energy demand and take advantage of increased spot trading.  The tank will boost the capacity of Singapore’s LNG
terminal to 9 million metric tons a year, S. Iswaran, the second
trade minister, said at a conference today in the city-state.
The unit may be built by 2016 or 2017 and cost about S$500
million ($409 million), he said.  “This fourth tank will enhance our  energy security  by
allowing further diversification of our fuel sources,” he said.
“The increased storage infrastructure could also catalyze
business opportunities such as LNG trading, break-bulk services
and LNG bunkering.”  Singapore,  Asia ’s biggest center for oil trading, refining
and storage, is trying to position itself as a regional LNG hub
as consumption increases for natural gas that is chilled for
transport in liquid form.  BG Group Plc (BG/) , a supplier of LNG for
the terminal, says a global gas market is decades away, a hurdle
for developing a trading hub.  The government is monitoring supply trends in the global
LNG market, including the “great deal of movement” in North
American shale gas, Iswaran said.  Cheaper Gas  Singapore’s first two LNG storage tanks, a regasification
plant and a jetty will begin operating on Jurong Island in the
second quarter of 2013, according to Neil McGregor, chief
executive officer for Singapore LNG Corp., builder and operator
of the terminal. A third storage tank, expanded processing
facilities and two more jetties will be completed in early 2014,
he said yesterday.  “Sometime in the next six to 12 months, we should be
moving into the first stage, which is front-end engineering and
design,” Iswaran said today about the fourth tank.  A shift away from LNG contracts pegged to  oil prices  “does
not in itself mean that you’ll have cheaper gas, but it gives
you diversification in the way prices are set,” he said.  “We’re also seeing shorter-dated contracts as opposed to
long term and I think there’s room for greater development of a
 spot market ,” he said.  Oil-linked liquefied natural gas contracts will continue to
be effective pricing mechanisms, Milorad Doljanin, a director at
Gazprom Marketing and Trading Singapore, said today at the
conference in Singapore.  “We continue to believe that oil-indexation is the best
way to achieve that reliability of supply and also of demand,’’
Doljanin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  