-- Singapore’s GIC Said to Invest in San Francisco Tower
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-10-24T16:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/singapore-s-gic-said-to-invest-in-san-francisco-office-tower.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp.  is investing in a 30-year-old San Francisco office tower
that’s valued at about $900 million, according to one person
with direct knowledge of the transaction.  GIC, as the Singapore sovereign wealth fund is known, is
part of a group that’s taking control of 101 California Street
in San Francisco’s financial district, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
The fund declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  The sale of 101 California would be in line with the
increased interest in U.S. real estate by sovereign funds from
Asia,  Europe  and the Middle East, said Dan Fasulo, managing
director of Real Capital Analytics Inc. The price for the tower
would value the property at about $750 per square foot.  “101  California  is the kind of trophy asset that every
sovereign fund is looking for,” Fasulo said in a telephone
interview, referring to commercial buildings with the best
locations and physical appeal that attract competitive bidding.  GIC had 10 percent of its portfolio allocated to real
estate at the end of March, unchanged from last year, the fund
said in its latest annual report. Investments in the U.S.
accounted for 33 percent of its portfolio, also unchanged from
2011. The report didn’t say how much of its assets in the U.S.
are in real estate.  Rent Growth  The  48-story, 1.2 million-square-foot  building, whose
tenants include Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG, is owned by
Nippon Life Insurance Co. and its partner Hines. Nippon Life’s
92 percent stake was up for sale.  Hiroyuki Kuboki, spokesman for the Osaka-based insurer,
declined to comment on a possible sale. James Buie, chief
executive officer for the western region at Houston-based Hines,
which developed the property, also declined to comment in an e-
mail.  San Francisco has the best five-year outlook for  rent
growth  of any U.S. office market, propelled by leasing demand
from technology companies and strict regulations on new
development, Green Street Advisors said in an Oct. 16 report.
Buildings in the city are estimated to show an 11 percent gain
this year in revenue per available square foot, more than double
the advances in  Boston  or San Jose, its closest rivals,
according to the Newport Beach, California-based firm.  “San Francisco is a key gateway market, so it is a natural
draw for foreign real estate investors looking for U.S. office
exposure,” said Michael Knott, a managing director at Green
Street. “What is different this cycle is that tech prowess
seems sustainable, whereas finance and government, which drive
New York and D.C. and were rock stars the last go around, are
now open to more doubt and uncertainty.”  Asian Investors  Institutional investors from Asian nations are looking to
increase their direct investment in U.S. property, said Jim Fetgatter, chief executive officer of the Association of Foreign
Investors in Real Estate, a Washington-based trade group for
non-U.S. investors. San Francisco was the fifth-most popular
investment location behind New York,  London ,  Washington , and Sao
Paolo, according to a 2012 survey of AFIRE members.  “It wouldn’t surprise me if the bigger Asian sovereign
funds are getting in as U.S. property markets come back into
focus,” Thilo Hanemann, research director at New York-based
Rhodium Group, which tracks Asian investment, said in a
telephone interview.  Through mid-October, completed office sales in San
Francisco’s central business district totaled $3.6 billion,
according to Los Angeles-based services firm CBRE Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  