-- South Africa’s Mining Strikes a Risk to Financial Stability
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-10-24T10:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/south-africa-s-mining-strikes-a-risk-to-financial-stability-1-.html
Violent labor strikes that have left
more than 40 people dead are threatening South Africa’s
financial stability, the central bank said.  “These events received broad media coverage locally and
abroad and impacted negatively on investor perceptions and are
presenting risks to the stability of the financial system,” the
Reserve Bank said in its Financial Stability Review released
today in  Pretoria , the capital.  Strike action began on Aug. 10 at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana
platinum mining complex and spread to companies including  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  and
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer of
the metal. In the past two months, companies have fired workers,
the rand has weakened and the country’s credit rating has been
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s.  South African lenders, which the central bank said remain
well-capitalized, increased the proportion of credit they were
lending to mining companies to 3.73 percent in the second
quarter from 3.67 percent in the previous three months,
according to the SARB report.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  are the largest lenders to mining companies,
according to Greg Saffy, Johannesburg-based RMB Morgan Stanley’s
banks analyst.  A recovery in global risk appetite boosted demand for South
African bonds, according to the central bank. From mid-August
debt markets became “vulnerable to domestic socio-economic
concerns, which garnered renewed foreign investor concerns
following labor unrest,” it said.  Rand Underperforms  The rand has “underperformed compared to the currencies of
most emerging-market economies” because of the strikes, and
would have been supported by foreign bond purchases related to
the nation’s inclusion in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s World Government Bond
Index, the Reserve Bank said.  The rand has weakened 6.8 percent against the dollar in the
past month, the world’s performer, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It lost 0.3 percent to 8.7930 at 12:50 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  “Much-needed corporate-sector investment to expand future
capacity was lacking during the period under review,” the
Reserve Bank said, while business and  consumer confidence  has
mostly declined. “Confidence in the financial services sector
remained high but has still not reached its pre-crisis levels.”  Consumer Confidence  While consumer confidence may be waning, the appetite for
household debt appears to be on the increase, according to
Lesetja Kganyago, deputy governor of the Reserve Bank, who spoke
today at a presentation on the Financial Stability Review in
Pretoria. At the same time, more consumers are going into
arrears on their loan repayments, the central bank said.  The mining strikes came at a time when South Africa’s
growth was slowing, unemployment was still the highest of the
countries measured by Bloomberg, and bad debts at some of the
banks, including Standard Bank and  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , were on the
rise. Any worsening of those indicators will curb the banks’
ability to fund economic expansion.  “Although there are challenges, South Africa is generally
sound,” Kganyago said. Through the 2008 global financial crisis
and since, the banking system has managed to remain
“resilient,” he said.  South Africa is going ahead with plans to implement the
Basel III banking regulations, starting from January next year,
the central bank said. South Africa needs “urgent” clarity
from the Basel Committee on the so-called liquidity coverage
ratio and the way in which “highly liquid assets” can be
recognized and defined, the bank said.  If South African banks were to need a bailout or their
capital dropped below required liquidity levels, a committed
facility will be available from January 2013, according to the
Reserve Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  