-- Spanish, Irish Bailout Bonds May Be Protected in EU Basel Law
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-24T14:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/spanish-irish-bailout-bonds-may-be-protected-in-eu-basel-law.html
Spanish and Irish bailouts won’t
penalize the two countries’ lenders as they strive to meet new
liquidity requirements, according to draft European Union
proposals.  Bonds issued by government-backed bad banks and rescue
funds should be given a protected status under the liquidity
rule, according to the EU plan, obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
securities would automatically count toward lenders’ efforts to
meet the standard, which will require banks to hold enough easy-
to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  The European Banking Authority, the London-based agency
that sets standards for bank regulation across the 27-nation EU,
would be tasked with designing how to protect the status of the
government-backed bonds, according to the document, which was
prepared by Cyprus’s EU Presidency and dated Oct. 22.  EU nations are in negotiations with the European Parliament
over how the bloc will implement the Basel III global banking
accords, ahead of an international end-of-the-year deadline. The
draft law sets minimum  capital requirements  and asks the EBA to
design how the new liquidity ratio will apply to banks across
the EU.  Concerns that mounting losses on real estate held by banks
could burden government finances helped push  Spain  into seeking
a European bailout of as much as 100 billion euros ($130
billion) to shore up its financial system in June. Ireland
received an international bailout in 2010.  The draft EU law specifically cites the need to protect
bonds on banks’ balance sheets that were issued by Ireland’s
National Asset Management Agency, or NAMA, and by the Spanish
Asset Management Company, also known as the FROB.  Scale Back  Banks have cautioned that the liquidity measure may force
them to scale back loans to businesses if left unchanged.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has also criticized
the proposed standard, saying it would discourage banks from
lending to each other.  The liquidity coverage ratio is scheduled to take effect in
2015, and is under review by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  The EU’s implementation of the LCR should be “comparable”
to what is agreed on in the Basel committee, according to the
document.  Still, the EBA should weigh “possible unintended
consequences” of the measure on central banks’ ability to apply
their monetary policies, according to the document.  EBA should also assess whether the standard might lead
lenders to offer lower-quality assets as collateral to central
banks, and whether the standard might harm interbank lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  