-- St. Jude Faces Boon-or-Bust Verdict on Heart-Plug Studies
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-24T20:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/st-jude-faces-boon-or-bust-verdict-on-heart-plug-studies.html
For two decades, doctors have used a
dime-sized plug made by St. Jude Medical Inc. to  close holes 
found in the hearts of stroke victims in a surgery that’s based
largely on a medical theory.  This week, they’ll learn if the hypothesis holds up.  New data from two studies testing whether the surgery stops
repeat strokes could either cripple sales for the device made by
 St. Paul , Minnesota-based St. Jude, or send revenue surging. The
$20,000 procedure is done in about 9,000 patients a year.  One in five adults are born with the hole, a  flap-like
opening  between the heart’s upper chambers that’s largely
symptomless. When found after a stroke, though, some doctors
quickly close it under the theory that dangerous blood clots may
migrate through the opening and into the brain. In 2010, that
thought was challenged by a controversial study that opened a
rift among doctors. The newest data, set to be revealed at a
medical meeting, has taken from 9 to 12 years to gather.  With positive data “everyone in the world will be looking
for patients” to do the surgery in, said Gregg Stone, director
of cardiovascular research at New York-Presbyterian
Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center for Interventional
Vascular Therapy. Negative results “will truly challenge”
using the procedure “in any patient.”  St. Jude (STJ)  rose 1.6 percent to $39.71 at the close in  New
York . The  stock  has declined 3.4 percent in the past 12 months.  Medical Meeting  The latest studies will be presented at the  Transcatheter
Cardiovascular Therapeutics  conference, which is meeting this
week in Miami. One of the trials, dubbed Respect and done in 950
patients over nine years, was paid for entirely by St. Jude. The
other, undertaken in Europe with about half as many patients,
received an initial grant from the company.  Both trials studied procedures using the St. Jude plug, a
device that’s made up of two wire-mesh discs filled with a
polyester fabric. The  Amplatzer  plug, which generates about $100
million a year in sales for St. Jude, is folded into a special
catheter and then threaded through a vein in the leg into the
section of the heart where the opening is.  Success in preventing repeat strokes in people younger than
60 -- the group in which most unexplained strokes occur -- could
create a potential $1 billion market for that device and others,
St. Jude’s Chief Executive Officer Dan Starks said in July.  ‘Major Impact’  “You’re looking to try to help that patient in any way,”
said Stone, who is also co-director to TCT. “Often we close
these things without knowing if it’s going to help. These
studies will have a major impact on the way we treat this
potentially devastating condition.”  St. Jude already has the market leading position for the
condition, known as patent foramen ovale, in  Europe , said John Heinmiller, the company’s executive vice president, in a
telephone interview.  The ultimate goal is to use the findings to file for U.S.
approval, which would enable the company to promote the device
for the indication, he said. Under U.S. rules, doctors can
prescribe a drug or use a device that’s not approved for a
certain condition, though companies aren’t allowed to promote
unapproved products.  The approach is controversial, and its merits have split
interventional cardiologists. The  2010 study , using  NMT Medical
Inc. (NMTI) ’s StarFlex, found identical stroke rates among patients
previously treated with devices and drugs and no significant
differences in other outcomes.  Closure Rate  The closure rate was 87 percent and the study included
people who had less serious attacks. During the nine years of
the 2010 study, about 80,000 patients had had the procedure
using the plug, according to an  editorial  that accompanied the
research.  “I was a pretty strong proponent of the procedure
previously, but my opinion has changed,” said  David Williams ,
an interventional cardiologist at Brigham & Women’s Hospital in
 Boston  who wasn’t involved in the trials. “The vast majority of
people who we have closed for a stroke, a lot of them had a
reason for the stroke that wasn’t clear the first time around.”  Williams has performed the procedure on about 80 patients,
and hasn’t been able to detect a firm benefit.  He said he no longer “jumps” to operate on stroke
patients who were at seemingly low risk for the condition.
Instead, he waits to see if something else develops -- an
approach that so far has yielded excellent results, he said.  “I would be very surprised if there was a treatment effect
for closing someone after a first stroke, especially if they
were in an older group, say aged 40 or 50 to 60,” he said in a
telephone interview. “For people who are very young, it’s more
puzzling. I would consider them for sure.”  Fatty Plaque  Strokes are typically tied to the build-up of fatty plaque
in the arteries leading to the brain, hypertension or an erratic
 heart rate  known as atrial fibrillation, said  J. Kevin Harrison ,
director of the catheterization lab at Duke University School of
Medicine in Durham,  North Carolina . For about 60 percent of
those under age 60, however, there is no clear cause, he said.  It’s hard to sit by and wait for a second stroke to
develop, he said, giving the example of a 30-year-old first time
mother who suffers a stroke hours after giving birth.
Complications, if the patient survives, can be devastating.  Patients who elect drug therapy may need warfarin or other
blood-thinning therapies for life, he said. While closing the
hole might reduce that requirement, the procedure itself can
carry rare risks, he said. Because few patients actually have a
second stroke -- just 3.1 percent of those in the earlier study
-- it’s critical any treatment has few complications, he said.  ‘Daunting Trial’  “The device has to perform perfectly and the risk of
implanting it has to be low so you can have an impact on what is
already a low-risk event,” said Harrison, an investigator in
the Respect study. “This is a fairly daunting trial.”  The potential market for the heart closure device to
prevent strokes is about $400 million, said  Larry Biegelsen , an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in New York. He predicts the
Respect study will yield positive results and 41,000 of the
800,000 stroke patients in the U.S. each year may qualify for
treatment.  The results won’t prove whether or not the strokes are
caused by the heart hole, Harrison said. It would make sense,
however.  Small clots that would normally travel to the lungs if
there was no hole in the atrium may be dissolved by normal
enzymes in the bloodstream, he said. That same small clot, if it
reaches the cerebral blood vessels, can cause serious damage in
the brain.  “The issue was controversial and still remains
controversial,” Harrison. “The data out there is imperfect.
It’s a scary situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  