-- Sullivan, Clifford Chance, Jones Day: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-24T14:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/sullivan-clifford-chance-jones-day-business-of-law.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman hired a former partner from Bernstein Litowitz
Berger & Grossmann LLP who will help state prosecutors
investigate bank practices in the bundling of  mortgage loans 
into securities.  Chad Johnson, a 1993 graduate of  Harvard Law School  who was
a partner at Bernstein from October 2003 to April 2012, started
this month as a senior trial counsel and will work on cases
involving the financial services industry, according to the
attorney general’s office.  Johnson’s hiring comes as Schneiderman is investigating
with federal officials misconduct in mortgage securitization
before the housing bust. The attorney general this month sued
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , claiming that Bear Stearns, which JPMorgan
acquired in 2008, defrauded investors in mortgage-backed
securities.  Virginia Chavez Romano, a former assistant U.S. attorney in
 Manhattan , joined the attorney’s office this summer to lead the
office’s investigation related to mortgage securities. Gary
Fishman, a former principal deputy chief with the Manhattan
District Attorney’s office, joined Schneiderman’s office in
September and will work in the public integrity bureau, which
investigates government corruption.  “With a wealth of investigative and prosecutorial
experience, these attorneys will bring firepower to lead key
areas of this office,” Schneiderman said in a statement. “From
overseeing the mortgage investigation to rooting out corruption
and taking on  securities fraud , their legal talents will serve
the people of New York well.”  Johnson, who was also a partner at Latham and Watkins and
worked as a strategic adviser at BlackRobe Capital Partners,
represented institutional investors in lawsuits against banks
over the sale of mortgage securities, according to the attorney
general’s office.  Sullivan & Cromwell Represents Ally in $4.1 Billion Deal  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is representing  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) 
in its $4.1 billion agreement to sell a Canadian auto-finance
and deposit business to  Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s
largest lender. Torys LLP was Canadian counsel. Osler, Hoskin &
Harcourt LLP advised Royal Bank.  Sullivan’s New York-based team is led by financial
institutions mergers and acquisitions partner Andrew Gerlach and
corporate partner Jay Clayton. Other partners include Senior
Chairman H. Rodgin Cohen; Sergio Galvis, head of the firm’s
 Latin America  group; Andrew Solomon, tax; Marc Trevino,
executive compensation and benefits; and special counsel Spencer
Simon, intellectual property.  Torys’s lawyers included Jim Hong, John Tobin, Jay Holsten,
Blair Keefe, Mitch Frazer and Saira Bhojani. Ally’s in-house
counsel was Richard V. Kent and Wende Rapson of Ally Canada,
Torys said in an e-mail.  The Osler team advising RBC includes Doug Marshall, Kashif
Zaman, Stephen Clark, Shuli Rodal, Kelly Moffatt, Jason Hanson
and Doug Rienzo.  Royal Bank will buy the Ally business for a C$1.4 billion
($1.4 billion) investment net of excess capital, the Toronto-
based lender said yesterday in a statement. The total price will
be C$3.1 billion to C$3.8 billion, depending on the size of a
dividend taken out by Ally before completing the sale. The deal
is the largest  takeover  ever for Royal Bank, eclipsing a $2.16
billion purchase of Centura Banks in 2001.  “Auto loans came through the crisis as a very, very good
asset,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst with National Bank
Financial, said in a telephone interview. “It was profitable,
 credit quality  was better than people expected, yields were
decent so it’s good risk-return. It just seems to me like a good
asset for Royal Bank.”  For more, click here.  Halcon Agrees to Buy North Dakota Fields for $1.45 Billion  Thompson & Knight LLP advised  Halcon Resources Corp. (HK) , the
oil and natural gas producer run by former Petrohawk Energy
Chairman Floyd C. Wilson, on an agreement to buy some of Petro-
Hunt LLC’s North Dakota fields for about $1.45 billion in cash
and stock. Fulbright & Jaworski LLP advised Petro-Hunt.  The Thompson & Knight team included partners William T. Heller and Harry R. Beaudry, corporate/securities; Hunter H. White, oil and gas; and Roger D. Aksamit, tax.  Finance partners Andrew P. Flint, Brian E. Minyard and
Robert H. Saunders worked on the bridge commitment, borrowing
base adjustment and related financing matters.  John Broomes with Hinkle Law Firm LLC also assisted Halcon
on the transaction, Thompson & Knight said. Halcon’s internal
legal team included general counsel David Elkouri, Jason Payne
and Kason Kerr.  Fulbright partners included Glen Hettinger, corporate;
Deborah Gitomer, energy; and Jack Allender and Robert Phillpott,
tax.  Petro-Hunt, a closely held company owned by the Hunt
family, and an affiliated entity will get $700 million in cash
and $750 million in shares, Houston-based Halcon said in a
statement. The purchase includes about 81,000 net acres in four
North Dakota counties with current net production equivalent to
more than 10,500 barrels of oil a day.  Vinson & Elkins LLP advised Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board on its $300 million purchase of Halcon stock at $7.16 a
share, which is subject to the Petro-Hunt deal. Vinson Counsel
Kathryn Wilson led the team for CPPIB, with assistance from M&A
partner Keith Fullenweider.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Clifford Chance Re-Elects Layton as Global Head of Corporate  Matthew Layton was re-elected to another four-year term as
global leader of  Clifford Chance  LLP’s corporate practice after
an uncontested election.  Layton, whose new term begins Nov. 1, was first elected to
the role in 2008. He joined Clifford Chance in 1983 and has been
a partner since 1991.  “Our collective achievements, including having advised on
five of the top 10 global M&A deals this year, make me immensely
proud,” Layton said in a statement.  Clifford Chance’s corporate practice has 750 legal advisers
worldwide. The firm has 34 offices in 24 countries with about
3,400 legal advisers.  Moves  Jones Day Hires Mergers & Acquisitions Partner in Hong Kong  Jones Day said Chris Swift joined as a partner in the
mergers and acquisitions practice in  Hong Kong . Swift was
formerly a partner with Allen & Overy LLP, the firm said.  Swift focuses his practice in mergers and acquisitions,
private equity, corporate restructurings and general corporate
finance. He has more than 15 years of experience in the Asia
Pacific region.  Jones Day  has 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices worldwide.  Gardere Expands Intellectual Property Practice in Dallas  Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP hired Sarah M. Paxson as a partner
in the Dallas office. She was formerly at Thompson & Knight LLP.  Paxson focuses her practice on patent infringement, trade
secret and trademark litigation. In addition to providing
litigation and litigation avoidance services, she counsels
clients on licensing issues and proper development and
management of intellectual property assets.  Gardere Wynne has more than 250 lawyers in three Texas
offices and a Mexico City office.  News  U.K. Offers Firms Chance to Defer Economic-Crime Prosecutions  The U.K. government, seeking to speed up prosecution of
complex cases of economic crime, said companies may be offered
the chance to defer prosecution for fraud, money-laundering and
bribery if they agree to terms that might include paying a
“substantial financial penalty.”  Justice Minister Damian Green announced the introduction of
“ Deferred Prosecution Agreements ,” which can be made between a
prosecutor and an organization to defer prosecution for alleged
economic wrongdoing as long as stringent conditions are met.
These include making amends to victims, publicly admitting
wrongdoing, reforming practices and paying a fine.  “Deferred Prosecution Agreements will give prosecutors an
effective new tool to tackle what has become an increasingly
complex issue,” Green said in an e-mail. “This will ensure
that more unacceptable corporate behavior is dealt with,
including through substantial penalties, proper reparation to
victims, and measures to prevent future wrongdoing.”  Fraud costs the U.K. 73 billion pounds ($116 billion) a
year, Green said.  The DPAs will be overseen by a judge, agreed on in open
court and the outcome will be published to ensure transparency,
the Ministry of Justice in  London  said in a statement. If, at
the end of the period, the prosecutor is satisfied the
organization has met its obligations, there will be no
prosecution. If not, a prosecution could be brought.  If the company violates its DPA agreement, the case could
be referred back to the prosecuting authority, such as the
 Serious Fraud Office  or the  Crown Prosecution Service , the
ministry said.  Videos  History’s Stealth Lawyers: Video Series on Ex-Lawyers  History is replete with stealth lawyers -- people who
graduated from law school or even practiced law before achieving
success in other walks of life.  Vladimir Lenin ,  Mahatma Gandhi , Studs Terkel, Wallace
Stevens and  Howard Cosell  are some of the most famous law school
graduates who aren’t famous for their legal careers. To hear
from some of today’s lawyers, about how they found success in
other fields, watch Bloomberg Law’s weekly video series Stealth
Lawyers. A new episode is posted every Wednesday.  Click here for the video.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  