-- Sun Life Said to Seek Buyer for U.S. Annuities Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-10-24T20:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/sun-life-said-to-seek-buyer-for-u-s-annuities-unit.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , Canada’s
third-largest insurer, is seeking a buyer for a U.S. annuities
business that may fetch more than $1 billion, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Morgan Stanley is helping Sun Life solicit bids and has
attracted interest mostly from investment firms, including
Guggenheim Partners LLC and a company run by U.K. investor  Clive Cowdery , said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. Sun Life may pick a suitor for exclusive
talks within days, one of the people said.  Sun Life said in December that it would stop U.S. sales of
variable annuities and individual  life insurance . U.S. asset
managers such as Guggenheim,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC have bought annuities operations
from insurers in part to get access to a stable pool of funds
for their investment-management operations.  “The fact that they would be selling that book of
business, not exiting the United States, is really a reflection
of the fact that the game has changed for insurance companies,”
 Craig Fehr , a strategist for Edward Jones & Co., said yesterday
during an interview in Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “It’s more a
reflection of the broader environment. It’s about risk
management for insurance companies.”  Frank Switzer, a spokesman for Toronto-based Sun Life,
declined to comment, as did Mary Claire Delaney of Morgan
Stanley, Torie von Alt at Guggenheim and Alex Child-Villiers, a
spokesman for Cowdery.  Mutual Funds  Sun Life rose 0.9 percent to C$24.67 at 4 p.m. in Toronto
trading. The shares have climbed 31 percent this year, the best
performer on the six-company  S&P/TSX Life Insurance Index. (STLIFE)   Chief Executive Officer Dean Connor told investors in March
that the insurer is seeking to have C$2 billion ($2.02 billion)
in annual operating income by 2015 as it focuses on businesses
in Canada and Asia, the MFS mutual-fund operation and group and
voluntary benefits in the U.S. The company had operating income
of C$104 million in 2011, hindered by costs for variable-annuity
and segregated-fund contracts.  Annuities contracts offer savers regular income payments,
and are often used for retirement planning.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  is also
seeking a buyer for its U.S. annuities unit, people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. Apollo, Harbinger and
Guggenheim all submitted offers for that unit, they said.  While most of the divisions bought recently by asset
managers focus on fixed annuities, as does the Aviva business,
Sun Life’s U.S. arm consists mostly of variable annuities, in
which the ultimate payouts can vary based on the performance of
the underlying investments.  Sun Life would reduce return-on-equity volatility and
 capital requirements  if it were to sell its U.S. annuities
business, Andre-Philippe Hardy, an RBC Capital Markets analyst,
wrote today in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  