-- Supreme Foodservice Wins Protest of $10 Billion U.S. Award
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-10-25T13:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/supreme-foodservice-wins-protest-of-10-billion-military-award.html
Supreme Foodservice AG won a protest
seeking to overturn the awarding to a competitor of a $10
billion U.S. military contract for the distribution of food
products in Afghanistan.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, Congress’s
investigative arm and an arbitrator of contract disputes,
publicly released its decision on the almost six-year contract
yesterday.  The agency agreed in part with the Amsterdam-based
company’s argument that the  Defense Logistics Agency ’s
competition, which originally resulted in an award to Dubai-
based Anham FZCO, was flawed.  “We recommend that the agency reevaluate Supreme’s and
ANHAM’s proposals in a manner that is reasonable and consistent
with the solicitation’s evaluation criteria and this decision,”
the GAO said. “If ANHAM’s proposal is not found to offer the
best value to the government, the agency should terminate
ANHAM’s contract.”  Supreme challenged the defense agency’s rating of its
competitor’s past performance and said that its evaluations of
the two proposals were inconsistent and unreasonable, according
to the decision.  “DLA needs to do a partial reevaluation of the
proposals,” Mimi Schirmacher, an agency spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. The DLA then will perform a “new trade-off analysis”
to determine which represents the best value to the government,
she said.  Stay Continues  “GAO did not agree with Supreme on all of the allegations
raised in the protest,” she said. A stay issued by the DLA on
the performance of the contract following the filing of the
protest will remain in effect, Schirmacher said.  “We are pleased by the  GAO decision ,” Victoria Frost, a
Supreme spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We are optimistic that
DLA will recognize Supreme to be the organization best able to
supply the food, water and other materials required for the
troops in  Afghanistan .”  Anham “has a long track record of conducting large scale,
successful operations in the most demanding conditions and we
look forward to building upon this legacy of exceptional service
to American taxpayers and the United States Government,” Sam
Fabens, a spokesman for Anham at the public relations firm Vox
Global in Washington, said in an e-mail.  The  solicitation  for the work was issued April 26, 2011,
and amended 12 times, according to the GAO decision. The
military sought a food distributor to act as the prime
contractor responsible for supplying and delivering  semi-
perishable and perishable items to the military and other
federally-funded customers at more than 200 locations throughout
Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in  Washington  at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  