-- Surging Singapore Dollar Seen Impeding Yuan Center Goal
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-10-24T01:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/surging-singapore-dollar-seen-impeding-yuan-center-goal.html
Singapore’s surging dollar risks
preventing the city-state from becoming an alternative to  Hong
Kong  for  yuan  deposits as locals keep their savings in the
faster-appreciating currency, according to  Bank of China Ltd.   While Chinese currency deposits in Hong Kong have risen 75
percent from the start of 2011, a similar trend in Singapore is
unlikely given the local currency’s 5.9 percent gain against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, the biggest among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies after the Philippine peso, said Zhang Qingsong, the
head of the bank’s Singapore branch. The offshore yuan has
advanced 1.4 percent against the U.S. dollar in 2012, compared
with a 0.2 percent increase in the Hong Kong dollar, which is
pegged to the greenback.  “It is the  exchange rate  between the  Hong Kong dollar  and
the offshore yuan that allowed Hong Kong to gather a huge pool
of funds,” Zhang said in a Oct. 18 interview. “If you want to
keep the purchasing power of your savings, you choose a stronger
currency. In Singapore, that won’t be the case as its dollar has
appreciated greatly.”  Singapore authorities allowed the listing of yuan-
denominated stocks in July and two Chinese lenders were given
full banking privileges on the island this month. One will be
granted permission to become an offshore yuan clearing bank,
Singapore’s Ministry of Trade and Industry said in a statement
in July. The yuan may become one of the world’s top three global
trading currencies in the next five years, HSBC Holdings Plc
said in an August statement.  Yuan Going Global  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong amounted to 552 billion yuan
($88 billion) as of Aug. 31, from 315 billion yuan at the
beginning of 2011, according to data posted on the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority’s website. Depositors in Singapore hold about
60 billion yuan, Ong Chong Tee, MAS deputy managing director,
said at a Singapore-China Finance and Banking forum in the city
in June. Beijing-based  Bank of China , the fourth-largest
mainland bank by market value, holds 10 to 15 percent of the
deposits, said Zhang.  Cross-border trade settled in yuan will triple to 6.5
trillion yuan within three years, Janet Ming, London-based head
of the China desk at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in
an interview in Dubai this month. Settlements will grow from 12
to 20 percent this year, reaching $1.03 trillion in two years,
up from $330.8 billion in 2011, said Ming, who manages the desk
in Europe,  Middle East  and Africa.  Hong Kong is the world’s biggest offshore yuan center and
accounts for 80 percent of payments in the Chinese currency,
Singapore’s Business Times reported today, citing  data from
Swift , which operates a secure electronic network for global
fund transfers between banks. London ranked second and Singapore
third, according to the newspaper.  Li Ka-shing  Dynasty Real Estate Investment Trust, backed by Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing , will start trading in yuan and
Singapore dollars on the city-state’s stock exchange later this
month, the first to do so in the Chinese currency. The trust
will offer as many as 900.8 million units at 4.40 yuan to 4.70
yuan each, according to a prospectus filed with the Monetary
Authority of Singapore on Oct. 18.  MAS granted Industrial and Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,
China’s largest bank by market value, and Bank of China on Oct.
5 privileges to open branches or automated teller machines in as
many as 25 locations across Singapore.  The designation of one of the lenders as a clearing bank
will boost offshore yuan-denominated financial-market
transactions in  Singapore , said Bank of China’s Zhang. The
island is the largest currency trading center in Asia after
Tokyo, according to the last triennial survey by the  Bank for
International Settlements  done in September 2010. The city-
state’s average daily foreign-exchange turnover is $300 billion,
according to a July 30 report from the Singapore Foreign
Exchange Market Committee.  Gradual Appreciation  The MAS, which uses the Singaporean currency instead of
 interest rates  to manage inflation, said this month it will
maintain a modest and gradual appreciation of the local dollar
to curb consumer-price gains. Inflation accelerated to 4.7
percent in September from a 21-month low in August, official
data show. The authority said in  April (APR)  it would allow faster
gains against the greenback to damp price pressures.  “I don’t expect a big increase in deposits, especially
individual deposits” in Singapore, Bank of China’s Zhang said.
“That means individuals or corporates may not choose to
exchange  Singapore dollar  into offshore yuan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  