-- Syrians Agree to a Cease-Fire Few at UN Expect Will Last
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-10-24T16:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/syria-agrees-with-rebels-on-holiday-cease-fire-un-envoy-says.html
President Bashar al-Assad and some
Syrian rebel groups agreed to a cease-fire during the Muslim Eid
al-Adha festival this week, said United Nations Special Envoy
Lakhdar Brahimi, who’s been working on a truce for two months.  Most groups involved in the Syrian conflict have agreed to
the cease-fire, Brahimi told the Security Council today, saying
he hoped it could allow space for a political transition to
start even though there are no quick fixes, according to a
diplomat in the room.  Syrian foreign ministry spokesman Jihad Makdessi said
Brahimi’s proposal is still “being studied” by the armed
forces, according to the Associated Press. Brahimi, who briefed
the council by video link from Cairo, said Assad will announce
his agreement tomorrow, according to the diplomat, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the closed-door session.  Russia’s UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said he was skeptical
the deal will last. There are “too many players and too many
spoilers as well,” he told reporters in New York. “It’s
happened before that our best hopes were not borne out.”  In  Washington , Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the
U.S. supports the cease-fire and would like to see it lead to a
political transition and a lasting end to the violence. She said
she would like to see the UN Security Council adopt a
“framework” to achieve those results and include “some
consequences” for those who fail to abide by such a plan.  Finger Pointing  The Syrian government and opposition fighters last agreed
to a halt in hostilities in April. Within days the conflict
resumed as each side accused the other of failing to abide by
its terms.  France ’s ambassador to the UN,  Gerard Araud , today
repeated what he said months ago when a promised cease-fire was
violated: “The proof of the cake is in the eating.”  Assad’s government has been fighting a 19-month uprising
that the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says has
killed more than 30,000 people, and the UN has registered more
than 350,000 people who have fled from their homeland. The
conflict has spilled over into Lebanon and  Turkey .  “The cease-fire is mostly about Eid, and I assume that it
will not last very long because of the tensions on the ground,”
Theodore Karasik, director of research at the Institute for Near
East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, said in an interview.
“I don’t think it will be honored.”  Rebel Doubts  Herve Ladsous, the UN’s peacekeeping chief, said this week
that the organization is making contingency plans to send a new
peacekeeping force to  Syria  should a cease-fire take hold and
pending a Security Council mandate, the Associated Press
reported. The previous UN monitoring force withdrew in August.  Abdelbaset Sieda, head of the opposition Syrian National
Council, said yesterday that while rebel fighters are willing to
halt fighting during the holiday, they will respond if attacked,
the AP reported. Sieda says he doubts the regime will honor the
cease-fire and that Brahimi doesn’t have “any mechanism to
observe the situation,” the AP said.  Assad declared an amnesty for rebels who lay down their
arms while excluding those accused of terrorism, the state-run
Sana news agency said Oct. 23. Those surrendering weapons to the
Syrian authorities within a month will be pardoned and released,
Sana reported, while those considered to have committed offenses
under the country’s Terrorism Act will still face prosecution.
The offer lasts for 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  