-- U.K. Recession Seen Ending After Olympic Ticket Sales
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-10-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/u-k-recession-seen-ending-as-olympic-ticket-sales-help-rebound.html
Britain’s first double-dip recession
since the 1970s probably ended in the third quarter as ticket
sales for the  London  Olympic Games helped revive growth.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.6 percent from the previous
three months, according to the median of 33 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The economy shrank 0.4 percent in the
second quarter as wet weather and an extra holiday to mark the
Queen’s Diamond Jubilee impaired growth. The Office for National
Statistics will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. in London.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said this week that
the recovery is proceeding at a “slow and uncertain” pace and
a “zig-zag” pattern is likely to persist as global economic
weakness spreads. Policy makers are due to complete their latest
round of  quantitative easing  before their Nov. 8 meeting, when
they’ll assess whether more stimulus is needed.  “The economy has broadly been flat lining, and various
measures that have been thrown at the economy have been having a
positive effect,”said Philip Shaw, an economist at Investec
Securities in London, who forecasts 0.6 percent growth. “We’re
now doubting whether we’re going to have any more QE this year.
Still, the euro crisis is the great unknown in our forecasts.”  BOE Forecast  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee must decide
next month whether to end its stimulus program or extend it
beyond 375 billion pounds ($601 billion). The MPC will have new
forecasts at the meeting that it will publish on Nov. 14.  Recent data has shown pressure on consumers easing.
Inflation cooled to the slowest in almost three years in
September, while  retail sales  increased more than forecast.
Payrolls rose to a record in the quarter through August, pushing
the unemployment rate down to 7.9 percent from 8.1 percent.  Still, the Confederation of British Industry said yesterday
that its  factory index  fell to a 10-month low in October.  “At this stage, it is difficult to know whether some of
the recent more positive signs will persist,” King said on Oct.
23. “The MPC will think long and hard before it decides whether
or not to make further asset purchases. But should those signs
fade, the MPC does stand ready.”  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  said this week it expects sales growth at its
Premier Inn budget chain to moderate after higher prices during
the Olympics helped lift first-half profit by 11 percent. Chief
Executive Officer Andy Harrison said the consumer market is
“pretty flat” and generating any growth is “jolly
difficult.”  Group of Seven  Britain is the first of the Group of Seven nations to
report GDP data for the third quarter. U.S. growth probably
accelerated to a 1.9 percent annual rate after expanding at a
1.3 percent pace the prior quarter, according to a Bloomberg
survey before a Commerce Department report tomorrow. It would be
the first back-to-back readings lower than 2 percent since the
U.S. was emerging from the recession in 2009.  From a  year earlier , the U.K. economy probably shrank 0.5
percent, according to a separate Bloomberg News survey.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
estimated on Oct. 9 that the economy grew 0.8 percent in the
third quarter. Still, stripping out one-time distortions, it
said the pace of expansion is closer to between 0.2 percent and
0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  