-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Oct. 19 (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-10-24T14:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-oct-19-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  Summary of Weekly Petroleum Data for the
Week Ending October 19, 2012  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 14.8 million
barrels per day during the week ending October 19, 17 thousand
barrels per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 87.2 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging 9.0 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging 4.4 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 8.8 million barrels per day
last week, up by 476 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
about 8.4 million barrels per day, 396 thousand barrels per day
below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 526 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 59 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 5.9 million barrels
from the previous week. At 375.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
1.4 million barrels last week and are in the lower half of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories, and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories decreased by 0.6 million barrels last week and are
below the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 0.2 million
barrels last week, but remained above the upper limit of the
average range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased
by 4.0 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged over 19.0 million barrels per day, up by 1.4 percent
from the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged over 8.6 million barrels
per day, down by 1.8 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged over 3.8 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 7.7 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 7.1
percent higher over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  SOURCE: U.S. Department of Energy  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  