-- U.S. Solar Jobs Face Bright Future, Wind Posts Flutter
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-10-24T16:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/u-s-solar-jobs-face-bright-future-wind-posts-flutter.html
Job growth in the U.S. solar
industry, fueled by falling panel prices, will outpace
employment in  wind energy , which faces the looming expiration of
a federal credit, according to a report from  CleanEdison Inc.   CleanEdison expects about 36,600 people will be certified
as technical employees in the U.S. solar industry in 2020,
including positions such as installers, the New York-based
provider of clean-energy training programs said today in a
statement. That’s a 24 percent increase since 2010, compared
with wind jobs, which are expected to grow 14 percent to 27,700.  Surging use of solar energy in the U.S is driving
employment, said Avi Yashchin, CleanEdison’s chief executive
officer. U.S. developers may install as much as 3.9 gigawatts of
panels next year, up from a forecasted 2.9 gigawatts to 3.3
gigawatts this year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
That’s creating employment opportunities in a variety of fields.  “I see electricians going into the solar market,
structural steel companies going into constructing solar
mounting systems,” Yashchin said in an interview. “If you have
a lot of unemployed people looking for labor-intensive jobs,
solar is great.”  Solar developers such as  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , which filed this
month to raise more than $200 million in an initial public
offering, are benefiting from cheap panels. Prices have  dropped 
29 percent in the past year.  Wind Contracting  That contrasts with the wind industry, which is
contracting, according to the  American Wind Energy Association .
There have been 3,000 U.S. wind employees fired this year,
mostly in manufacturing. Demand for turbines is slowing before
the Dec. 31 expiration of the Production Tax Credit, which
provides 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour for electricity generated by
wind and other renewable sources.  Turbine installations next year in the U.S. are expected to
fall as much as 88 percent to as low as 1.5 gigawatts next year
if the credit isn’t extended, according to New Energy Finance.  Job seekers are shifting their efforts to solar from wind,
which isn’t “growing as fast as people wanted it to,” said
Michael Connolly, who was hired in September as director of
residential sales for the Rockville, Maryland-based solar
installer Standard Solar Inc.  “I think solar will have a bigger impact,” he said.
Connolly was previously director of sales in Boston for
Constellation Energy Group Inc., which was acquired in March by
 Exelon Corp. (EXC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  