-- U.S. Consumer Bureau to Supervise Biggest Debt Collectors
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-10-24T19:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/u-s-consumer-bureau-to-supervise-biggest-debt-collectors.html
U.S. consumers will get additional
protections against abusive treatment by debt collectors under
new federal oversight taking effect Jan. 2, the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau said today.  Companies with more than $10 million in annual receipts
from consumer debt collections will be subject to supervision
meant to ensure adherence to requirements such as that firms
properly identify themselves and document amounts owed, the
bureau said in an e-mailed statement. The agency will also
examine whether collectors have “harassed or deceived”
consumers, according to the statement.  “Millions of consumers are affected by debt collection,
and we want to make sure they are treated fairly,” Richard Cordray, the agency’s director, said in the statement. “We want
all companies to realize that the better business choice is to
follow the law.”  The bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank Act, is taking on
supervision of collectors as part of its mandate to protect
borrowers against the kind of predatory business practices that
drew complaints from lawmakers and consumer groups as
delinquencies and defaults soared after the 2008 credit crisis.  The new rule could erode profits at major debt collectors
including Norfolk, Virginia-based  Portfolio Recovery Associates
Inc. (PRAA) , the largest publicly held firm in the business, San Diego-
based  Encore Capital Group Inc. (ECPG)  and  Asta Funding Inc. (ASFI) , based in
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. It could also affect the largest
player by revenue, NCO Group, a unit of New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s private equity arm One Equity Partners.  Inspect Records  The regulation defines which companies will face direct
supervision by examiners who inspect records, procedures and
practices. Companies that collect debt and don’t fall under the
consumer bureau’s supervision must still comply with the Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act, and could face enforcement action
from the agency if they don’t.  Until now, federal authorities could only bring lawsuits
against debt collectors, as the Federal Trade Commission has
done. The consumer bureau regulation gives the government an
additional tool.  “Our supervisory authority will mean that we can identify
these problems and root them out at an earlier stage in order to
minimize harm to consumers,” Cordray said in remarks prepared
for a speech today in  Seattle , where the bureau is holding a
field hearing on debt collection.  Consumer Complaints  The collection business has long been the subject of
complaints to state and federal agencies, and the numbers have
risen amid increasing non-payment of credit-card debt during the
recession and its aftermath. Consumers have cited harassing
phone calls laced with profanity, unauthorized debits from bank
accounts, attempts to collect debts never incurred and court
judgments entered without proper notification.  In 2011, consumers filed a record 180,000 complaints with
the FTC on debt collection.  The accounts-receivable industry had revenues of $17
billion in 2011, according to Kaulkin Ginsberg, a Rockville,
Maryland-based consulting firm. In addition to collectors, the
industry includes buyers, who purchase bad debt from creditors
such as credit-card issuers. Debt collectors can be independent
agents, employees of buyers or members of law firms.  Bureau supervisors will focus on the “system-wide
problem” of the accuracy of data collectors use in pursuit of
consumers, according to Cordray’s prepared remarks. They will
also consider whether companies have a process in place for
evaluating complaints, he said.  ‘Comprehensive Process’  “A good compliance program also closely analyzes
complaints to find patterns that may pose risks to consumers,
such as whether the complaints stem from a specific employee or
a certain type of account,” he said. “We expect to see an
effective and comprehensive process to address consumer
complaints.”  The rules closely track a Feb. 17 CFPB proposal opposed by
the debt-collection industry because of the $10 million revenue
threshold. ACA International, an industry trade group, said in
an e-mailed statement that the level was improper because money
is often partially returned to collectors’ clients.  “ACA members embrace consumer protection but it has to be
balanced with the industry’s ability to do their jobs in
recovering rightfully-owed consumer debt,” the group’s head,
Pat Morris, said in an e-mailed statement.  In an April 10 letter, ACA called the $10 million figure
“arbitrary and capricious, an abuse of discretion and not
otherwise in accordance with law.”  Collection Lawyers  The regulation also includes partial coverage of collection
lawyers. Groups including the National Association of Retail
Collection Attorneys and the American Bar Association criticized
the agency’s initial proposal earlier this year.  The groups said Dodd-Frank exempted attorneys from bureau
supervision because they are lawyers, not providers of consumer
financial services.  “Congress took pains to exclude attorneys engaged in the
practice of law,” the ABA wrote in an April 11 letter.  The final rule covers law firms meeting the agency’s
definition of debt collectors, namely those “whose principal
business activity is debt collection” or who regularly engage
in debt collection.  Dodd-Frank empowers the bureau to supervise banks with
assets of more than $10 billion for compliance with relevant
federal consumer-protection laws. The law also authorizes
supervision of mortgage originators, private student lenders and
short-term creditors known as payday lenders.  Beyond that, the bureau must under Dodd-Frank define by
regulation any other non-bank firms it will supervise. It has
already published plans for supervision of credit-reporting
companies such as  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and  TransUnion Corp. (TRUN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  