-- Huawei Says U.S. ‘Distorted’ Concern, Offers Australia Codes
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-24T07:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/huawei-says-u-s-concerns-distorted-as-australia-plans-blocked.html
Huawei Technologies Co., a Chinese
telephone-equipment maker labeled a spying threat by U.S.
lawmakers, offered Australian authorities access to its software
codes in a plan to create a product evaluation center.  The company would provide “complete and unrestricted
access” to its products, said John Lord, chairman of Huawei’s
Australian unit, according to the e-mailed text of a speech at
the  National Press Club  in Canberra today. All materials to be
used in major Australian telecommunications networks can be
tested for possible security breaches at the center, he said.  China ’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment seeks
to boost sales in  Australia , where Lord said Huawei’s workforce
has risen to more than 900 people from 200 three years ago.
Huawei’s campaign to demonstrate the security of its products in
Australia follows an effort in the U.S., where it spent $820,000
on lobbying in the first six months of 2012, compared with
$200,000 a year earlier, according to U.S. Senate disclosures.  “We sincerely hope that in Australia, we do not allow
sober debate on  cyber security  to become distorted the way it
has in the U.S.,” Lord said, according to the text of the
speech.  Australia in March banned closely held Huawei from bidding
on a A$37.9 billion ($39 billion) national broadband network, or
NBN, citing “national interests.” The Shenzhen, China-based
company doesn’t intend to challenge that decision, Lord said.  No War  “Reading many media reports, you would get the impression
that Huawei is in some sort of war with Australian security
agencies -- we are not,” he said.  The U.S. House Intelligence Committee in a report last
month urged domestic companies to avoid Huawei and Shenzhen-
based  ZTE Corp. (000063) , citing concerns that the Chinese government
could install hardware or software in the companies’ products to
be used to eavesdrop on U.S. telecommunications networks.  The U.S. report is a “missed opportunity to develop
methods of countering” common security threats, Lord said.
“This is why we are proposing a cyber security evaluation
center, where all equipment implemented into major or critical
Australian networks can be subjected to the same thorough
security assessment.”  The center would be paid for by companies seeking to test
their telecommunications equipment and run by Australians with
security clearance from the government, Lord said.  Nation Building  “The NBN is the largest nation-building project in
Australian history, and it will become the backbone of
Australia’s information infrastructure,” the Australian
Attorney-General’s office said in an e-mailed response to a
request for comment.  “We have a responsibility to do our utmost to protect its
integrity and that of the information carried on it,” according
to the e-mail, which didn’t directly address Lord’s comments.  Huawei will continue expanding its business in Australia
outside the national broadband network, Lord said.  He also challenged the distinction between local and
foreign technology.  “When a single piece of technology contains inputs from up
to two dozen countries, to call any technology ‘foreign’ or
‘local’ is inaccurate,” he said.  Lord compared the company’s global production to that of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for the iPhone, which is designed in  California  and
assembled in China.  Huawei gets almost one-third of its materials from U.S.
suppliers and 70 percent from companies outside China, Lord
said. The U.S. is the largest provider of components to Huawei,
he said. About 22 percent of the company’s materials come from
 Taiwan  and 10 percent from  Europe , he said.  “Huawei is here in Australia for the long-haul,” he said.
“Australia must reap the benefits offered by the globalized
information and communication technology industry and the
innovation pouring out of Asia and China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  