-- Ukraine Investors Bet on IMF Deal as Yanukovych Faces Vote
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-10-25T16:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/ukraine-investors-bet-on-imf-deal-as-yanukovych-braces-for-vote.html
Investors are betting that Ukrainian
President  Viktor Yanukovych  will unfreeze an International
Monetary Fund loan and devalue the hryvnia after parliamentary
elections on Oct. 28.  The country’s foreign-currency bonds have returned
investors 24 percent this year, the most after Venezuelan debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index, which
gauges the yield difference relative to U.S. Treasuries.  To meet longer-term financing needs after the current-
account deficit almost doubled to $8.6 billion through August,
Ukraine wants to extend a frozen $15.4 billion IMF loan, which
expires this year, Deputy Prime Minister Valeriy Khoroshkovskiy
said Oct. 18. A July sale of $2 billion in dollar debt eased
refinancing concern, helping the country outperform its peers,
said Ronald Schneider of Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH.  “The hope is that after the election we will see more
cooperation with the IMF,” Vienna-based Schneider, who helps
manage 700 million euros ($899 million) in emerging-market debt,
said in an Oct. 22 phone interview. “It’s also partially priced
in that there will be more positive steps in the direction of
devaluation. This is reflected in the  bond market .”  IMF Halt  The IMF program was halted last March after the government,
facing this week’s parliamentary election, refused to raise
household utility tariffs sought by the Washington-based lender.
Investors are looking beyond the election and seek progress on
the IMF talks and a possible hryvnia devaluation to help
rebalance the economy, Schneider said.  The hryvnia, which has lost 1.5 percent against the dollar
this year, was 0.1 percent higher at 8.1738 at 7 p.m. in Kiev,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The cost of insuring Ukraine’s
government debt for five years using  credit default swaps 
dropped to 15 basis points to 625. It was 849 basis points at
the end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
reflecting an improved risk perception.  Emerging-market debt rallied after the  European Central
Bank  announced an unlimited bond-buying program, the  Federal
Reserve  began a third round of quantitative easing and the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  extended its asset purchases.  Yield Drop  The yield on Ukraine’s benchmark government bonds due 2013
has declined almost 4 percentage points this year to 6.58
percent. The yield dropped to 6.19 percent on Sept. 20, the
lowest in a year. The yield on the dollar bonds due 2017 has
dropped 2.87 percentage points since it was sold in July, to
7.03 percent.  The downward move in yields may not be sustained because of
negative economic trends, Andreas Kolbe, a London-based
strategist at Barclays Plc, said in an e-mail today, adding that
investors should hold less Ukrainian debt than recommended by
benchmark indexes.  “Ukraine credit has enjoyed a significant rally recently,
likely driven by the ample global liquidity conditions and the
resulting hunt for yield,” he wrote. “We think that economic
realities will eventually come back to play a more prominent
role. Hence, we reiterate our underweight stance on Ukraine
credit.”  The  Ukrainian Equities Index (UX)  is down 48 percent this year,
more than any benchmark in the world, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Stocks slid as the economy slumped after growing 5.2
percent last year. Ukraine may have entered a recession last
quarter as the global slowdown squeezed the price of steel, the
nation’s main export earner, according to  Erste Bank (EBS)  Group AG
and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Poll Lead  Yanukovych’s Party of Regions is leading in opinion polls.
It was backed by 23.3 percent of voters, compared with 15.1
percent for jailed opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s
Batkivshchyna, a Sept. 18-Oct. 4  survey  by the Kiev-based
Democratic Initiative Fund showed. World boxing champion Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR party had 16 percent, and the communists,
currently in coalition with Yanukovych’s party, had 10.1
percent, according to the poll.  To put the economy on track for a recovery by restoring
competitiveness and boosting exports, a move which would narrow
the  current-account deficit , derivatives traders have been
betting that the government will be forced to devalue the
currency. The hryvnia will drop to 9.33 per dollar in six months
and 10.20 in a year’s time, based on non-deliverable forwards.  Quicker Devaluation  “The sooner the devaluation of the hryvnia occurs, the
better for the external balance, the economy and the markets,”
 Alexander Morozov , HSBC’s Moscow-based chief economist for
Russia, Ukraine and  Kazakhstan , wrote in an Oct. 22 research
note.  The hryvnia needs to weaken to 11 per dollar by end-2013 to
trim the current-account deficit to 5 percent of gross domestic
product, Morozov said. The shortfall will widen to 9 percent of
gross domestic product this year, he predicted.  The IMF has also pushed for a more flexible hryvnia. Policy
makers and the government are seeking to dissuade the public
from buying foreign currency in anticipation of a devaluation,
central bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzov said Oct. 15.  “It could be a positive thing if they devalued the
currency because the fundamentals would improve and that could
support the spreads a little bit more,” Oliver Kastner, who
helps manage about $3 billion in emerging-market bonds at Deka
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt  said in an Oct. 22 phone interview.
“Maybe after the elections a weaker currency will come. It will
be necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  