-- Lula Party Corruption Scheme Operator Draws 11-Years in Prison
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-10-24T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/lula-party-corruption-scheme-operator-draws-11-years-in-prison.html
Brazil ’s  Supreme Court  justices
yesterday sentenced the chief operator in a cash-for-votes 
scheme during former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s 
first term to at least 11 years in prison.  Advertising executive Marcos Valerio had been convicted of
fraud, corruption, and  money laundering  in a scheme the ruling
 Workers’ Party  used to embezzle public funds to bribe
legislators in 2003-05. The court can increase his prison term
over other charges on which he was found guilty.  The sentence could signal prison time for the remainder of
the 25 defendants found guilty, including Lula’s former chief of
staff, Jose Dirceu, who the court said masterminded the
operation that prompted calls for Lula’s impeachment in 2005,
said Andre Cesar, analyst with the Brasilia-based consulting
firm Perspectiva.  “It shows Dirceu and the others are likely to get the same
stiff treatment,” Cesar said by telephone. “The justices were
harsh in their rulings, now they are being harsh in applying
sentences as well.”  Seeing three former top officials of the ruling party
behind bars could diminish a wide-spread perception among
Brazilians that government officials enjoy a high degree of
impunity. Brazil ranks 73rd of 183 countries in Transparency
International’s 2011 Corruption Perception Index, after Cuba and
 Saudi Arabia .  While 73 percent of those polled in an August Datafolha
opinion survey said the main defendants should be sentenced and
go to jail, only 11 percent thought that would happen.  Dirceu, who was Lula’s closest and most powerful aide
during his first term, reiterated his innocence in a message
posted on his blog Oct. 22. The Supreme Court condemned him on
the basis of indications not facts, he wrote.  Lula’s handpicked successor,  Dilma Rousseff , was not
accused of wrongdoing, and maintained her approval rating of 77
percent in September after taking a tough stand on corruption by
firing six ministers accused of graft and influence-peddling.  The court will also sentence Jose Genoino, who was the
Workers’ Party chief at the time, and its treasurer, Delubio
Soares. The three-month trial could end as early as tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  