-- Umeme of Uganda Sees Earnings Rising 22% on Rebate, Lower Debt
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-24T06:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/umeme-of-uganda-sees-earnings-rising-22-on-rebate-lower-debt.html
Umeme Ltd., the Ugandan power
distributor owned by Actis LLP, forecast a 22 percent increase
in earnings before interest, tax and depreciation in the year
through December.  Umeme began an initial public offering of a 38.6 percent
stake on Oct. 15 at 275 Ugandan shillings (1 U.S. cent) a share.
The offer for 622.4 million shares closes Nov. 7 and will be
followed by listing on the  Uganda  Securities Exchange in the
capital, Kampala, on Nov. 30. The shares will also list on the
Nairobi Securities Exchange after regulatory approval.  “Our Ebitda will come in at $50 million,” versus $41
million last year, Managing Director Charles Chapman said in an
interview yesterday in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi.  Umeme forecasts power demand in Uganda, east  Africa ’s
third-biggest economy, will grow 20 percent a year for the next
five years, while generating capacity is expanding 15 percent a
year and should slow to 10 percent by 2015, Chapman said.  The company’s earnings growth will be partly driven by a 20
percent rebate on infrastructure investments received in January
from Uganda’s Electricity Regulatory Authority, Chapman said.
Interest costs will also fall, he said. Umeme plans to use some
of the IPO proceeds to pay off a loan of $27 million from Actis,
according to the IPO prospectus.  Industrial Growth  Established in 2005, Umeme has a 20-year renewable
concession and has invested $150 million in transmission
infrastructure and plans $35 million more next year, he said.  In the fiscal year through December 2011, profit grew to 23
million Uganda shillings from a loss of 2.85 million shillings a
year earlier, according to the prospectus. Profit in the year to
December 2012 is forecast to grow to 41.4 million shillings. The
company’s dividend policy will be to give shareholders half of
the profit, he said.  Umeme plans to double home customers to one million in
seven years, Chapman said. They make up about a third of its
consumers while companies account for the rest, he said. Large-
scale customers including steelmakers, sugar refiners and cement
producers consumer about 43 percent of Uganda’s power.  “The demand in the industrial sector is very high so even
if we did not connect any homes we could sell all of our
output,” he said. “Industrial customers drive the growth;
politically, it is very important to connect domestic
customers.”  Umeme and the Electricity Regulatory Authority agreed on
targets to be met in the seven years starting from March 1,
including making network improvements to cut transmission losses
to 15 percent from 25 percent, Chapman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  