-- United Therapeutics Falls as FDA Rejects Oral Remodulin
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-24T20:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/united-therapeutics-falls-as-fda-rejects-oral-remodulin.html
United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  fell the
most in 14 months after U.S. regulators rejected the company’s
oral version of Remodulin to treat a lung disorder.  United Therapeutics decreased 16 percent to $44.99 at the
close in  New York , the largest single-day decline since Aug. 24,
2011. The shares had gained 13 percent this year through
yesterday.  The  Food and Drug Administration  questioned whether the
drug slowed the progress of the disease, pulmonary arterial
hypertension, in three final-phase studies, the  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based company said in a statement yesterday. The FDA
also questioned the lack of a statistically significant effect
on a six-minute walk distance in two studies.  United Therapeutics’ therapy is an oral version of
treprostinil, which is already approved to treat the life-
threatening lung disorder by injected, intravenous and inhaled
administration. While the company said the FDA is unsure if an
additional clinical trial would alter the agency’s impressions
of the oral version, regulators recommended the company consider
a fixed-dose design and more frequent dosing if it decided to
conduct another study, United Therapeutics said.  “We will continue using our best efforts to gain approval
of oral treprostinil, and we will focus on doing so within the
next four years,” Martine Rothblatt, chairman and chief
executive officer of United Therapeutics, said yesterday. “We
will convene with our experts over the next several weeks to
decide which of several paths forward to pursue.”  The FDA approved injectable Remodulin in 2002, according to
the agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  