-- Hurricane Sandy Heads Toward Cuba, May Strike U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-25T01:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/hurricane-sandy-moves-over-jamaica-may-strike-u-s-next-week.html
Hurricane Sandy, which closed
businesses and airports on  Jamaica  as it moved north in the
Caribbean, may strike the U.S. East Coast next week with the
potential to cause millions of dollars in damage.  Sandy’s top winds reached 85 miles (137 kilometers) an hour
as it moved off the north coast of Jamaica and headed toward
Cuba, according to a U.S. National Hurricane Center  advisory  at
8 p.m.  New York  time.  “The table is set for some pretty major weather,” said
Henry Margusity, an expert senior meteorologist at  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . “Is it going to be an epic
storm or is going to be just your typical nor’easter? We will
have the answers next week.”  Sandy is expected to cross Cuba overnight and the Bahamas
tomorrow, according to the hurricane center. The storm may then
move parallel to the U.S. East Coast and either be pushed into
the Atlantic Ocean or pulled into the coastline.  A computer model based in Europe took the storm up Delaware
Bay, while another by the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  had Sandy curve into  Portland , Maine, Margusity
said. Both events would take place early next week.  The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency said
residents should monitor the storm’s progress.  Weather Patterns  One of the major weather patterns determining where Sandy
will end up is the North Atlantic Oscillation, which is
currently blocking weather systems moving off the U.S. The
system may turn Sandy into the U.S. coast, Margusity said.  A storm on that potential track may do millions in damage
from downed trees, power outages and flooding, he said.  Before then, Sandy is forecast to cross eastern Cuba and
the Bahamas, where hurricane warnings have been issued,
according to the hurricane center.  As much as 20 inches (51 centimeters) of rain may fall on
parts of Cuba,  Haiti , the Dominican Republic and Jamaica, the
center said. Three inches are possible in  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  