-- Vale Cost Cuts Paying Off as Earnings Surprise Analysts
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-10-25T19:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/vale-quarterly-profit-slides-66-on-lower-prices-provisions.html
Vale SA (VALE)  surged the most in more than
six months in Sao Paulo  trading  after recurring earnings topped
estimates, signaling that efforts to cut costs and delay
projects is paying off.  Vale , the biggest iron-ore company, had third-quarter
recurring earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $4.28 billion, surpassing estimates from
analysts including Banco Itau BBA SA and Banco BTG Pactual SA.
The stock rose 5.6 percent to 36.20 reais at the close, the most
since April 12.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index  rose  1.2 percent and a
measure of iron-ore prices traded at a three-month high.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira this year suspended
projects, announced asset sales of about $1.2 billion and cut
output of premium pellet products as weaker demand in  China  and
 Europe , its two biggest markets, triggered a decline in metal
and mineral prices. Vale sold its  iron ore , which accounts for
most revenue, for more than analysts had expected in the third
quarter, Itau BBA said in a note to clients today.  “Market expectations were below the analyst consensus and
well below what came out,” Jose Luiz Garcia, a portfolio
manager at Mercatto Gestao de Recursos, who doesn’t own Vale
shares, said by phone from Rio de Janeiro. “Also there had been
very bad iron-ore prices, so there’s space for improvement. A
lot of people were short Vale.”rif  Net income dropped 66 percent to $1.67 billion, or 32 cents
a share, trailing the 43-cent average estimate in a Bloomberg
 survey . A $542 million provision to settle a royalty dispute
Vale pared profit. The result was Vale’s fifth consecutive drop
in quarterly profit and the lowest net income since the first
quarter of 2010.  ‘Peak Year’  Vale is trimming investment plans and looking for partners
and buyers for some assets as it works with “more conservative
premises,” Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani said today on
a conference call. Vale needs to find a partner to go ahead with
its $5.9 billion potash project in  Argentina  and may consider
also a partner for its Moatize coal project in  Mozambique , Siani
said.  “The decision has been made but we are still exploring the
market to see what’s the possibility to realize value on the
sale as well, we are not going to fire sale any asset,” Siani
said about the possible sales. “We have many possibilities but
we will manage those very carefully.”  ‘Unprofitable Mine’  Vale, which last week said it will suspend operations at
its unprofitable Frood nickel and copper mine in  Canada , put the
scope and schedule for its $1.26 billion Zogota iron-ore project
in  Guinea ’s Simandou South under review. Vale said July 25 that
Zogota was expected to start producing in the second half of
2012 with an estimated capacity of 2 million tons.  “It will take longer to have the institutional scenario
more defined,” Siani said during the same call. “We shouldn’t
expect significant investments from Vale in the project in the
short term.”  Iron-ore prices next year probably will remain at a similar
level to today, Jose Carlos Martins, the company’s head of
Ferrous and Strategy, said on the same call. Prices for
 immediate delivery  to the Chinese port of Tianjin, a benchmark
for  Asia , rose 1.1 percent to $120.00 per ton today, the highest
since July 24, according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel
Index Ltd. The index tumbled 42 percent from June 16 to Sept. 5
as growth slowed in China, the biggest consumer.  “We will conclude projects already under execution, while
research and development expenditures are being cut to give rise
in the future to a smaller and more select portfolio of
projects,” Vale said in a statement after the close of regular
trading in Brazil. “2012 is very likely to be the peak year for
 capital expenditures  in the foreseeable future.”  Royalty Payment  Vale’s production of iron ore, the main raw material used
to make steel, fell 4.6 percent last quarter, while London-based
Rio Tinto Group reported a 6 percent gain in the period and
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said quarterly production rose
0.5 percent.  The company said on  Sept. 4  that it set aside 1.41 billion
reais ($696 million) to pay royalties Brazil’s government claims
it is owed, anticipating a “probable loss” in a legal dispute
over the taxes. The provision is more than four times the 314
million reais the company had reserved as of June 30.  Total debt as of Sept. 30 rose to $29.2 billion from $25.5
billion at the end of the previous quarter.  ‘Challenging Environment’  “Vale will face a challenging scenario in the short-term
given an expected deceleration in Chinese GDP and steel demand
growth coupled with a fragile global steel demand outlook,”
Marcos Assumpcao and Andre Pinheiro, analysts for Banco Itau BBA
SA, said in an Oct. 18 note after lowering the stock to the
equivalent of neutral. “Even though Vale’s main growth projects
will likely add value to the company, they will not affect
results materially before 2015.”  The company shipped 78.2 million tons of iron ore and
pellets, a processed form of the material, in the quarter, 0.9
percent more than a year earlier.  Chinese customers  accounted
for 49 percent, up from 45 percent a year ago, while Europe
bought 18 percent, down from 20 percent.  “Vale is facing a new scenario where the main consuming
market will not grow again at such a robust pace,” Karina Freitas, an analyst at brokerage Concordia Corretora, said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The company needs to adapt
itself to that new reality.”  Vale expects to improve its production performance and
lower costs in the coming quarters, CFO Siani said  in a video 
posted yesterday on the company’s website.  The miner’s results may continue to get better should
recent metals price increases gain steam, said Robbert Van
Batenburg, head of research at Louis Capital Markets LP.  “Iron-ore prices have picked up a little,” Van Batenburg
said in a telephone interview from  New York . “If the tide is
rising, it’s really hard to mess up a raw-materials company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  