-- Veolia Water Chief Sees Growth in U.S. Advisory Services
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-24T10:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/veolia-sees-growth-in-water-advising-business-in-north-america.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water company, says growth in its North American water
business unit will come in part from advisory services to large
municipal water utilities.  Veolia bid to provide services to  Los Angeles  and  San
Diego , which have shown interest in contracting with an outside
company to make operations more efficient and cost-effective,
Laurent Auguste, president and chief executive officer of Veolia
Water Americas, said in an interview at a Bloomberg New Energy
Finance Water Leadership Forum in Del Mar,  California .  In April, the Paris-based company said it will advise  New
York City  on how to lower operating costs of water and
wastewater services to 9 million people. The four-year contract
may be worth $36 million in sales, Veolia said.  “It’s a new trend for municipalities in the U.S. to look
to get help from the private sector for operations,” Auguste
said yesterday. “And it is part of our focus to find a
different approach to the market.”  Private investment in the $90 billion U.S. municipal water
market has been “underdeveloped” in part due to the perception
that “private companies running the U.S. water system is not a
good thing,” Auguste said.  Business Model  Veolia has developed a model where the company offers
management expertise and leverages its global purchasing network
to help public utilities reduce costs and improve operations
based on performance-based goals, Auguste said. Unlike a
traditional public-private partnership, Veolia only assists
public utility workers and doesn’t take over the operations of
the water system, he said.  Veolia’s U.S. sales rose 9.2 percent to $899.8 million for
the first six months of this year compared with the same period
a year ago, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Under its contract with  New York  City, the company has
identified more than 10 percent in potential savings out of the
city’s $1.2 billion budget, Auguste said.  Veolia also plans to expand its industrial business in the
U.S. through water treatment for oil and gas production, he
said. Veolia and Suez Environnement, also Paris-based, are the
two largest water companies.  The inaugural BNEF water forum is a two-day event featuring
executives from the energy, fracking and power sector including
municipalities discussing management strategies and regional
water scarcity issues that wraps up today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  