-- Visa, MasterCard Judge Says Deal Appears to Meet Standard
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-25T15:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/visa-mastercard-judge-says-deal-appears-to-meet-standard.html
The proposed settlement of a
merchants’ lawsuit over credit card fees that may cost  Visa
Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and banks as much as $7.25 billion is
probably worthy of initial approval, a federal judge said.  “I have reviewed the settlement agreement, and at first
blush it appears to satisfy the requirements for preliminary
approval,” U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in  Brooklyn , New
York, said in an order yesterday.  The order, containing Gleeson’s first public comments on
the deal since it was unveiled in July, came in response to
objections lodged by an expanding group of retailers and trade
groups who contend it’s unfair.  Gleeson said he will hear arguments against preliminary
approval of the settlement on Nov. 9. He declined a request to
form a committee for objecting retailers and said there would be
an opportunity for a more thorough discussion at a later hearing
on final approval.  The deal, intended to cover about 7 million retailers,
would put an end to about seven years of litigation that has
dogged  Foster City , California-based Visa and Purchase, New
York-based MasterCard. The suing merchants allege that banks
conspired with the card companies to fix the so-called
interchange fees that retailers are charged when customers pay
with credit cards.  Too Generous  Some retailers and their trade associations oppose the
deal, saying it’s too generous to the card companies and grants
too much leeway to raise rates in the future.  Vocal opponents of the deal include the Retail Industry
Leaders Association, the  National Retail Federation , the
National Restaurant Association, the National Community
Pharmacists Association and the National Association of
Convenience Stores, as well as retailers  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT)   Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer representing some of those
groups, told the judge in an Oct. 23 letter that many merchants
don’t think the deal qualifies for initial approval “because of
its obvious and facial defects.”  Gleeson said the objections will receive careful
consideration.  Lower Threshhold  “I am mindful, however, that the threshold for preliminary
approval of a proposed class action settlement is meaningfully
lower than the threshold for final approval,” he said in his
order.  The ruling puts the settlement on course for approval
sooner than expected, K. Craig Wildfang, a lead lawyer for
plaintiffs, said in a phone interview. Wildfang and other
attorneys in the case had forecast an initial hearing would take
place in December or early 2013.  “After seven years of negotiation and two years of
mediation, this is the best possible settlement for all
involved,” Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic
Payments Coalition, a credit-and-debit-card industry trade
group, said in an e-mail. “It’s time to end this epic battle,
and put our differences to rest.’  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  