-- Volcker-Ravitch Study Says Illinois Pensions Face Insolvency
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-24T17:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/volcker-ravitch-study-maps-illinois-pensions-path-to-insolvency.html
Illinois ’s pensions, the worst
funded in the U.S., are “destined for insolvency” unless the
state overcomes its politicized budget process, according to a
report from a group headed by  Paul Volcker  and  Richard Ravitch .  The fifth-most-populous state may also have a jobless rate
at 6 percent or more through at least 2019, according to a study
from the State Budget Crisis  Task Force , a group that includes
policy analysts and politicians that was formed in 2011 to
examine threats to fiscal sustainability. Volcker, a former
Federal Reserve chairman, and Ravitch, a former lieutenant
governor of  New York , are co-chairmen of its advisory board.  “Illinois is unquestionably in more serious shape than any
other single state, because of all the years of issuing pension
bonds and the deficits they dealt with by borrowing money,”
Ravitch, 79, said in a telephone interview before the report was
released.  State and local governments nationwide face as much as $3
trillion in unfunded public-employee retirement costs after the
18-month recession that ended in 2009, according to the report.
By fiscal 2015, pension costs could take up one-fourth of
Illinois’s resources, the study shows.  State lawmakers failed to advance any measures in a special
session Aug. 17 aimed at addressing $83 billion of unfunded
pension liabilities. Citing retiree obligations,  Standard &
Poor’s  in August cut the state’s credit one level to A, sixth-
highest, and Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Illinois in
January to A2, its lowest rating for a state.  Gimmick Culture  Illinois’s retirement system has only 43.4 percent of
assets needed to cover promised obligations, the lowest among
U.S. states, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
borrowed $7.2 billion since 2010 to plug the gap, pushing the
state’s obligation to fund the systems out to 2019 rather than
making the contributions out of current funds.  “Without some type of reform that reduces costs going
forward, the systems appear destined for insolvency,” the task
force wrote in the report. “The culture of budget gimmickry and
short-sightedness pushes costs off to the future, but eventually
that will be impossible -- retirees may lose their pensions as
funds dwindle.”  Illinois faces fiscal strains beyond its retirement
liabilities. Though Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  helped push
for increases in personal and corporate income taxes in 2011,
the state carried a backlog of about $8 billion in unpaid bills.
Medicaid enrollment and expenditures doubled from 2000 to 2011,
and costs will continue to increase, according to the report.  National Tour  Still, the shakiness of the state’s finances have made its
debt a popular investment.  Investors seeking riskier assets for greater return amid
the lowest  interest rates  in a generation have pushed down
borrowing costs for Illinois and its municipalities. The  extra
yield  demanded for 10-year debt from issuers in the state
compared with AAA bonds narrowed to 1.43 percentage points
yesterday, the lowest since February 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Illinois study is the group’s second on an individual
state, following last month’s  report  on California. The task
force released a report in July analyzing California, Illinois,
 New Jersey , New York,  Texas  and  Virginia .  “I never thought that our state would get into this much
trouble,” Jerry Stermer, budget director for Quinn, said today
at a panel discussion in  Chicago  presenting the study. The
pension underfunding reflects “seven decades of neglect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  