-- VW Sticks to 2012 Earnings Targets After 3Q Profit Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-10-24T14:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/vw-nine-month-profit-drops-as-discounts-in-europe-climb.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  stuck to its targets
for sales growth and stable profit this year, underscoring its
strength compared with European competitors such as  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG) , which is seeking state support.  Volkswagen still plans to “match” 2011’s operating income
of 11.3 billion euros ($14.6 billion) this year, even after
profit slipped 1.6 percent in the first nine months of 2012, the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said today. It also stood by
its target to beat last year’s sales and auto deliveries in
2012. The stock rose as much as 4.9 percent, the  biggest
increase  in more than a month.  VW has largely shrugged off a slump in the European car
market, which is poised to suffer its biggest annual decline in
19 years in 2012. The region’s largest automaker has avoided the
brunt of a five-year contraction by relying on growth in the
U.S. and  China  and expanding the Audi luxury brand.  “Volkswagen’s performance from a sales perspective is
certainly the best worldwide,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst
with Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt . “No other carmaker can keep
up with its growth level.”  The stock  climbed  as much as 7.10 euros to 153.60, and was
up 4.85 euros as of 4:35 p.m. in Frankfurt. The shares have
gained 31 percent this year, valuing VW at 67.2 billion euros.  ‘Growing Headwinds’  Third-quarter operating profit declined 19 percent to 2.34
billion euros, its biggest drop since the  global recession  in
2009. The figure was on par with the 2.39 billion-euro average
of six analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 27
percent to 48.8 billion euros.  “Although the times aren’t easy, it’s up to us to
systematically continue along our chosen path,” Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in a statement. “We therefore
remain committed to our ambitious goals for 2012, despite
growing headwinds.”  Earnings should improve in the fourth quarter helped by new
generations of the VW Golf and Audi A3, Chief Financial Officer
Hans Dieter Poetsch said on a conference call today. Costs to
introduce those and other models based on a new platform peaked
in the third quarter, he said.  Porsche Effect  VW’s resilient earnings contrast with Peugeot. Europe’s
second-largest carmaker secured 7 billion euros in guarantees
from the French government to shore up its ailing finance arm
after predicting debt will rise 20 percent more than previously
expected. Peugeot has said it has run through 200 million euros
a month in cash this year. In the first half, Peugeot’s auto
division lost 662 million euros.  “Volkswagen can at the moment play its strength off
against European competitors,” said Michael Punzet, an analyst
at  DZ Bank  in Frankfurt. “Next year, VW will benefit from the
inclusion of Porsche, improvements in the performance of its
truckmaker MAN and cost savings” from the rollout of the
platform that underpins the Golf.  Volkswagen’s net income jumped 60 percent to 11.3 billion
euros, boosted by gains related to the purchase of the Porsche
car brand. Still, writedowns related to the deal will limit the
profit contribution of the 911 maker this year, VW said.  With the sovereign-debt crisis spreading beyond Italy,
Spain and  Portugal , profit-sapping discounts are on the rise.
Dealer incentives in  Germany , Europe’s biggest market, rose to
12.2 percent off the list price in September, the highest level
in at least two years, according to trade publication Autohaus
PulsSchlag.  Inventory Control  Pricing pressure in  Europe  has intensified and will
continue, with the market set to remain at low levels for years
to come, Christian Klingler, VW’s sales chief, said on the call.  The German manufacturer has recently stepped up efforts to
respond to the crisis. In September, the company reduced its
internal sales forecast for 2012 by roughly 100,000 vehicles --
more than 1 percent of annual deliveries -- on lower demand for
cars like the Polo subcompact, a person familiar with the matter
said at the time.  The company is also cutting back parts purchases by as much
as 10 percent and demanding lower prices for components,
suppliers have said. Poetsch said today that VW is looking to
keep stocks of unsold vehicles below its normal target level to
be able to react quickly in case demand declines further.  VW plans to halt European production of the mid-sized
 Passat (PSAT)  for five days through the end of the year, and the Audi
luxury brand stopped assembling the A6, A7 and A8 sedans for a
week in October to adapt slower demand, especially in southern
Europe.  The German carmaker has become “more cautious” on the
European market for next year, CEO Winterkorn said in  Sao Paulo 
this week. VW plans to export 200,000 cars to China in 2013 to
boost utilization rates at European plants and keep inventory
under control in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  