-- VW Threatens to End GM’s Eight-Year Lead in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-25T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/vw-threatens-to-end-gm-s-eight-year-lead-in-china.html
After trailing  General Motors Co. (GM)  in
 China  for eight years,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  edged ahead in the third
quarter, putting it one step closer to its goal of becoming the
world’s biggest automaker.  VW’s deliveries in the country jumped 21 percent last
quarter, almost triple GM’s growth, to 704,991 vehicles,
according to figures the company reported yesterday. That beat
the 664,765 that GM reported earlier this month.  At stake is supremacy in the world’s biggest auto market,
which analysts say will likely exceed those of the U.S.,  Japan 
and  Germany  combined three years from now. China is the biggest
market for both companies.  “Being No. 1 in China means a lot to their global
development,” said  Harry Chen , an analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “Volkswagen and GM will go through
a period of time fighting at close quarters in China and they
may take turns grabbing the lead.”  Though the comparisons aren’t perfect -- VW counts  Hong
Kong  and Macau and excludes trucks, while GM does the opposite -
- the U.S. company yesterday confirmed that it had ceded the top 
spot for the quarter. Volkswagen declined to comment.  With only one quarter left, GM’s lead of about 77,000 units
may be enough for the company to hang on to the annual China
sales crown.  The Buick Excelle and Chevrolet Sail were the top two
selling cars in China for the first nine months, while VW’s top
seller, the Jetta, ranked fourth, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. VW had five of the 10
best-selling cars through September, while GM claimed three
spots, according to CAAM.  Japanese Backlash  Volkswagen introduced new versions of its Lavida and Audi
A4L sedans in the third quarter, and benefited from a
territorial dispute that fueled so much anti-Japan sentiment
that  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  saw their September
sales in China tumble the most since at least 2008.  Most GM sedans were introduced two to three years ago and
are reaching the end of their product life cycles, making them
less attractive to car buyers, according to researcher LMC
Automotive.  With more refreshed models in showrooms just as Chinese
buyers have turned away from Japanese brands, Volkswagen has
been better able to capitalize on the tensions than GM, said
Steve Man, a  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  analyst. Volkswagen is also
expanding production capacity faster -- 38 percent growth this
year versus GM’s 26 percent,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  estimates.  Cushion Against Europe  Volkswagen isn’t alone in gaining on GM. South Korea’s
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  saw their
combined sales rise 9.5 percent to a record in September.  Ford
Motor Co. (F) , whose Focus compact is the No. 3 selling car in China
this year, reported sales jumped 35 percent.  China has helped cushion the slump in  Europe , where car
deliveries are headed for their biggest fall in 19 years as the
region’s financial crisis continues. Volkswagen, which aims to
be the world’s leading automaker by 2018, yesterday reported its
biggest quarterly earnings drop since 2009 because of Europe.  Though auto sales in China have slowed in recent months,
the market has plenty of room to grow. Vehicle ownership in the
country was equivalent to 4.7 percent of the population, versus
about 51 percent in Japan and 81 percent in the U.S., according
to 2009 figures from the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association.  Following Jeep  Volkswagen in 1984 became the second foreign auto brand,
after Jeep, to produce cars in China. But more recently it has
trailed GM as the Detroit-based company and its Chinese partners
cranked up production of Wuling minivans, which have outsold all
other four-wheel vehicles in China for the past eight years.  While quarterly comparisons only go back to mid-2009,
annual data shows Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen hasn’t
held the lead in China since 2004.  Volkswagen is planning to invest 14 billion euros ($18
billion) from 2012 to 2016 in the country to regain its lead. GM
said last year it planned to invest as much as $7 billion in
China from 2011 to 2015.  To spur sales, GM is expanding capacity and boosting
production of its luxury Cadillac lineup in China, Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson told reporters in Sao Paulo on
Oct. 21.  “Of course we’d like to see a more robust market in
China,” Akerson said. “To me, it’s not whether you’re the
biggest car manufacturer. It’s whether you want to be the most
profitable.”  GM’s ability to fend off Volkswagen could hinge on Wuling’s
minivans, which start below $5,000 and are used as both
passenger-and cargo vehicles. Wuling accounts for about half of
the Detroit automaker’s deliveries in China.  Cadillac Slumps  Wuling September sales fell 2.5 percent -- more than the
total market -- as the slowing economy hit demand for cheaper
vehicles as less-wealthy buyers reined in spending. Speculation
the government may subsidize new minivans and small cars to spur
growth in rural areas has also made some buyers delay purchases,
said  John Zeng , director of Asian forecasting at LMC in
 Shanghai .  While a 3.2 percent increase in Chevrolet sales helped GM
avoid an overall drop, deliveries of Buicks tumbled the most
since at least 2010 and Cadillac sales fell for a sixth straight
month. Those brands are important to GM because they generate
more than twice as much profit per car as Wuling, according to
LMC.  GM, which like Volkswagen has ventures with  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104)  and China FAW Group Corp., is adding SUVs, a category
that’s been expanding about nine times faster than China’s
overall auto industry.  ‘Malibu Disaster’  A 1.6-liter engine version of the Chevrolet Malibu, GM’s
second-best selling car in the U.S. this year, has been a
disappointment since it hit the market in February, said Lin Huaibin, an analyst in Shanghai with researcher IHS  Global
Insight .  “Malibu is a disaster,” Lin said. The car was unable to
effectively compete against the Superb from VW’s Skoda brand and
Hyundai’s Sonata, which has sold about twice the 29,000 units GM
has managed with the Malibu this year.  Competition between GM and VW, the No.2 and No.3 global
automakers, after Toyota, is entering a new era with both
announcing in the past four months changes in the leadership of
their China businesses.  “Both companies have proven they are strong in this
market,” said  Bill Russo , Beijing-based senior adviser at Booz
& Co. “They are the two big fish in the pond and that’s not
going to change even with a shuffling of management.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  