-- Wal-Mart Reorganizes Compliance Office Amid Probe
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-10-24T20:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/wal-mart-reorganizes-compliance-office-amid-probe.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, combined its compliance office with ethics,
investigations and legal functions to form one organization amid
a bribery probe at the company’s Mexico operations.  The new unit will report to the company’s general counsel,
Wal-Mart said today in a memo. The retailer also hired Jay
Jorgensen, an attorney with Sidley Austin LLP in  Washington , as
global chief compliance officer. The moves come after Wal-Mart
named Daniel Trujillo to the new position of senior vice
president and chief compliance officer of its international
operations earlier this month.  The U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission are investigating allegations that Wal-Mart
systematically bribed Mexican officials so it could more quickly
open stores, possibly violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , was little
changed at $74.82 at the close in New York. The shares have
gained 25 percent this year.  Jorgensen previously served as a law clerk for U.S. Supreme
Court Justice William Rehnquist and Samuel Alito while he was at
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, according to
the memo. Wal-Mart declined to make Jorgensen available for an
interview.  The company has spent more than $30 million over the past
17 months to implement its new global anti-corruption compliance
program, according to the memo. As part of the effort, company
“Ethics Officers” outside the U.S. now must report to Wal-Mart
International rather than to the CEOs in their respective
countries, the memo said.  The Wall Street Journal reported the changes and hiring
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  