-- Women Hold 20% of World’s Political Power, Report Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-10-24T15:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/women-hold-20-of-world-s-political-power-report-says.html
Women have gained little ground in
political leadership around the world, with men still in about
80 percent of key elected and appointed positions, according to
the  World Economic Forum ’s annual Global Gender Gap Report.  “Some countries are moving in the right direction, but
very slowly,” said Saadia Zahidi, head of the WEF’s Women
Leaders and Gender Parity program, in an interview before the
release of the 2012 report. “We’re talking about very small and
slow changes.”  The survey found that 20 percent of the political decision
making gap has been closed, Zahidi said. Last year, the report
showed 19 percent of it had narrowed. Overall, Nordic nations
were once again the most equal, according to the report. Iceland
claimed the No. 1 position for the fourth year in a row,
followed by Finland, Norway and Sweden.  The rankings are determined through 14 indicators of access
to resources and opportunities, looking at variables such as
maternal death rates,  life expectancy  and the number of female
government ministers, in 135 countries. The Geneva-based WEF
issued its first gender gap index in 2006.  The disparity in health and education categories has been
shrinking faster than others, according to the report. About 96
percent of the differences in health outcomes between men and
women have disappeared, and 60 percent of the gap in labor force
participation, job advancement and wages has closed.  Only 17%  In political empowerment, measured by the ratio of women to
men in minister-level and parliamentary positions, progress has
been halting. In the U.S., for example, 17 percent of Congress
is female, relatively unchanged from 2005. The U.S. slipped to
No. 22 in the overall index in 2012 from No. 17 last year, in
part because of the decrease in the percentage of women in
cabinet-level positions.  The WEF this year is starting pilot projects in  Mexico ,
 Turkey  and Japan to try to close what the organization calls the
“economic participation gender gap” in those countries by 10
percent over three years. WEF task forces will work with
government agencies and private companies to establish different
programs in each country, Zahidi said.  In Mexico, for instance, the task force is focusing on
mentoring and supporting female-owned businesses. Mexico is
84th, Japan is 101st and Turkey is 124th in the 2012 rankings.
Several other countries would like to be involved in this
project as well, Zahidi said today at a press conference in New
York.  “There are different things that need to be done in
different places, but there’s a lot that can be shared between
countries and companies,” Zahidi said today.  Work, Family  At the conference, Zahidi said the small but persistent gap
between women and men in the health and education categories is
still problematic in countries like  India ,  China  and
 Afghanistan . Still, changes in political empowerment and
economic participation tend to drive movement in the rankings,
she said.  “The next set of changes need to be made in ensuring that
women have equal access to positions of decision making and
ensuring that both women and men can combine work and family so
that we do see higher numbers of women participating in the
economy,” she said in an interview before the release.  The review  looked at how countries divide resources and
opportunities for men and women.  The  Philippines  came in eighth, the only country in  Asia  to
have eliminated the gap in health and education.  Nicaragua  was
in ninth place, up from 27th last year, helped by changes in the
percentage of women in parliament and ministerial positions.  China Slips  China and  Japan  fared slightly worse this year while India
improved. China fell to No. 69 from 61, Japan slipped three
slots to 101 and India moved up eight places to 105.  Spain  dipped to 26th place after rising to 10th in 2007.
Others in Europe -- Germany, Belgium and Switzerland --
maintained their positions in the top 15, with the Netherlands
improving to 11th from 17th two years ago. The U.K. slipped to
18th place from 16th.  Most Arab nations are in the bottom quarter, with
persistently low marks for political empowerment and economic
participation. Those with the highest rankings in the region,
including the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, have made
significant increases in women’s education levels, according to
the WEF report.  Bottom Three  The United Arab Emirates ranked 107th, after being 103rd
last year, while  Egypt  declined to 126th from 123rd. The bottom
three in the rankings were the same as in 2011:  Chad  at 133rd,
Pakistan at 134th and Yemen at 135th.  “With talent shortages projected to become more severe in
much of the developed and developing world, maximizing access to
female talent is a strategic imperative for business,” said
 Klaus Schwab , founder and chairman of the WEF, in a statement.  At this year’s WEF annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland,
women accounted for about 17 percent of the government
officials, executives, economists and others who attended. The
proportion increased from 9 percent in 2006 after an effort to
attract more women. Zahidi said closing the gender gap at Davos
faces an “external glass ceiling,” as the conference reflects
global leadership that remains male-dominated.  Zahidi’s co-authors on the report were Laura D. Tyson, who
was head of the  Council of Economic Advisers  under President
 Bill Clinton , and Ricardo Hausmann, director of Harvard
University’s Center for International Development.  -- Editors: Anne Reifenberg, Lisa Kassenaar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 Lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Kassenaar at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net  