-- Wynn Resorts Rises as Dividend Doubled, Profit Tops Views
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-10-25T14:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/wynn-third-quarter-tops-estimates-on-rebounding-las-vegas.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , owner of casinos
in Nevada and Macau, rose as much as 7.8 percent, the most in
more than seven months, after third-quarter profit beat
analysts’ estimates and the company doubled its quarterly
dividend.  Wynn Resorts rose 6.5 percent to $119.56 at 10:43 a.m. in
 New York  and  traded  as high as $121 for the biggest intraday
gain since March 2. The stock had gained 1.6 percent this year
through yesterday.  Improvement in Las Vegas, where the company operates the
Wynn and Encore hotels, along with plans to open a second Macau
resort in 2016, gave Wynn Resorts confidence to declare a $7.50-
a-share special cash dividend, up from $5 a year ago. It also
plans to double the regularly quarterly  payment  to $1 a share,
for an indicated yield of 3.6 percent.  “There’s a lot of attention being paid to stocks that have
good, strong, consistent, predictable yield,” founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Wynn  said on a conference call. “And we
feel that we can be predictable and have a nice yield at $4.00 a
share a year.”  Third-quarter profit excluding some items totaled $1.48 a
share, the Las Vegas-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That beat the $1.34 average of 23 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Solid Numbers’  Net income dropped to $112 million, or $1.11 a share, from
$127.1 million, or $1.01, a year earlier, a reflection of higher
interest and debt-extinguishment costs. Revenue was little
changed at $1.3 billion and missed projections of $1.31 billion.  Wynn Resorts’ Las Vegas revenue rose 12 percent to $388
million, while earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization gained 30 percent to $110.4 million.  “Solid numbers all around, especially in  Las Vegas ,” John Kempf, an RBC Capital Markets analyst, said in a note after the
release. The “special dividend came in at the low end of our
range, but the doubling of the quarterly dividend is more
important. This should make the stock more valuable, in our
opinion, to income-seeking funds.”  Okada Feud  Revenue in Macau, which accounted for 72 percent of sales
last year, fell 4.3 percent to $910.5 million, reflecting a
shift to mass-market customers as high-rollers spent less.
Profit in that market, measured as earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, fell 1.3 percent to $292.2
million.  Wynn said he wasn’t concerned about competition from new
resorts planned in Macau, where the company is joining others in
expanding on the Cotai strip.  Stock Redemption  “We think that the market is terrific in Macau, and that
everybody who’s in business there is going to have good news
going forward,” he said.  Per-share profit benefited from a drop in stock
outstanding. The company seized a 20 percent stake held by ex-
Vice Chairman Kazuo Okada after the board concluded he may have
broken anti-bribery laws by extending free rooms and cash to
Asian casino regulators.  The Japanese pachinko billionaire, a co-founder of the
company, denies the claim and has raised questions about Wynn’s
$135 million donation to a Macau university foundation.  The company is scheduled to hold its annual shareholder
meeting Nov. 2 in Las Vegas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  