-- Zynga Rises as Game Maker Annouces Buyback, Gambling Deal
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-10-25T21:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/zynga-sales-top-estimates-as-farmville-2-bolsters-game-maker.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest maker of
social games, surged after posting third-quarter sales that
topped analysts’ estimates and unveiling plans to buy back stock
and move into real-money gambling.  Sales rose 3.2 percent to $316.6 million, Zynga said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average predicted $291.5
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Zynga also
announced a partnership with a U.K. real-money gaming operator
and said it will buy back as much as $200 million in stock.  Faced with slowing sales and a sagging  stock price , Chief
Executive Officer Mark Pincus has embarked on a reorganization
aimed at reviving growth. His plan to cut costs, focus on mobile
and expand into gambling may reassure investors that the company
is pursuing new opportunities for growth, said Michael Pachter,
an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “Every single thing that they are doing is what you would
want them to do,” said Pachter, who has an outperform rating on
the stock. “They really do intend to grow revenues.”  Zynga’s shares rose 12 percent to $2.39 at the close in New
York, for the biggest gain since February. The stock has tumbled
76 percent since the company’s initial public offering in
December.  Mobile Shift  The restructuring, which also includes shutting offices and
phasing out more than a dozen games, will generate pretax
savings of $15 million to $20 million in the fourth quarter,
excluding a charge of about $8 million to $12 million, Zynga
said.  The game maker failed to meet its expectations for growth
in part because of the shift to mobile and in part because it
didn’t develop enough compelling programs, Pincus said on a
conference call.  “We didn’t create enough new heat for our players by
innovating on content and features,” the CEO said.  The company said it signed a partnership with Gibraltar-
based  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc (BPTY)  to offer real-money
gambling in the U.K., including online poker and a suite of 180
casino games next year. The two companies will share revenue
from gambling, Zynga Chief Financial Officer David Wehner said
yesterday on the call.  Regulations Easing  Zynga is optimistic that the easing of regulations in the
U.S. and abroad will let it expand in online gambling, a market
that researcher H2 Gambling Capital estimates may be worth $30
billion next year. The game developer last month hired Maytal Olsha, a former online-gambling executive, as its chief
operating officer of new markets.  The stock repurchase program is Zynga’s first. The buybacks
will help management signal its confidence to investors, said
 Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  Dallas .  “The stock has no buyers out there -- it’s in sort of a
free-fall,” he said. “To have the company buy back some of the
stock will help to at least support it somewhat.”  The company generates revenue by selling virtual goods
within its games -- for example, a gun in “Mafia Wars” or a
brick oven in “ChefVille.” It owns the five most popular games
played on  Facebook Inc. (FB) , led by “FarmVille 2” with 61.3
million monthly users, according to  AppData .  Still, Facebook, which takes a portion of the revenue from
virtual goods sold on its site, has become less reliant on Zynga
for revenue. Including its advertising spending, the game maker
contributed 7 percent of Facebook’s revenue in the third
quarter, down from 12 percent a year earlier, the social network
said earlier this week.  Third Quarter  Before certain items, Zynga broke even on a per-share basis
in the third quarter, compared with projections for a 1-cent
loss. The game maker posted a net loss of $52.7 million, or 7
cents a share. Earlier this month, it predicted a net loss of
$90 million to $105 million.  For the full year, Zynga reiterated an earlier forecast for
bookings, a predictor of future sales, of $1.09 billion to $1.1
billion. The company said 2012 per-share profit, excluding some
costs, will be 2 cents to 3 cents, not including the effect of
the share repurchase plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  