-- Alibaba Said to Near Buying $7 Billion Stake From Yahoo
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-20T23:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/alibaba-said-to-near-buying-7-billion-stake-from-yahoo.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. is near an
agreement to buy back a 20 percent stake in itself from  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  for about $7 billion and may announce a deal as soon as
today, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The purchase may pave the way for Alibaba,  China ’s largest
e-commerce provider, to pursue an initial public offering in the
next 18 months, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Alibaba, helped by shareholders
Temasek Holdings Pte., Digital Sky Technologies,  Silver Lake ,
plans to finance the deal with cash and debt, the person said.  Alibaba has been trying to buy back the stake for more than
a year and stepped up efforts in September, when the U.S.
company fired then-Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz . Reducing
the stake reduces Yahoo’s presence in China, the world’s largest
Internet market, and makes a takeover of the U.S. company more
likely, said Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “For Yahoo shareholders, the sale and subsequent march
towards an IPO is a clear positive, as many questioned whether
Yahoo would be able to monetize its China assets at all,” Rohan
said in a research report. “The capital required to take Yahoo
private is reduced with each Alibaba monetization event.”  Yahoo has come close to selling the stake in the past and
failed and a deal may be postponed, the person said. Yahoo
currently owns a 40 percent stake in Alibaba so the current
proposal under discussion would cut that holding in half.  Alibaba is not committed to any specific timing on an IPO,
which will depend on market conditions, the person said.  Bartz Struggled  The companies struggled to make headway on negotiations
under Bartz, who failed to reach an agreement to let Alibaba
Group buy back shares in 2010. Yahoo acquired the stake in 2005
in exchange for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s Chinese
unit.  Fissures became public by January 2010 when Alibaba Group
described as “reckless” Yahoo’s support for  Google (GOOG)  Inc., which
tangled with Chinese authorities over the nation’s Web-
censorship rules.  In May of last year, Yahoo’s rift with Alibaba widened
after the Web portal said the Chinese company spun off its
online payment business without informing shareholders. Yahoo
said it wasn’t consulted about the transfer of the Alipay unit
to a company mostly owned by Jack Ma, chief executive officer of
Alibaba Group.  Yahoo had a board meeting to review the transaction and
will consider a dividend payment, AllThingsD reported May 17.
The website said the deal is likely to value the portion of
Yahoo’s holdings at about $7 billion, or 20 percent of Alibaba’s
$35 billion enterprise valuation. After a potential IPO, Yahoo
could sell more of its stake, AllThingsD reported.  Active Discussions  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, and John Spelich, a
spokesman for Alibaba, declined to comment.  Yahoo, which failed to keep pace with growth at Google and
Facebook Inc., is pursuing active discussions with the Chinese
company,  Scott Thompson , who succeeded Bartz before stepping
down this month, said in April.  Yahoo had also been in discussions about selling its stake
in Yahoo!  Japan  to Tokyo-based  Softbank Corp. (9984) , another person
said. Those talks have gone cold over price and have not
resumed, said the person.  Yahoo considered a deal with Alibaba and Softbank that
would cut its stake in Alibaba to about 15 percent from about 40
percent, a person familiar with the matter said in December.  The shares of Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo rose 3.7
percent to $15.42 at the close in New York on May 18. The  shares 
have fallen 4.4 percent this year.  Yahoo, which spurned a $47.5 billion offer by Microsoft
Corp. in 2008, has a market value of $18.8 billion. By
comparison, Google is valued at $195.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  