-- Army Purchases of $17,000 Pans Tied to Kentucky Lawmaker
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-05-19T18:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/army-purchases-of-17-000-pans-tied-to-kentucky-lawmaker.html
Representative Harold Rogers of
 Kentucky  directed millions of dollars in business to Kentucky
company Phoenix Products Co., one of his campaign contributors,
for $17,000 leak-proof drip pans for U.S. Army helicopters when
similar products can be bought for about $2,500, according to a
competitor.  Robert Skillen, chief engineer at VX Aerospace Corp., a
Leesburg, Virginia-based advanced composites manufacturing and
design company, said an earmark Rogers added to a 2009 spending
bill provided funding to buy the leak-proof pans for the Army
from Phoenix Products in McKee, Kentucky. Skillen said his
company sells drip pans for $2,471.  “You think Hal Rogers cares they spent five times more
than they’re worth? He just wants campaign money,” Skillen, who
is at the Morganton,  North Carolina , manufacturing facility,
said in an interview. “He just wants campaign money. It’s
spending taxpayer money for personal profit.”  Phoenix Products was selected in a competitive bidding
process, said Jennifer Hing, a spokeswoman for Rogers, a
Republican who is chairman of the House Appropriations
Committee. The Army has continued to award the bid to Phoenix in
the years since the 2009 earmark, she said.  “It’s important that Congress do what it can to provide
our military with the best resources to ensure their safety and
advance our missions abroad, while also saving taxpayer dollars
wherever possible,” Rogers said in a statement to the  New York 
Times, which first reported the story in today’s editions.
“These dripping pans help accomplish both of these goals.”  Political Contributors  Phoenix Products didn’t return a phone message today left
with a man who identified himself as a janitor at the company.
U.S. Army spokesman James Hutton couldn’t provide an immediate
comment.  The Army bought 374 drip pans from Phoenix at an average
cost of $17,000, according to the article. In helicopters, a
rotor runs to a shaft in the roof and the pans are underneath to
contain fluid, much like a pan under a car engine, Skillen said.  The company’s owners are political contributors to Rogers,
according to the Times story. Phoenix’s president,  Thomas
Wilson , and his wife Peggy, have given at least $600,000 since
2005 to a Washington lobbying firm and have been contributors to
Rogers’ political committee, according to the Times.  ‘Cronyism Network’  Phoenix hired a lobbying firm that gave money to Rogers,
according to  Melanie Sloan , executive director of the
nonpartisan Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington.  Skillen came to the group with his concerns and it began
investigating, she said in an interview. The group filed Freedom
of Information Act requests with the Army to learn more about
the leak-proof pans and purchasing, she said.  “It’s a cronyism network,” said Sloan. “He wanted to
give money to the company and he got campaign contributions.
This is why America is frustrated with earmarks.”  The Army has been criticized before for overspending.
 Sikorsky Aircraft Corp . charged the Army $2,510.06 each for six
helicopter parts it bought from the  Defense Logistics Agency  for
$143.26 each, a mark-up of 1,652 percent according to a 2011
audit by the Defense Department’s inspector general.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
sarmour@@bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  