-- Blackpool Heads to Wembley for Playoff Final Against West Ham
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-19T10:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/blackpool-heads-to-wembley-for-playoff-final-against-west-ham.html
Fans of Blackpool and West Ham are
heading for Wembley Stadium for English soccer’s Championship
playoff final, which will secure promotion to the Premier
League and at least 90 million pounds ($145 million) for the
winner.  Both teams were relegated from the 20-team top flight last
year, and Hammers’ manager  Sam Allardyce  has described today’s
game as bigger than the  Champions League  final.  “The Champions League final is a glory game, this is about
your livelihood and your status,” Allardyce was cited by the
Press Association as saying. “The Champions League is a big
tournament but this one is about changing people’s lives.”  The playoff final is the richest soccer match in the world.
Winning it is worth at least 90 million pounds, accountant
Deloitte LLP estimates. Promoted teams benefit from at least 40
million pounds in additional revenue and minimum guaranteed
payments of 48 million pounds in the following four seasons if
they drop straight back down.  Blackpool will be making its second playoff final
appearance in three seasons. The Tangerines beat Cardiff 3-2 in
2010 to return to the top division for the first time since
1971.  “I think history shows in play-off games it’s who performs
on the day, who doesn’t freeze and who doesn’t bottle it that
generally wins it,” PA cited Blackpool striker  Kevin Phillips 
as saying.  Fifty-four percent of all promoted teams retained their
Premier League status the next season, according to Infostrada
Sports. The percentage rises to 63 percent for teams who finish
first in the Championship.  The winner of the play-off final will join Reading and
Southampton in the Premier League after they were automatically
promoted as the champion and runner-up in the Championship this
season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  