-- Canada Currency Tumbles as Europe Crisis Overshadows Data
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-19T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/canada-currency-tumbles-as-europe-crisis-overshadows-data.html
Canada’s dollar dropped the most
since November, falling for a third straight week as concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen overshadowed government data
showing inflation and factory sales rose more than forecast.  The currency touched a four-month low versus its U.S.
counterpart, which rose against all of its 16 most-traded peers
except the yen on demand for safety. Commodities dropped.
Economists  predicted  a report next week will show retail sales
in Canada rose in March.  “Canadian metrics are very positive -- employment,
housing, inflation -- but these external headwinds are far too
great,”  Dean Popplewell , chief strategist in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It’s having a compounding effect on all
high-yielding, commodity-sensitive currencies.”  The loonie, as  Canada ’s currency is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, slid 2.1 percent to
C$1.0222 per U.S. dollar yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0005 on
May 11. It was the biggest drop since Nov. 4. The currency
touched C$1.0227, the weakest level since Jan. 16. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.83 U.S. cents.  The currency will strengthen to parity by the end of June
before gaining to 98 cents by year-end, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists.  Bonds Rise  Ten-year government  bonds  rose for a third week, the
longest stretch in more than two months, pushing the yield down
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.89 percent.
It touched 1.873 percent on May 17, the lowest level this year.  The loonie had its biggest intraday jump in a week
yesterday after  Statistics Canada  reported the  consumer price
index  rose 2 percent in April from a year earlier. A Bloomberg
survey forecast it would remain unchanged at 1.9 percent.  Bank Governor  Mark Carney  said last month interest-rate
increases may be necessary as growth and inflation outpace his
earlier projections, and as slack disappears from the economy.
Policy makers have kept the  benchmark rate  at 1 percent since
September 2010.  Odds of a rate boost by year-end rose to 46 percent
yesterday after the inflation report, from about 41 percent the
day before, according to Bloomberg calculations on trading in
overnight index swaps.  Canadian manufacturing sales rose in March at the fastest
pace in six months, Statistics Canada reported on May 16. They
climbed 1.9 percent after falling in the previous two months,
the data showed. Sales of existing homes rose for a third month
in April, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said on May 15.  Job Growth  The gains followed data last week showing Canadian payrolls
had the biggest two-month gain in 30 years in March and April.  Retail sales  rose 0.3 percent in March, after an unexpected
drop in February, a Bloomberg survey forecast before Statistics
Canada reports the data on May 23.  “The U.S.-Canada exchange rate remains biased higher,”
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in  London , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “That is, at least until risk aversion subsides, but
there seems scant reason for that during the rest of the first
half at the very least.”  Both CIBC’s Stretch and Oanda’s Popplewell recommended
buying the  U.S. dollar  versus the Canadian currency.  “Realistically, Canada will be the first Group-of-Eight
country to hike interest rates, but there are too many unknown
variables out there,” Popplewell said. “There are a few larger
positions caught offside. With dollar-Canada at these levels, we
could see it a bit higher.”  Net Longs  Stretch said he sees “additional topside impetus into next
week,” with the greenback rising to as high as C$1.0320.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance by the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart compared with those on a drop -- so-
called  net longs  -- was 51,005 in the week ended May 15, down
from 60,095 a week earlier, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback increased yesterday to the highest
level since Jan. 6, 10.31 percent, after falling to 6.59 percent
on April 30. The five-year average is 12 percent. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings.  The loonie posted its biggest intraday drop in a week on
May 17 after weaker-than-forecast economic data from the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trade partner. A Philadelphia-region factory
gauge and the leading-indicators index both unexpectedly fell.  Relative Strength  The U.S. dollar rose to 73.1 yesterday on the 14-day
relative strength index against the Canadian currency, the
highest since October. A reading above 70 signals an asset may
be due to reverse direction.  The loonie gained 1 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar was up 3.9
percent, and the euro rose 0.8 percent.  Australia ’s dollar slid
5.4 percent, and  Sweden ’s krona lost 2.8 percent.  “The way the market has traded the Canadian dollar over
the past few weeks, it makes it clear it’s being viewed as a
safe haven relative to the Australian dollar, the euro, to the
Scandinavian currencies,”  Greg Anderson , the North American
head of Group-of-10 nations currency strategy at Citigroup Inc.,
said yesterday by phone from  New York .  President  Barack Obama  called Europe’s debt crisis an issue
of “extraordinary importance” to the global economy and said
fiscal responsibility should be coupled with policies to promote
growth. He spoke yesterday before joining Group of Eight leaders
at a summit at Camp David,  Maryland .  Greek political leaders began campaigning for the June 17
election after a rise in support for anti-austerity parties
scuttled the formation of a government.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell for a third week.
June futures dropped 4.2 percent to $91.39 per barrel in New
York. Raw materials account for half of Canada’s export revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  