-- Chelsea Wins Champions League Final in Shootout Over Bayern
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-19T22:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/chelsea-beats-bayern-in-shootout-for-1st-champions-league-title.html
Chelsea captured its first  Champions
League  title, beating Bayern Munich at the German club’s home
field 4-3 in a penalty shootout.  The Blues won the shootout last night after the teams
finished tied 1-1 after extra time at the  Allianz Arena  in
Munich.  Didier Drogba  converted the deciding kick after tying
the game with an 88th-minute goal.  “We have a group of players that have a big heart,
passion, motivation and desire,” Chelsea interim manager
Roberto Di Matteo told U.K. broadcaster ITV. “That was the only
way to achieve this trophy.”  Chelsea made the final four penalties after missing its
opener, while Bayern missed its last two chances. Blues
goalkeeper  Petr Cech  made one save in the shootout and also
stopped a penalty from  Arjen Robben  in extra time.  Thomas Mueller  scored for Bayern in the 83rd minute before
Drogba headed in a corner kick with two minutes left. The game
went to extra time and Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech saved a
penalty kick from Arjen Robben to preserve the tie.  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has spent more than $1
billion in his quest to win  Europe ’s elite club competition
since buying the team in 2003. The Blues reached the semifinals
in five of the past eight years but only advanced to one
championship match, losing to Premier League rival Manchester
United in a penalty shootout in 2008.  “Means Everything”  “We’ve been so many years trying to do this,” midfielder
 Frank Lampard , who served as captain in place of suspended  John Terry , told ITV. “This is the one we really wanted and we’ve
got it. It means everything.”  Bayern started strong, pushing back a Chelsea defense
missing suspended Terry and Branislav Ivanovic to the edge of
its area. The makeshift unit was pinned back for most of the
game and when Bayern find an opening they wasted it,
particularly striker  Mario Gomez , who missed three chances in
quick succession.  Franck Ribery scored what he thought was the opening goal
after 50 minutes but he was deemed offside by the assistant
referee. Just as Bayern’s forwards grew frustrated, Mueller
leaped to head Toni Kroos’s ball to the far post past Cech.  Chelsea, which had rarely threatened, stunned Bayern by
hitting back with two minutes left as Drogba powered in a header
off the Blue’s first corner of the match.  Drogba gave Bayern a chance in extra time when he tripped
Ribery in the area but Cech saved Robben’s penalty low to his
left. That was the best chance of extra time, and the match went
to a penalty shootout.  Shootout  Bayern goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  saved Juan Mata’s opener and
when Cech stopped Ivica Olic’s effort and Ashley Cole converted,
the score was tied 4-4. Bastian Schweinsteiger’s kick hit the
post and Drogba put the winning kick by Neuer.  It capped a series of comebacks for the Blues, who rallied
to beat Napoli in the round of 16, winning the second leg 4-1 in
extra time after a 3-1 opening loss in Italy.  The London team easily beat Benfica 3-1 in the
quarterfinals before upsetting defending champion Barcelona.
Chelsea opened the semifinal with a 1-0 home victory and,
playing with 10 men, drew 2-2 at the Nou Camp to clinch a spot
in the title match.  The victory continues a late-season run under  Di Matteo ,
who replaced the fired Andre Villas-Boas in March. The Swiss-
born former Italy player, Chelsea’s ninth coach since Abramovich
took ownership, won 14 and drew four in 21 matches, including a
2-1 victory over Liverpool in the F.A. Cup final on May 5.  Qualified  “Robbie has been fantastic since he came in,” Terry told
ITV. “To win the F.A. Cup and the Champions League, he can’t do
more than that.”  The win guarantees Chelsea a place in next season’s
Champions League after it failed to qualify by finishing sixth
in the Premier League. Tottenham secured the final qualifying
spot by finishing fourth but will now drop to the second-tier
Europa League in favor of the Blues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 