-- Chelsea Gets Champions League Title After Season of Stumbles
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-20T17:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/chelsea-gets-champions-league-success-after-season-of-stumbles.html
Chelsea’s billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich  learned last night that success on the soccer field
can come when you least expect it.  The London club beat Bayern Munich 4-3 on penalties in the
German team’s Allianz Arena to become the first team from the
British capital to win  Europe ’s elite club competition. The
Russian owner got the trophy he’s craved since buying the team
in 2003.  Winning the European Cup seemed a long way off earlier this
year when Abramovich, who’s pumped $1 billion into the club,
fired coach Andre Villas-Boas with Chelsea out of the title race
in the Premier League and facing elimination from the Champions
League after a 3-1 loss in the first match with Napoli.  “Football life is unpredictable and crazy,” said interim-
coach Roberto  Di Matteo , the former player chosen to lead
Chelsea’s recovery. The Italian was also in the dugout when
Chelsea beat Liverpool to win the F.A. Cup this season. “It’s
been a very difficult season, to finish off like this is an
incredible achievement for this team.”  The Blues owner celebrated with his players in the dressing
room after the game, said defender  Gary Cahill .  ‘Buzzing’  “He’s been chasing this trophy for many years,” said
Cahill. “To finally get his hands on it, he was buzzing.”  Today, Chelsea’s players went on an open-top bus parade
through West London as thousands of fans turned out to salute
their heroes and see the  Champions League  and F.A. Cup trophies.  Last night’s victory gives the Blues a place in next
season’s Champions League, even though the team missed out on
automatic qualification by finishing sixth in the English
league, their lowest league position in the Abramovich era.
Tottenham, which finished in the Premier League’s final
Champions League spot, will drop to the second-tier Europa
League.  “I don’t know what the future’s going to hold,” said Di
Matteo, amid speculation about whether he’ll keep his post.
“We’re just delighted that we’ve made history for the club.
It’s a difficult competition to win and you have to take your
chance when it comes.”  The Blues reached the semifinals five of the past eight
years but only advanced to one title match, losing to Premier
League rival Manchester United in a penalty shootout in Moscow
in 2008.  Facing Home Crowd  “I’ve been here for eight years, always so close and so
far at the same time,” Chelsea striker  Didier Drogba , whose
contract expires after the season, told reporters. “Today we
have it. We have this cup, the cup is going back to  Stamford 
Bridge.”  This time round Abramovich’s team was faced by a vocal home
crowd. UEFA, European soccer’s governing body and the tournament
organizer, said it got more than a million ticket applications
for the match, which was watched live by a global audience of
around 150 million.  By qualifying for next year’s tournament, Chelsea gets at
least 30 million pounds ($47.5 million) in broadcast revenue. Di
Matteo said former coach Villas-Boas deserves credit for the
victory as he put the team together.  “It makes a huge difference for future of our club,” Di
Matteo said. “We always said it was crucial for Chelsea to be
in the Champions League. Winning qualifies us for next season so
it’s a double whammy in a positive sense.”  Minutes before kickoff, the Bayern supporters massed behind
the South Curve revealed a giant mosaic with the words, “our
stadium, our town, our cup.”  It wasn’t to be.  “It was a very bitter defeat,” Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes
said in a press conference. “My team is very, very disappointed
because of the result, but I think we can’t blame Chelsea for
playing their game. If you have so many goal scoring
opportunities, you have to take advantage of them and we didn’t
manage to that. And that’s how we got the result we did today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the  Allianz Arena  in Munich via the London
newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 