-- Chinese Rights Activist Chen Guangcheng on Flight to U.S.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-19T20:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/chinese-rights-activist-chen-guangcheng-on-flight-to-u-s-.html
Chinese human-rights activist Chen Guangcheng, whose case overshadowed high-level U.S.-China talks
earlier this month, left Beijing for the U.S. with his wife and
two children, headed for Newark,  New Jersey .  Chen, who is blind, intends to pursue university studies,
the U.S. State Department said. His flight to Newark, near  New
York City , is aboard  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  flight 88,
according to Representative Chris Smith, a New Jersey
Republican. The flight is scheduled to arrive at 6:16 p.m. New
York time, according to the airline’s website.  Chen was calm as he and his family prepared to leave
Beijing, according to a person familiar with the circumstances
of his departure. He was comfortable with the decision to go the
U.S. for study, said the person who asked not to be named
publicly.  “I don’t know when I’ll come back, but I’ll definitely
come back,” Chen said in a telephone interview broadcast today
by Hong Kong Cable Television.  Chen’s exit resolves a dispute that has complicated U.S.-
China relations since he turned up at the American embassy in
Beijing on April 26 after escaping detention in Shandong
province. For President  Barack Obama , running for re-election,
it puts to rest an issue over which he has been berated by
Republicans.  The U.S. expressed its “appreciation for the manner in
which we were able to resolve this matter and support Mr. Chen’s
desire to study in the U.S. and pursue his goals,” according to
a statement today from State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  ‘Finally Free’  “After years of enduring physical and psychological
torture, imprisonment, and hate, the man, Chen Guangcheng, who
defended Chinese women from the crime of forced abortion, is
finally free,” Smith said in an e-mailed statement.  “Joined by his equally heroic wife,  Yuan  Weijing, and
their children, the Chens will finally get to rest, recuperate,
and recover,” Smith said. The New Jersey lawmaker, who has been
a public advocate for Chen, called on the Chinese government to
“end its deplorable retaliation” against Chen’s friends and
extended family members.  “Over the last several days, several of Chen’s relatives
and supporters have been arrested and brutally beaten as part of
the Chinese government’s refocused retaliation,” Smith said.
“They can’t beat him anymore, but they are beating his
relatives and friends.”  A spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing
wasn’t immediately available to comment on Chen’s case. Attempts
to reach Chen before the aircraft’s departure were unsuccessful.  Chen a ‘Symbol’  “We are relieved that the Chinese government has respected
 Chen Guangcheng  and his family’s legal rights to travel
overseas,”  Phelim Kine , senior Asia researcher for New York-
based  Human Rights Watch , said by telephone. “Chen isn’t just
one guy, he is a symbol of thousands and thousands of other
people who are trying to exercise their legal rights to seek
change in what is, in many ways, an abusive status quo.”  Chen was imprisoned for four years and then was kept under
house arrest in Shandong province after initiating a class-
action lawsuit against forced abortions and sterilizations
involving village women.  The activist escaped his confinement last month and fled to
Beijing, where he was given shelter at the U.S. embassy days
before Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  arrived for annual talks on U.S.-China
cooperation.  New York University  Negotiations over Chen’s future drew attention to human-
rights violations and threatened to derail the high-level
meeting. After initially departing the embassy with a Chinese
promise that he would be allowed to live freely in China, Chen
said he had changed his mind and wanted to go to the U.S.  A deal was reached for Chen to apply for a passport and
accept an offer to study law at  New York  University.  “I look forward to welcoming him and his family tonight,
and to working with him on his course of study,” Jerome A. Cohen, co-director of the U.S.-Asia Law Institute at the  New
York University  School of Law, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Chang at   gchang1@bloomberg.net  