-- Chinese Human Rights Activist Chen Thanks U.S. for Help
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-05-20T01:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/chinese-human-rights-activist-chen-lands-at-newark-airport.html
Chinese human rights activist Chen Guangcheng, whose case overshadowed high-level U.S.- China  talks
earlier this month, arrived in  New York City  and thanked the U.S.
for helping him leave Beijing.  Chen, at a brief news conference yesterday near New York
University, where he has a fellowship to study law, expressed
gratitude for the encouragement he received from supporters
around the world. He also said he appreciated the “cool heads”
in the Chinese government.  “I hope the Chinese government will continue the course of
reform and earn the respect of its people,” Chen said, while
adding that he was concerned about further reprisals against
supporters and other family members by local authorities.  His exit resolves a dispute that has complicated  U.S.-China
relations  since he turned up at the American embassy in Beijing
on April 26 after escaping detention in Shandong province. For
President  Barack Obama , running for re-election, it puts to rest
an issue over which he has been berated by Republicans for not
being tough enough on China.  Chen, who is blind, flew to  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty
International Airport yesterday aboard United Continental
Holdings Inc. flight 88 from the Chinese capital.  New York 
University law professor Jerome Cohen, a friend and supporter,
arranged the fellowship to enable Chen to study there.  “I don’t know when I’ll come back, but I’ll definitely
come back,” Chen said in a telephone interview broadcast by
Hong Kong  Cable Television  before he left China.  U.S.-China Cooperation  The U.S. expressed its “appreciation” to the Chinese
government “for the manner in which we were able to resolve
this matter and support Mr. Chen’s desire to study in the U.S.
and pursue his goals,” according to a statement from State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  Chen and his family were accompanied on the flight by two
Chinese-speaking officers from the U.S. embassy in Beijing.  “Americans across the country and people all over the
world are celebrating,” Representative  Chris Smith , a New
Jersey Republican, said at the airport where he met Chen.  Smith has championed Chen’s case, and Chen twice called
from his Beijing hospital room to Congressional hearings held by
Smith to draw attention to his treatment by authorities.  “The beatings are over: The abuse and the psychological
trauma,” Smith said. “Just because Chen Guangcheng is free,
not all of the Chens are free,” he told more than a dozen
reporters from around the world. “There are a large number of
family members, his brother and nephew, who now remain at great
risk of retaliation.”  Supporters Gather  Dozens of activists and supporters gathered at the airport
awaiting Chen’s arrival. Smith and other government officials
whisked him out a side door in order to afford him “a respite
and chance to rest,” Smith said.  Smith later rode with Chen in a white van to the activist’s
new apartment in  Manhattan ’s Washington Square Village in the
Greenwich Village neighborhood.  “This is a beautiful victory,” said Chai Ling, founder of
Boston-based All Girls Allowed, a group that works against
forced abortions and China’s one-child policy. She has been in
the U.S. on a refugee visa since her involvement as an organizer
in the 1989 Tiananmen Square demonstrations.  A spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing
wasn’t immediately available to comment on Chen’s case. Attempts
to reach Chen before the aircraft’s departure were unsuccessful.  Legal Rights  “We are relieved that the Chinese government has respected
 Chen Guangcheng  and his family’s legal rights to travel
overseas,”  Phelim Kine , senior Asia researcher for New York-
based  Human Rights Watch , said by telephone. “Chen isn’t just
one guy, he is a symbol of thousands and thousands of other
people who are trying to exercise their legal rights to seek
change in what is, in many ways, an abusive status quo.”  Chen was imprisoned for four years and then kept under
house arrest in Shandong province after initiating a class-
action lawsuit against forced abortions and sterilizations
involving village women.  The activist escaped his confinement last month and fled to
Beijing, where he was given shelter at the U.S. embassy days
before Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  arrived for annual talks on U.S.-China
cooperation.  High-Level Meeting  Negotiations over Chen’s future drew attention to human
rights violations and threatened to derail the high-level
meeting. After initially departing the embassy with a Chinese
promise that he would be allowed to live freely in China, Chen
said he had changed his mind and wanted to go to the U.S.  A deal was reached for Chen to apply for a passport and
accept an offer to study law at  New York University .  Cohen, co-director of the U.S.-Asia Law Institute at the
 New York University School of Law , stood alongside Chen during
his remarks.  Chen said that in the past seven years “I had never had a
day of rest. I’ll take some rest here in the U.S. and continue
my study.”  “I will continue to work to promote justice and equality
in China,” he said. “Justice has no borders. The promise by
the Chinese government to protect my citizen rights has not
ended with my departure. This is a long-term promise with no
time limits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Newark at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  