-- China Activist Chen Leaving for U.S. Today, ChinaAid Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-19T07:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/china-activist-chen-leaving-for-u-s-today-chinaaid-says.html
Chen Guangcheng , the blind legal
activist whose case overshadowed U.S.- China  talks earlier this
month, may leave for the U.S. later today with his family,
according to the Texas-based Christian group ChinaAid.  Chen was on his way to Beijing airport today after being
told by a government official that he and his family should
prepare to depart, ChinaAid founder Bob Fu, who spoke by phone
to the activist, said in an e-mail. They hadn’t received
passports yet and their itinerary wasn’t known, Fu said. Later,
Chen told the  Associated Press  that he was at the airport with
his wife and two children and planned to leave.  “Thousands of thoughts are surging to my mind,” Chen told
AP.  Harry Edwards, a press duty officer at the State Department
in  Washington , said he didn’t have any information on Chen’s
situation after a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Beijing
directed reporters to call Washington. A spokesman for the
Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing wasn’t immediately available
to comment. A mobile number said to belong to Chen was busy.  Chen, a self-taught lawyer and prominent opponent of forced
abortions under China’s one-child policy, applied for a travel
document on May 6. Under Chinese regulations, he should have
been issued a passport within 15 days of his petition, Fu said
in an interview in Washington on May 15.  Forced Abortions  Chen was imprisoned for four years and subsequently kept
under extrajudicial house arrest in Shandong province after
initiating a class-action lawsuit against forced abortions and
sterilizations of village women.  He escaped last month and fled to Beijing, where he was
given shelter at the U.S. embassy just days before Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
arrived for annual talks on U.S.-China cooperation.  Negotiations over Chen’s future drew attention to human
rights violations and threatened to derail the high-level
meeting. After initially departing the embassy with a Chinese
promise that he would be allowed to live freely in China, Chen
said he changed his mind and wanted to go to the U.S.  A deal was reached for Chen to apply for a passport and
accept an offer to study law at  New York  University.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  