-- EU Leaders Say Bloc Will Act as Needed to Fight Crisis
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-05-19T01:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/eu-leaders-say-bloc-will-act-as-needed-to-fight-crisis.html
The European Union has the tools and
will to protect the euro and fight the bloc’s sovereign debt
crisis, European Council President Herman  Van Rompuy  and
European Union President  Jose Barroso  said.  For now, the EU is “determined to stay the course” and
continue its efforts to cut deficits across the 27-nation union,
while also honoring commitments made to Greece, Van Rompuy told
reporters yesterday before the Group of Eight summit. At the
same time, he defended the EU’s ability to take further actions
as necessary.  “We will do whatever needed to guarantee the financial
stability of the euro zone,” Van Rompuy said, speaking at Camp
David, the presidential retreat outside  Washington .  The European leaders will need to reassure their G-8
counterparts that they are doing enough to contain financial
turmoil that has spread from  Greece  to Ireland, Portugal and
Spain. Almost $4 trillion was wiped from global equity markets
this month amid speculation that Greece will exit the euro, and
recession and loan losses led Moody’s Investors Services May 17
to downgrade 16 Spanish banks.  The G-8 includes the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Germany,
France, Italy,  Japan  and Russia. The EU also has two seats.
Barroso said the euro area has consistently taken whatever
actions are needed to deal with the crisis, overhauling its
economic governance and changing course when necessary.  Rescue Fund  “Sometimes these efforts are underestimated,” he said at
the Camp David news conference. For example, he said, the euro
area created the 500 billion-euro ($639 billion) European
Stability Mechanism, a rescue fund that is due to start in July,
as part of the bloc’s financial firewall.  “That was completely unthinkable two years ago, and it was
done in the middle of the crisis,” Barroso said.  EU leaders will press forward on efforts to jump-start
economic growth at a May 23 dinner in Brussels, followed by a
formal summit in June. Barroso said the group aims to move ahead
with proposals to strengthen the  European Investment Bank  and to
make investments to spur  job creation .  “Plan A” is for Greece to stay in the euro zone, Barroso
said, declining to discuss planning around other scenarios. At
the same time, the leaders said Greek authorities need to keep
meeting the EU’s aid conditions as they seek to form a
government.  “As regards Greece, I do not hide my concern about the
current political uncertainty,” Van Rompuy said. “Continued
reform is the best guarantee for the Greek economy and for the
future of the Greek people in the euro area.”  Van Rompuy said that  Spain  and Italy are making progress on
efforts to shore up their economies. “I am confident they will
succeed,” he said.  Oil Reserves  The EU leaders also will talk with President  Barack Obama 
about whether there will be any need to tap strategic petroleum
reserves to combat potential spikes in  oil prices . The subject
is being discussed as the U.S. and its allies prepare for the
imposition of an EU embargo on Iranian oil that’s set to begin
July 1.  Crude oil for June delivery fell $1.08 to $91.48 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
Oct. 26. Prices retreated 4.8 percent this week, and are down
7.4 percent this year.  “If there is a major risk, we are supporting the idea that
something can be done,” Barroso said. “If there are high and
volatile prices of oil, they could have a negative impact on the
economic prospects globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  