-- Euro Drops Versus Dollar, Yen on Greece Crisis Contagion Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/euro-drops-versus-dollar-yen-on-greece-crisis-contagion-concern.html
The euro fell for a third week
against the dollar, reaching a four-month low, after the failure
of Greek leaders to form a government increased concern the debt
crisis may spread to other nations in the monetary union.  The 17-nation currency dropped for a fourth week against
the yen as investors await a June 17 election in  Greece  and amid
a Group of Eight nations’ leaders meeting that began yesterday.
Higher-yielding currencies, including Brazil’s real, slumped as
increased concern about the euro crisis damped demand for risk.
The yen rose to a three-month high against the greenback before
a  Bank of Japan  meeting May 23.  “Given the recent past for Greece, investors are going to
remain skeptical ahead of that mid-June election,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Co.’s
Western Union Business Solutions unit. “We could see continued
political discord in Greece, something that would only increase
worries about the debt crisis and likely keep borrowing costs
for nations like Spain and Italy elevated.”  The euro lost 1.1 percent to $1.2780, falling to $1.2642,
the weakest since Jan. 16. It has dropped 3.5 percent so far
this month. The shared currency weakened 2.2 percent to 100.98
yen, the most since the period ended April 6. The Japanese
currency appreciated 1.2 to 79.02 per dollar and touched 79.00,
the strongest since Feb. 17.  Brazil ’s real was among the worst-performing major
currencies as the central bank auctioned currency swaps for the
first time since March. It weakened 2.8 percent against the
dollar to 2.0238, the first time it traded above 2 since 2009.  Greece Downgrade  Fitch Ratings  lowered Greece’s credit rating to CCC from B-
on May 17, saying the strong showing of “anti-austerity”
parties in elections on May 6 and subsequent failure to form a
government underscored the lack of public and political support
for the country’s bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund .  A caretaker government was appointed this week after
President Karolos Papoulias failed to broker a governing
coalition among the major parties that won the elections earlier
this month. The deadlock in Greece has sparked uncertainty over
the country’s spending cuts required by the terms of its two
bailouts worth 240 billion euros ($307 billion) negotiated since
May 2010.  An opinion poll yesterday showed the New Democracy party
ahead of Syriza, the main party opposed to implementing terms of
the international rescue. Pasok came in third place.  ‘So Much Oversold’  “Greece still weighs on risk foreign exchange,” said
Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “We’ve come to a point where it
is so much oversold that even a morsel of good news could pop it
higher. The euro is vulnerable to a rally.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased their
bets on a weaker euro to 173,869 in the week ended May 15, the
highest since the common currency’s inception in 1999, according
to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and fellow European leaders
will face pressure from their G-8 counterparts to do more to
quell the turmoil after speculation Greece will exit the euro
wiped almost $4 trillion from global stock markets this month.  The  European Central Bank  said it will temporarily stop
lending to some Greek banks, with President  Mario Draghi 
indicating it won’t compromise to keep Greece in the euro area.
Draghi acknowledged for the first time this week that Greece may
exit. While the bank’s “strong preference” is that Greece
stays in the bloc, the will continue to preserve “the integrity
of our balance ECB sheet,” he said in a speech.  Sterling, Loonie  Gross domestic product in the nations of the monetary union
stagnated in the first quarter compared with the prior three
months, the European Union’s statistics office said. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.2
percent decline.  The pound fell against the euro, after earlier touching
79.51 pence, the strongest since November 2008, as the  Bank of
England  said U.K. growth will stay “subdued” in the near term.
Central bank Governor Mervyn King said the U.K. faced threats
from the euro region’s “storm” as he released the quarterly
Inflation Report in London.  Sterling fell 0.5 percent to 80.78 pence per euro and lost
1.6 percent to $1.5817.  Canada’s dollar and Mexico’s peso fell against the dollar
after the weaker-than-expected U.S. data diminished investor
appetite for risk. The U.S. is Canada’s and Mexico’s largest
trade partner.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known, fell 2.1 percent
to C$1.0222 against the greenback and the peso lost 1.8 percent
to 13.8158 per dollar.  Fed’s View  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index decreased to minus 5.8 in May from 8.5. Economists
forecast the gauge would rise to 10, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Another central bank survey
showed that manufacturing in the New York region accelerated
more than forecast, rising to 17.1 this month from 6.6 in April.  Several Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
may warrant more stimulus to keep the recovery on track,
according to minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s
April 24-25 meeting released May 16 in Washington. Central
bankers last month affirmed their plan to hold  interest rates 
near zero at least through late 2014 as they sought to push down
an  unemployment rate  that has stayed above 8 percent for more
than three years.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 1 percent to 81.089. It gained for 14
straight days through May 17, the longest winning streak since
its inception in 1973.  ‘Long Yen Exposure’  The  implied volatility  of three-month options on Group of
Seven nations’ currencies rose to as high as 11.59 percent, the
highest since Jan. 6, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.
The measure has averaged 11.6 percent over the past year.
Greater volatility makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates less attractive because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said May 17 Japan will
take appropriate steps if needed in the foreign-exchange market.
The BOJ, which sold yen in the  currency market  as recently as
November, will meet May 23. The central bank intervened in the
market after the yen surged to a post-World War II record of
75.35 per dollar in October.  The BOJ this week failed to find enough  government
securities  to buy as part of its stimulus program. The shortfall
increased concern it may have to broaden its asset-purchase
program to encompass longer-dated debt or other types of assets.  “The market is slowly, almost reluctantly, being forced to
build some long yen exposure,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New
York .  Futures traders decreased the number of short  yen  positions
to 34,315 from 41,093.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  