-- Facebook Banker Morgan Stanley Props Up Price It Helped Boost
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/facebook-banker-morgan-stanley-props-up-price-it-helped-boost.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) 's reputation as lead
underwriter may suffer from the stock market debut of Facebook 
Inc., whose initial public offering left investors in the 
largest social network disappointed.  The bank stepped in to prop up the stock from dipping below
its $38 IPO price yesterday, said people with knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the purchases
were private. Morgan Stanley, based in  New York , was the only
underwriter among Facebook’s 33 banks with the responsibility to
support the  shares , the people said.  Underwriters “are acting like the cavalry to keep this
thing going up,”  Eric Jackson , founder of Ironfire Capital LLC,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”
“They’re not going to be here a week from now, two weeks from
now, a few months from now. It does suggest that there are going
to be some rocky waters ahead.”  Days before the sale, Facebook and Morgan Stanley decided
to bump the offering price range to one with $36 as a midpoint
to persuade the company’s backers to sell more of their stock,
one of the people said. Facebook and the bankers knew pre-IPO
investors were willing to sell more, though not at the initial
midpoint range of $31.50 a share, the person said.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Accel Partners  were among backers that decided to
sell additional shares in the IPO.  The IPO price, at the top of the increased range, prevented
a first-day pop in the shares, which advanced 23 cents to $38.23
yesterday.  “It does indicate that investors are conscious of the
risk, that the revenue model is still unproven, that operating
costs are high and rising,” said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at
Pivotal Research Group LLC with a $30 price target on Facebook.
“Those factors are weighing on the investors. The stock is
greatly overvalued.”  Crossed Quotes  The debut was also marred by glitches at the Nasdaq Stock
Market, where initial pricing of the first transaction was
pushed back by a half-hour amid delays in trade confirmations,
crossed quotes and signs that orders were mishandled.  Facebook executives and bankers met on May 17 to discuss
the final IPO price, people familiar with the matter said. Among
the underwriters, Morgan Stanley was the main bank handling
pricing, the people said. Some co-managers of the offering
advised Morgan Stanley against expanding the sale and price
range because their clients’ demand didn’t support the move, two
people said.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Menlo Park-based
Facebook, declined to comment.  Market Value  Facebook raised $16 billion in the IPO selling 421.2
million shares on May 17, valuing the company at $104.2 billion.
The offering price gave Facebook a market capitalization almost
double the $60 billion United Parcel Service Inc., previously
the biggest company to complete an IPO, was valued at when it
went public in 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Dealogic.  That means Facebook bankers will split about $176 million
for managing the social-networking company’s initial public
offering after accepting a lower-than-average fee of about 1.1
percent. The biggest share of IPO fees typically goes to the
lead underwriter on the deal, though the cost of propping up the
stock in the first day of trading could potentially outweigh any
underwriting fees generated from the sale.  Key Bankers  Dan Simkowitz, Morgan Stanley’s chairman of global  capital
markets , was one of the main bankers on the offering, said a
person familiar with the matter. He also helped run General
Motors Co.’s 2010 IPO that raised $18.1 billion.  Michael Grimes , global co-head of technology investment
banking at Morgan Stanley, also played a key role. He introduced
Facebook executives to investors at a lunch meeting last week in
 Palo Alto ,  California , part of a road show to pitch the deal to
prospective buyers. Grimes became acquainted with Facebook Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  when he handled the IPO for
Google Inc., her former employer. He meets regularly with
investors in search of the next promising startup and is an avid
consumer of his clients’ products.  Sandberg recused herself from picking bankers for
Facebook’s IPO because she had relationships with several banks
from her previous job at Google, one person said.  Facebook Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman was the
point person on the deal, starting with the selection of the
lead bankers, one person said. Sandberg and Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  were involved in major decisions
throughout the process, the person said.  The performance may hurt the entire IPO market in the short
term, people said. Some technology companies considering initial
offerings are readjusting timing and valuations based on the
day’s events, one of the people said.  “I know a bubble when I see one,”  Bill Gross , Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s co-chief investment officer, wrote
about Facebook in a posting on Twitter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  