-- G-8 Says Greece Should Stay in Euro as Differences Linger
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-05-20T07:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/g-8-says-greece-should-stay-in-euro-as-differences-linger.html
Leaders of the Group of Eight nations
pushed for  Greece  to stay in the euro area and supported
boosting growth, even as an increasingly isolated Germany said
Europe can’t spend its way out of the debt crisis.  Faced with differences between Europe and the U.S., and
among European governments over the crisis response, the eight
leading industrial economies concurred at President  Barack Obama ’s retreat outside  Washington  “that the right measures are
not the same for each of us.”  “We agree on the importance of a strong and cohesive  euro
zone  for global stability and recovery, and we affirm our
interest in Greece remaining in the euro zone while respecting
its commitments,” according to a G-8 statement yesterday.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  was on the spot at the Camp
David summit as she faced growing pressure to shift her
austerity-first approach after three years of a prolonged crisis
that is roiling markets.  French President  Francois Hollande , making his summit debut
three days after being inaugurated, found an ally in Obama for
his resistance to the German-led drive for balanced budget and
debt reduction, which have set off a political and popular
revolt against austerity in Greece.  “The direction the debate has taken recently should give
us confidence,” Obama told reporters at Camp David. “Europe
has taken significant steps to manage the crisis. And there’s
now an emerging consensus that more must be done to promote
growth and job creation right now in the context of these fiscal
and structural reforms.”  Merkel’s Discontent  Merkel, whose crisis policy has helped keep her  Germany ’s
most popular politician ahead of elections next year, sought to
draw a line in the sand. Referring to public spending to counter
the financial crisis that broke out in 2008, she said “everyone
agreed that these kinds of stimulus program can’t be repeated
right now.”  Curbing public deficits and boosting growth “are two sides
of the same coin” and “shouldn’t be played off against each
other,” she said. Hollande, France’s first socialist president
in 17 years, said he put forward France’s objective to put
growth “at the heart” of the discussions.  The real question is “whether the markets will continue to
fund these peripheral European nations’ budget deficits,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ in  New York , said in an e-mail. “Forget about Greece. If
global bond market investors stop buying Spanish and Italian
debt, it could be the trigger of a second worldwide recession.”  ‘Unshackle’ ECB  European policy makers should “unshackle” the  European
Central Bank  “to do quantitative easing like the  Federal
Reserve ” to sidestep the limitations of bailouts and firewalls
funded by the euro area’s strongest economies, Rupkey said.  The threat of a Greek exit from the 17-nation euro economy
loomed over a gathering of some of the world’s most influential
leaders discussing ways out of the revived debt crisis that has
blunted world growth.  Almost $4 trillion was wiped from global equity markets
this month amid speculation that Greece will exit the euro, and
recession and loan losses led Moody’s Investors Services to
downgrade 16 Spanish banks on May 17.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 24 basis points this week
to 6.25 percent, after surging above 6.50 percent for the first
time since Nov. 29. Italian 10-year yields climbed for a second
week, rising 28 basis points to 5.78 percent.  Greek Exit  The euro area is on the verge of losing one of its members,
with more than 50 percent of investors predicting an exit this
year as Greece’s election impasse threatens to push the debt
crisis to new depths, according to a May 10 Bloomberg Global
Poll of 1,253 investors, analysts and traders.  Merkel revealed her state of mind when Obama welcomed her
on May 10. When the president asked her “How’ve you been?” the
German chancellor, under pressure at home to appear tough
against the Greeks, simply shrugged.  “Well, you have a few things on your mind,” Obama said.  “As expected, the G-8 led to little concrete measures on
how to stimulate growth, particularly in  Europe ,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .
“Major governments and central banks are a bit in a wait-and-
see mode at the moment; but financial markets are not.”  European policy makers will meet informally on May 23, yet
decisions are unlikely before a June summit, which is “a light-
year for markets,” Costerg said. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he will meet next month with his German and French
counterparts in Rome ahead of the EU summit.  International Lobbying  “It’s not necessary for G-8 leaders to agree on what the
relative burdens of austerity and stimulus are but if what we
want is to avoid another Lehman-panic scenario, then it’s
imperative the next election in Greece ends in a vote that
reaffirms its commitment to remain in the eurozone,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets in
Singapore, referring to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008. “What’s lacking in the world economy is more
monetary stimulus but that’s not something the political leaders
can deliver.”  The chairman and chief executive of Russia’s  OAO Sberbank (SBER) 
said yesterday that the G-8 leaders should abandon the effort to
keep Greece in a system beyond its means.  There is “zero chance” that Greece will remain in the
euro and trying to block that transition is only “torture” for
the country, said  German Gref , speaking to reporters in
Washington. “What we see now, this is a horror without end.”  The G-8 includes the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Germany,
France, Italy,  Japan  and Russia. The EU also has two seats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Chicago at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  