-- Google Wins Final Needed Approval for Motorola Mobility Purchase
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-19T21:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/google-wins-final-needed-approval-for-motorola-mobility-purchase.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  won approval from Chinese
regulators for its $12.5 billion purchase of  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. (MMI) , clearing a final hurdle for a deal that boosts
its patents portfolio and steps up competition with Apple Inc.  “We are pleased the deal has received approval in all
jurisdictions,” Motorola Mobility said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday, confirming that the transaction has been approved in
China. “We expect to close imminently.”  The deal helps  Larry Page , the Google co-founder who took
over as chief executive officer last year, push the Web company
to better compete with Apple’s iPhone and gain more clout for
its Android software as it expands in the hardware business. It
also gives Google, the worlds’ biggest maker of smartphone
software, a trove of 17,000 patents to protect Android devices
in legal disputes with competitors.  The acquisition, announced last year, had already received
approvals in Europe, the U.S. and other jurisdictions worldwide.
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility had said in a
 regulatory filing  in February that only Chinese clearance was
still required.  “Our stance since we agreed to acquire Motorola has not
changed and we look forward to closing the deal,”  Mountain
View , California-based Google said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The company also confirmed it had received word from
Chinese authorities of the purchase being approved.  Handset Makers  With the acquisition -- the largest wireless-equipment deal
in at least a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg --
Google becomes a competitor to the other handset makers that
make Android devices. In addition to Motorola Mobility phones,
the software runs handsets made by companies such as  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)   As part of the approval, Google needs to ensure that
Android software versions are free and open over the next five
years, China’s Ministry of Commerce said in a statement on its
website.  Google will report to an independent monitor in China on
its efforts to comply with terms of the deal approval, according
to the website.  Google fell 3.6 percent to $600.40 yesterday in  New York 
trading. The shares have fallen 7 percent this year. Motorola
Mobility closed unchanged at $39.20. The stock is up 1 percent
year to date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  