-- I’ll Have Another Wins Preakness for Shot at Triple Crown Title
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/i-ll-have-another-wins-preakness-to-set-up-triple-crown-shot.html
I’ll Have Another defeated favorite
Bodemeister in the Preakness Stakes to become the first colt in
four years with a chance to win the Triple Crown in thoroughbred
racing.  Affirmed was the most recent Triple Crown winner in 1978.
Big Brown won the  Kentucky Derby  and Preakness in 2008, then
finished ninth in the Belmont Stakes.  I’ll Have Another, the second favorite at 3-1, crossed the
finish line a neck ahead of Bodemeister yesterday at Pimlico
Race Course in Baltimore after making his move from third place
with one furlong to go in the 1 3/16-mile race.  “We’re thinking Triple Crown, baby,” trainer Doug O’Neill
said. “If he comes out in good shape, we’re headed to New
York.”  I’ll Have Another won the Kentucky Derby as the 15-1
betting choice.  Since Affirmed, 11 horses have failed to win the Belmont
Stakes after taking the first two legs of the Triple Crown
series. Sunday Silence, Silver Charm, Real Quiet and Smarty
Jones came in second, while Spectacular Bid, Pleasant Colony,
Charismatic and Funny Cide were third. Big Brown, at ninth, and
War Emblem, at eighth, had the worst showings.  I’ll Have Another will try to become the 12th horse to win
the Triple Crown since Sir Barton won the title in 1919. The
colt is undefeated in four starts in the 2012 campaign,
including the Robert B. Lewis Stakes and Santa Anita Derby as
well as the first two legs of the Triple Crown.  “He’s still a lightly raced horse and I think he can do
it,” O’Neill said.  Belmont Next  I’ll Have Another won the Preakness in 1 minute, 55.94
seconds, after spending 10 days at the Baltimore racetrack. The
1 1/2-mile Belmont Stakes is set for Belmont Park in  New York  on
June 9.  Bodemeister set the pace out of the gate and held on to the
lead until the stretch, when I’ll Have Another moved up for a
duel to the finish line.  “It’s not me, it’s just him,” jockey Mario Gutierrez said.
“He just keeps proving people wrong. He deserves for people to
give him a shot.”  Owner J. Paul Reddam said he wasn’t sure that I’ll Have
Another was going to overcome Bodemeister.  “I knew it was a long stretch,” he said. “I wasn’t
confident until 10 yards from the finish.”  Trainer  Bob Baffert , a five-time Preakness winner, said
Bodemeister wouldn’t run in the Belmont.  “A mile-and-a-half is too far for him, he’s going home,”
Baffert said. “This was a great horse race. It looked like we
had him in the stretch but he came up and nailed us.”  I’ll Have Another paid $8.40, $3.80 and $2.80 on a $2 bet,
Bodemeister returned $3.20 and $2.80. Creative Cause was third
at $3.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  