-- Iranian Minister Predicts Oil Price Rise With Sanctions
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-05-19T21:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/iranian-minister-predicts-oil-price-rise-with-sanctions.html
Iranian Economy Minister Shamseddin Hosseini said international  oil prices  will rise under sanctions
designed to persuade the Persian Gulf nation to abandon its
nuclear program.  Oil prices might go as high as $160 per barrel if the
European Union goes ahead with a July 1 embargo, Hosseini told
CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” in an interview scheduled to air
tomorrow. Group of Eight nations gathered a summit at the U.S.
presidential retreat at Camp David, Maryland, discussed
containing Iran’s nuclear ambitions.  “We must pay close attention when we speak of oil revenues
and sanctions against oil sales, who are the winners and the
losers of such sanctions?” Hosseini said. “Indeed, it is
difficult. But not just for Iran. And we can all rest assured
that there will be a considerable increase in international oil
market prices. Now, is this the best approach?”  Hosseini said his country has endured sanctions for 33
years and “this really shows that the economy, the economic
strength of  Iran  is in such a way that can withstand these
sanctions and will not be the only economy to suffer.”  Leaders from the G-8 nations said they “stand ready” to
call on the  International Energy Agency  to take “appropriate
action” to guarantee supplies in response to disruptions.  The G-8 includes the U.S., Canada, the U.K.,  Germany ,
France, Italy,  Japan  and Russia. The EU also has two seats.  Israel has said it may attack Iran to prevent Islamic
republic from developing nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear
program is for peaceful purposes and within its rights as a
signatory of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  Concern over a possible military conflict in the  Persian
Gulf , the region that holds the world’s largest oil reserves,
helped push crude prices as high as almost $110 a barrel in
February. Oil has plunged 12 percent this month to about $92.50
on expectations the world economy is slowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  