-- Justice Department Probe of Credit Swaps Said to Widen
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-05-21T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/justice-department-probe-of-credit-swaps-said-to-widen.html
A U.S.  Justice Department  antitrust
investigation into data provider Markit Group Ltd. is expanding
to include other companies in the credit-default swap market,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Investigators are asking market participants about firms
that are owned by Wall Street’s largest banks and whether that
presents conflicts of interest, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. The Justice Department is also asking
about Tradeweb LLC and The Clearing Corp., which was bought by
Atlanta-based  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  in 2009.  The Justice Department probe of potentially anticompetitive
practices at Markit began in 2009. The expansion of the agency’s
investigation comes as the $26.5 trillion credit-default swap
market faces tighter regulation to increase competition and
prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.  “We continue to cooperate and assist the Department of
Justice in its review of the credit derivatives and related
markets,” Alex Paidas, a spokesman for London-based Markit
Group, said in an e-mailed statement. Clayton McGratty, a
Tradeweb spokesman, declined to comment.  Lee Underwood , an
Intercontinental Exchange spokesman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Markit provides derivative and bond data to its customers
and owns the most actively traded credit-swap indexes and
pricing services in the market. Its owners include  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Markit Influence  The recent Justice Department questions focused on Markit’s
influence in providing services to the credit-swaps market,
according to two people interviewed by investigators. Questions
were also asked about Markit’s  RED identifier  system that is
used in the credit-swaps market to legally verify reference-
entity and reference-obligation data to allow trades to be
confirmed and tracked, the people said.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment. The department previously has confirmed its
antitrust investigation of the credit derivatives information
industry.  Tradeweb , a New York-based bond- and derivatives-trading
network, is majority-owned by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  with the
rest split among Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Bank of America,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , UBS AG, Royal Bank of Scotland and  Barclays
Plc. (BARC)   The Clearing Corp. was owned by Goldman Sachs, Bank of
America, JPMorgan, Citigroup and other dealers prior to being
purchased by Intercontinental. The banks now have a profit-
sharing agreement with Intercontinental related to its credit
swap clearinghouses.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with Tradeweb, Markit and Thomson Reuters in arranging
interest-rate, credit-default and other swap trades between
investors and banks and in providing financial data and news to
investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  