-- Morgan Stanley’s Hennessy to Start Second Leg of Atlantic Cup
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/morgan-stanley-s-hennessy-to-start-second-leg-of-atlantic-cup.html
Morgan Stanley Managing Director Mike
Hennessy and his 40-foot ocean racing yacht Dragon were
scheduled to set out today from New York harbor bound for
Newport,  Rhode Island , on the second leg of sailing’s  Atlantic
Cup .  Hennessy, 45, said the course will take him and co-skipper
Chris Museler down the New Jersey shoreline before following the
coast of  Long Island  toward the finish 231 nautical miles (428
nautical kilometers) away. Hennessy stands in seventh place
after the regatta’s opening stretch from Charleston,  South
Carolina , to New York City.  “On the run down to Barnegat Bay, there’s not a ton of
tactics,” Hennessy said during a tune-up sail off  Manhattan ’s
Battery Park. “Then it’s play the gradient or play the sea
breeze up the coast. As you approach Block Island, you’ve got to
think about which side you want to go in. That’s all currents
and tides.”  This year’s Atlantic Cup includes 15 vessels, the largest
fleet assembled in the U.S. for the Class 40, a boat designed in
 France  to make solo and shorthanded ocean racing accessible to
amateur sailors, said Merfyn Owen, who designed Dragon at his
U.K.-based Owen Clarke Design LLC.  The race along the coast of Long Island should allow the
two-person crews to build straight-line speed over long
distances, Owen said.  “The term you end up using is ‘easy miles,’” Owen said as
he steered Dragon downwind toward the skyscrapers of lower
Manhattan. “They just tick on by.”  Winning the regatta, in which Hennessy placed second last
year, also requires a good finish in a crewed inshore regatta
off Newport that ends May 27.  Hennessy’s looking forward to restarting the race and
getting to Newport with Museler, who won nine U.S. sailing
championship medals between 1998 and 2009.  “Lunch Sunday would be a bit aggressive,” he said.
“Maybe dinner. Last year, we were docking at 11.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  