-- Planned Parenthood Urges Court to Keep Texas Funding in Place
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/planned-parenthood-urges-court-to-keep-texas-funding-intact-1-.html
Planned Parenthood-affiliated groups
in  Texas  asked a federal appeals court to uphold a ruling
requiring the state to keep subsidizing the clinics.  The organizations said a lower court in Austin correctly
blocked a state regulation that would prevent the state from
contracting with entities affiliated with abortion providers.  “The government may not disqualify a recipient of
government funds based on constitutionally protected conduct
that occurs outside the government program,” the Planned
Parenthood groups said in a filing yesterday with the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in New Orleans. The groups said the loss of funding
would cause them and their patients “irreparable harm” because
it would force cutbacks in services.  The Texas regulation was designed to exclude operators of
49 health centers from a state-funded program that provides
health care to thousands of low-income women.  After the  Planned Parenthood  groups sued last month, a
federal judge in Austin issued an injunction preventing Texas
from cutting off public funds while the court challenge is
pending. The New Orleans appellate court will hear arguments on
the preliminary injunction on June 7.  State Ban  The case pits Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican,
against President  Barack Obama , a Democrat. Perry pledged
earlier this year to replace almost $30 million in federal funds
for a women’s health program that the Obama administration cut
off because of the state ban on abortion providers. Obama has
said Texas can’t block federally approved organizations such as
Planned Parenthood from participating in programs underwritten
by Medicaid, which pays for  health services  for the poor.  Catherine Frazier, a spokeswoman for Perry, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
yesterday’s filing.  The district court case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo
County Texas v. Suehs, 12-00322, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Texas (Austin). The appeals court case is Planned
Parenthood of Hidalgo County Texas v. Suehs, 12-50377, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  