-- Treasuries in Longest Winning Streak Since ’98 on Europe
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-19T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/treasuries-in-longest-winning-streak-since-98-on-europe.html
Treasuries posted the longest streak
of gains in more than 13 years, pushing 10-year yields close to
a record low, as investors sought the safety of U.S.  government
securities  while  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens.  U.S. debt   rallied  as  Greece  failed to form a government
after elections May 6 gave no political party control of the
legislature and as Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit
ratings of 16 Spanish banks, citing economic weakness and the
government’s mounting budget strain. The U.S. auctioned $13
billion of 10-year inflation-protected notes at a record
negative yield and will sell $99 billion in notes next week.  “I can’t make the argument for rates to move up visibly
higher from here because you still have all of these forces
weighing on the whole U.S. rate structure,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  The 10-year  yield  fell 12 basis points this week, or 0.12
percentage point, to 1.72 percent in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May
2022 rose 1 1/32, or $10.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 1/4.  The yield dropped to 1.6886 percent on May 17, approaching
the record low 1.6714 percent set Sept. 23. The seven-year note
reached a record low of 1.135 percent yesterday.  Winning String  Treasuries gained for nine weeks through the week ended
Oct. 2, 1998 as investors sought safety after a decline in the
value of Asian currencies, a default by  Russia  on its sovereign
debt and the collapse of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management
LP.  The 10-year note yield has fallen from 2.29 percent for the
week ended March 16 to their current level, a 57 basis point
decline. Treasuries have returned 3.2 percent including
reinvested interest, for the period, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch bond indexes, compared with a 7.8 percent
decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index during the
period.  Market participants are cutting their yield forecasts. The
10-year yield will be 2.48 percent by year-end, a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies shows. The projection
declined from last month’s high of 2.58 percent.  Next week’s auctions will consist of $35 billion each of
two-year and five-year securities and $29 billion of seven-year
notes over three days starting May 22.  Auction Bids  “Demand may be lower,” said Kevin Yang, head of bond
investment in Taipei at Hontai Life Insurance Co., which has $6
billion in assets. “They’re expensive. The economy in the U.S.
is not so weak. It’s stable.” He trimmed his Treasury holdings
May 17, he said.  The 10-year TIPS sale on May 17 drew a yield of negative
0.391 percent, compared with a forecast of negative 0.329
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of nine of the
 Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The previous record was
negative 0.089 percent on March 22.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending May 15, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 163,392 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 30,664 contracts, or
23 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 2.3 percent this year,
compared with 1.7 percent in 2011, a Bloomberg News survey of
banks and securities companies shows. Euro-area gross domestic
product will shrink 0.3 percent, versus last year’s 1.5 percent
growth rate, according to the estimates.  Fed Views  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said May 17
that economic reports this year have been stronger than forecast
and he expects the central bank to raise its target interest
rate by 2013. Bullard doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year.  “The fear trade lingers,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in  New York  at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “There’s been a big spooking out” as investors have
abandoned bets that longer-term yields will rise relative to
those in the short term on speculation the Fed will extend or
add to the accommodative policies already in place.  Central bank policy makers may find another round of
Operation Twist is preferable to an outright asset-purchase
program should the economy show further signs of weakness or if
risks increase.  Twist Issues  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on April 25 said he was prepared
to take further action to aid the economy if necessary, even as
he signaled he didn’t see an immediate need to add stimulus with
inflation near the Fed’s goal and  unemployment  falling. And the
minutes from the Fed’s April meeting showed several policy
makers said additional action could be necessary if the recovery
slips.  Economists such as Nathan Sheets, global head of
international economics at Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse
Securities’ Dana Saporta said the Fed’s $400 billion program,
known as Operation Twist, to extend the maturity of bonds has
been just as effective as earlier programs to expand its balance
sheet, known as quantitative easing.  Yields have tumbled this week in the highest-rated debt
markets. German, two-, five-, 10- and 30-year  yields  all dropped
to records yesterday as turmoil in Greece and  Spain  spurred
demand for the safest government securities. Japanese government
bond yields declined the lowest level since July 2003.  Spain’s Debt  Moody’s cut the ratings of Spain’s biggest lenders
including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  May 17. The move followed the company’s May 14 downgrade of
26 Italian banks and its Feb. 13 cut of Spain’s sovereign debt.
The main drivers for the bank downgrades were a surge in soured
loans, the recession, restricted funding access and the reduced
ability of the government to support lenders, Moody’s said.  The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields shrank to
1.39 percentage points May 17, the narrowest since December
2008. The spread widened yesterday to 1.43 percentage points.  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices during the life of the
debt, contracted to 2.04 percentage points May 17 from this
year’s high of 2.45 percentage points in March.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty, and much of this
uncertainty doesn’t get resolved for some period of time,” said
 Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut  at UBS AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “I don’t think anyone’s ready to plant a stake in
the ground on the short side” and bet that rates will rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  