-- Russia Tells G-8 Mideast Should Be Treated as Chess Game
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-05-19T15:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/russia-tells-g-8-mideast-should-be-treated-as-chess-game.html
Leaders from the Group of Eight
nations sought to smooth over disagreements about how to contain
Iran’s nuclear ambitions and stem violence in Syria, as Russia
warned Western powers that they should approach Middle East
disputes with more delicacy.  “In Middle Eastern policies we should play chess not
American football,” said  Mikhail Margelov , head of the
international affairs committee of the Russian parliament’s
upper chamber, to reporters. “Nobody wants Iran to have a
nuclear bomb. The question is how to achieve this goal.”  The Russian comments were made at the G-8 summit, hosted by
President  Barack Obama  at the presidential retreat in Camp
David, Maryland. Russian President Vladimir Putin declined to
attend the meeting, sending Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  in
his place.  How to stop Iran’s nuclear weapons program was the dominant
foreign policy concern. The prospect of confrontation in a
region with more than half the world’s oil reserves has sent
crude prices soaring. G-8 leaders also broached the use of
strategic reserves to make up for potential supply shortfalls
when a European Union ban on Iranian imports begins July 1.  In  Syria , where Western leaders insist President Bashar al-
Assad has lost legitimacy and should leave office, Margelov
said, “there can’t be any forceful displacement of the
regime.” The crisis in Syria is “impossible to cut with an ax,
you need to act with tweezers,” he said.  Russia sells arms to Syria, its most important ally in the
region.  Sanctions and Pressure  Obama said last night’s discussions on security were
“frank and useful.” In opening remarks today, he said the G-8
“are firmly committed to continuing with the approach of
sanctions and pressure in combination with diplomatic discussion
and our hope is that we can resolve this issue in a peaceful
fashion.”  Still, Russia has ruled out stiffer sanctions at the  United
Nations , where the fourth and last round of sanctions passed in
2010. Since then, the mood in the  Security Council  soured over
the NATO bombing in Libya and the 14-month conflict in Syria.  Crude oil for June delivery fell $1.08 to $91.48 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
Oct. 26. Prices retreated 4.8 percent this week, and are down
7.4 percent this year on concern that  Europe ’s debt crunch will
curb demand.  During last night’s dinner, the leaders discussed the
status of a six-point peace plan for Syria put forward by UN
envoy  Kofi Annan .  Cease-Fire Violation  More than a year of violence and sanctions has pushed Syria
into an economic slump, with security forces crushing dissent in
violation of a cease-fire agreement while the opposition
increasingly relies on the tactics of an armed insurgency such
as suicide bombings. More than 9,000 Syrians have died since
protests began March 2011, according to the UN.  “We are supportive of the Annan plan” but “we agreed
that the Annan plan has to be fully implemented, and a political
process has to move forward in a more timely fashion,” Obama
said today. “We all believe that a peaceful resolution and
political transition in Syria is preferable.”  The G-8 includes the U.S., Canada, the U.K.,  Germany ,
France, Italy,  Japan  and Russia. The EU also has two seats.  From the G-8 meeting in rural  Maryland , Obama and other
leaders will travel tonight to Chicago for a North Atlantic
Treaty Organization summit where a central topic will be a
discussion of military issues, including funding and manpower to
support Afghanistan after coalition forces leave at the end of
2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  