-- Saudi Shares Retreat to 3-Month Low on Oil, Europe Debt C
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-05-19T13:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/saudi-shares-decline-on-lower-oil-prices-european-debt-concerns.html
Saudi Arabian shares fell to the
lowest in almost three months, led by petrochemical companies
and banks, as falling oil prices and concern over Europe’s debt
crisis prompted bets that fuel demand may drop.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker known as Sabic, fell for a seventh day.  Al
Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest bank by market value, declined
to the lowest level since Jan. 30. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
dropped 1.9 percent 6,966.37, the lowest since Feb. 20, at the
3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. The 152-member index is up 8.6
percent this year.  Oil retreated to a six-month low in  New York  yesterday on
concern Greece will have to leave the euro, compounding Europe’s
debt crunch and curbing fuel demand. Crude oil for June delivery
fell $1.08 to $91.48 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange yesterday, the lowest settlement since Oct. 26. That
took the weekly decline to 4.8 percent.  Saudi Arabia  is the
world’s top oil exporter.  “The Saudi market will tumble as a result of weaker crude
prices and the deteriorating economic outlook in Europe, which
could threaten other regions,” Asim Bukhtiar, head of research
at Riyad Capital, said in response to e-mailed questions.  U.S. stocks tumbled for a third week, pushing the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to its longest losing streak since August,
amid concern global economic growth is slowing. German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said market turmoil caused by the
euro-zone crisis may last two more years.  Sabic fell 1.8 percent to 94 riyals, taking its decline to
6 percent in the last seven trading days.  Al Rajhi  dropped 3
percent to 71.75 riyals. Etihad Etisalat, the kingdom’s second-
largest mobile phone company, retreated 1.1 percent to 65.50
riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  