-- Security Issues Open G-8 Talks With European Debt Next
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-05-19T13:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/security-issues-open-g-8-talks-with-european-debt-next.html
Leaders from the Group of Eight
nations opened two days of economic and security discussions by
considering ways to keep  Iran  from gaining nuclear weapons
capability and to promote peaceful political transition in
Syria, according to a U.S. official familiar with the talks.  The G-8 summit, hosted by President Barack Obama at the
presidential retreat in Camp David, Maryland, began last night
with a dinner discussion of security matters ahead of meetings
planned for today on the global economy, said the official, who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  The talks so far have been “frank and useful,” Obama said
as he welcomed the leaders in remarks televised from Camp David
this morning.  “We are addressing here the two biggest threats to all our
economies and that is of course the eurozone crisis but also the
very high  oil prices  that translate into high prices at the
pumps,” U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said today after
meeting with Obama.  Sense of Urgency  The leaders are “making progress on both,” Cameron said.
“Particularly on the euro zone, what is required is a sense of
urgency and then clear actions for strong banks, strong deficit
reduction plans,” he told reporters.  Leaders were reserving most of today for talks on how to
mix pro-growth policies and austerity measures to manage the
Greek and euro-region crises, along with discussions about oil
supplies and prices.  Before leaving for Camp David yesterday, Obama called
Europe’s debt crunch “an issue of extraordinary importance” to
the world economy and said he expected a “fruitful discussion”
on how to couple fiscal responsibility with policies that
promote growth.  Obama met privately in  Washington  before the G-8 talks with
France’s new President  Francois Hollande , who echoed the U.S.
president’s position that growth must be a priority along with
improved public finances. Hollande said he and Obama “share the
same views” that  Greece  should stay in the euro region “and
that all of us must do what we can to that effect.”  Tensions Over Debt  Hollande also met yesterday in Washington with U.K. Prime
Minister David Cameron, who urged the French leader to back euro
region-wide bonds. Cameron warned Hollande that he’ll veto any
attempt to introduce a European Union financial transactions
tax.  Friction over how to approach the European debt crisis is
shadowing the G-8 talks. Obama and Hollande are urging more
emphasis in  Europe  on pro-growth policies, while German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  has opposed any measures that might add
to nations’ debt burdens.  At the helm of Europe’s biggest economy, Merkel has taken
the lead in calling for fiscal discipline to combat the region’s
debt crunch.  When Obama greeted Merkel as she arrived at Camp David, she
simply shrugged when he asked how she was doing.  “Well, you have a few things on your mind,” Obama told
her.  Pressure on Greece  European Union leaders said yesterday they have the tools
and the will to protect the euro and combat the bloc’s debt
crisis, seeking to reassure G-8 members that are doing enough to
contain financial turmoil that has spread from Greece to
Ireland, Portugal and Spain.  For now, the EU is “determined to stay the course” and
continue its efforts to cut deficits across the 27-nation union,
while also honoring commitments made to Greece, European Council
President  Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters yesterday.  “We will do whatever needed to guarantee the financial
stability of the euro zone,” said Van Rompuy, who was joined at
Camp David by EU President  Jose Barroso .  Almost $4 trillion was wiped from global equity markets
this month amid speculation that Greece will abandon the euro,
while recession and loan losses led Moody’s Investors Services
May 17 to downgrade 16 Spanish banks.  Greece is scheduled to hold elections on June 17, with an
international rescue and its future as one of 17 nations using
the euro at stake. The nation’s credit rating was downgraded one
level by  Fitch Ratings  on concerns that the country won’t be
able to muster the political support to meet bailout terms.  Oil Reserves  Obama and the other G-8 leaders will also assess oil
markets and the impact of an EU embargo on Iranian oil that’s
set to begin July 1, U.S. National Security Adviser Tom Donilon
said on May 17. The U.S. and its allies are weighing the use of
strategic oil reserves to protect the global economy in the
event the embargo drives up the price of crude.  Crude oil for June delivery fell $1.08 to $91.48 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
Oct. 26. Prices retreated 4.8 percent this week, and are down
7.4 percent this year on concern that Europe’s debt crunch will
curb demand.  The  International Energy Agency  has no definite plan to
release fuel from its emergency reserves,  David Fyfe , the head
of its oil industry and markets division, said at a conference
in  London  yesterday. U.S. officials have repeatedly said no
decision has been made on using reserves in the U.S. and Europe,
which were last tapped in June 2011 to offset supply disruptions
caused by upheaval in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  Syria, North Korea  The G-8 includes the U.S., Canada, the U.K.,  Germany ,
France, Italy,  Japan  and  Russia . The EU also has two seats.  During last night’s dinner, the leaders discussed the
status of a six-point peace plan for Syria put forward by United
Nations envoy Kofi Annan, the U.S. official said. The G-8
leaders recognized the need to move fast on a political
transition from the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
the U.S. official said.  The meeting participants also affirmed the need for Iran to
take concrete steps to show that it’s not pursuing nuclear
technology for hostile purposes, and they agreed that North
Korea must be dissuaded from taking further provocative actions
with its missile and atomic programs, the official said.  NATO Summit  From the G-8 meeting in rural  Maryland , Obama and other
leaders will travel tonight to  Chicago  for a North Atlantic
Treaty Organization summit where a central topic will be a
discussion of military issues, including funding and manpower to
support Afghanistan after coalition forces leave at the end of
2014.  In a speech yesterday before the G-8 summit began, Obama
called for a new phase of African farm aid as 45 companies
worldwide including Cargill Inc. pledged more than $3 billion to
ease threats to global security posed by scarce nutrition.  The “New Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition” has a
goal of pulling 50 million people from poverty in the next 10
years, Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at   mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Camp David, Maryland at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  