-- Verlander Misses No-Hitter, Pettitte Earns Win, Wood Retires
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/verlander-misses-no-hitter-pettitte-earns-win-wood-retires.html
Detroit  Tigers’ Justin Verlander came
within two outs of a third career no-hitter last night, as  Andy Pettitte  recorded his first win since coming out of retirement
and  Chicago  Cubs’  Kerry Wood  quit after 14 Major League
Baseball seasons.  Verlander’s bid was ruined when Pittsburgh Pirate Josh Harrison singled with one out in the ninth inning of the
interleague game at Comerica Park in Detroit. Verlander retired
the last two batters on groundouts as the Tigers won 6-0.  Verlander, who had no-hitters in 2007 and 2011, threw 109
pitches, including 76 strikes, giving up up one hit while
striking out 12 and walking two.  “It was just amazing,” Verlander told reporters. “These
fans have been unbelievable in supporting me, this team, this
city. It’s been really special to be a part of this for seven
years now. They show support for me when it’s good, when it’s
bad, and it means a lot.”  This season, Jered Weaver of the  Los Angeles Angels  threw a
no-hitter on May 5, and  Chicago White Sox  righthander Philip Humber pitched a perfect game April 22.  At Yankee Stadium, Pettitte recorded his first win of this
Major League Baseball season as the  New York Yankees  topped the
Cincinnati Reds 4-0 in interleague play.  ‘Mind’s Getting Back’  Pettitte, 39, ended his one-season retirement in March and
rejoined the Yankees May 13 in  New York , taking a 6-2 loss
against the  Seattle Mariners  after working his way back into
shape in the minor leagues.  “I felt like I could do this, and now it’s just like I
feel like the mind’s getting back there,” said Pettitte, who
earned his 241st win. “I’m just hoping and praying the body
holds up.”  Pettitte (1-1) went eight innings, allowing four hits,
while walking one and striking out nine for a 2.51 earned run
average. He threw 115 pitches, including 78 strikes.  “He must have been doing something real good when he was
retired,” Reds manager  Dusty Baker  said. “He looked as sharp
as I’ve ever seen him.”  Pettitte last won a game on July 8, 2010, in a 3-1 Yankees
victory against the Mariners. After recovering from a groin
injury, he posted a 5-2 win over the  Minnesota Twins  in the
American League Division Series on Oct. 7 that year before
retiring.  Wood Retires  At Chicago’s Wrigley Field, Kerry Wood made his final
appearance on the mound to end 14 seasons in the majors. Wood
struck out one in the Cubs 3-2 loss to the Chicago White Sox.  “I had a blast. I wouldn’t trade it in,” the 34-year-old
pitcher told reporters. “Every player gets to this point where
we don’t all get to choose when, we don’t all get to have a say
in it. But I was fortunate enough to play this game a long time
in a great city in front of the best fans in baseball. It was
time.”  Wood struck out Dayan Viciedo on three pitches, the last
one a swing and a miss, in the eighth inning before he was
replaced.  On May 6, 1998, as a 20-year-old in his fifth major league
start, he allowed one hit and struck out 20 in a 2-0 victory
over the  Houston Astros  to tie Roger Clemens’ nine-inning
strikeout record.  Wood went on the disabled list this season with shoulder
fatigue -- the 16th time he had been on the DL during his career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  