-- West Ham Secures Premier League Return in 2-1 Win Over Blackpool
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-19T16:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-19/west-ham-secures-premier-league-return-in-2-1-win-over-blackpool.html
West Ham United secured a return to
English soccer’s Premier League next season with a 2-1 win
against Blackpool in the Championship playoff final.  Ricardo Vaz Te’s goal in the 87th minute gave the Hammers
the victory at Wembley Stadium in  London  today.  Carlton Cole 
also scored for West Ham, who were relegated to the second tier
with Blackpool a year ago after finishing last in the Premier
League.  “We’re absolutely delighted to be back in the Premier
League,” West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce  told  Sky Sports . “It
was a magnificent game; end to end, and in the end we got one
more goal than Blackpool.”  The playoff final is the richest soccer match in the world.
Winning it is worth at least 90 million pounds ($142 million),
accountant Deloitte LLP estimates. Promoted teams benefit from
at least 40 million pounds in additional revenue and minimum
guaranteed payments of 48 million pounds in the following four
seasons if they drop straight back down.  “It’s a great team effort from the lads,” Vaz Te told
Sky. “We’re a Premier League side and we deserved to go up.”  Cole put West Ham on top in the 35th minute when he got
behind Ian Evatt and fired a shot by goalkeeper Matthew Gilks.
Blackpool drew even three minutes into the second half as Matt
Phillips sent a diagonal pass to Thomas Ince, who sent a shot
past  Robert Green .  Vaz Te clinched victory with three minutes left with a shot
into the roof of the net following a scramble in the Blackpool
area.  West Ham return to the Premier League with Reading and
Southampton, which had already earned automatic promotion as the
champion and runner-up in the Championship.  Blackpool was in the playoff final for the second time in
three seasons. The Tangerines beat Cardiff 3-2 in 2010 to return
to the top division for the first time since 1971.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  