-- ‘Avengers’ Gamers on Facebook Get First Look at Movie Spot
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-04-06T00:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/-avengers-gamers-on-facebook-get-first-look-at-movie-spot-2-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  unveiled the latest
ad for its May 4 movie release “Marvel’s The Avengers” inside
a game on Facebook.com.  The commercial appears in the game “Marvel: Avengers
Alliance,” which Disney created for Facebook. Players who watch
get a virtual gold bar to buy weapons and other products.
Playing is free; the bars cost $1 for four.  “Marvel: Avengers Alliance,” has attracted 640,000 daily
users, according to  AppData , a researcher. It is part of a
broader trend in which studios drum up interest for pictures by
engaging potential ticket buyers online. Disney said it is the
first time Marvel has used a game to introduce a movie ad.  “Disney is leveraging its assets in such an exciting way
across multiple platforms,” said Jeff Gomez, founder of
 Starlight Runner Entertainment , which consults with companies on
online strategies. “Our tracking indicates it’s been highly
effective. They’re going to reap rewards.”  “The Avengers” follows a team of Marvel superheroes
battling to save the earth. It stars Robert Downey Jr. and
 Scarlett Johansson , reprising their roles as Iron Man and the
Black Widow from 2010’s “Iron Man 2,” which grossed $624
million worldwide for distributor  Paramount Pictures  on a budget
of $200 million, according to Box Office Mojo, an industry
researcher.  “We believe this game is the ideal platform for reaching a
large and passionate Avengers fan base,” said Mike Rubinelli, a
vice president of Playdom, the social-game company Disney
acquired for $563 million in 2010.  ‘Captain America 2’  This is the first Marvel movie marketed and distributed by
Disney since it acquired the film and comic-book company for $4
billion in 2009. Previous Marvel films were distributed by other
studios with licensing agreements.  The company today announced an April 2014 release date for
“Captain America 2,” sequel to a 2011 film that brought in
$369 million in worldwide ticket sales.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , rose 0.4 percent to
$43.08 at the close in  New York . The shares have gained 15
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  