-- Abadie Leaves EMA as French Health Industry Watchdog Reorganizes
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-04-05T16:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/abadie-leaves-ema-as-french-health-industry-watchdog-reorganizes.html
Eric Abadie resigned from his role
as chairman of a committee at the European Medicines Agency
because the agency wouldn’t pay him a salary after  France ’s
health industry regulator eliminated his job there.  The EMA, the European Union’s London-based drug regulator,
said in a statement late yesterday that Abadie resigned as
chairman of the agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for
Human Use, which reviews applications for new drugs.  Abadie’s role as scientific adviser to France’s Agence
Francaise de Securite Sanitaire des Produits de Sante, or
Afssaps, is no longer needed under a reorganization of the
agency announced in December, an Afssaps spokeswoman said by
phone today. Abadie’s position at the EMA wasn’t a paid one, and
the EMA couldn’t assume his salary at Afssaps, she said.  “The director of the EMA could not respond favorably to
this request,” Afssaps said in an e-mailed statement today.  Guido Rasi, the agency’s executive director, accepted
Abadie’s resignation “with immediate effect,” according to the
statement. Tomas Salmonson, vice chairman of the committee, will
lead the panel in Abadie’s absence. The EMA’s offices were
closed today and no one was available to comment further.  Afssaps has come under scrutiny in the past couple of years
after allegedly faulty products were marketed. A diabetes drug
made by Laboratoires Servier was suspected of having caused the
death of as many as 2,000 people. Last year, French officials
said breast implants made by Poly Implant Prothese SA were
leaking industrial silicone inside patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  