-- Ackman Says Canadian Pacific Lost Share Under CEO Green
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-04-05T20:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/ackman-says-canadian-pacific-lost-share-under-ceo-green-3-.html
William Ackman , the hedge-fund
manager pressing  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  for a leadership
change, said the carrier is losing market share to rivals under
current Chief Executive Officer Fred Green.  Over the past six years,  Canadian Pacific  intermodal share
decreased by 7.4 percentage points even after completing an
acquisition, Ackman’s  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP said
today in a  regulatory filing .  “Poor management leads to poor service and market-share
losses,” said Ackman, whose New York-based hedge fund is the
railroad’s largest investor. Because of unreliable transit times
and other service issues, “Canadian Pacific has lost market
share to Canadian National over the last six years.”  Pershing Square reiterated its position after Canadian
Pacific said this week that claims of decreased share under
Green were incorrect. The railroad has argued Pershing’s proxy
fight to replace the 55-year-old Green with former  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR)  CEO  Hunter Harrison  might backfire, driving
away customers who disliked the tactics Harrison used to boost
profitability at the larger railroad.  The proposed CEO change “would undermine CP’s ongoing
initiatives to increase volume and improve operations and
profitability,” Canadian Pacific Chairman John Cleghorn said in
a statement today. “A number of CP customers have expressed
concerns about the risk and disruption that would occur should
Hunter Harrison be installed as CEO of CP.”  ‘Take Customers Away’  Brian Yarbrough, a St. Louis-based analyst with Edward
Jones & Co., expressed skepticism about Canadian Pacific’s
statements that putting Harrison in the top job might cost
market share.  “How come when Hunter was running  Canadian National  rail,
how come CP didn’t gain a bunch of market share and take all
these customers away from Canadian National?” he asked.  Canadian Pacific reiterated that its improvement strategy
is producing results. The rail carrier previously said its
domestic intermodal volumes have risen this year and that it has
regained shipping lines lost earlier. Inclement weather prompted
a decline in container-shipping share at the company in the
winter of 2010-2011.  Canadian Pacific shares dropped 0.5 percent to C$75 at the
close in Toronto as broader indexes fell. They have advanced 22
percent from Oct. 27, the day before Pershing disclosed its
stake.  Operating Ratio  Ackman, 45, says Harrison would be able to cut Canadian
Pacific’s operating ratio to 65 percent in 2015, while current
management targets 68.5 percent to 70.5 percent in 2016.
Operating ratio is a profitability gauge that compares expenses
to sales.  Harrison, 67, “improved service dramatically” while
leading Illinois Central Corp. and Canadian National, Ackman
said, urging investors to support his fund’s seven board
nominees. “Those improvements drove customers and market share
to his railroads.”  The hedge-fund founder said shareholders should vote
against Canadian Pacific’s resolution on  executive compensation ,
which was detailed in the company’s proxy filing last month, and
criticized the board for what he said were overpayments to Green
even as the rail carrier’s performance deteriorated.  Pershing also blamed Green and the current board for a
“mismanagement of executive ranks.” The company has undergone
five changes in chief operating officers and three in chief
financial officers in less than six years, Pershing said in
today’s filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  