-- Madoff Trustee Tries Comeback as JPMorgan Opposes Appeal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-05T23:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/madoff-trustee-tries-comeback-as-jpmorgan-hsbc-oppose-appeal.html
As the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm tries to come back from defeats in U.S. district
court,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  opposed his appeal of a judge’s
ruling that threw out $19 billion of his claims for damages.  “The district court correctly held that the trustee has no
authority to bring common law damages claims against JPMorgan,”
the bank said in a filing today in federal appeals court in New
York.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  separately opposed the
trustee’s appeal.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  appealed rulings in four cases
against banks that barred him from demanding a total of about
$30 billion on behalf of the con man’s investors.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
also filed arguments today on why the appeal should be rejected.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in July dismissed almost $9
billion in damages that Picard sought from HSBC and feeder
funds, saying the trustee exceeded his powers. Picard sued for
$19 billion from the con man’s banker, JPMorgan, which U.S.
District Judge  Colleen McMahon  dismissed, agreeing with Rakoff.  Picard alleged in his lawsuits that the banks ignored “red
flags” warning of Madoff’s fraud, hurting Madoff’s customers.
Rakoff said Picard’s powers as a bankruptcy trustee are limited.
While he can try to recover some money for the Ponzi scheme
operator’s estate, he can’t sue banks on behalf of Madoff
customers, and he can’t accuse them of fraud because he is
trustee for a fraudulent enterprise.  ‘Too Activist’  “How far will the courts allow someone to be aggressive in
their use of the law?” said Michael Clark, a former federal
prosecutor with Duane Morris LLP in Houston who specializes in
financial fraud and has handled appeals. “When lower court
judges and trustees are too activist, there’s a tendency for
higher courts to look and say, ‘You have spread your wings too
far.’”  Picard, a  New York  bankruptcy lawyer, filed multibillion-
dollar lawsuits against the biggest banks, charging $273 million
for his firm’s work since Madoff’s 2008 arrest. Now, he’s having
to defend his aggressive approach.  Picard’s lawsuit against JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank,
“is a massive overreach on the part of a trustee who, in a
search for deep pockets, has recklessly accused people at
JPMorgan of participating in Madoff’s crimes without factual
support and without regard for the consequences of his public
accusations,” the bank said in today’s filing. “And his basic
thesis -- namely that JPMorgan employees deliberately joined in
a doomed-to-fail Ponzi scheme simply to perverse routing banking
income -- is preposterous.”  JPMorgan Fees  JPMorgan earned $590,000 in fees from Madoff’s brokerage
for banking services from 2002 to 2008, and $3.5 million in
interest, the bank said. JPMorgan’s revenue in 2008 was about
$67 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Suing banks, “the trustee purported to bring tort claims
against deep-pocket third parties on behalf of BLMIS customers
based on a variety of inconsistent and often-changing
theories,” UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, said in its filing.
“The court rightly rejected the trustee’s effort to assert such
overreaching claims.”  McMahon handled Zurich-based UBS’s case as well.  Picard’s legal strategy is “contrary to well-established
precedent,” London-based HSBC said in today’s filing, referring
to a trustee’s powers in other frauds. HSBC,  Europe ’s largest
bank, has faulted Picard for insisting it had obligations to all
Madoff investors and should have probed the fraud.  ‘Enormous Claims’  HSBC, which provided custodial services to feeder funds
that invested with Madoff, said Picard is “asserting enormous
claims against parties who provided no services and owed no duty
to BLMIS or to the creditors or customers the trustee seeks to
benefit.” Picard “seems determined to make this the largest
and most expensive” brokerage liquidation in history, HSBC
said.  The HSBC and JPMorgan rulings came after the Anna Nicole Smith case, when the U.S. Supreme Court in June limited
bankruptcy judges’ ability to rule on common-law claims. That
stopped the former Playboy model’s heirs from collecting
millions of dollars from Texas billionaire J. Howard Marshall’s
estate, and put district judges in control of more bankruptcy
issues.  The Madoff trustee’s appeals may not bring a reversal, said
 Peter Henning , a former Securities and Exchange Commission
lawyer who teaches at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit .  ‘Solid Ground’  “Rakoff and McMahon were on fairly solid legal ground, so
the appeals judges are less likely to reverse them,” he said.  Separately, Picard on March 21 filed a notice of appeal in
his biggest case, a $59 billion racketeering suit against
UniCredit, Sonja Kohn and other parties, bringing the total
amount he is fighting for to $90 billion. The current appeal
involves a smaller amount sought from  Italy ’s UniCredit in the
HSBC case.  If he loses the appeals, Madoff clients will have a smaller
pot from which to recover losses, and investors who bought
discounted claims on the con man’s estate may lose the bets they
made. The trustee’s more than 1,000 suits demanded about $100
billion initially.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, has previously said
Picard remains confident of his right to make the claims against
the banks. She didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
today’s filings.  Lost Principal  Picard’s demands for money from JPMorgan equaled his
estimate of principal lost by all Madoff investors by the time
the  Ponzi scheme  collapsed, according to his lawsuit. The bank
could have stopped the fraud by passing on its suspicions to
regulators, he alleged.  JPMorgan, based in New York, said it didn’t know about the
fraud or participate in it, and can’t be blamed for a scheme
orchestrated by Madoff alone.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina .  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  The district court cases are Picard v. JPMorgan, 11-5044,
Picard v. UBS, 11-5051, Picard v. UniCredit, 11-5175, Picard v.
HSBC, 11-5207, all in the U.S. Court of Appeals, Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  