-- Taiwan’s Stocks Slump Most in Five Months on Tax Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-05T02:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/taiwan-s-stocks-slump-most-in-five-months-on-tax-concern.html
Taiwan ’s  stocks  slumped the most
since December and the currency weakened after the stock
exchange chairman said the island is likely to impose a capital-
gains tax on share transactions.  The benchmark  Taiex index  sank 2.1 percent to 7,595.47 as
of 10:24 a.m. in Taipei, poised for the biggest decline since
Dec. 19. Taiwan’s currency weakened 0.2 percent to NT$29.53 per
dollar, the largest drop since March 12. Markets were closed
yesterday for a holiday.  There’s a “99 percent” chance that Taiwan will introduce
the tax to address social inequalities and to raise tax
revenues, Schive Chi, chairman of Taiwan Stock Exchange Corp.,
said in an April 3 interview. The Taiex has slumped 5.6 percent
the past five trading days since the Economic Daily reported the
government was evaluating the tax.  “There’s a lot of displeasure among investors,” Eric Chou, who helps manage around $1.8 billion at Jih Sun Securities
Investment Trust Co. in Taipei, said in a telephone interview.
“The  capital gains  tax proposal is negative to the market.
There will be more talks this afternoon and there’s still a lot
of uncertainty.”  The government’s tax overhaul panel is discussing today
whether to reinstate the tax. Deputy Finance Minister Tseng Ming-chung didn’t immediately return three phone calls seeking
comments. The Ministry of Finance is aiming to reach a decision
in a month, Finance Minister Christina Liu said in a reply to
questions from lawmakers at a meeting in parliament on April 2.  Certain Reaction  Taiwan has exempted securities transactions from capital-
gains taxes since Jan. 1, 1990, according to the stock
exchange’s website. The tax was set aside after a year because
of widespread evasion and the government has contemplated
reintroducing it since at least 1993. During elections earlier
this year, President Ma Ying-jeou and the opposition advocated
the tax to help narrow a wealth gap among Taiwan’s population.  “The market will certainly react to this but I think that
is because how the capital gains are going to be taxed is still
not clear,” Schive, chairman of  Asia ’s seventh-largest stock
market, said in an April 3 interview in Boao,  China .  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the Taiex’s biggest
member by index weighting, sank 1.7 percent to NT$83.60.  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the gauge’s second-largest constituent,
lost 0.9 percent to NT$109.  Losses in Taiwan’s dollar may halt at NT$29.60 as exporters
will probably sell U.S. dollars at this level, according to
Tarsico Tong, a currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in
Taipei. At NT$29.45, importers would buy the greenback, he said.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond was unchanged
at 1.27 percent after falling one basis point earlier.  Overseas Investors  “The  Taiwan dollar  is falling because the stock market is
lower,” Tong said. “The government is talking about imposing
the capital-gains tax.”  In 1988, when the plan for a tax was discussed, stocks fell
for 19 consecutive days, dropping 33 percent in a month, Schive
said. Shares are unlikely to slump as much this time because
more companies are traded on the bourse and there’s a larger
proportion of overseas investors, he said.  Foreign funds bought $127 million more Taiwan stocks than
they sold this week through April 3, adding to this year’s net
 purchases  of $5.1 billion, according to exchange data.  The Taiex has rallied 7.4 percent this year on speculation
of a U.S. economic recovery and as Ma’s re-election as president
on Jan. 14 fueled optimism the island would strengthen economic
ties with China. The gauge is valued at 14.6 times estimated
profit, a 40 percent premium to the  MSCI Emerging-Markets
Index (MXEF) ’s 10.5 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  