-- Taiwan Likely to Exempt Some Foreign Investors From Tax
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-04-06T07:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/taiwan-likely-to-exempt-some-foreign-investors-from-tax.html
Overseas investors without offices
and direct business operations in Taiwan will be exempt “in
principle” from a capital-gains tax on stock trades that the
government is deliberating, Finance Minister Christina Liu said.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
second-largest U.S. public pension fund, was cited as an example
of an “offshore foreign investor” that would probably be
excluded in comments made by Liu during a government panel
discussion yesterday about the tax. Investors that qualify for
the tax would pay at different rates depending on levels of
profit made from trading, she said.  The  Taiex Index (TWSE)  rose 0.9 percent to 7,706.26 at the close,
snapping a three-day slide. The measure is still Asia’s worst-
performing benchmark stock gauge in the past five trading days,
losing 5 percent since Taiwan’s Economic Daily reported on March
29 that the government was evaluating the proposal. The tax
panel will hold more discussions on April 9, Liu said after the
stock market closed.  “We want to minimize the impact on the market,” Liu said.
“We know the market is concerned about the tax and the longer
time it takes, the more uncertainty we create. We will try to
conclude this within a month.”  Securities transactions have been exempt from capital-gains
taxes since Jan. 1, 1990, according to the stock exchange’s
website. The tax was scrapped because of widespread evasion and
the government has contemplated reintroducing it since at least
1993.  Wealth Gap  During elections earlier this year, President Ma Ying-jeou
and the opposition said the tax should be imposed to help narrow
a wealth gap among  Taiwan ’s population. There’s a “99 percent”
chance the levy will be introduced to address social
inequalities and to raise revenues, Schive Chi, chairman of
Taiwan Stock Exchange Corp., said in an April 3 interview.  “If we were to impose the tax, we would want to introduce
different tax rates, meaning those who profit the most will be
taxed at the highest rate,” Finance Minister Liu said
yesterday. “Our neighboring markets don’t tax offshore foreign
investors, and we in principle will exempt tax on offshore
foreign investors.”  The Taiex sank 1.6 percent yesterday to 7,639.82, the
lowest level since Feb. 1, while Taiwan’s currency weakened 0.1
percent to NT$29.519 per dollar after Schive’s comments. Markets
were closed on April 4 for a holiday.  “Displeasure”  “There’s a lot of displeasure among investors,” Eric Chou, who helps manage around $1.8 billion at Jih Sun Securities
Investment Trust Co. in Taipei, said by phone yesterday. “The
capital-gains tax proposal is negative to the market.”  Semiconductor-related stocks led  gains  in Taiwan’s Taiex
today.  ALI Corp. (3041) , a maker of integrated circuits for computers,
surged 7 percent to NT$50, its steepest increase since Feb. 13.
HannsTouch Solution Inc. climbed 6.9 percent to NT$15.40, the
most since Feb. 4.  The Taiex is still up 9 percent this year, after a 21
percent slide in 2011, on speculation the  U.S. economy  will
recover and Ma’s re-election as president on Jan. 14 would lead
to stronger economic ties with  China . The  stock index  is valued
at 14.9 times estimated profit, a 39 percent premium to the  MSCI
Emerging-Markets Index (MXEF) ’s multiple of 10.7, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Foreign Funds  In 1988, when the plan for a capital-gains tax was
discussed, stocks fell for 19 consecutive days, dropping about a
third in a month, according to Schive, chairman of  Asia ’s
seventh-largest stock market.  Shares are unlikely to slump as much this time because more
companies are traded on the bourse and there’s a larger
proportion of overseas investors, he said on April 3 in Boao,
China.  Foreign funds sold $76 million more Taiwan stocks yesterday
than they bought, paring this year’s net  purchases  to $5
billion, according to exchange data.  “It’s quite obvious that everyone has a different opinion
on whether we should impose capital-gains tax on stocks and how
we should impose it,” Finance Minister Liu said. “After the
discussions, then we will try to find the best solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  