-- Altimo Says Karamehmet Loan Gives It Right to Turkcell Stake
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-04-05T13:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/altimo-says-karamehmet-should-pay-debt-or-lose-turkcell-1-.html
Altimo, the Russian shareholder in
Turkish mobile operator  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , said
its confident of winning a case against Mehmet Emin Karamehmet,
the founder of the company and  Turkey ’s richest man, that could
allow it to appropriate his stake.  The U.K.’s Privy Council will hold a special hearing within
the next two months after the Turkish billionaire won an apeal
against a Caribbean court’s decision ordering him to deposit
$1.45 billion as a guarantee for his stake in Turkcell, Altimo
spokesman and vice president Evgeny Dumalkin said in an
interview in Istanbul yesterday.  Altimo owns 13.2 percent of Turkcell, Turkey’s biggest
mobile operator, and is arguing that Karamehmet’s non-payment of
a $1.6 billion loan it extended him in 2005 gives it the right
to his 13.7 percent stake in the company, which was used as
collateral on the loan, according to Dumalkin.  “We are confident that if the Privy Council looks deeper
into this case, it will uphold the December decision” and “we
are quite certain that we will prevail,” Dumalkin said. “We
want to be absolute legitimate owners of this stake.” The final
hearing on the case will be heard by the Privy Council in
October or November, following the special hearing on the
deposit within the next two months, he said.  Cukurova Holding, owned by Karamehmet, controls Turkcell
through a complex structure. Altimo parent Alfa, an investment
vehicle of Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman , and  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN) , Sweden’s largest telephone company, are fighting him for
control of the company in a dispute that spans continents and
which has kept the company from approving its financial
statements or paying a dividend.  “After the court cases, we will get Karamehmet’s stake,
and make an agreement with TeliaSonera so that no one can
control” the company, Dumalkin said.  VimpelCom, MegaFon  Altimo said it owns also owns a 44.7 percent stake in
 Russia ’s largest operator,  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , and a 25 percent
stake in Russia’s third-largest operator,  MegaFon OAO (MFON) , according
to a company brochure. Dumalkin said the company wants to make
Turkcell a global operator and that Karamehmet has blocked its
expansion by running it “like a family company.”  Altimo has presented Turkcell’s board with acquisition
opportunties in  Africa ,  Asia  and  Europe  which were rejected by
Karamehmet, he said.  “Turkcell has all the opportunities to repeat VimpelCom’s
success story,” Dumalkin said. “They have a good cash pile and
all the opportunities to expand.” Altimo was considering a
merger of Turkcell and MegaFon in 2009, “but now we need to
secure our rights in Turkcell and then we can look at possible
mergers or acquisitions,” he said.  Turkcell had revenue of $5.6 billion in 2011 and cash and
cash equivalents of $3.3 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Vimpelcom had sales of $20.2 billion last year, and
holds cash and cash equivalents of $2.5 billion, according to
the data. Vimpelcom is the world’s sixth-largest mobile operator
by subscribers.  Turkcell opened a lawsuit in a U.S. court against  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest wireless operator, on March 29 for $4.2
billion in damages related to alleged bribery in acquiring a
mobile-phone license in  Iran . Dumalkin said Altimo wasn’t fully
informed of the details of the suit until the night before the
case was filed.  Turkcell  shares  fell 0.7 percent to 8.90 liras at the
midday break in Istanbul. They have gained 0.2 percent on the
year, trailing the 21 percent increase on the  Istanbul Stock
Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  