-- American Taxpayers Give Tribute in Their Own Hunger Games
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-04-05T23:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/american-taxpayers-give-tribute-in-their-own-hunger-games.html
Sometimes tax seasons find their own
movie. The movie for tax season 2012 is  “The Hunger Games,” 
which came about just about the time most of us were opening the
tax preparers’ kit.  Washington  is the equivalent of the Capitol in the film and
 Suzanne Collins ’s  book , an arbitrary and dictatorial central
government with its thumb on the rest, always “reminding us how
totally we are at their mercy.”  The U.S. by this analogy would be  Panem , the dystopia of
book and film. We taxpayers are like the characters who dwell in
the outer districts and must give up one or the other of our
best assets as annual tribute.  Of course, the tribute demanded is not entirely
predictable. The rules are rigid except when they aren’t, giving
advisers, the  Effie Trinkets  of the tax world, outsized power.
And the tribute is uneven, as in “The Hunger Games.”  Some of
us are arbitrarily chosen and must sacrifice years to an audit;
the people in the Capitol cackle and watch the blood spill.
Those in the outer districts watch out of horrified interest; at
least it wasn’t them.  In tax terms at least, more and worse games are yet to
come. Taxes are set to  rise in 2013  not only on  capital gains 
but also on income and dividends. Arbitrariness and complexity
plague the arrangement, as well. Even if you pay what you think
you owe, the  Internal Revenue Service  can always find a
“gotcha,” and conduct a “reaping.”  Three Fixes  To reduce the dystopian aspect of American tax life, three
fixes are in order.  The first is to simplify and clarify the code. If our rates
were simpler and fewer, then even those in the outermost
districts would know the most basic things about where we stood
with the Capitol. As Fareed Zakaria  noted last fall ,
“complexity equals corruption.” The U.S. tax code is 10 times
as long as  France ’s.  A second fix would be to lower the tribute itself that is
exacted. The  House Budget Committee  chairman,  Paul Ryan , has
suggested two rates: 10 percent and 25 percent. That might mean
ending deductions crucial to many interest groups, like the
home-mortgage-interest deduction. But losing those breaks might
be worth it if rates were lower and rules were clearer.  Since Ryan spoke up and offered his budget, he has been
pursued like Rue or  Katniss . The critics say Ryan is helping the
rich. Many of us don’t see it that way: Higher earners who get
to keep more cash will do something valuable, like create jobs.  A third change would be to ensure that everyone, regardless
of income or residential district,  pays some tax . Right now the
bottom half of earners pay no income tax. Those who don’t
contribute have no stake in change. They are like the mob in
“The Hunger Games” that enjoys the show of others paying
tribute. If they handed over even a few pennies, they might
involve themselves, which would broaden the impetus for  tax
reform .  In the policy world, the blockbuster equivalent of “The
Hunger Games” is “Why Nations Fail” by  Daron Acemoglu  and
 James Robinson . The book draws a valuable distinction between
“extractive” regimes that take from all -- like Panem or  Saudi
Arabia  -- and inclusive ones, whose institutions make citizens
stakeholders in prosperity. To my mind, “ Why Nations Fail ”
captures our tax problem precisely: too much extraction and too
little participation.  I e-mailed Acemoglu for his views on tax reform. He replied
to point out that lower earners do pay Social Security and state
taxes. So he’s less concerned than I am about having every
citizen in every district pay some income tax specifically.  Banish Loopholes  He recommended sustaining some progressivity while at the
same time “keeping marginal rates low, which of course would be
feasible by getting rid of loopholes of all sorts (both for
businesses and individuals). We probably have one of the most
inefficient tax systems in the OECD.”  In other words, the solution you come up with may be
slightly different. But what “The Hunger Games” and “Why
Nations Fail” suggest to me is that recognizing a good tax plan
is simple. A good tax plan is one that makes us feel more like
citizens, and less like objects of ritual sacrifice.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on the  latest job numbers  and
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed’s trial ;  Jonathan Alter  on the  auto
bailout ;  Michael Kinsley  on saving the  dollar bill ; Luigi
Zingales on  Fed nominees ; Alex Marshall on  improving U.S. roads .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 