-- Manchester United Monitors Bilbao’s De Marcos: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-05T05:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/manchester-united-monitors-bilbao-s-de-marcos-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  De Marcos Monitored  Manchester United  will have Athletic Bilbao’s Oscar de
Marcos watched by the club’s chief scout, Jim Lawlor, after
manager  Alex Ferguson ’s brother Martin looked at the midfielder
last week, the  Daily Mirror reported .  De Marcos, 22, scored against United in both games of their
Europa League round of 16 matchup and the follow-up trips signal
an off-season offer being made for a player who has a release
clause of 26 million pounds ($41.3 million) in his contract, the
Mirror added.  Kuyt Exit  Dirk Kuyt’s six-year association with Liverpool could end
in the off-season with Dutch club Feyenoord keen to re-sign
their former player, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  and director of football
Damien Comolli want to reduce the average age of the Liverpool
squad, leaving players including forward Kuyt, 31, and
midfielder  Maxi Rodriguez  vulnerable to an exit, the newspaper
said. Left-back Fabio Aurelio will not be offered a new contract
and is surplus to requirements, the Telegraph added.  Italian Interest           Italian clubs Fiorentina and Roma, and Galatasaray of
 Turkey , are also interested in signing Kuyt, who will have 12
months remaining on his Liverpool deal at the end of this
season, the  Daily Mail reported .  Liverpool has identified Feyenoord midfielder Tonny de
Vilhena, 17, and Crewe’s 16-year-old midfielder  Dan Smith  as
potential acquisitions as its recruitment policy focuses on
youth, the Mail added.  Aguero Back  Sergio Aguero  said he should be fit for  Manchester City ’s
Premier League trip to Arsenal on April 8 after missing the past
two games following an allergic reaction to a pain-killing spray
used to treat a foot injury, the  Sun reported .  “If it all goes well, I’ll be at coach’s disposal,” the
Sun cited the Argentine striker, who missed City’s draws against
Stoke and Sunderland, as saying.  Magpies Swoop  Newcastle is close to agreeing a 2 million-pound deal for
Barnsley midfielder Jacob Butterfield even though he’s been
ruled out until the start of next season because of a knee
injury, the  Mirror reported .  The Magpies are still willing to sign the player, agree
compensation with Barnsley and take up Butterfield’s
rehabilitation program after he tore his anterior cruciate
ligament at the start of the year, the Mirror said.  Conte Courted  Juventus coach Antonio Conte has emerged as a potential
candidate to become Tottenham Hotspur manager if  Harry Redknapp 
is hired by  England , the  Telegraph reported .  Conte, whose team is unbeaten in its 30 Italian Serie A
matches this season, is said to be taking English lessons, the
newspaper said. Spurs deny having made contact with Conte or any
other prospective managerial candidates and the club’s
recruitment process will only begin once the Football
Association’s intentions over the England job become clear, the
Telegraph added.  Wolves’ Top Targets  Wolverhampton Wanderers owner  Steve Morgan  has identified
former Manchester United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and ex-
England captain Paul Ince as the major longterm candidates to
succeed Mick McCarthy as manager, the  Mail reported .  The 39-year-old Solskjaer, who guided Molde to the
Norwegian league title in his first year as coach last season,
is said to be Morgan’s preferred choice to replace interim
manager Terry Connor, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  