-- Anglo Sees Ternium Ore Supply Deal by June, Castellari Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-05T20:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/anglo-sees-ternium-ore-supply-deal-by-june-castellari-says.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  expects to sign a
contract with steelmaker  Ternium SA (TX)  by June to supply iron ore
from Brazil as it readies the start of its biggest project.  Anglo will supply Ternium with about 25 percent of the 26.5
million metric tons of expected annual iron-ore output from the
Minas-Rio project in southeastern Brazil for at least 10 years,
Paulo Castellari, the head of Anglo’s iron-ore unit in the Latin
American country, said in an interview .  “We worked hard for almost six months with other clients
to make space to guarantee volumes to Ternium,” Castellari, 41,
said at company’s offices in Rio’s Barra da Tijuca neighborhood.
“Everybody wants iron ore long-term contracts.”  Anglo is racing against companies including billionaire
Eike Batista’s  MMX Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA and Ferrous
Resources Ltd. in enlarging iron-ore projects in Brazil, the
world’s second-largest exporter of the steel-making ingredient.  About 50 percent of the mine’s production will be sold to
clients in the Middle East and the remaining 25 percent to Asian
customers, Castellari said.  Miners are contending with cost pressures, labor shortages
and environmental permit delays in Brazil. Rio de Janeiro-based
 Vale SA (VALE)  said Nov. 28 an $8.04 billion expansion at its Carajas
Serra Sul mine is two years behind schedule. Anglo expects its
first shipments from Minas Rio in the second half of 2013 after
suffering cost overruns and delays since it bought the project
in 2008.  Castellari, who has been with Anglo for 18 years, replaced
Stephan Weber in January as head of the iron-ore business in the
Latin American country. A Brazilian national, he holds a degree
in administration from Brazil’s Getulio Vargas Foundation and an
MBA from the  London Business School .  Anglo gained 1.3 percent to 2,299 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  