-- Another Day, Another Dollar, Another Lobbying Campaign
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-04-05T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/another-day-another-dollar-another-lobbying-campaign.html
The busiest subway stop in downtown
Washington was until recently festooned with green banners and
billboards warning of a terrible danger. One of America’s great
national symbols is under attack: the dollar bill.  A few unpatriotic senators want to phase out the dollar
bill and replace it with a dollar coin. Several previous
attempts to do this have foundered on people’s fondness for
 paper money .  In the subway ad campaign, riders are importuned to sign an
online petition and go to  a website  for more information, which
of course I do, because I always follow orders from billboards.
Even on the website, information is scarce. There is a new poll
result: 97 percent of Americans find paper bills more convenient
than metal coins. This, if true, is an astonishing figure -- not
only because it reflects near-unanimity, but also because I find
it hard to develop any opinion at all about the relative
convenience of paper money versus coinage. (And opinions are how
I make my living.) I would say “It all depends,” which is a
choice pollsters never give you.  Under “About Us,” the website says it is just a group of
“like-minded individuals, businesses, and organizations seeking
to ensure that the citizens of the  United States  maintain the
ability to choose their preferred currency.” A sample list of
members is not enlightening: It includes the Auto Dealers
Association of  Alabama , Muddy’s Laundromat and Sophia’s House of
Pancakes.  A Stirring Defense  What moved this disparate group to take up the cause of
saving the dollar bill? Tom Ferguson, “a currency expert and
spokesman for Americans for George,”  wrote in  the Capitol Hill
newspaper Roll Call that “America has faced great challenges in
recent years” and therefore “we must strive to maintain the
principles and practices that make us Americans.” So “it is
exactly for this reason we must defend one of the most enduring
American symbols -- the dollar bill.”  Despite this completely nonsensical explanation, questions
remain. When did the dollar bill become a great patriotic
symbol? Who is paying for this patriotic campaign to save it
(because I doubt that Muddy’s Laundromat can foot the bill)?
What is their real motive, whoever they are? What is the
likelihood that Congress -- Congress! Which cannot agree about
anything -- will take up an issue that is on no one’s front
burner and vote against the supposed wishes of 97 percent of the
American people? If you correctly answer, “slight,” why the
urgency?  What’s going on here is very familiar in  Washington . Some
lobbying or public-relations firm convinces some fool of a
client that action on some issue is urgent urgent urgent. The
client panics and starts writing checks.  We often deplore the deplorable influence of corporate
money in Washington. But often the corporations that pay former
high officials and other big shots to con politicians and the
public are themselves being conned. It’s less like bribery and
more like a protection racket. This one is especially bizarre
because electronic payments are quickly replacing both coins and
bills. Talk about fighting the last war.  Usually the name of a group gives you a hint about its
purpose, if not its identity. If it calls itself Americans
United for Responsible Tiddlywinks Regulation, it is against
Tiddlywinks regulation. If it’s the National Coalition of
Mothers for Broccoli, the “mothers” are probably mothers of
broccoli farmers.  And so on. But “Americans for George” could be anyone. It
turns out, however, that the answer is refreshingly
straightforward.  Fancy Stationery  Mother Jones  reports  that the main backer of Americans for
George is Crane, the fancy stationery company, which also makes
the paper used for dollar bills. The main backers of the dollar
coin are copper mining companies.  The pro-coin lobby has its own front group, sensibly called
the  Dollar Coin Alliance , which touts the billions of dollars to
be saved by switching to coins from bills. The Obama
administration has canceled a program to do just that. The
Dollar Coin Alliance says, “This decision makes no cents!” Har-
de-har-har.  So how does a patriotic American decide which lobby to
believe? You might start by asking, Which one is more obviously
trying to buffalo me? Clearly that is the Billsters (let’s call
them) with their ludicrous attempt to create patriotic sentiment
around the dollar bill. Then you might ask, Which side has hired
 Frank Luntz ? Once again, it’s the dollar bill people.  If Luntz is on one side, you probably want to be on the
other. Luntz’s specialty is to determine which specific words
resonate most negatively on any issue, then to promote use of
them. His biggest triumph was  rechristening  the estate tax as
the “death tax.” His eerie slogan -- actually printed on his
firm’s stationery -- is, “It’s not what you say. It’s what they
hear.”  “The results are clear and definitive,”  Luntz tells  the
paper money lobby. “Americans prefer paper money to coins.” Some
“key takeaways”: “The dollar bill represents ‘America’ to 47% of
voters; 66% believe eliminating the dollar bill erodes our
national character; 49% of Americans associate dollar coins with
Europeans, not Americans.”  Sixty-four percent of Americans oppose switching to a
dollar coin and gradually phasing out the paper dollar. “The
federal government shouldn’t tell me what money I can and cannot
use. This is about personal freedom and personal choice.
Americans should have the right to use the kind of money they
want to use. Period.” This man is still fuming about the office
vending machine because it won’t accept euros. According to
Luntz, 68 percent of Americans agree with this bit of ignorant
confusion.  If I thought Americans were as gullible as Luntz apparently
does, I would be very depressed. But I suspect these ridiculous
poll results -- dollar coins are European? The dollar bill
“represents America,” whatever that means? -- are more the
result of Americans’ willingness to express an opinion about
anything, when asked by a pollster.  The dollar bill people may be right about public opinion,
but the coin people are right about coins. Americans don’t want
to admit to themselves how much our currency  has eroded . A
dollar today buys what a quarter would have bought in 1976.  Yet again, we learn that while Americans claim to yearn for
change, change is actually the last thing they want.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on the  latest job numbers  and
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed’s trial ;  Jonathan Alter  on the  auto
bailout ;  Luigi Zingales  on  Fed nominees ;  Amity Shlaes  on  tax
policy  and  “The Hunger Games” ; Alex Marshall on  improving U.S.
roads .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 