-- Apple Mac Computers Hit in Hacker Attack, Researcher Says
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-04-05T20:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/apple-mac-computers-affected-by-hacker-attack-researcher-says.html
More than 600,000  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Mac
computers were affected by a hacking attack, a sign that the
once rarely targeted company is becoming a bigger focus for
people intent on spreading malware, a security-research firm
said.  The attack affects computers running Apple’s Mac OS X
software, according to Russian antivirus software maker Doctor
Web. Most of the infected computers are in the  United States (X)  and
 Canada , the firm  said  in a blog posting.  Apple fixed  a security
hole this week that let the malicious software spread. Users who
haven’t downloaded the necessary updates are vulnerable, Doctor
Web said.  “This once again refutes claims by some experts that there
are no cyber-threats to Mac OS X,” Doctor Web said. Apple
spokesman  Bill Evans  declined to comment on the hacker attack.
He noted that there are 63 million Macs in use worldwide.  Macs have historically been an unappealing hacking target
because of their low market share. Instead, criminals have
attacked personal computers running Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
software, seeking the biggest number of victims for illicit
moneymaking schemes. Windows runs on more than 90 percent of the
world’s desktop computers, according to market researcher  Net
Applications .  The attack that Doctor Web analyzed is an especially
harmful variety that infects computers without user interaction.
To get hit, users just need to visit a poisoned webpage and the
infection happens silently in the background. The vulnerability
that allows the attack to take place exists in Java, the widely
used programming language for building web pages.  Security Patch  Boris Sharov, Doctor Web’s chief executive officer, said in
an interview that the spread of the infection appears to have
leveled off at around 600,000 computers, a sign of the
effectiveness of the security patch. He pointed to a Doctor Web
page for detecting and removing the malicious software, which is
called  BackDoor.Flashback.39.   The malicious software first appeared in September and has
gone through a number of transformations since then, targeting
Macs and generally being used to steal personal information such
as passwords, according to Liam O Murchu, a manager of security-
response operations at Symantec Corp.  “It just shows that no matter what operating system you’re
using, you can be at risk,” he said in a phone interview today.
“No one is immune.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  