-- Apple Preparing to Defend Price Agreement With Publishers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/apple-preparing-to-defend-price-agreement-with-publishers.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and two publishers are
preparing to fight the U.S.  Justice Department  in court if
necessary over pricing agreements for digital books, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Apple,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group, and Macmillan, a unit
of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, want to protect the
so-called agency model that lets publishers -- not vendors --set
e-book prices, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to talk publicly.  The Justice Department is probing whether Apple’s
interaction with publishers over pricing hampered competition in
the market for electronic books. The government is seeking a
settlement that would let  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and other retailers
return to a wholesale model, where retailers decide what to
charge customers, the people said.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,  Lagardère SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book
Group, and News Corp.’s HarperCollins are seeking to avoid a
costly legal battle and could reach a settlement next week, a
person said this week. A settlement could also void so-called
most-favored nation clauses in Apple’s contracts that require
book sellers to provide the maker of the iPad with the lowest
prices they offer competitors, the people said.  Upholding the agency model would give publishers more
control over pricing and limit discounting, helping the industry
avoiding sales losses as more consumers buy books online.  Apple e-Book Pricing  The Justice Department is probing how Cupertino,
California-based Apple changed the way publishers charged for e-
books on the iPad, a person familiar with the matter said last
month. European antitrust regulators also have said they’re
investigating whether Apple’s pricing deals with publishers
restrict competition.  Sales of e-books rose 117 percent in 2011, generating
$969.9 million, Publishers Weekly reported Feb. 27, citing data
from the Association of American Publishers. By eliminating
printing and shipping costs, digital versions generate higher
profit margins than physical copies.  When Apple came out with the iPad in 2010, it let
publishers set their own prices for e-books as long as it got a
30 percent cut and the publishers agreed to offer their lowest
prices through Apple. This so-called agency model overtook
Amazon.com’s practice of buying books at a discount from
publishers and then setting its own price for e-reader devices.  Agency Model  The results of a settlement or lawsuit wouldn’t necessarily
kill the agency model or prevent other publishers from
continuing to set their own prices for e-books, one of the
people said.  Random House Inc., based in  New York , has agreements with
Apple and Amazon that lets the  book publisher  set prices for e-
books, the essence of the agency model. The company isn’t a part
of the U.S. inquiry, Stuart Applebaum, a Random House spokesman,
said in an interview.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, declined to comment, as did representatives
of Apple, Penguin, Macmillan, Hachette, Simon & Schuster and
HarperCollins.  CBS, controlled by  Sumner Redstone , climbed 1 percent to
$33.33 yesterday, while  News Corp. (NWSA) , controlled by Rupert Murdoch, gained 0.4 percent to $19.49. Lagardere rose 0.5
percent to 21.73 euros in Paris yesterday and Pearson fell 0.1
percent to 1,135 pence at the close of London trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 