-- Bernanke View on QE3 Fails to Discourage Investors: Mortgage
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-04-05T13:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/market-reveals-resistance-to-fed-s-latest-view-of-qe3-mortgages.html
Ben S. Bernanke ’s Federal Reserve
signaled this week it isn’t ready to buy more bonds to stimulate
the economy. Mortgage investors aren’t convinced.  Trading in the market for government-backed mortgage bonds
is showing a 37 percent chance of a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE3, according to Credit Suisse Group AG
calculations. While that’s declined from 40 percent last week,
it’s up from 25 percent after the April 3 release of the minutes
of the Fed’s monetary-policy panel meeting last month.  Stocks, commodities and bonds declined after the statement,
which showed certain members support easing only “if the
economy lost momentum.”  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  and mortgage securities
pared losses yesterday with some investors speculating the Fed
will eventually acquire more home-loan debt to bolster  consumer
spending  and support a housing market the minutes described as
“depressed.”  “Mortgages didn’t underperform in a truly meaningful
fashion,” said Jason Callan, head of structured products at
Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC in  Minneapolis ,
which oversees about $180 billion in fixed income. “The
likelihood of QE was modestly diminished, particularly in terms
of the April meeting, but that doesn’t take it off the table for
later.”  After Fannie Mae’s 3.5 percent, 30-year mortgage securities
underperformed similar-duration interest-rate swaps by 0.34 cent
on the dollar on April 3, the most since October, the home-loan
notes outperformed by 0.25 cent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bellwether to Buying  Trading in the $5.4 trillion market for so-called agency
mortgage securities relative to fixed-income benchmarks such as
Treasuries and interest-rate swaps is serving as a QE3
bellwether because any program may focus on home-loan bonds
after Fed Chairman Bernanke sent a  study  to Congress in January
that highlighted how housing is restraining the economic
recovery.  The central bank acquired $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 until June
2011, including $1.25 trillion of agency mortgage securities. In
September it announced it would buy $400 billion of longer-term
U.S. securities through June while selling an equal amount of
shorter-term debt in its holdings, and start  reinvesting
proceeds  from its housing debt back into the mortgage market.  The probability being assigned to QE3 is now “too high,”
Credit Suisse analyst Mahesh Swaminathan in  New York , said in an
e-mail. After the Fed’s statement, his team recommended bets
that mortgage bonds will underperform, based on the central
bank’s “incrementally hawkish sentiment.”  Further Easing  Four Federal Reserve regional bank presidents who vote on
monetary policy this year said this week they see less of a need
for the Fed to spur the economy with new accommodation.  Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  said yesterday he “was surprised
a couple months ago at the probability market participants
seemed to ascribe to further easing.”  Jobless claims fell 6,000 to 357,000 in the week ended
March 31, the fewest since April 2008, the Labor Department
reported today in  Washington .  A report on the state of the  U.S. job market  tomorrow also
may show the  unemployment rate  held at 8.3 percent, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. While that would match the rate
in January and February, the lowest in three years, it may
provide the Fed with evidence that consumers and housing need
additional help.  Housing Recovery  Home-loan securities guaranteed by government-supported
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  and U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae have
returned 0.99 percentage point more than Treasuries this year
through April 4, according to Barclays Plc index data. The rally
was partly driven by investors who anticipate QE3, such as
 Pacific Investment Management Co. (PTTRX) ’s  Bill Gross .  The Fed has already helped push borrowing costs on new
mortgages to record lows. Almost 90 percent of new home lending
goes through government-supported programs fueled by the agency
mortgage-bond market, making the debt key to the level of  loan
rates , according to newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.  Even with that assistance, the housing recovery remains
fragile. Property prices dropped five consecutive months to a
10-year low in January, according to an  S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20)  home-
price index. New-home sales fell to a 313,000 annual pace in
February, the slowest since October, the Commerce Department
said March 23.  Existing-home sales  eased to a 4.59 million
annual rate from January’s 4.63 million pace, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  ‘Fiscal Headwind’  After the release of the Fed minutes, “we went from 55
percent odds in favor of easing to 45 percent,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s a slight bias that we
don’t get it. But the fact remains that it’s data-dependent,”
or tied to new information on the economy.  Projected economic growth is “far from robust,” said
Columbia Management’s Callan. There’s also a “potentially
massive fiscal headwind as we turn the calendar to next year,”
including items such as the expiration of tax cuts originally
passed under President  George W. Bush , he said.  “I agree with the general sentiment, it’s data-dependent,”
he said. “I just don’t believe economic growth has achieved
escape velocity. Most of the larger data points have modestly
underperformed expectations as of late.”  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index has fallen to 6.8,
the lowest in six months, after reaching 93.2 on Jan. 6, the
highest in ten months. Readings below zero mean reports are
missing the median estimate in Bloomberg surveys.  ‘Massive Over-Reaction’  Gross domestic product in the U.S. will probably expand 2.2
percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of more than
70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s slower than the 3
percent posted in 2010, the first year after the end of the
recession.  “The data flow will lend itself quite comfortably to the
potential of another round of asset purchases,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at  RBC Capital Markets  and a
former economist at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York. “The
first half of this year will be soft enough for the Fed to
respond to it.”  Porcelli said the markets had “a massive over-reaction,”
considering public comments by Bernanke that came after the
March 13 meeting of Fed policy makers. In a March 27 television
interview with ABC News, The Fed chairman said that “we haven’t
quite yet got to the point where we can be completely confident
that we’re on a track to full recovery.”  Europe’s Debt Crisis  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is also a consideration for
the Fed. Spanish 10-year yields surged 0.24 percentage point
yesterday to 5.69 percent, helping to extend losses in stocks
and commodities and pare a rise in Treasury yields.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 index  of stocks fell 1.4 percent
over two days, the biggest two-session decline in almost a
month. The S&P GSCI Index tracking 24 commodities fell 2.4
percent. Yields on 10-year Treasuries advanced 0.12 percentage
point to 2.3 percent on April 3 before falling yesterday to 2.22
percent.  Yields on  Fannie Mae ’s 3.5 percent mortgage securities rose
0.16 percentage point to 3.05 percent on April 3, the highest in
two weeks, before falling to 2.96 percent yesterday, Bloomberg
data show.  Using a different methodology than Credit Suisse, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts have cited lesser odds of QE3 being priced
into the mortgage-bond market.  By last week, their measure showed a perceived 20 percent
chance, down from 60 percent to 70 percent a month ago. Their
approach is based on one-week changes in the performance of
mortgage bonds relative to Treasuries as yields move up and
down, observed over one-month periods.  Gross Increased  Money managers such as mutual funds may not have much room
to buy more mortgage bonds if the Fed doesn’t, according to
surveys by the New York-based JPMorgan analysts led by Matt Jozoff. Last week, about 62 percent were overweight the debt, or
holding more than in benchmark indexes, compared with 11 percent
who were underweight, down from almost 30 percent in August,
according to the polls.  Gross increased the mortgage holdings of Pimco’s $252
billion Total Return Fund to 52 percent in February, according
to data on the company’s website.  “Without QE, the financial markets and then the economy
will falter,” wrote Gross, who oversees the world’s biggest
bond fund, in a Twitter post yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  