-- Harrisburg Officials Seek Court Hearing on Receiver
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/harrisburg-officials-seek-court-hearing-on-receiver.html
Harrisburg officials, including the
controller and treasurer, said they are asking the state’s
Commonwealth Court to hold a hearing on the resignation of David Unkovic as receiver for the insolvent Pennsylvania capital.  Unkovic’s departure on March 30, two days after he
requested state and federal probes of bond deals that sparked
the community’s fiscal distress, “rings alarm bells,” City
Council President Wanda Williams said yesterday.  Unkovic’s hand-written resignation letter to the court that
approved his appointment Dec. 2 said he found himself “in an
untenable position in the political and ethical crosswinds.”
The receiver had devised a plan to lease or sell city assets to
help resolve a crisis that has piled up debt of about five times
the city’s general-fund budget and keep it out of bankruptcy.  “Before the appointment and confirmation of a replacement,
the court, the city and its residents need to learn the real
circumstances that led to his departure,” Williams said
yesterday at a City Hall news briefing. A court hearing would
help “get to the bottom of the Unkovic resignation,” she said.  Councilwoman Patty Kim called on Governor Tom Corbett, a
Republican, to look into the issues raised by Unkovic’s letter.  Corbett “just sat there and Unkovic was drowning by
himself,” she said. The council members were joined in the
briefing by other elected municipal officials, including
Controller Dan Miller and Treasurer John Campbell.  Given Independence  “The Harrisburg receiver is appointed by the state to act
in an independent capacity and Mr. Unkovic was provided that
independence,” Kelli Roberts, a Corbett spokeswoman, said by e-
mail in response to the call for a hearing.  “Given that the court has accepted Mr. Unkovic’s
resignation, I’m not sure what a hearing would accomplish,”
Roberts said. “The administration will stay focused on finding
the right person to take over this important position.”  The judge overseeing the Harrisburg case, Bonnie Leadbetter, was unavailable to comment, said a person who
answered the telephone at the courthouse yesterday. Art Heinz, a
spokesman for the Pennsylvania courts, said he was unaware of
any hearing being scheduled regarding Unkovic’s resignation.  In letters sent March 28, Unkovic asked U.S. Attorney Peter J. Smith in Harrisburg and Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly to investigate financings for a municipal incinerator
overhaul and expansion. The work created a debt burden of more
than $300 million.  January Audit  An audit released in January said municipal officials and
advisers “knew or should have known that, at a minimum, there
was substantial risk” the plant wouldn’t produce enough cash to
cover costs. Since resuming operations, the trash-to-energy
plant hasn’t generated revenue sufficient to cover all its debt
obligations.  “There’s been challenges from a number of people that I
didn’t rubber stamp the Act 47 plan from the summer,” Unkovic
said in an interview on March 29, referring to a proposal by
consultants hired under the state’s distressed cities program,
known as Act 47. The council has rejected that approach.  Bob Philbin, a spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson , didn’t
respond to a call for comment yesterday on the request for a
hearing on Unkovic’s resignation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia
at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 