-- Harrisburg Creditors Name Choice for Incinerator Receiver
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-04-05T17:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/harrisburg-creditors-name-choice-for-incinerator-receiver-1-.html
Creditors of Harrisburg, the capital
city of Pennsylvania, asked a judge to appoint a retired sewer
executive to run the waste-to-energy incinerator that is
responsible for pushing the city into insolvency.  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. and TD Bank NA asked state
court judge Todd A. Hoover to name Robin Davidov of  Maryland  as
the receiver to take over the incinerator, which is owned by the
Harrisburg Authority, a municipal agency.  Hoover ruled last month that the agency should be replaced
with a receiver, as requested by TD Bank and Assured, a unit of
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)   Hoover’s ruling was cited by David Unkovic when he resigned
as the state-appointed official in charge of fixing Harrisburg’s
finances. Unkovic, who also held the title of receiver, asked
state and federal authorities to investigate “possible illegal
activities” in financing an overhaul of Harrisburg’s
incinerator.  Unkovic had unsuccessfully opposed the appointment of a
receiver to run the incinerator, arguing that it could interfere
with his duties. Unkovic was appointed by  Pennsylvania 
Republican Governor Tom Corbett.  Hoover said he didn’t believe an incinerator receiver would
interfere with the receiver for the city. Court-appointed
receivers like the one proposed for the incinerator typically
manage a facility on behalf of creditors to make sure debts are
paid on time.  Financial Crisis  Unkovic had proposed selling the incinerator and other city
assets to help end Harrisburg’s financial crisis.  Davidov retired last year as executive director of the
Northeast Maryland Waste Disposal Authority, which controlled
four waste-to-energy plants near Baltimore that generated $23
million in electricity sales, according to documents filed March
30 in state court in Dauphin County.  Bob Philbin, a spokesman for Harrisburg Mayor  Linda Thompson , declined to comment on the request for Davidov.  “She wants the incinerator sold as quickly as possible
with the highest return,” he said of the mayor.  Shannon Williams, interim executive director of the
Harrisburg Authority, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  The city of 49,500, where 30 percent live in poverty,
announced March 9 it would miss $5.27 million in general-
obligation bond payments due March 15.  The receiver case is TD Bank NA, v. The Harrisburg
Authority, 2010-CV-11737, Court of Common Pleas, Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  