-- Asia Stocks Slide as Europe Debt Crisis Concern Flares
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-04-05T10:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/asia-stocks-slide-as-europe-debt-crisis-concern-flares.html
Most Asian shares fell, with the
regional benchmark index headed for its biggest two-day decline
in a month, after  Spain  struggled to sell bonds, renewing
concern Europe won’t be able to contain its debt crisis.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and other companies that do business
in Europe slid after demand fell at a Spanish government bond
auction, sparking concern about the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis. Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  dropped 2
percent after Premier Wen Jiabao said  China  needs to break the
“monopoly” of a few big lenders. Soho China Ltd. rose 2.7
percent, leading gains among mainland developers after Credit
Agricole SA said China is “almost guaranteed” to ease monetary
policy further this month.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.1 percent to 125.44
as of 7:46 p.m. in  Tokyo  after losing as much as 1.2 percent.
More than two shares fell for each that rose on the measure,
which yesterday slid 1.5 percent, the most since Dec. 19, after
the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it may not offer more
stimulus.  “Expectations for China’s additional easing are causing
short-covering,” said Yutaka Miura, a senior technical analyst
at Mizuho Securities Co. “It’s not that a real solution has
been brought to  Europe ’s crisis. That’s why Spain’s debt sale is
reviving concern.”  BOJ Nominee  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen about 10 percent this
year amid signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering. Gains slowed
after China last month cut its target for economic growth as it
seeks to cool the property market and become less dependent on
exports.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average pared a loss to 0.5
percent after the rejection of a Bank of Japan nominee came as a
victory for lawmakers pressing for more monetary easing.  South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.5 percent after the
government said foreign direct investment into the nation
increased 17 percent in the first quarter. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 fell 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index retreated 1 percent, with
trading volume 10 percent below the 30-day average. Markets in
the city were closed yesterday for a holiday and will also be
shut tomorrow.  India  and the  Philippines  are having holidays
today.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 1.7 percent after the government
said it will more than double the amount foreigners can invest
in equities, bonds and bank deposits.  A measure of volatility on the Hang Seng index rose 7.9
percent to 19.89, indicating traders expect a swing of 5.7
percent on the gauge over the next 30 days. Readings for the
Nikkei 225 and core stocks on South Korea’s benchmark dropped.  Spain Debt Sale  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  advanced 0.1
percent today. The gauge sank 1 percent in  New York  yesterday
after a measure of conditions at U.S. service companies showed
slowing growth.  In Europe, Spain struggled to borrow in financial markets
yesterday, selling 2.6 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds at
an auction, an amount that was near the bottom of a range set by
the Treasury for the sale. European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi said the region’s economic outlook is “subject to
downside risks.”  “Investors realize those economies are heading into a
significant recession,” said  Andrew Pease , Sydney-based chief
investment strategist for the Asia-Pacific region at Russell
Investment Group, which manages about $150 billion. “Gains from
here are going to be hard work.”  Companies that do business in Europe slid. Hutchison
Whampoa lost 2.6 percent to HK$76.10.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which
operates container facilities at  Greece ’s Piraeus port, slid 1.4
percent to HK$11.42 in Hong Kong. Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker
that gets almost a fifth of its revenue from Europe, lost 1
percent to 869 yen.  ‘Almost Guaranteed’  Stocks in the Asia-Pacific index, which includes companies
from  emerging markets , are valued at 1.4 times book value,
compared with 2.3 times for the S&P 500 and 1.4 times for the
Stoxx 600, according to Bloomberg data. A number below 1 means
companies can be bought for less than value of their assets.  Stocks pared losses amid speculation China may relax some
of its measures aimed at damping inflation.  The country is “almost guaranteed” to either cut interest
rates or reserve requirement ratios in April, Dariusz Kowalczyk,
a Hong Kong-based strategist at  Credit Agricole , said in a
Bloomberg television interview yesterday. The strategist cited
comments made by Premier Wen Jiabao on April 3 that he plans to
release fine-tuning measures “soon.”  Easing Speculation  China also accelerated the opening of its capital markets
by more than doubling the amount foreigners can invest in
stocks, bonds and bank deposits. Offshore investors will also be
allowed to pump an extra 50 billion yuan ($7.9 billion) of local
currency into the country, up from 20 billion yuan, according to
a  statement  on April 3.  Mainland developers gained in Hong Kong. Soho China rose
2.7 percent to HK$5.79, and China Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd. advanced 0.8 percent to HK$15.96.  Agile Property Holdings (3383) 
Ltd. rose 2.1 percent to HK$9.87.  The country’s big banks fell after Wen pledged to break the
“monopoly” enjoyed by the largest institutions who are able to
make easy profits because it’s hard to borrow money elsewhere.
ICBC, as the world’s No. 1 lender by market value is also known,
dropped 1.6 percent to HK$5.03.  Bank of China Ltd. , the No. 4
Chinese lender by value, fell 1.6 percent to HK$3.15.  In Seoul, NHN Corp., operator of South Korea’s largest
Internet search engine, gained 8.1 percent to 274,000 won after
Daewoo Securities Co. increased its share-price estimate to
340,000 won from 300,000 won, citing a stronger outlook for
mobile-advertising sales and growing popularity of NHN’s
messaging service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 