-- Stocks Retreat, Commodities Gain Before Jobs Data
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-04-05T20:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/asian-stocks-drop-on-europe-debt-crisis-concern-oil-advances.html
Most U.S. stocks fell for a third
day while commodities halted a two-day slump as investors
weighed optimism about the American job market with renewed
concern over Europe’s debt crisis. Treasuries gained while the
euro weakened for a fourth day against the dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent to close
at 1,398.08 at 4 p.m. in New York after dropping as much as 0.4
percent, while about four U.S. companies fell for every three
that rose on U.S. exchanges. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
increased 0.1 percent, reversing a 0.9 percent tumble. Ten-year
Treasury note yields slipped five basis points to 2.18 percent
after declining as much as nine points earlier. Silver, lead and
nickel led commodities higher. Canada’s dollar rallied after a
report showed employers added the most jobs since 2008.  U.S. jobless claims dropped to the lowest level in four
years, a day before a Labor Department report that is projected
by economists to show the nation added more than 200,000 jobs
for a fourth straight month. Concern about Europe’s debt crisis
deepened as French borrowing costs increased at an 8.44 billion
euro ($11 billion) auction, while Spanish bonds fell for a third
day amid growing concern the nation will follow Greece, Portugal
and Ireland in requiring an international bailout.  “You have, certainly, improvement in the labor market in
the U.S. but every once in a while we got reminded there still
remain problems in Europe,” Greg Woodard, a portfolio
strategist at Manning & Napier in Fairport, New York, which
manages about $40 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The
volatility is going to continue. It’s going to be choppy.”  Alcoa Inc. and General Electric Co. lost at least 1.3
percent to help lead losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
which slipped 14.61 points to 13,060.14. Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
rose as the retail-chain operator’s fourth-quarter profit beat
estimates.  ‘A Little Pause’  The  S&P 500  slipped 0.7 percent this week, the biggest of
only three weekly losses this year, after the  Federal Reserve 
signaled reluctance to embark on another round of asset
purchases unless the economic recovery falters or inflation is
less than its 2 percent target.  The index may fall as much as 5 percent to 7 percent before
rebounding, according to hedge fund manager  Barton Biggs .  “I may want to take a little risk off,” Biggs, founder of
Traxis Partners LP, said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “I am cutting back a little, and I’m
tempted to cut back some more,” he said. Equities are “going
higher over the course of the next few months, but in the short
run here we’ll have a little pause.  Canada ’s dollar climbed against all 16 major peers.
Employment rose by 82,300 following a decline of 2,800 in
February,  Statistics Canada  said, lowering the jobless rate to
7.2 percent from 7.4 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 10,500 gain in jobs and 7.4 percent
unemployment, according to the median forecasts.  Oil Rebounds  Oil rose for the first time in three days, gaining 1.6
percent to $103.07 a barrel. Nickel rallied 3.1 percent and lead
and silver rose more than 2 percent as 18 of 24 commodities
tracked by S&P GSCI Index advanced, sending the gauge up 0.8
percent.  Gains in mining companies and energy producers led the
European benchmark index higher, overshadowing a drop in banks
and automobile companies. Xstrata Plc and Rio Tinto PLC rose
more than 1.5 percent, while UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s biggest
bank, fell 3.1 percent. The Stoxx 600 had tumbled 3.1 percent in
the previous two sessions.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year French
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds reached 125 basis
points, or 1.25 percentage point, the most since Feb. 1. The
yield spread between Spanish and German 10-year bonds exceeded 4
percentage points for the first time since Dec. 12, and German
five-year note yields reached a record low of 0.71 as investors
sought the safest bonds.  Euro Weakens  The euro weakened against 12 of its 16 major peers, driving
the currency through the  Swiss National Bank ’s cap for the first
time since it imposed the limit on Sept. 6. The SNB won’t allow
the franc to go below 1.20 versus the euro and is ready to buy
foreign currencies in unlimited quantities, spokesman Walter
Meier said by telephone today.  German industrial output fell 1.3 percent in February from
the previous month, dropping more than the 0.5 percent median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The cost of insuring against default on European corporate
debt rose, with the Markit iTraxx  Europe  Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings climbing 2.5 basis points to
132.2.  Default Swaps  Trading in credit-default swaps is dropping as investors
reaping the biggest corporate-bond market gains since 2010
reduce bearish bets. Banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers
traded credit swaps tied to a weekly average of $137.2 billion
of corporate and sovereign debt in the four weeks ended March
30, according to data from the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
That’s down 3.6 percent from $142.3 billion in the same period a
year earlier and a 24.5 percent drop from August, when an
average $181.7 billion was traded, DTCC data show.  Investors scaled back hedges as corporate bonds globally
returned 3.8 percent in the first quarter of 2012, the biggest
gains since the period ended September 2010.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.1 percent. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks listed in
 Hong Kong  retreated 1.4 percent, after returning from
yesterday’s public holiday.  Most markets will be closed tomorrow for the Good Friday
holiday and U.S. equity index futures will trade until 9:15 a.m.
 New York  time on CME Group Inc.’s Chicago Mercantile Exchange
and Treasuries will trade for part of the day to allow investors
to react to the nonfarm payrolls report. There will be spot
trading in precious metals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  