-- Asia Currencies Drop as Eurpean Debt Concern Increases
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-04-05T08:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/asian-currencies-drop-as-stocks-retreat-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Asian currencies declined, led by
Indonesia’s rupiah, as the region’s stocks extended their
biggest loss since December after weak demand at a Spanish bond
auction renewed concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares dropped 0.1 percent,
following a 1.5 percent slump yesterday. Spain, struggling with
a  budget deficit  that hasn’t been under the European Union’s 3
percent limit since 2007, sold 2.6 billion euros ($3.4 billion)
of notes yesterday, short of its 3.5 billion euros target.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said talk of an
early exit from support for its banks is “premature.”  “Spain’s bond auction and comments from the ECB President
hurt sentiment toward riskier assets, and that is making the
dollar stronger against regional currencies,” said Norawit
Suparinayok, a foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl.
“Europe’s debt problem is deep and it’s difficult to solve.”  The rupiah dropped 0.2 percent to 9,155 per dollar as of
3:12 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar fell as much as 0.4
percent before closing down 0.1 percent at NT$29.519 and  China ’s
yuan weakened 0.21 percent to 6.3110 from March 30 as trading
resumed after a three-day holiday.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, traded at
the lowest level in almost a week, while its 60-day historical
volatility was little changed at 3.36 percent.  Taiwan Tax  The rupiah dropped the most in a week on speculation
importers were taking advantage of a more favorable  exchange
rate  to buy dollars. The Indonesian currency touched 9,123 per
dollar on April 3, the strongest level in two weeks.  “The rupiah can’t strengthen too sharply, considering we
see much demand for dollars from importing companies that need
to make payments,” said Gusti Kahari, a foreign-exchange dealer
at PT Bank Artha Graha Internasional in Jakarta.  Taiwan ’s dollar reached the lowest level in almost a week
after the island’s stock exchange signaled plans to impose a
capital-gains tax on share transactions, pushing the benchmark
share index down as much as 3 percent.  “The Taiwan dollar is falling because the stock market is
lower,” said Tarsicio Tong, a currency trader at Union Bank of
Taiwan in Taipei.  The yuan slumped the most since March 12 on speculation
China will counter appreciation to help exporters combat a slump
in overseas demand. The People’s Bank of China weakened its
daily reference rate by 0.15 percent to 6.3035 per dollar.  Slowing Chinese Growth  A government report on April 10 may show exports grew 7
percent in March from a year earlier, easing from an 18.4
percent pace in February, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Gross domestic product increased 8.4
percent in the first quarter, the least since 2009, according to
a separate poll before data due April 13.  “They are trying to keep the yuan as weak as possible
during the month to help exporters,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “I would
expect a depreciation of the Chinese currency going into April,
especially around the first-quarter GDP next Friday.”  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.1 percent to 3.0622
per dollar and South Korea’s climbed 0.2 percent to 1,127.26.
Vietnam’s dong dropped 0.5 percent to 20,835. Financial markets
in  India  and the  Philippines  are closed for public holidays.
Markets are closed tomorrow in  Hong Kong , Singapore,  Indonesia ,
India,  Thailand , Philippines and Sri Lanka for the Good Friday
holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 