-- Astellas Wins FDA Panel Backing for Overactive Bladder Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-06T08:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/astellas-wins-fda-panel-backing-for-overactive-bladder-drug-1-.html
Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ’s mirabegron
treatment for overactive bladders won the backing of advisers to
U.S. regulators despite the drug being linked to high  blood
pressure  and other side effects. The stock rose.  A  Food and Drug Administration  advisory panel voted 7-4 to
recommend approving the drug yesterday, saying mirabegron is
beneficial and adequately safe. The agency isn’t required to
follow the panel’s recommendations and is scheduled to decide by
June 29.  Mirabegron would be the first in a new class of treatments
for sudden urination-urge conditions that affect 42 million
people in the U.S., Tokyo-based Astellas said. Sales of the drug
would help Astellas buffer a decline in revenue when its
Vesicare bladder-control drug, which generated $1 billion in
sales last fiscal year, loses patent protection in 2015.  “I was excited to find another class of drugs that may
offer some benefit for my patients,” Juana Hutchinson-Colas,
assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Robert Wood
Johnson Medical School in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and a panel
member, said during the meeting.  Astellas shares rose 3.2 percent, the biggest gain since
Nov. 4, to 3,360 yen as of the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo trading,
while the benchmark Topix Index fell 0.8 percent.  The panel also voted 8-4 that mirabegron is beneficial and
9-3 that it’s adequately safe. Panel members who voted that the
drug is safe said Astellas needs to conduct follow-up studies to
better understand the side effects.  Blood Pressure  The drug increased heart rates in addition to blood
pressure and was associated with hypersensitivity reactions
ranging from painful rash to anemia, FDA staff wrote in an April
3  report . The treatment also was linked to tests revealing
potential liver disease, a small number of urinary tract
infections and malignant tumors, FDA staff wrote. The reason
mirabegron would lead to tumor formation is unknown.  The drug reduced the number of times patients were
incontinent, or involuntarily urinated, in a 24-hour period, the
staff wrote. Patients experienced mean 2.7 incontinence episodes
daily at the start of final-phase studies. Of the 862 patients
on mirabegron, the episodes decreased to 1.2 incidents, compared
to 1.6 for the 878 patients on placebo, according to the report.  While the FDA said the reduction is statistically
significant, Kate Ryan, program coordinator at the Washington-
based National Women’s Health Network, told the committee they
are inadequate.  Uniqueness of Drug  “These women want a real solution,” Ryan said. “One that
is effective enough to make a practical solution in their real
life. Unfortunately this drug just doesn’t do that.”  Panel members said the uniqueness of mirabegron made them
vote in favor of its approval.  Drugs on the market to treat overactive bladder block a
receptor that causes contractions that make someone feel the
urge to urinate though they also can affect the ability to empty
the bladder, Martin said. Mirabegron enhances bladder storage
without affecting patients’ ability to urinate.  Current treatments include  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Detrol,  Warner
Chilcott Plc (WCRX) ’s Enablex and Astellas’s Vesicare.  Patients also often stop taking drugs on the market because
of dry mouth, according to Martin. She said incidents of dry
mouth with mirabegron were similar to placebo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  