-- Masters Prestige Seen as Reason IBM Stays While CEO Excluded
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-04-05T12:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/masters-prestige-seen-as-reason-ibm-stays-while-romitty-excluded.html
Those watching the  Masters
Tournament  are the reason why  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  isn’t speaking out about its new chief executive officer
possibly breaking the gender barrier at the Augusta National
Golf Club.  The tournament draws an audience that includes “every CEO
in America,” said Scott O’Neil, president of Madison Square
 Garden (MSG)  Sports, who added IBM won’t jeopardize its much-desired
sponsorship in a battle over membership for Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, the company’s chief since January.  IBM, Exxon Mobil Corp. and  AT&T (T)  Inc. are sponsors for the
Masters, which began today at Georgia’s Augusta National, where
no woman has been offered membership since its founding eight
decades ago. Historically, the club has offered a membership to
the CEO of IBM, allowing him to don the club’s green member
blazer.  The status, visibility and reach of sponsoring the highest-
rated golf major is too valuable for IBM to criticize the all-
male membership -- or anything else -- at Augusta National,
which limits television commercials to four minutes an hour,
about half of most tournaments, and allocating all of that time
to sponsors, according to sports and marketing executives.  “There aren’t many events that pause the crazy world we
live in -- and this does,” O’Neil, who runs basketball’s  New
York Knicks  and hockey’s New York Rangers, said in an e-mail.
“History and heritage matter.”  Steve Ethun, a Masters Tournament spokesman, declined to
provide details of its agreements with sponsors.  Sponsorship Estimate  Rick Burton, a former chief marketing officer for the U.S.
Olympic Committee and now a professor of sport management at
Syracuse University, said a Masters sponsorship probably costs
at least $10 million annually.  Daimler (DAI)  AG’s Mercedes unit and Rolex are the tournament’s
global sponsors.  Augusta National is building a multistory hospitality
venue, which is scheduled to be completed by the 2013
tournament. It won’t be open to the public, and, according to
Ethun, only companies approached by the club will be able to use
what the Augusta Chronicle said would be an almost 90,000
square-foot facility.  The Masters is televised by Walt  Disney (DIS)  Co.’s ESPN and CBS,
which under a guideline that’s unique to marquee sports
broadcast contracts cannot cross-promote programming during the
event. In addition, there are no affiliate breaks and no local
commercials, former CBS Sports President  Neal Pilson  said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Prestigious Association’  “It’s a very prestigious association for the sponsors,”
said Pilson, who is now a television industry consultant. “You
have the opportunity in an uncluttered format to present your
message to an audience that is large, is committed to golf and
normally is very excited about the competition and the
programming.”  The final round of last year’s Masters, won by  Charl Schwartzel , drew a 9.5 rating, about the same as the average for
last year’s  World Series  between the Texas Rangers and St. Louis
Cardinals.  According to IBM, Rometty plays golf, though not
frequently. She inherited the sponsorship from predecessor  Sam Palmisano .  Billy Payne, Augusta National’s chairman, at his annual
pre-Masters press conference yesterday said the issue of who
gets invited to join is “subject to the private deliberations
of the members.”  Augusta wouldn’t provide a membership list. A 2010 partial
list obtained by Bloomberg News and 2004 documents published by
the Augusta Chronicle and USA Today show the last four IBM CEOs
were members, beginning with John R. Opel, who ran the company
from 1981 to 1985 and died last year.  IBM’s Sponsorship  IBM is featured in the tournament’s television commercials
and runs its website, mobile-phone applications and media
technology. Palmisano, 60, serves on Augusta’s technology
tournament committee. He remains IBM’s chairman, a role Rometty,
54, probably will assume upon his retirement.  Augusta sets its own rules as a private club and has
resisted calls for change. In 2002, when activist Martha Burk
demanded that the club add female members, Augusta opted for no
commercials because it didn’t want sponsors embroiled in the
controversy. Augusta didn’t have a black member until 1990, when
it extended an invitation to Gannett Co. television President
Ron Townsend, who still belongs.  “The history behind this tournament just makes it so
special,” four-time Masters winner  Tiger Woods   said  during his
pre-tournament media conference two days ago.  Edward Barbini, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM;
Kimberly Brasington, a spokeswoman for  Exxon (XOM) ; and  Brad Burns , an
AT&T spokesman, all declined to comment on the sponsorships.  ‘Measure of Exclusivity’  “Golf targets their consumers,” said Burton, referring to
the three companies. “There’s a measure of exclusivity and it
isn’t over-commercialized. You have a much better chance of
standing out.”  Michael Lynch , the former head of global sponsorship for
 Visa (V)  Inc., which sponsors the Olympics and soccer’s  World Cup ,
said via telephone that a Masters affiliation is among the most
sought in sports for one reason.  “The decision-makers who do the deals in each of the
sponsor categories watch,” he said. “It’s as coveted an event
as is out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  