-- Masters Birdie-Fest Possible After Rain Softens Augusta
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-05T12:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/masters-birdie-fest-possible-after-rain-softens-augusta-national.html
Phil Mickelson  has won the Masters
Tournament three times and knows the importance of experience at
Augusta National Golf Club, where the last player to win in his
first start was Fuzzy Zoeller in 1979.  Experience could be less of a factor this week, though, as
heavy rain has softened the greens and taken some of the
“fear” out of the course, Mickelson said, making the season’s
first major championship more wide open than usual.  “There’s a very good chance that a young, inexperienced,
fearless player that attacks this golf course can win if you
don’t need to show it the proper respect,” Mickelson told
reporters this week, before thunderstorms dumped more than two
inches of rain on Augusta,  Georgia , the past two days.  Keegan Bradley and  Webb Simpson  are among the golfers
making their first Masters appearances today. Opening-round play
began under a sunny sky at 7:50 a.m. local time, following the
ceremonial opening tee shots by former champions  Arnold Palmer ,
 Jack Nicklaus  and  Gary Player .  Mickelson is in today’s final group at 1:53 p.m., while
four-time champion  Tiger Woods  tees off at 10:35 a.m. Woods
starts immediately after a group including Bradley and defending
Masters champion Charl Schwartzel, and before a threesome that
features world No. 1 Luke Donald.  Fred Ridley, chairman of the Masters Competition Committee,
said that while all of Augusta National’s greens have built-in
SubAir vacuum systems to remove water, organizers won’t have the
“firm and fast” conditions they desired.  Mickelson said having softer greens means there’s less
value on knowing the subtle breaks on and around the putting
surfaces. Receptive greens also mean players can take more
chances by firing approach shots right at flags instead of
hitting to safer positions.  ‘Birdie Fest’  “Unless something changes, it’s going to be a birdie-
fest,” Mickelson said. “When the subtleties don’t come out,
the experience of playing here in the past is not as important,
because you don’t have to fear the greens.”  The only others to win in their Masters debut were Horton
Smith at the first Masters in 1934 and Gene Sarazen the
following year.  “I’m pretty used to going into these tournaments as a
first timer,” said Bradley, 25, who won last year’s  PGA
Championship  in his major tournament debut. “So it’s going to
be a lot of learning as you go. Sometimes when you don’t realize
that if you miss this pin two feet to the left, you’re going to
make bogey, you can go right at it and hit a great shot.
Sometimes it helps to your advantage.”  Masters Favorites  Even though this is his first Masters, only five players
have better odds of winning than Bradley, according to Las Vegas
Hotel & Casino’s sportsbook. Woods is the 9-2 favorite, followed
by U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy at 11-2, Mickelson at 12-1,
Donald at 15-1 and  Lee Westwood  at 20-1.  Bradley has 25-1 odds of becoming golf’s first repeat major
winner since 2008, when  Padraig Harrington  captured the British
Open and PGA Championship.  “Last year at the PGA, it helped me that it was my first
major and I didn’t really know what was going on and I was just
able to play my game,” Bradley said. “In a weird way, it
sometimes helps you. But certainly experience is something I’m
giving up at this tournament.”  Billy Payne, the chairman of Augusta National, said the
storm that came through two nights ago knocked down several
trees, including one that crushed a bathroom near the 16th tee.  Heavy rain washed out several bunkers, left debris strewn
across fairways and caused some overrun of Rae’s Creek, which
flows at the back of the 11th green and in front of the 12th
green and 13th tee. The trio of holes is known as “Amen
Corner.”  None of the damage will affect the competition, Payne said.
Today’s forecast calls for an increasing risk for rain and
thunderstorms during the afternoon, organizers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  