-- Austria Leans on ECB Veteran to Fix Broken Volksbanken
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-04-05T14:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/austria-leans-on-ecb-veteran-to-fix-broken-volksbanken.html
Austria tapped a former European
Central Bank executive to join the team fixing  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  in a sweeping board revamp at the lender partly
nationalized after years of losses from bad debts.  The Alpine republic named Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell, a
member of the ECB Executive Board from 2003 to 2011, as one of
four candidates for Volksbanken’s new nine-member supervisory
board, according to the candidate list released to shareholders
today. Tumpel-Gugerell, who was vice governor of the Austrian
central bank before her ECB job, may become the bank’s
chairwoman, the Wiener Zeitung newspaper reported April 3.  Tumpel-Gugerell is joining a bank that posted a 959
million-euro ($1.2 billion) loss last year and has needed state
aid three times since 2008 after the fivefold expansion of its
balance sheet over a decade unraveled.  Austria , which has been
told that its banks are the biggest risk to national
creditworthiness, is already saddled with 10 billion euros of
credit-default swaps from Volksbanken’s Kommunalkredit unit that
helped cause 1 billion euros of risk provisions this year due to
the Greek debt restructuring.  The new members, due to be elected at an April 26
shareholder meeting, replace 11 out of 13 members of the  current
supervisory board , which under outgoing Chairman Hans Hofinger
presided over 2.1 billion euros of losses in the last four
years. The meeting will also approve the bailout agreement
between Austria and the 62 local banks that will retain a
majority stake in Volksbanken.  New CEO  The board, which is non-executive and responsible for
strategic decisions, will elect its own chairman and will have
to appoint a chief executive officer, as CEO Gerald Wenzel has
said he won’t seek a new term when his ends this month. Wiener
Zeitung said Stephan Koren, a former deputy CEO of Bawag PSK
Bank AG, was the front runner to succeed Wenzel.  “The agreement between the Austrian government and the
owners of Volksbanken AG laid the foundation for the
stabilization and continued existence of the institution,”
Volksbanken said in the statement.  Volksbanken is asking its shareholders, which include
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG and  Germany ’s DZ Bank AG
and  Munich Re , to approve wiping out most of their investment at
the meeting. It proposes reducing the bank’s capital by 70
percent to help eliminate the accumulated losses, and injecting
funds by selling about 250 million euros of new shares to the
government and about 230 million euros to the 62 local banks.  Taxpayer Loss  Austria, which itself is losing 700 million euros of its
first aid in the capital reduction, will hold 43 percent after
the transaction, with an option to get a majority, while the
local banks’ stake will drop to 50.1 percent from 61 percent, a
Volksbanken spokesman, Walter Groeblinger, said by phone today.
The other shareholders will be diluted.  Volksbanken swung to a loss last year amid Greek bond
writedowns and bad-debt provisions and writedowns in Hungary and
 Romania , it said in today’s statement. It will also book a final
charge on its former Kommunalkredit unit, whose bad bank KA
Finanz is also reducing its capital. Losses from its eastern
European business outside of Romania are still reflected in the
results as those assets were sold to  Russia ’s OAO Sberbank only
in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  