-- Taxpayer Advocate Olson Leads Frustrated Filers Through IRS Maze
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-04-05T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/taxpayer-advocate-olson-leads-frustrated-filers-through-irs-maze.html
Micah Andrews opened his first
notice from the  Internal Revenue Service  a week before Christmas
in 2010. He was standing in the kitchen of the house in the
Atlanta suburbs that he and his wife had bought to make space
for their new baby.  Two years earlier, when the couple had purchased the home,
they had considered themselves lucky. In 2008, to buffer the
effects of the economic downturn, Congress had voted in a tax
credit of $7,500 to first-time homebuyers. The couple applied
for the funds and moved in November, shortly before their
daughter was born. A few months later, they received the credit.  Opening the letter, Andrews, who manages the technical
crews at the Georgia Aquarium, was astonished. It was a bill for
$8,609.73. Not only had the IRS rescinded the credit, he was
being charged about $1,000 in penalties. Everything was due
within a few days, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 9
issue.  Andrews didn’t have the money. The family put a freeze on
holiday spending, stopped going out for a year, and put off
plans to spruce up the house. It took Andrews’s accountant, Bob
Gard, several months of calling the IRS special preparer’s hot
line to discover that the agency had mistakenly determined that
Andrews wasn’t living in the house full time. They had also been
sending letters to the wrong address.  More Bills  Gard sent a stream of letters documenting that the home was
a primary residence, yet Andrews kept receiving bills, with
penalties and interest adding up. When Gard called the IRS, the
service representatives who answered the phone were sometimes
unaware of the letters he had sent.  “It’s like quicksand,” Gard says. “Once you enter it,
you just can’t get out.””  By last October, Gard, a CPA for 30 years, realized he
couldn’t resolve the situation on his own. The Andrews family
had been denied their  tax refunds  for two years, and the IRS
notified his employer they intended to start deducting money
directly from Micah’s paycheck.  In desperation, Gard turned to a little-known government
office within the IRS whose job it is to fight the IRS.  As director of the Taxpayer Advocate Service,  Nina Olson 
oversees “advocates” in every state who are IRS employees and
who represent taxpayers in egregious disputes with the service.
The petitioners have usually exhausted most other opportunities
for recourse and are often experiencing severe economic
hardship. The advocates are grease in the gears of an agency
that gets jammed all too often.  Seeking Her Help  There has been only one national taxpayer advocate, Olson,
58, who has held the position since Congress created it a decade
ago. She presides over 2,000 caseworkers and data analysts -- a
sliver of the IRS, which employs more than 100,000 people.  Individuals, corporations, small businesses, millionaires,
and even sovereign nations have sought the help of the  Taxpayer
Advocate Service , as have thousands of accountants and trained
tax preparers who find the  tax code  and the IRS impossible to
navigate.  In a typical year, Olson wins relief for 70 percent of the
300,000 people and businesses that open a case, according to her
office. Many, like Andrews, have done nothing wrong.  In 2006, the IRS studied 46,000 audits of taxpayers. Among
those returns that were flagged for misreporting income, agency
auditors reported 67 percent of the problems were unintentional
errors; 27 percent were computational errors either caused by
the IRS or the filer; and 3 percent of mistakes were
intentional.  Kafkaesque Procedures  Olson helps them all, even the ones who aren’t entirely
innocent. “You take your taxpayers as you find them,” she says.  Though she has characterized IRS procedures as Kafkaesque,
Olson empathizes with the agency. Congress is constantly
demanding that it collect more revenue, both to bridge what’s
known as the tax gap -- the more than $385 billion discrepancy
between the revenue the IRS actually collects and the amount the
government believes it is owed each year -- and to pay down the
federal  deficit . While Congress demands more money from the IRS,
however, it hasn’t been generous in funding the agency.  The lawmakers are also making the tax code more complicated
every day: In 2010, they voted in 579 changes to the code. Right
now it tops out at 3.8 million words. The IRS doesn’t have the
manpower to manage the scads of credits and changes to the code
it is required to enforce. And computer glitches are entangling
more people in audits than ever before -- millions just this
year.  Shaming the IRS  Part of Olson’s job is to target the agency’s failures and
shame it into fixing them. At the same time, she’s looking at
taxpayers and trying to figure out why some of them don’t pay.  U.S. history has been punctuated by  anti-tax revolts , and
attempting to heal the fraught relationship between taxpayer and
collector may seem quixotic. Olson says if you can get inside
the mind of taxpayers, you can begin to persuade more of them to
pay their share on April 15 -- and perhaps bring about a truce
in the country’s unending wars over taxes.  On a March Friday, after a week that included briefing
 Capitol Hill  staffers about  identity theft , meeting with IRS
lawyers about domestic-partnership laws, and working on a blog
post about her latest gripes with the agency, Olson gave a
keynote speech at the  Federal Bar Association ’s annual lunch.
These lunches are typically schmooze sessions for high-powered
attorneys and IRS employees. Nevertheless, she selected a
sensitive theme: how the 99 Percent experiences the tax system.  ‘Against a Wall’  She started with the bad news: One in three won’t get their
calls to the IRS answered. The wait time for half of all people
who have written to the IRS is more than six weeks.  “When I heard that,” she says, whacking her head, “I nearly
hit my head against a wall.”  Olson noted that the IRS relied on computers to audit all
but the highest-income brackets. “We’re getting to a situation
where the only people who will get face-to-face audits are the
1 Percent,” she says. “For the majority of taxpayers, the IRS
has become faceless, nameless, with no accountability and no
liability.”  As the audience applauded tepidly, Allen Littman, an
attorney with corporate law firm Baker Hostetler, turned to his
neighbor. “You know, she’s completely right,” he says. Littman
called dealing with the IRS a “hall of mirrors, where there are
no real people and only disembodied voices with badge numbers.”  He was recently snarled in a two-year fight to reverse a
$24,000 penalty for a client, a Midwest manufacturer. No
company, he says, could stay in business behaving the way the
IRS does toward people. The case was resolved only after Littman
brought it to the local affiliate of Olson’s agency.  Improbable Insider  Olson is an improbable insider, an animated woman who
prefers hot pink blazers and jangly earrings to power suits. She
lives in a Washington townhouse and walks two miles to work
every day.  When she was younger, she wanted to be a painter. She
studied fine arts at  Bryn Mawr College  in  Pennsylvania  and moved
to  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , after graduation to start her
painting career. She took a part-time job working for a lawyer,
whose clients were local wineries, coffee shops and artists.  Olson had a knack for numbers and organization, so friends
and local businesspeople started asking her to prepare their tax
returns. To her surprise, she was good at it. She bought a copy
of the tax code and taught herself its ins and outs. In 1987 she
enrolled in  North Carolina Central  University School of Law,
taking night classes while working for the lawyer and raising
her son by herself. Four years later she became a tax attorney.  Pro Bono Work  In 1991 the local bar association asked Olson if she’d be
willing to take on some pro bono work. Olson wanted to use her
tax expertise to help those who were unable to buy groceries or
pay rent because the IRS was levying their paychecks.  The following year she started an independent low-income
tax clinic, the first of its kind in the country. Soon the
clinic was serving about a thousand taxpayers.  One of Olson’s early clients was an immigrant woman from
 Egypt  who earned $10,000 a year as a hairdresser and was being
charged about $35,000 by the IRS. The woman’s husband, who beat
her, had defrauded the IRS without her knowledge. When the
agency uncovered the scheme, he fled the country. The woman
could barely read English and had never filed a tax return, but
the IRS viewed her as uncooperative. It took Olson four years to
free the woman of her obligations. “I saw the consequences of an
irrational and overly burdensome approach to tax
administration,” she says.  Targeting the Agency  In the 1990s, Senate Republicans held scathing hearings
lambasting the agency for abusing taxpayers, which led to the
passage of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform
Act in 1998. The new law increased oversight of the IRS and
included federal funding to expand low-income tax clinics. It
also created the national taxpayer advocate, a position that
reported to then-Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , not the
IRS commissioner.  Two years later, Olson learned that Summers was considering
her for the job. She didn’t think of herself as a  Washington 
person, “But then, I just went with it,” she says.  Olson, whose position has no  term limits , told herself that
she would stay until she got bored or until frustration with the
IRS drove her to quit.  “I’m not bored yet,” she says. “And I still have a bit more
work to do.”  Partial Payments  Olson’s pushing and prodding has had results. In 2009 she
found that the IRS was offering partial-payment plans to only
one in 375 delinquent taxpayers who requested them, and she
complained about this excessively punitive approach. The IRS is
now offering more plans.  Last year, when taxpayers with offshore accounts were
encouraged to report them and were hit with big penalties for
doing so, Olson criticized the agency for a “bait and switch.”
The agency denies this one.  This evidence-gathering has been building toward a larger
outcome. Two years ago, she argued in her annual report to
Congress that the IRS has reached a tipping point: The tax code
has gotten too complex for reasonable people -- and even for
trained professionals -- to understand. This includes the
employees of the IRS itself.  In one large study of people who had misreported
liabilities on their returns, 30 percent over-reported income;
in another study of one-time tax credits, the IRS found that
30 percent of people offered credits didn’t take them. The only
explanation, Olson says, is that these taxpayers didn’t
comprehend what was being offered on their returns. Simplifying
the code, Olson believes, is the No. 1 challenge facing the IRS.  Like the Weather  “Complaining about the tax code is like complaining about
the weather,” says Bruce Bartlett, a former Bush and Reagan
Treasury official. Bartlett thinks code reform can happen only
incrementally. “People complain about the complexity, but they
won’t do anything meaningful to get simplicity if it means they
are going to have to pay more,” he says.  Publicly, the IRS says it backs Olson’s push for a simpler
system. “There’s no question that increased complexity in the
law makes it difficult to comply with and makes it difficult for
the IRS to administer,” says agency spokesman Frank Keith.  IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  declined repeated requests
for an interview yet said in a statement: “The Taxpayer Advocate
plays an important role in our efforts to provide a fair and
efficient tax system.”  Hiding Behind Complexity  Keith says of the tax code: “It causes inadvertent
mistakes. It also encourages fraud because people can hide
behind the complexity.” He adds that Olson has helped the IRS
understand that aggressively enforcing lien collection had
“consequences” for some taxpayers. He concedes that
administering new provisions from Congress is challenging and,
in some cases, “creates novel interactions between us and
taxpayers.”  To taxpayers, the interactions often feel more infuriating
than novel. In February last year a group of first-time
homebuyers started a Facebook group with the name “2011 Tax
Refund Delays (5405 form, 1301 or 1481 Error Codes).”  Like Andrews, they were all experiencing problems with the
2008 credit. On the site, thousands of fans share tips gleaned
from reticent IRS employees, engage in seemingly endless rounds
of agency bashing, and commiserate about getting evicted because
of refund delays.  That March someone posted Olson’s e-mail address on the
group’s wall. Almost immediately, her inbox was flooded. Unlike
the rest of the IRS -- which has a no-e-mail policy -- Olson was
happy to correspond.  “I had pen pals,” she says.  Human Failure  Olson began forwarding the e-mails to case managers,
analysts, and senior IRS officials. She demanded a meeting with
Shulman. Eventually, the glitches affecting the group were
discovered.  Such problems, in Olson’s view, were much more than
technical snafus: They reflected a failure to anticipate
everyday human scenarios and factor them into computer
programming. In the case of the first-time homebuyer glitch,
couples who tried to pay back more than the minimum were
snagged. People whose homes were underwater -- and therefore not
required to repay the loan -- were caught, too. The exceptions
weren’t built into the computer program. Olson says at least
128,000 taxpayers were affected.  In meetings, senior officials would tell Olson the glitches
had been fixed. The next day, she would receive another wave of
e-mails from angry taxpayers.  Stoking Anxiety  “The IRS’s silence was creating this anxiety level with
taxpayers,” Olson says. “You saw on their posts that people had
called the IRS, and they had been told by the IRS that they are
in status 1301. Or in status 1205. So here they are writing on
the page, ‘I’m in status 1301!’ And someone else is responding,
‘Oh, you’re in 1301, I’m in 1205.’ And I’m thinking, why would
someone tell them that? Why couldn’t someone explain to them
where they were and what was going to happen and what to
expect?”  It took eight months to sort out the problems for most
people caught in the glitch.  For Micah Andrews, relief came within a month of connecting
with the local taxpayer advocate in October 2011. The bills
stopped, the penalties were erased, and the Andrews family
received $5,800 in refunds. Two months ago, Andrews finally
painted his walls and built a fence.  “If I had known it could have been straightened out so
quickly and easily,” he says, “I would have done that years
before.”  Underfunding IRS  Olson believes that the underfunding of the IRS is pushing
it into fewer face-to-face interactions. The IRS budget,
currently $11.8 billion, has been cut each year for the past two
years, resulting in a hiring freeze.  “No one is willing to fund the IRS to do imaginative
thinking,” she says. “The military gets funding to develop the
next new weapons system. But the IRS does not get funding to sit
down and say, how could we harness the iPad? How could we
harness video technology to talk to the taxpayer in their home?
I mean, we don’t even e-mail or text the taxpayers. We’re so far
behind.”  During the homebuyers’ debacle, Olson received an e-mail
she says she’ll never forget. After experiencing a delay in his
refund, the angry correspondent said that when it came time to
pay taxes next year, he was going to take as long to pay the IRS
as it took to get his refund. Olson says this frustration has
larger policy implications.  Come Get Me  “If you get someone who is an upstanding citizen,” she
says, “with an inability to get someone on the phone, an
inability to get someone to look at their case, well, after a
time, it’s perfectly reasonable for them to say ‘why am I making
this effort? I’ll just wait for them to come and get me.’ "  Millions of taxpayers already feel that way. Many are small
business owners who work in the cash economy. Americans whose
employers automatically withhold taxes from their paychecks have
a 99 percent compliance rate -- and little choice.  Still, among people not on the payroll system -- small
business owners, freelancers, and others -- accuracy and honesty
are lower. The IRS says it receives only 43 percent of what this
group owes. These 9 million commit most of the flubs, fudges,
and swindles that contribute to the annual multibillion-dollar
tax discrepancy. Olson is fascinated and troubled by the tax gap
and those business owners. She wants to know: What compels some
people to pay their taxes when others don’t?  How People Think  In 2007, Olson came across research conducted by the Irish
government that examined what’s known as cognitive ethical
reasoning. The investigation explored different scenarios, from
saving a drowning man to stealing a shirt from a department
store, and tried to calculate the threshold at which people
would do the right thing.  The results were inconclusive -- the study didn’t examine a
representative sample of taxpayers. Yet after reading it, Olson
became interested in how people think about taxes as moral
choices.  There is a field devoted to the subject of how individuals
make choices about paying taxes; it’s called “tax morale.”  That year Olson commissioned Marjorie Kornhauser, then at
 Tulane University Law School , to study the cash economy and what
motivates taxpayers to comply with the law.  Kornhauser found that fear of getting caught plays a much
smaller role in keeping taxpayers honest than is commonly
assumed. When taxpayers learn that many people evade taxes, they
are more likely to evade them, too. They’re less inclined to
dodge when they believe that their cheating creates national
problems. The risk of an audit isn’t enough to explain behavior.  Eight Categories  In 2010, Olson hired a social anthropologist, Eric  San
Juan , to look more closely at the behavior of tax dodgers. San
Juan, who is also a tax lawyer, divided evaders into eight
categories of noncompliance. Procedural noncompliance is when
you don’t pay taxes because IRS procedures are too complicated.
Asocial and habitually noncompliant taxpayers get a rush out of
cheating. Symbolic noncompliant taxpayers game the system out of
principle. Other categories include people who use accountants
to cheat -- brokered noncompliance -- and those who simply can’t
afford their tax burden, are too lazy, or think it’s normal not
to pay taxes because people in their families didn’t pay.  San Juan and his team designed survey questions that would
get at these attitudes. They chose 7,800 small businesspeople
across the country. These business owners -- who are currently
being surveyed -- were picked because of what’s known as the DIF
score.  Measuring Taxpayers  The DIF score, which stands for discriminant function, is
the IRS’s primary risk-assessment tool. Every taxpayer has a DIF
score, a gauge of your likelihood of cheating based on your past
filings. The higher the DIF score, the more honest the tax
filer. As Olson’s researchers ask questions, the taxpayers’
answers will be run against their DIF scores.  Olson says there are towns in the U.S. populated by super-
taxpayers. Her team is creating a census of the super-tax-paying
communities’ demographics to pinpoint what makes their residents
so honest. Is it an inspiring pastor, an immigrant community
with values from the home country, or a really good public
education system?  Understanding what makes these taxpayers tick is crucial,
she says, because current methods of collection enforcement are
not paying off.  Can’t Afford Payment  When the IRS puts a lien on a person, it doesn’t recoup the
money between two-thirds and three-quarters of the time. That
number has barely budged even with a more than 500 percent
increase in lien filings in the past decade.  A lien, unlike a levy, doesn’t compel payment with payroll
deductions, though it does ruin credit. And many people facing
liens simply can’t afford to pay. These liens, which get
recycled within the IRS system year after year because people
don’t pay them, create the IRS’s largest paperwork jam.  Olson suspects the study results will show that alienation
plays a greater role in the equation than people realize. By
alienation she means a wider sense of unfairness -- the feeling
people get when they wait too long on hold, when they’ve been
laid off and the IRS will not agree to a payment plan, when they
learn their neighbor pays less than they do.  She hopes the study will show her the fault lines of how
people see themselves inside the system.  “We can disagree about what government should do and how
big it should be,” she says. “But if we want a government of
some sort, most if not all of its revenue will come from the
people in the form of taxes. So we all have a stake in what the
tax system looks like.”  Taxpayer’s Lobbyist  Joshua Odintz, who served as tax counsel to the Senate
Finance Committee until 2009, worked with Olson for years and
says her contribution to  tax reform  is critical.  “She represents the broad taxpayer base who do not have a
lobbying group to represent them on the Hill,” he says. “Does
that translate into action? Well, sometimes,” he says, “but
there have to be people that take up her issues.”  In the meantime, Olson is applying thousands and thousands
of Band-Aids. And she can push the IRS to better address the
complexity of people’s lives -- or at the very least be more
helpful on the phone.  “Taxpayers bring a whole bundle of life circumstances,
history, economic circumstances, baggage, biases,” she says.
“They bring a whole bundle of things to the table. Your job is
to listen to what they’re bringing,” she says. “Don’t think of
these people as widgets.”  For Related News and Information:
For more Bloomberg tax stories: {TNI TOP TAX <BN>}  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Biuso   ebiuso@bloomberg.net  