-- Baht Reaches Two-Month Low as Europe Concerns Deter Risk-Taking
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-04-05T08:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/baht-reaches-two-month-low-as-europe-concerns-deter-risk-taking.html
Thailand ’s baht touched a two-month
low as weaker demand at a Spanish bond auction reignited concern
 Europe  will struggle to overcome its debt crisis, boosting
demand for the relative safety of the dollar.  The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-Pacific Index of shares slipped for a second
day after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday the economic outlook remained subject to “downside
risks.” The baht’s decline may be limited on speculation
exporters take advantage of the favorable  exchange rate  to
repatriate funds ahead of a four-day holiday that starts
tomorrow, according to Norawit Suparinayok, a foreign-exchange
trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl.  “Spain’s bond auction and comments from the ECB President
hurt sentiment toward riskier assets, and that is making the
dollar stronger against regional currencies,” said Bangkok-
based Norawit. “Some exporters are waiting to sell the dollar
and some of them may rush to come in the market ahead of the
holiday.”  The baht traded at 31 per dollar as of 3:08 p.m. in Bangkok
the same as yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 31.07 earlier, the weakest level since Feb. 1. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of foreign-exchange swings
used to price options, was unchanged at 4.52 percent.  Spain  sold 2.6 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds
yesterday, less than its maximum target of 3.5 billion euros,
the central bank said. Demand for notes maturing in 2015 was
2.41 times the amount allotted, down from 4.96 in March. It also
sold securities due in 2016 and 2020.  The baht will probably remain in a tight range in the first
half of 2012, according to a research note yesterday written by
Singapore-based analysts Saktiandi Supaat, Enrico Tanuwidjaja
and Phua Ming-weii at Malayan Banking Bhd. The Bank of Thailand
will counter volatility that may hurt the nation’s businesses,
according to the note.  The yield on the 3.25 percent notes due June 2017 climbed
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.71 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the  highest 
level for a benchmark five-year note since August 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 