-- Baoshan Says China Steel Demand to Rebound on Policy, Liquidity
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-05T11:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/baoshan-says-china-steel-demand-to-rebound-on-policy-liquidity.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , China’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, expects demand to improve in
the second half as the government eases liquidity and policy
restrictions, General Manager Ma Guoqiang said.  Baoshan remained profitable in the first quarter, Masaid
today in a webcast conference with investors. The Shanghai-based
company, which has yet to report first-quarter results, posted
its lowest quarterly profit in more than two years in the last
three months of 2011 because of rising prices of  iron ore , a key
raw material, and slowing demand from automakers.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to “fine-tune” economic
policies as weakening exports and a cooling housing market
hamper an economy that probably grew at the slowest pace in
almost three years in the first quarter. Baoshan, which supplies
half of  China ’s automotive steel, is betting demand will rebound
from last year’s slump caused by government restrictions on
vehicle purchases to reduce traffic.  Growth in China’s vehicle production may accelerate to 8
percent this year, boosting steel demand, Ma said.  Baosteel
Group Corp. (SBSA) , Baoshan’s state-owned parent, also expects
government efforts to spur spending may boost China’s car sales
this year, company Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said March 5.  The company has yet to decide on any fundraising plan for
this year, he said.  High-Strength Sheets  Sale of high-strength steel sheets gained 20 percent last
year, giving Baoshan 65 percent of the domestic market for the
product, Ma said. The company has started to supply third-
generation sheets to automakers, he said.  Parent Baosteel is awaiting regulatory approval for a 10
million-metric-ton steel project in Zhanjiang,  Guangdong
province , Ma said. The planned mill will help Baosteel to meet
demand from the Chinese units of  Japan ’s Honda Motor Co., Nissan
Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp., the steelmaker said earlier.  Baoshan will also use the proceeds from selling its
unprofitable stainless and specialty steel units to lower debt,
Ma said. The company will gain 9.58 billion yuan ($1.5 billion)
selling the units to the parent, Baoshan said in a statement on
Feb. 29.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  