-- BDO Seidman Settles New York Lawsuit Over Le-Nature’s Loan
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-05T18:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/bdo-seidman-settles-new-york-lawsuit-over-le-nature-s-loan-1-.html
BDO Seidman LLP, the accounting
firm, settled investor claims over a $285 million loan made to
Le-Nature’s Inc. before the drink maker went bankrupt in 2006,
according to a court filing.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the April 2
filing in  New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  BDO Seidman, based in New York, prepared Le-Nature’s
financial statements and Wachovia Capital Markets arranged the
loan. The beverage company later went bankrupt. Normandy Hill
Master Fund LP, which bought some of the debt on the secondary
market, sued Wachovia, BDO Seidman and others in June 2010.  “It has been resolved and the parties are pleased to put
it behind them,” Aaron Mitchell, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said today in a phone interview.  Timothy Hoeffner, an attorney representing BDO Seidman,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on the settlement.  Wachovia Capital Markets, now a part of  Wells Fargo & Co .,
said in court documents filed in February that it settled claims
against it in the suit, without disclosing terms.  Le-Nature’s, based in Latrobe,  Pennsylvania , made bottled
water, tea and other flavored drinks. Gregory J. Podlucky, the
company’s founder, and others were indicted in September 2009 on
charges they duped creditors out of more than $800 million by
overstating company revenue. Podlucky pleaded guilty in May 2011
and was sentenced to 20 years in prison in October.  Podlucky and former Le-Nature’s executive vice president
Robert Lynn remain defendants in the case. Lynn was found guilty
by a jury in July and sentenced to 15 years in prison in
January.  A U.S. bankruptcy judge in September approved part of a
$130 million Wachovia Capital Markets and BDO Seidman settlement
involving company creditors.  The case is Normandy Hill v. Wachovia, 650548/2010, New
York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  