-- Biggs Cuts Stock in Anticipation of 5%-7% S&P 500 Drop
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-04-05T13:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/biggs-reducing-stock-in-anticipation-of-5-7-s-p-500-decline.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may
fall as much as 7 percent because of economic weakness in
Europe, according to hedge fund manager  Barton Biggs .  “I may want to take a little risk off,” Biggs, founder of
Traxis Partners LP, said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “I’m looking for a 5 to 7 percent
correction as the most likely possibility.”  Biggs, the founder of Traxis Partners LP, said March 20
that his net-long position in  stocks , a gauge of bullish versus
bearish investments, was about 90 percent, up from 65 percent in
January. His optimism fluctuated along with the market, with at
least eight changes to the long component in the past six
months, according to interviews with Bloomberg.  “I am cutting back a little, and I’m tempted to cut back
some more,” Biggs said today. Equities are “going higher over
the course of the next few months, but in the short run here
we’ll have a little pause.”  The  S&P 500  rallied 12 percent in the first three months of
the year, its best first quarter since 1998, amid signs the  U.S.
economy  was strengthening and European leaders were making
progress to stem the region’s debt crisis. The benchmark gauge
for U.S. equities retreated 1.4 percent in the previous two days
as minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last policy meeting damped
speculation about additional stimulus.  Europe is in a deepening recession, according to Biggs, who
cited German industrial output figures that fell 1.3 percent in
February, more than economists’ forecasts.  “At the same, the heat is really on  Spain ,” he said.
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday the nation
faces “extreme difficulty,” raising the likelihood the euro
region’s fourth-largest economy may need international aid.
Spanish bonds and European equities have fallen for three
straight days.  Biggs said on Dec. 12 that he was investing in U.S. and
Asian stocks. He said at the time that equities might rise or
fall 20 percent because of concern about budget negotiations and
 Europe . He said in February that his net-long position in stocks
is about 75 percent, up from 65 percent in the prior month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  