-- BlueGold Hedge Fund to Liquidate, Return Money to Clients
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-04-05T19:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/bluegold-hedge-fund-to-liquidate-return-money-to-investors.html
BlueGold Capital Management LLP, the
$1 billion energy hedge fund co-founded by  Pierre Andurand , is
liquidating after losing 34 percent last year.  The London-based fund will return about 98 percent of
investors’ money after calculating asset values this month,
Andurand, 35, and co-founder Dennis Crema said today in a letter
to clients, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The
firm didn’t give a reason for closing.  BlueGold, which managed about $2.2 billion at its peak,
started trading in February 2008 and returned 209 percent that
year, 55 percent in 2009 and 13 percent in 2010. The fund lost
about 2 percent in the first two months of this year after
dropping by more than a third in 2011, according to a person
with knowledge of the returns, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  “The bar for hedge funds staying in business is getting
higher and higher,” said Ronan Cosgrave of Pacific Alternative
Asset Management, an Irvine, California-based firm that invests
$8.4 billion in hedge funds on behalf of clients.  The fund mostly invested in energy derivatives. U.S.
benchmark oil prices gained 8.2 percent last year and 8.3 in the
first two months of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for BlueGold, declined to comment
on the letter.  Abydos Capital  French-born Andurand and Crema, 51, worked at commodity-
trading firm Vitol SA before starting BlueGold. Andurand began
his career in 2000 as an oil trader at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s J. Aron & Co. unit in Singapore before working at Bank of
America Corp.  U.S.-born Crema spent 12 years at Geneva-based Vitol, where
he was a senior partner and head of trading. He previously
worked at energy firms Tosco Corp. and Amerada  Hess Corp. (HES)   Jean-Louis Le Mee, 38, who was a founding partner at
BlueGold, is starting his own firm to invest in the shares of
commodity companies. He plans to begin trading at London-based
Abydos Capital Management LLP in June, according to the
prospectus for his firm obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  