-- Bank of Japan Seen Adding Stimulus on Nominee Rejection: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-04-06T03:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/boj-nominee-kono-rejected-by-japan-upper-house-as-easing-sought.html
The  Bank of Japan  may expand
stimulus this month after lawmakers escalated pressure for extra
action by blocking a candidate for the bank’s board and renewing
calls for a more “proactive” monetary policy.  Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Mizuho Securities Co.
and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. predict that the BOJ will expand
asset purchases at a meeting on April 27.  Parliament’s upper house yesterday rejected BNP Paribas SA
economist  Ryutaro Kono , described by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as
holding similar views to Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, who says
that monetary policy alone cannot solve deflation. The central
bank may stand pat at a two-day meeting ending April 10,
preserving ammunition for later in the month, when price
projections will show a goal of 1 percent inflation is not in
sight, according to Morgan Stanley.  “The BOJ must be struggling to balance between responding
to political requests and operating effective monetary
policies,” said Akio Makabe, an economics professor at  Shinshu
University  in central Japan.  Japanese stocks pared losses on the decision by the upper
house, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average still closing down 
0.5 percent yesterday after falling demand for Spanish bonds 
refocused attention on  Europe ’s debt crisis. Japan’s currency 
traded at 82.27 per dollar as of 12:10 p.m. in Tokyo today and 
the Nikkei fell 0.7 percent, heading for its biggest weekly 
loss since August.  Government Response  “It’s a shame that this didn’t get approved,” Japanese
Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said at a press
conference in Tokyo yesterday. “This won’t cause problems for
running the policy board immediately but this is not a desirable
situation.”  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today that BOJ candidates
shouldn’t be chosen solely based on their support for monetary
easing because it could hamper policy flexibility.  The world’s third-largest economy has contracted in three
of the past four years and is struggling to recover from last
year’s earthquake and tsunami and the yen’s gain to a postwar
record against the dollar in October.  The BOJ’s Tankan survey this week showed large
manufacturers’ confidence failed to improve in March and
executives see the yen averaging 78.14 per dollar this fiscal
year, a gain that would make exports less competitive. Akio Toyoda, the president of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , said last month an
“appropriate level” is 95 to 100.  “Proactive monetary policy is necessary to escape from
deflation and end the strengthening yen,” Takeshi Miyazaki, a
 Democratic Party  of Japan lawmaker and a leader of the ruling
party’s anti-deflation group, said yesterday. “The main
priority should be someone who is promoting monetary easing.”  Two Vacancies  Yesterday’s vote by the upper chamber, where the DPJ is in
a minority, leaves the BOJ with two vacancies on a nine-person
board and more changes are coming: the terms of two deputy
governors end in March next year and Shirakawa’s tenure ends the
following month. The  Liberal Democratic Party , the largest of
the opposition groups, objected to the nomination and is
compiling a bill that would allow the government more influence
over monetary policy.  “The extent of political pressure and market expectations
will be a decisive factor” in the timing of the next easing,
said Jun Ishii, chief fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “We can’t be optimistic as
uncertainties including the strong yen and political disarray
are mounting.”  Governor Shirakawa and his board members will review the
bank’s current price outlook of 0.5 percent inflation for the
fiscal year starting in April 2013 at the meeting on April 27.
The central bank has pledged to continue “powerful easing”
until a 1 percent inflation goal is in sight.  Noda Meeting  Shirakawa met with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda today for
about an hour, the first meeting of the pair since Feb. 15, the
BOJ’s press office said today. Fujimura said today the two
pledged to remain in close contact.  The rejection of Kono, 47, “could add more pressure to the
BOJ to do more,” Naohiko Baba, chief economist at Goldman Sachs
in  Tokyo , said this week. He said Kono’s views on monetary
policy were “very close” to Shirakawa.  Kono couldn’t be reached for comment when Bloomberg called
BNP’s office today.  Elsewhere, employers in the U.S. probably added more than
200,000 workers to payrolls in March for a fourth straight
month, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Bulgaria releases industrial production and
retail trade for February and the  Czech Republic  will probably
say industrial output rose 3 percent in February from a year
earlier, according to an analyst survey.  Economists’ Bets  Twelve of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said
they expect the BOJ to keep benchmark rates in a range of zero
and 0.1 percent and accommodative policies unchanged at the
meeting next week. Credit Suisse Group AG’s Hiromichi Shirakawa,
who accurately forecast easing in February and wrongly predicted
another move in March, sees an asset purchase expansion of up to
5 trillion yen ($61 billion). In February, the addition was 10
trillion yen.  Japan ’s politicians have a recent history of wrangling over
central bank appointments, with the DPJ blocking appointments in
2008 and 2009 when the party was in opposition.  The opposition of some lawmakers to Kono being appointed
may stem from “a toxic combination of party politics and a
desire among some politicians to shift the blame for Japan’s
problems onto the bank, ”  Julian Jessop , a London-based analyst
at Capital Economics Ltd., said this week.  Kono echoed Shirakawa last month in saying that central
bank policy alone cannot solve structural economic problems. He
warned of risks associated with “aggressive monetary policy”
in a country with ballooning public debt, already twice the size
of gross domestic product.  “I feel sorry for Kono as this wasn’t about his ability
but is all about a political game,” said Adachi, of JPMorgan.  Kono was ranked the nation’s top economist in a survey of
financial institutions this year by  Nikkei Veritas , the weekly
edition of Japan’s largest business newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  