-- Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Mulls Appeal on EU’s BMI Move
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2012-04-05T00:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/branson-s-virgin-atlantic-mulls-appeal-on-eu-s-bmi-move.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. will
decide within four weeks whether to appeal the European Union’s
decision allowing British Airways parent  IAG (IAG)  to purchase BMI,
said  Richard Branson , the carrier’s billionaire owner.  “The decision was a travesty, just unbelievable,” Branson
said in an interview aboard a Virgin America plane in
Philadelphia. “You just wonder whoever’s working in the
competition authority, whether they realized which department
they were walking into the morning they made that decision.”  IAG won EU antitrust approval March 30 to purchase BMI from
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , a move that strengthens British Airways’
position at  London ’s  Heathrow Airport . IAG has said the deal is
likely to be completed by about April 20, with BMI’s operation
integrated in Heathrow in the following months.  When asked if he may appeal, Branson said: “All I’m saying
is we’re considering our position very, very seriously.”  A spokeswoman for British Airways referred a request for
comment to IAG when contacted by telephone today.  Branson was in Philadelphia for the opening of a new route
by  Virgin America Inc. (VMED) , the low-fare airline he partly owns. He
said he would retain his stake in the U.S. carrier after an
initial public offering which the airline’s Chief Executive
Officer David Cush said is possible next year.  Alliance Partners  Virgin Atlantic “inevitably” will have more alliance
partners and there is “always a possibility” the carrier will
add investors, Branson said. He declined to be more specific
about possible arrangements and said he has no immediate
announcements.  The bankruptcy of  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s Americans Airlines has caused
the industry to be “somewhat in turmoil” and has slowed the
development of alliances, Branson said.  Virgin America’s Cush said the U.S carrier is “watching
what goes on” in fuel markets as the airline weighs a possible
IPO next year. Jet-fuel prices are about $15 a barrel higher
than the company projected for 2012, and the prices place “a
little bit of a damper on investor interest in the sector,”
Cush said in an interview.  “I hope the markets are interested in airlines by 2013,
and if the markets are interested I think the company will be
ready” for an IPO, Cush said.  Virgin America “should be profitable” in 2012 at jet-fuel
prices of $135 to $140 a barrel, which are higher than the $125
a barrel the company projected, Cush said.  The carrier posted a third-quarter loss in December of $3.3
million, compared with a $7.48 million profit a year earlier, as
costlier fuel and accrued interest expenses overpowered higher
revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net  