-- Mantega Ponders More Brazil Stimulus as Inflation Slows
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-04-05T15:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/brazil-march-consumer-prices-rise-0-21-from-previous-month.html
Brazilian  consumer prices  rose less
than any analyst expected in March, pushing annual inflation to
a 17-month low and raising the possibility of more government
stimulus measures. Yields on interest-rate futures fell.  Prices, as measured by the IPCA index, rose 0.21 percent,
down from 0.45 percent in February, the  statistics agency  said
in a report distributed in  Rio de Janeiro  today. The increase
was smaller than forecast by all 50 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median estimate was for a gain of 0.37 percent.
 Annual (BZPIIPCY)  inflation slowed to 5.24 percent from 5.85 percent.  Since August, central bank president Alexandre Tombini has
reduced the benchmark Selic rate five times as the priority to
revive economic growth outweighed concern inflation would remain
above target. Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the
“outstanding” inflation result creates room for the government
to step up measures to boost growth, two days after President
 Dilma Rousseff  ordered about 65 billion reais ($35.5 billion) in
stimulus measures.  “The index shows inflation totally under control in  Brazil 
and this opens the possibility for a bigger economic stimulus,”
Mantega told reporters in Brasilia today.  To ensure growth accelerates to 4.5 percent this year from
2.7 percent last year, the government has cut taxes, increased
subsidized credit and pledged to boost investments in
infrastructure.  Enlightened Tombini  “The number was surprising, below expectations, and
confirms the thesis that Tombini is enlightened,” Banco
Bradesco SA’s chief economist Octavio de Barros told reporters
in  Sao Paulo . “We can’t rule out a Selic rate below 9
percent.”  The central bank estimates inflation will slow to its 4.5
percent target by year-end before rebounding to 5.3 percent next
year, according to its quarterly inflation report, published
last week. The estimate assumes policy makers fulfill
economists’ forecasts by cutting the benchmark interest rate to
9 percent in 2012 before raising it to 10 percent in 2013.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014 declined 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point,
to 9.27 percent at 11.56 a.m. Brasilia time, as traders pared
bets the central bank will have to increase interest rates early
next year. The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.8288 per dollar.  Satisfied  “Central bank President Tombini must be very satisfied
today,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Inflation is moving in line with his scenario. It reflects the
economic slowdown.”  Inflation was also slower than expected in  Chile , Colombia
and  Venezuela  last month. Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in
 Chile (CNPINSMO)  in March, less than all 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Colombian (COCPIMOM)  consumer prices rose 0.12 over the same
period, the country’s statistics agency said yesterday, less
than all 28 forecasts.  Venezuela’s (VZCPMOM)  consumer prices rose at the
slowest pace since the index was unveiled in 2008, surprising
all five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Brazil, which has cut interest rates by more than any other
member of the Group of 20 nations since August, reduced
borrowing costs by 75 basis points to 9.75 percent last month.  ‘High Probability’  Policy makers see a “high probability” of the Selic
falling to “levels slightly above the historical lows and
stabilizing” there, according to the quarterly inflation
report. From July 2009 to March 2010, the bank kept borrowing
costs at a record-low 8.75 percent.  Inflation is converging to target quickly, increasing the
odds the central bank will keep  interest rates  below 10 percent
for at least a year,  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Corretora, said in a phone interview from  Abu Dhabi .  Rousseff this week ordered tax cuts and other stimulus
measures worth about 65 billion reais, as she seeks to protect
domestic manufacturers from what she called “predatory”
competition from rich nations.  Analysts forecast the government’s effort to boost growth
will prevent inflation from slowing back to target this year and
next, according to a central bank  survey  published April 2.  Consumer prices will rise 5.27 percent in 2012 and 5.50
percent in 2013, according to the median estimate in the survey.  A drop in prices for household goods, clothing and telecomm
services helped inflation decelerate to the slowest pace in
eight months in March, according to the statistics agency.  Today’s figure “shows inflation is under control,”
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia. “It
opens the possibility for faster growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 