-- Brazil Reiterates Solar Policy to Allay Fears of Further Delay
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-04-05T16:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/brazil-reiterates-solar-policy-to-allay-fears-of-further-delay.html
Brazil  confirmed plans to grant
incentives for solar plants and allow consumers to offset energy
consumption with rooftop panels, dispelling concerns it will
delay promoting the use of power produced from sunlight.  Brazil’s national power regulator published details on two
pending renewable-energy regulations on its  website  yesterday.  The draft differs only slightly from a version in August,
Guilherme Araujo, general manager of the solar developer  Empresa
Brasileira de Energia Solar , said in a telephone interview.
Brazil has been seeking public comments on the policies, which
have been under development for more than a year and were
expected to be formally issued by the end of March, Araujo said.  “This is probably to convince industry that they’re still
working on it and maybe just a few more small changes need to be
made,” Araujo said today. “I personally believe the final
version will be published by the end of the month.”  Distributors will have 240 days after one of the
regulations is published to prepare for rooftop projects, the
Brasilia-based electricity regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia
Eletrica said in the technical note.  “Whenever we want to install solar panels for a customer
we have to wait for permission from the distributor,” which
isn’t always forthcoming, Araujo said. With the regulation
“they’ll be obligated to.”  Solar Discount  Under the draft regulation, solar plants will be offered an
80 percent discount on fees related to the use of electricity
distribution and transmission infrastructure, Aneel said.  The discount applies to plants that come online before the
end of 2017 and will fall to 50 percent after 10 years of
operation, according to the draft, which needs to be approved by
Aneel’s board.  Plants that come online after that date will qualify for
the 50 percent discount, Aneel said.  “Because costs of generation equipment have been falling
every year at a rapid pace it is expected that after 2018” the
higher discount won’t be necessary, according to the document.  The country’s only large-scale solar farm is a 1-megawatt
plant in Taua, in the northeastern state of Ceara, operated by
Rio de Janeiro-based  MPX Energia SA. (MPXE3)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  