-- Brazilian Futures Yields Drop on Slower Inflation; Real Gains
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-04-05T21:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/brazilian-futures-yields-drop-on-slower-than-forecast-inflation.html
Yields on Brazilian  interest-rate 
futures contracts dropped the most in a month after a report
showed inflation slowed more than economists forecast.  Yields on the contract due in January 2014 fell 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 9.27 percent as traders bet
smaller consumer-price increases will prompt the central bank to
make further cuts in the target lending rate. The yields dropped
as much as 19 basis points, the most since March 8. The real
strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.8228 per  U.S. dollar .  “No one expected such low inflation,”  Newton Rosa , chief
economist at Sul America Investimentos DTVM, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo.  The interest-rate futures show traders are betting on at
least 75 basis points of cuts to benchmark borrowing costs
during the central bank’s next two meetings. The bank has
reduced the Selic rate five times since August, bringing it to
9.75 percent, in a bid to revive economic growth.  Consumer prices , as measured by the benchmark IPCA index,
rose 0.21 percent in March, compared with an increase of 0.45
percent in the previous month, the government’s statistics
agency said in a report distributed in  Rio de Janeiro  today. The
increase was smaller than the forecasts of all 50 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. The annual inflation rate fell to 5.24
percent, the lowest in 17 months.  Inflation Outlook  The central bank estimates inflation will slow to its 4.5
percent target by year-end before rebounding to 5.3 percent next
year, according to its quarterly inflation report published last
week. The estimate assumes policy makers fulfill economists’
forecasts by lowering the benchmark interest rate to 9 percent
in 2012 before raising it to 10 percent in 2013.  Break-even rates, the difference between yields on 2014
inflation-linked and fixed-rate bonds, show investors are
wagering annual consumer price increases will average 5.25
percent over the next two years, down from as high as 6.12
percent in September.  The government ordered tax cuts and other stimulus measures
this week worth about 65 billion reais ($35 billion) in an
effort to push the growth rate up to 4.5 percent this year from
2.7 percent in 2011.  Policy makers see a “high probability” of the Selic
falling to “levels slightly above the historical lows and
stabilizing” there, according to the quarterly inflation
report. From July 2009 to March 2010, the bank kept borrowing
costs at a record-low 8.75 percent.  Interest-Rate View  Slowing inflation will support a reduction in the target
rate to 9 percent and may even prompt the bank to consider
cutting further to 8.75 percent, Joao Mauricio Rosal, chief
economist at Raymond James Brasil SA, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  A Selic rate at about 9 percent may be the tipping point at
which fixed-income investors would start plowing into  savings
accounts , known as poupanca, discouraging further cuts, Rosal
said. As the Selic approaches the record low, the government may
have to change rules that control interest rates paid on savings
accounts to avoid a drop in demand for fixed-income securities,
Rosal said.  The real gained after earlier falling as much as 0.4
percent. It fell 0.1 percent this week, its sixth consecutive
weekly loss.  “The foreign market climate is helping to weaken the real
by prompting investors to postpone their investments,” Sidnei Nehme, executive director of NGO Corretora, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  