-- Brazil Finds It Takes a Woman to Confront Congress Without Fear
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-04-05T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/brazil-finds-it-takes-a-woman-to-confront-congress-without-fear.html
When Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s coalition leader in the Senate helped defeat her
nominee for a top regulatory post last month, her response was
swift: she fired Romero Juca after 12 years on the job.  While congressional allies have bristled at moves to
establish her authority like ousting Juca, cutting earmarks and
sacking ministers accused of corruption, they have paid off with
the public. Rousseff’s approval rating in a March poll released
yesterday was 77 percent, the highest of any leader in the Group
of 20. They have also helped create a political identity
separate from her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  Now Brazil’s first female president is seeking to assert
herself in dealings with foreign leaders. Last month in  Germany ,
she complained that a “monetary tsunami” produced by rich
nations is taking a toll on currencies of fast-growing emerging
markets like Brazil. She’ll deliver a similar message April 9 to
President  Barack Obama  when she makes her first official visit
to  Washington , Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said last month.  “She’s been bolder than Lula on the economy and domestic
politics,” Albert Fishlow, who has studied Brazil for half a
century and is a former deputy U.S. assistant secretary of state
for Latin America, said by in a phone interview from  New York .
“The question is whether she’ll be successful.”  Rousseff, 64, has pushed central bankers to react to slower
growth by cutting  interest rates  to near record-lows even as
 inflation  remains above the 4.5 percent target, where it’s been
since September 2010. She also negotiated an accord to cap
Mexican car imports and took steps to weaken  Brazil ’s currency
after it hit a 12-year-high against the U.S dollar in July.  Steady Markets  Investors are encouraged. The Bovespa stock  index  returned
14 percent in the first quarter, the best start to a year for
the benchmark gauge since 1999. The extra yield investors demand
to own Brazilian government dollar bonds instead of U.S.
Treasuries has narrowed 11 basis points to 178 since Rousseff
took office 15 months ago. The average gap on emerging-market
debt has risen 52 basis points to 341 during the same period,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The showdown with her nine-party coalition in Congress also
appears to be paying off. Less than two weeks after she fired
Juca, lawmakers approved long-delayed bills to cap pension
payments for federal employees and guarantee FIFA organizing
rights for the 2014  World Cup .  Congressional Showdown  Since Rousseff’s Workers’ Party lacks a congressional
majority, the government depends on the support of other parties
to pass laws. While Rousseff hasn’t abandoned the practice of
awarding posts in the 38-member Cabinet to allies in return for
political support, she has put the partners on notice. Last year
she forced six ministers to resign amid charges of corruption
and purged dozens of officials from allied parties suspected of
fraud in the Tourism and Transport Ministries.  Such moves upset allies, some of whom have threatened to
withdraw their support for the government, said Senator Pedro
Simon of Juca’s Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, the largest
in the coalition. Still, they may explain a surge in support for
the president, especially among an expanding middle class
disillusioned with politicians, he said.  “Her firm, ethical position is totally right but it’s a
risky one,” Simon said in a phone interview from Brasilia.
“Political parties are pressuring her to continue with the
usual wheeling and dealing.”  Obama Meeting  With Obama, Rousseff may raise concern over a trade balance
with the U.S. that swung from a $6.4 billion surplus in 2007 to
an $8.2 billion deficit last year as the real rallied and growth
in Brazil spurred demand for imports. Brazil also expressed
“surprise” when the U.S. Air Force in February canceled a $355
million contract it awarded Sao Jose dos Campos-based planemaker
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  after an American rival sued the military.  Rousseff is often media-shy and struggles to speak in
public, said Ricardo Amaral, a former campaign adviser and
author of “Life Requires Courage,” a biography about the
president’s rise to power that was published in December.  Yet behind closed doors, the former Marxist guerrilla is a
micro-manager who is known to reprimand aides that are poorly
prepared, according to a government official who has attended
meetings with Rousseff and who requested anonymity because they
were private.  Taskmaster-in-Chief  Only hours after landing from a daylong flight home from
 India , Rousseff on April 1, a Sunday, called Finance Minister
Guido Mantega and Pimentel to discuss a plan to stimulate
investment in Brazil’s industry. Both were sent back to the
drawing board, Pimentel said in an April 3 interview.  “When you take a project to the president, remember that
initially she’ll trash it,” Education Minister Aloizio
Mercadante told Cabinet colleagues at a January ceremony in
Brasilia.  Rousseff declined to be interviewed and her press office
wouldn’t comment about the president’s relations with Congress.  When Rousseff moved into Oscar Niemeyer’s modernist
Planalto presidential palace she installed a laptop in her
office and removed a crucifix and Bible left by the 66-year-old
Lula. From the glass-faced, square building she scours volumes
of information in detail every day, including central bank
reports and a dozen newspapers, said the government official.  “She’s a bit of a wonk,” Amaral said by telephone in
Brasilia. “In the male-dominated environment of Brazilian
politics, she had to be better informed and better prepared to
prove herself.”  Rousseff differs from most top politicians in more ways
than her gender. She acquired a love of opera and French
literature from her father, Petar Rousseff, who immigrated to
Brazil after fleeing  Bulgaria  in 1929. While she served as
Lula’s cabinet chief starting in 2005, she had never run for
public office before being elected in 2010 on a platform of
continuing his popular anti-poverty policies.  No Sweeping Change  Some economists and businesses criticize Rousseff for
failing to use her mandate to pursue more sweeping change. The
president has done little to overhaul a rigid labor code, cut a
tax burden that’s around 34 percent of gross domestic product
and eliminate red tape, said Paulo Skaf, head of the  Sao Paulo 
Industrial Federation.  Rules dating from the 1940s make it difficult and costly
for employers in Brazil to hire, maintain and fire workers. Such
bottlenecks are one reason Brazil dropped six spots, falling
behind Swaziland and Bangladesh, to No. 126 out of 183 countries
ranked last year for competitiveness by the  World Bank .  “From taxes to infrastructure, we have deficiencies that
can be resolved by reforms that should’ve already happened,”
Skaf said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Trailing the BRICS  Growth in the $2.6 trillion economy, which overtook the
U.K. last year to become the world’s sixth-largest economy,
slowed to  2.7 percent  last year from 7.5 percent in 2010. That
was its second-worst performance since 2003 and the slowest
among Brazil’s peers in the BRICS group of major  emerging
markets  --  Russia , India,  China  and  South Africa .  A 45 percent rally by the real since the start of 2005 has
turned the trade balance in manufacturing goods from an $8.7
billion surplus that year into a $93 billion deficit last year,
according to the Trade Ministry.  “Dilma is avoiding structural reforms so she doesn’t have
to deal with Congress,” Joao Mauricio Rosal, chief economist
with Raymond James Brasil SA, said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  Instead of attacking longstanding inefficiencies, Rosal
said Rousseff is relying on stopgap measures like this week’s
elimination of a  payroll tax  for employers in 15 industries
hardest hit by the currency gains.  Perseverance  Still, Rousseff can point to some early achievements.  In a bid to revive growth and stem currency gains, the
central bank has cut interest rates by  275 basis points  since
August, backed by Rousseff’s often-repeated pledge to
permanently lower borrowing costs that are the second-highest in
the G-20 when adjusted for inflation. She’s also surprised
investors with some market-friendly measures, such as leasing
airports to private operators and cutting the budget.  She also pushed through Congress the creation of a Truth
Commission to investigate human rights abuses during military
rule from 1964-85. Rousseff herself was among the dictatorship’s
victims, tortured with electric shocks while jailed between 1970
and 1972 for belonging to the Marxist underground that fought
the junta.  Perseverance has been a trait that allowed Rousseff to
survive torture as well as fight lymphoma in 2009, said Amaral.
Yet that same strong will may be isolating her politically, said
Norman Gall, head of the Fernand Braudel Institute, a Sao Paulo-
based policy group.  “She spends time correcting commas and numbers and
confronting Congress,” said Joao Augusto de Castro,  Latin
America  analyst at  Eurasia Group  political consultancy in
Washington. “For now that works but if she fails to deliver on
the economy, none of that will matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  