-- BSkyB Hacking Throws Spotlight Back on Murdoch Ownership Fight
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/bskyb-s-sky-news-channel-approved-hacking-of-e-mails-twice-1-.html
James Murdoch this week resigned as
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  chairman to move the company
out of the limelight of a phone-hacking scandal that has
engulfed  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s other U.K. businesses. Two days later, the
pay-TV operator said it hacked into e-mails for stories.  BSkyB shares fell to the lowest level in seven months
yesterday as analysts say the revelations make it less likely
that News Corp. will revive its bid for  full control  of the
broadcaster. News Corp.’s admission that journalists at its
U.K. newspapers illegally accessed voice mails and paid police
for stories has prompted regulators to probe whether the New
York-based company and its deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch are fit to hold a broadcasting license for BSkyB.  “Before now, Sky was always felt to be distanced from
phone or e-mail hacking,” said Alex de Groote, an analyst at
Panmure Gordon & Co. in London. The timing with the Murdoch
resignation is “eerily coincidental,” he said.  BSkyB said yesterday executives at its  Sky News  channel
cleared a reporter to access e-mails as part of his
investigations into criminal activity, including the 2008 case
of a British couple who faked the husband’s death in a canoe
accident to collect life and mortgage insurance. Sky News said
the hacking of e-mails was in the public interest.  ‘Lightning Rod’  “The announcement adds to concerns over whether News Corp.
will be found to be fit and proper, making a renewed bid for
BSkyB, in our view, unlikely,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein. “Greater scrutiny is also likely to
distract management at an important time.”  U.K. lawmakers are preparing a report on the phone-hacking
scandal following testimony  James Murdoch  gave that has been
contradicted by former subordinates. The committee began its
inquiry in July after the son of News Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Murdoch said lawmakers had been misled about the
extent of phone hacking during a previous probe in 2009. It has
questioned him twice for the new report.  Media regulator Ofcom said it will take parliament’s report
into consideration when evaluating whether News Corp. should
have a broadcast license on behalf of BSkyB.  “I am aware that my role as chairman could become a
lightning rod for BSkyB and I believe that my resignation will
help to ensure that there is no false conflation with events at
a separate organization,” James Murdoch said this week.  A News Corp. spokeswoman and a spokesman for Ofcom declined
to comment.  BSkyB Bid  The younger Murdoch’s departure as chairman of BSkyB, the
company he once ran and built into one of News Corp.’s most
 profitable  businesses, is the biggest sacrifice he has made
since the phone-hacking revelations last year.  The scandal also prompted News Corp. to drop its 7.8
billion-pound ($12.3 billion) bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB it
doesn’t already own and to close its most popular title, the
News of the World.  James Murdoch in 2007 was put in charge of the company’s
 operations  throughout Europe and  Asia , a portfolio that includes
digital television distribution and newspapers. In that role, he
also oversaw the company’s U.K. publishing business which later
became the focus of the hacking allegations.  The scandal has led to the arrest of more than 30 people in
three related probes. Police identified more than 800 likely
victims of the practice.  Public Interest  BSkyB  fell  22.50 pence to 635.50 pence in London trading
yesterday, the lowest level August, 2011. The stock has declined
13 percent this year.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Sky News head John Ryley said the hacking of e-mails was
“editorially justified and in the public interest” and that
the channel provided the e-mails to police to assist in the
couple’s prosecution.  News Corp. shareholders in October lodged a protest vote
against  Rupert Murdoch  and his sons, following an annual meeting
at which investors called for governance changes and an end to
voting practices that cement the family’s control. James
received the highest percentage of votes against his election to
the board, at 35 percent.  In November, one third of BSkyB’s independent shareholders
voted against Murdoch’s re-election as chairman.  Reviews  Chris Watson, a media lawyer at  CMS Cameron McKenna , said
that Sky News’s defense of public interest probably wouldn’t
work in a court of law.  “There is no public interest defense to interception of
communications that I’m aware of,” he said. “It may answer the
accusation that they were wrong to publish, but it doesn’t deal
with the more serious charge that it may have been unlawful for
them to have obtained the e-mails that way.”  Sky News said yesterday it commissioned an external review
of e-mail records at Sky News and an internal audit of payment
records. No grounds for concern have been found so far, it said.  Simon Cole, who was the managing editor who approved the
hacking at Sky News, is retiring after 17 years. Cole, whose
current title is news editor, will leave in the next few weeks
and his retirement is unrelated to the hacking announcement, a
spokeswoman said. Cole said on his Twitter account that he had
been planning to retire for “some time” and that there is “no
linkage” to the hacking story.  “This is clearly unhelpful for investors that yet again
the focus is on alleged wrongdoings rather than on the
fundamentals of the business,” Panmure Gordon’s de Groote said.
“It must be bitterly frustrating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  