-- Buffett Guards Berkshire From higher Rates, Moody’s Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-05T20:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/buffett-guards-berkshire-from-higher-rates-moody-s-says.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  is better positioned than rival property-casualty insurers
to sidestep a decline in the value of fixed-income securities if
 interest rates  rise, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Berkshire’s capital losses as a percentage of shareholder’s
equity would be the lowest among 27 property-casualty and multi-
line insurers if interest rates climb 100 basis points,
according to a Moody’s report. The ratings firm projects an
increase of at least that much over the next 12 months and as
much as a 300-basis-point rise over the next two years.  “Investment diversification away from fixed-income assets
is generally likely to be a benefit during a period of rising
interest rates,” Moody’s analysts, led by Paul Bauer, wrote in
the report dated yesterday.  Buffett, 81, built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire into a
$200 billion firm through acquisitions and by accumulating
 equity stakes  in companies such as Coca-Cola Co. and American
Express Co. In February, he reiterated his company’s strategy of
buying companies and investing in stocks to increase shareholder
returns. He shunned investments including bonds, mortgages and
money-market funds.  “They are among the most dangerous of assets,” Buffett
wrote in his  annual letter  to Berkshire shareholders published
Feb. 25. “Over the past century these instruments have
destroyed the purchasing power of investors in many countries,
even as these holders continued to receive timely payments of
interest and principal.”  Capital Losses  Moody’s projected capital losses of about $60 billion for
the property-casualty industry if rates rise by 150 basis
points, or 1.5 percentage points. Insurers often hold fixed-
income investments to maturity, which means they may not have to
realize the losses, the ratings firm said.  Declines in Berkshire’s  $32 billion  of bonds would be less
than those of rivals, as a portion of  shareholders’ equity , in
part because Buffett’s firm has a shorter-duration portfolio and
a smaller percentage of its investments dedicated to fixed-
income, Bauer said.  Horace Mann Educators Corp. (HMN) , the seller of
insurance to public school employees, would fare the worst if
rates rise, because of its longer portfolio duration and higher
allocation to bonds, Moody’s said.  The analysis “is a view of our entire investment
portfolio, of which the vast majority are life-company
investments,” Paul Wappel, a spokesman for Springfield,
Illinois-based  Horace Mann , said by phone. “To draw conclusions
about our property-and-casualty company from this report is
misleading. Our P&C portfolio duration is generally consistent
with the Moody’s study.”  Longer Dated Liabilities  The ratings firm said in its report that life insurers have
longer dated liabilities, “moderating the interest-rate risk of
their investments.”  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
sent to an assistant,  Carrie Kizer . Berkshire is the largest
 shareholder  in Moody’s Corp., the parent of the ratings firm,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s assigns its
third-highest grade to Berkshire while  Standard & Poor’s  gives
Buffett’s firm its second-best rating.  Aside from capital losses, an increase in interest rates
would benefit insurers by boosting investment income, Moody’s
said. Firms with a shorter duration would be better positioned
to gain from the higher yields, said Bauer.  “For companies that don’t have a lot of bond investments
now, or they are just focused in short-term debt, they will be
able to take advantage of higher rates easier than a company
that has their investments locked up in long-term bonds,” he
said today in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  