-- Buffets Rewards Managers Who Put Chain in Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-05T13:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/buffets-rewards-managers-who-put-chain-in-bankruptcy.html
R. Michael Andrews Jr., chief
executive officer of Buffets Holdings Inc., helped guide the
restaurant owner through bankruptcy twice in the past four
years. Both times, he was rewarded with court-approved bonuses.  Andrews, Chief Financial Officer A. Keith Wall and the
company’s concept officer are among 16 managers who may split
about $2.3 million during Buffets’ current bankruptcy. The three
men also shared in about $1 million in bonuses handed out in the
company’s 2008 case, according to court records.  Both bonus programs took advantage of a common loophole to
avoid a 2005 federal law that restricts extra pay for executives
who put their companies into bankruptcy. Instead of payments
made through so-called Key Employee Retention Plans, which
Congress made harder to hand out, bankrupt companies now
routinely set up Key Employee Incentive Plans, claiming the
extra pay is tied to progress in reorganizing operations.  “The amendment to the code changed the means, but not the
value of these plans,” Lee R. Bogdanoff, a founding partner of
law firm Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in  Los Angeles ,
said. “It’s just changed the way you get there, not necessarily
how much management gets at the end.”  Bankrupt companies’ bonus plans are attracting scrutiny
from Congress. In February, U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley , an
Iowa Republican who helped write the 2005 bankruptcy reform act,
asked the U.S. Justice Department whether there is any
difference between retention and incentive pay. Grassley sought
to determine whether the law is working as intended, Beth
Levine, a spokeswoman for Republicans on the U.S. Senate
Judiciary Committee, said.  ‘Six-Figure Payouts’  “Six-figure payouts to executives who helped create the
bankruptcy in the first place are not what anybody envisioned
when the 2005 bankruptcy law was signed,” Grassley said in a
statement.  The  Justice Department ’s  Office of the U.S. Trustee , which
monitors corporate bankruptcies, challenges bonuses that appear
to violate the 2005 restrictions. Some bonus programs define
progress as proposing a reorganization plan, a standard step in
reorganizations, by a certain date. Others require the company
to achieve specific financial targets, which can lead to time-
consuming fights with creditors over whether goals are too low.  Buffets, based in Eagan,  Minnesota , bills itself as the
biggest U.S. operator of buffet-styled steak restaurants,
including Old Country Buffet and HomeTown Buffet, with almost
500 locations in 38 states.  Exceeding the Maximum  In Buffets’ first bankruptcy, 15 employees split $1
million, or an average of $66,667 each, after the company
surpassed financial targets for 2008, according to court records
filed in February 2009. The company topped those goals so easily
that the executives got $280,000 more than the maximum predicted
under the proposal, according to court records.  Among the recipients were Andrews, Wall and Fred Williams,
an executive vice president who is now chief concept officer.
They remained with Buffets after the company exited bankruptcy
under the control of its bank lenders.  Buffets filed its second bankruptcy in January in
Wilmington,  Delaware , after reaching a deal with lenders to cut
debt by $245 million. The company wasn’t able to reduce debt
enough the first time around, Scott D. Irwin, Buffets’ general
counsel, said.  “The debt load has proved to be unsustainable,” Irwin
said. Buffets declined to make Andrews, Wall and Williams
available to comment on the bankruptcy case and the bonuses.  ‘Independent Metrics’  On March 15, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath approved
the payment of $2.3 million in bonuses to Andrews, Williams,
Wall and 13 other executives should the company meet certain
financial targets, for an average payout of $143,750 each.  The plan “requires five independent metrics be achieved,”
Irwin said in an e-mail. The company must maintain a certain
amount of cash on specific dates, generate minimum earnings
before deducting interest payments, depreciation and taxes, keep
its debt on letters of credit low and exit bankruptcy quickly.  In Buffets’ case, the U.S. Trustee objected unsuccessfully
to the first bonus plan on technical grounds, saying the company
cited the wrong section of the  bankruptcy code  to justify the
payments.  While the U.S. Trustee didn’t object to the new incentive
plan, it did oppose a separate proposal to pay Andrews, Wall,
Williams and 14 other executives $2.65 million if Buffets sells
itself while in bankruptcy. The individual payments would be
offset by whatever the executives collect from the $2.3 million
pool. At the request of Buffets, Walrath put off a hearing on
that plan until April 30.  Over Objections  Anecdotal evidence suggests the U.S. Trustee’s success rate
in opposing bonus plans is lower than for any other topic for
which the office keeps records, Assistant Attorney General
Ronald Weich said in a letter responding to Grassley’s request
for data.  Visteon Corp. (VSTN) , an auto-parts maker, won court permission in
2010 to pay as much as $35.4 million in incentive bonuses,
including as much as $5.9 million to 13 executives, after
creditors and the U.S. Trustee objected to a more generous
proposal.  NewPage Corp. (NWP) , a paper maker, in March received court
approval to pay $8.6 million in long-term incentive bonuses to
15 executives over the U.S. Trustee’s opposition.  Mortgage insurer  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ)  won approval in February of
a bonus plan that may pay Chief Executive Officer L. Stephen Smith more than $1 million, after modifying it downward in
response to a protest by the U.S. Trustee. In January, chicken
producer Cagle’s Inc. fended off the U.S. Trustee’s objection to
win approval of a $250,000 bonus program.  ‘That’s Strange’  Evaluating a bonus plan is a “difficult job” for
bankruptcy judges, said Joseph McMahon, a bankruptcy attorney
with Ciardi Ciardi & Astin in Wilmington who worked for 10 years
for the U.S. Trustee’s office.  The Buffets case is unusual, said  Kelli Alces , a professor
at Florida State University College of Law in Tallahassee.
Executives who help put a company into bankruptcy rarely keep
their jobs when the company reorganizes and leaves court
protection under new ownership, said Alces, who formerly worked
as a restructuring lawyer.  “That’s strange,” Alces said. “I don’t know why these
creditors and the equity holders think the management is still
worth the investment.”  A board of directors, not the executives, made the decision
to put Buffets into bankruptcy, Irwin said. The board that
authorized the first bankruptcy and incentive plan was entirely
different from the current board, which filed the second case
and the new bonus plan, he said.  ‘Best Interests’  “If the board believed it to be in the best interests of
Buffets and its shareholders to remove any of Messrs. Andrews,
Wall or Williams, they would have done so,” Irwin said.
“Likewise, if Buffets’ ownership wished to change the
composition of the board, they had an opportunity to do so at
our recent 2011 Annual Meeting.”  Under the bankruptcy code, bonuses must be approved by a
judge after creditors have a chance to object. In smaller cases,
there may be no major creditor willing to spend the money to
challenge a bonus plan, said Amiyatosh Purnanandam, a professor
at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business in  Ann
Arbor .  The strongest opposition typically comes from lenders that
have agreed to finance a company’s bankruptcy with a so-called
debtor-in-possession loan, Purnanandam said. That may create a
conflict of interest for top managers, who usually pick the DIP
lender and can buy off opposition with higher bank fees or
interest rates, he said.  “If the lenders don’t object, there is usually a reason,”
Purnanandam said.  The case is In re Buffets Holdings Inc., 12-10237,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  