-- Burger King Sale Could Aid AB InBev Bid for SABMiller, KBC Says
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-05T11:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/burger-king-sale-could-aid-ab-inbev-bid-for-sabmiller-kbc-says.html
The Brazilian investors who plan to
list Burger King Worldwide Holdings Inc. may use the proceeds to
help fund an offer by brewer  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  for its
biggest competitor  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , according to KBC Groep NV.  The investors, including Brazilian billionaire  Jorge Paulo Lemann , own a stake in AB InBev, the world’s biggest beermaker,
and are also backers of 3G Capital Inc., which will get $1.4
billion from the sale of 29 percent of Burger King. Those plans
were announced a week after Belgian families that founded AB
InBev’s predecessor company raised 223.4 million euros ($292
million) selling stock in UCB SA, a Belgian drugmaker.  “Over the past week, AB InBev’s Belgian and Brazilian
reference  shareholders  have freed up considerable amounts of
cash,” Wim Hoste, an analyst at KBC in Brussels, said in a
note. The moves could be “a coordinated attempt to be followed
by a fresh cash injection into AB InBev. We see only one brewing
acquisition likely that would be large enough to warrant a
capital increase, and that is SABMiller.”  Lemann and fellow 3G partners Marcel Herrmann Telles and
Carlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira sit on the board of AB InBev,
which analysts have speculated may consider acquiring SABMiller,
the London-based maker of Grolsch and Peroni. SABMiller soared
the most in almost three years in October after IG, a Brazilian
news website, reported the beermaker was in talks to be bought
by AB InBev. Spokesmen for both companies declined to comment.  Hoste cut his recommendation on AB InBev, the brewer of
Budweiser and  Stella Artois , to “hold” from “accumulate”
today. He doesn’t formally cover SABMiller.  Net Debt  SABMiller, which has a market capitalization of 40.1
billion pounds ($63.5 billion), may cost a buyer about $81
billion, KBC estimated. The company also has net debt of about
$18 billion after buying  Australia ’s Foster’s Group Ltd. last
year for about $11 billion, Hoste said.  An acquisition of its competitor could lead to  net debt  for
AB InBev of $134 billion, a multiple of 5.9 times estimated 2012
earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization, Hoste said. That’s “too much leverage,” he said.  Any purchase would necessitate asset sales, including
SABMiller’s stake in its MillerCoors LLP joint venture with
 Molson Coors  Brewing Co., Hoste wrote. Molson Coors would “seem
a logical candidate” to buy the stake, “although financing
could be troublesome,” he said. The U.S. brewer agreed to buy
StarBev LP this week for 2.65 billion euros.  SABMiller’s major  shareholders , including Altria Group
Inc., which owns 27 percent of the company, may be prepared to
accept AB InBev shares instead of cash, according to Hoste,
which “would mean significant dilution” for AB InBev’s
shareholders, who’d lose their majority stake. AB InBev could
also pursue a capital increase, he said.  Antitrust Issues  AB InBev was formed in 2008 when InBev NV bought Anheuser-
Busch Cos. in a $52-billion deal. The Brazilian and Belgian
controlling shareholders participated in a $9.8 billion capital
raising by InBev to help fund the acquisition.  A combination of AB InBev and SABMiller wouldn’t raise many
antitrust issues, except in the U.S. and  China , Hoste wrote.  “Although all of this is just speculation, we believe the
moves of the reference shareholders indicate something might be
cooking at AB InBev level,” the analyst said.  Other analysts, including  Trevor Stirling  at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  London , say a combination of the two companies is
unlikely. Stirling cited “significant executional risks” in a
note published March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  