-- Canadian Dollar Strengthens After Job Gains Beat Forecast
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-05T21:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/canadian-dollar-strengthens-after-job-gains-beat-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar registered its first
weekly gain in a month against its U.S. counterpart after a
government report showed employers added the most jobs since
2008 last month, adding to evidence the economy is firming.  The currency erased an earlier loss posted amid concern
European’s sovereign-debt crisis will weigh on global growth and
drive investors to the safety of its U.S. counterpart. The job
gains were more than seven times greater than economists
forecast and dominated by full-time positions.  “Huge number,” Blake Jespersen, director of foreign
exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “The entire market has taken notice. We’re seeing a
total reversal here. We’re obviously seeing a lot of Canadian
dollar buying on this number.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, gained 0.3 percent
to 99.31 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, extending
the weekly gain to 0.6 percent. It had lost as much as 0.4
percent to 99.98 cents, the lowest level this week. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0070.  Employment (CANLNETJ)  rose by 82,300 following a February decline of
2,800,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa, lowering the jobless
rate to 7.2 percent from 7.4 percent. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had forecast a jobs increase of 10,500 and
unemployment to remain at 7.4 percent.  Since the end of January, the Canadian dollar had been in a
trading range between 98.42 cents and C$1.0054. The currency has
gained against the Australian dollar and yen this year and
trailed the Mexican peso and  Norway ’s krone.  Government Bonds  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  were little changed at
2.12 percent, after dropping seven basis points yesterday. The
spread below comparable maturity U.S. government notes, yielding
2.18 percent, narrowed to six basis points.  Federal bonds have lost 0.9 percent this year, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Canada will sell C$3.3 billion ($3.32 billion) of two-year
bonds by auction April 11, according to the Bank of Canada’s
website. The securities will have a coupon of 2.25 percent and
mature Aug. 1, 2014. The previous auction of two-year bonds, on
Feb. 29, drew an average yield of 1.116 percent and a coverage
ratio -- the amount bid for the amount on offer -- of 2.15
times, versus a five auction average ratio of 2.42 times,  Bank
of Canada   data  show.  Canada’s dollar advanced for a fourth day against the euro,
which dropped against most of its 16 major peers as borrowing
costs in France and  Spain  rose amid renewed concern some euro-
region countries may struggle to fund themselves.  Provincial Debt  “Our core view is still for modest U.S. dollar
appreciation,” said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS
AG, by phone from  London . He said the result of higher risk-
aversion and the decline in stocks is selling of commodity
currencies such as the Canadian dollar against the greenback.
“The focus is still on Spain,” he said.  The bonds of Canada’s provinces and municipalities
including Ontario and Winnipeg are trailing corporate peers such
as  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  by the most since 2004 as
investors shun higher-rated, deficit-saddled issuers in favor of
cash-flush companies.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial and
Municipal Index is down 1.4 percent this year, compared with a
gain of 1.5 percent for a gauge of Canadian corporate bonds led
by cable provider Rogers, grocer  Loblaw Cos Ltd. (L)  and insurer
Great-West Lifeco Inc. For provincial bonds, it’s the worst
start to the year since 1994, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  