-- Canada February Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-04-05T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/canada-february-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
February building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  The total value of permits rose 7.5% to $6.5 billion in
February, following an 11.4% decline in January. The advance in
February was the result of an increase in the non-residential
sector, which offset the decrease in the residential sector.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits
increased 36.2% to $2.5 billion, after decreasing 20.6% in
January. The increase resulted from higher non-residential
construction intentions in seven provinces. British Columbia,
Quebec and Alberta were largely responsible for the advance.  In contrast, the value of residential permits declined to
$3.9 billion, 5.3% less than in January. The decrease in
February was mainly attributable to lower construction
intentions for single-family and multi-family dwellings in
Ontario. Five other provinces also posted declines. The largest
gains were observed in  Alberta , Quebec and British Columbia.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for
the previous month.  Non-residential sector: Increases in all three components  After three consecutive monthly declines, the value of
permits in the industrial component rose 151.1% to $714 million
in February, the highest level since February 2011. Industrial
construction intentions were up in every province except Prince
 Edward Island  and Saskatchewan. The largest increases were in
building permits for manufacturing plants in British Columbia,
Quebec, Ontario and Alberta.  In the institutional component, the value of permits grew
64.8% to $517 million. The advance came in the wake of three
consecutive monthly declines. February’s increase was the result
of higher construction intentions for a variety of structures in
several provinces, including government buildings, educational
institutions and medical buildings. The value of institutional
permits was up in seven provinces, led by Quebec, Alberta and
Ontario.  The value of commercial building permits rose 3.4% to $1.3
billion, following a 19.7% decline in January. The increase was
largely attributable to construction intentions for office
buildings and retail stores in Alberta. Higher construction
intentions for various types of commercial buildings in other
provinces also contributed to the advance.  Residential sector: Lower intentions for single-family and
multi-family dwellings  Contractors took out $2.3 billion worth of building permits
for single-family dwellings in February, down 6.7% from January
and the second consecutive monthly decline. Ontario posted the
largest decline in both single and multi-family permits; however,
five provinces recorded gains.  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings fell
3.3% to $1.6 billion in February. The decrease was attributable
to lower construction intentions in five provinces, mainly
Ontario.  Quebec  posted the largest gain, followed by Alberta.  Canadian municipalities approved the construction of 17,259
new dwellings in February, down 2.0% from January. The decrease
was attributable to single-family dwellings, which declined 6.9%
to 6,922 units. Multi-family dwellings, however, rose 1.6% to
10,337 units.  British Columbia, Quebec and Alberta post the biggest gains  The total value of permits was up in six provinces in
February.  British Columbia had the largest increase, after two
consecutive monthly declines. The advance was attributable to
higher construction intentions in all components except the
commercial component.  Quebec and Alberta posted the second- and third-largest
gains respectively in February as a result of increases in the
residential and non-residential sectors.  Ontario reported the largest decline, a result of lower
construction intentions in the residential sector and, to a
lesser extent, for commercial buildings.  Permit values up in most census metropolitan areas  The total value of permits was up in 23 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas.  The largest increases were in Calgary,  Edmonton  and
Montréal. In Calgary, the advance was particularly the result of
building permits for residential construction and commercial and
institutional buildings. In Edmonton, the gain stemmed from
higher construction intentions in the residential sector and for
industrial and institutional buildings. In Montréal, the
increase was mainly attributable to higher construction
intentions for non-residential buildings and multi-family
dwellings.  Toronto, Ottawa and Hamilton reported the largest declines.
In Toronto, the decrease resulted in particular from lower
intentions in the residential sector, which offset the gain in
the non-residential sector. In Ottawa, the decline was
attributable to lower intentions in every component except the
institutional component. In Hamilton, the downturn was primarily
because of lower construction intentions in the residential
sector and for institutional buildings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  