-- Cardinals Defeat Marlins 4-1 in Baseball’s North American Opener
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-04-05T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/cardinals-defeat-marlins-4-1-in-baseball-s-north-american-opener.html
Kyle Lohse took a no-hitter into the
seventh inning and the  St. Louis Cardinals  began defense of
their World Series title with a 4-1 win against the Miami
Marlins in Major League Baseball’s North American season opener.  The Cardinals’ victory ruined the debut of Marlins Park,
the new $515 million retractable-roof stadium 2 miles (3
kilometers) from downtown Miami. It also was the first game
since the hosts changed their name from the  Florida Marlins .  St. Louis  right fielder Carlos Beltran recorded the first
hit at the 37,442-seat stadium with a single in the top of the
first inning and scored the first run on a two-run double by
David Freese, the Most Valuable Player of the Cardinals’ seven-
game World Series win against the  Texas Rangers .  “Tonight was fun,” Freese told reporters. “It’s always
nice to get the season going and to open up here, beautiful
ballpark, the fans were excited about it and so were we.”  The Cardinals were playing their first game without manager
Tony La Russa, who had led the team since 1996, and three-time
National League MVP Albert Pujols, who left St. Louis to sign a
free-agent deal with the Los Angeles Angels.  Lohse allowed one run on two hits in 7 1/3 innings for the
win. Marlins shortstop Jose Reyes, who signed with Miami as a
free agent in December, broke up Lohse’s bid for a no-hitter
with a single to center leading off the seventh inning.  Beltran and Reyes were teammates on the  New York Mets  last
season.  The MLB season began with a two-game series in Tokyo last
week between the Oakland Athletics and Seattle Mariners. Last
night’s game in Miami was the first outside Japan. The rest of
the 30 major league teams begin play today or tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  