-- Chalco Rises to Premium as Growth Boosts Index: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-05T21:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/chalco-climbs-to-premium-as-growth-boosts-index-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks listed in the U.S.
climbed the most in three weeks, buoyed by  Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd. , on speculation data due next week will show that the
world’s second-largest economy has bottomed.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 1.2 percent to 103.08, the
largest jump since March 13. The gauge was little changed on the
week. Aluminum Corp., the nation’s largest producer of the
metal, rose 3 percent to trade at a  premium  over its Hong Kong
stock for the first time in three days, after saying it will
boost output of rare earth metals.  China’s economy  grew 8.4 percent in the first quarter,
National Development and Reform Commission Vice Chairman  Zhang Xiaoqiang  said on April 3, faster than the 8.3 percent median of
28 economists’ estimates. New bank loans in March rose the most
in 14 months, a report due next week will show, according to the
median of 28 analysts. China more than doubled the amount
foreigners can invest in local  capital markets  on April 3.  “People’s worries about a hard landing in China sound too
pessimistic, and we don’t see a notable slowdown in the
economy,” Qinwei Wang, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. who focuses on China’s economy and stock markets,
said by phone. “The increase in foreigner’s investment quotas
will help boost investors’ confidence in Chinese stocks.”  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1 percent to $37.00
yesterday, after falling the most in two weeks on April 4. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,398.08, after
earlier losing as much 0.4 percent.  U.S. stock exchanges are closed today in observance of the
Good Friday holiday.  Chalco Jumps  American depositary receipts of Aluminum Corp., known as
Chalco, surged to $12.03 in the U.S., the largest one-day gain
since March 13. The ADRs rose 0.8 percent on the week and traded
0.5 percent above the company’s Hong Kong stock, which slipped
0.3 percent to HK$3.70, the equivalent of 48 U.S. cents per
share. The premium in the ADRs, each representing 25 common
shares in the company, followed discounts of as much as 3.2
percent in the past two days.  Chalco’s parent Aluminum Corp. of  China , known as Chinalco,
plans to invest 5.2 billion yuan ($824 million) to increase
production capacity of rare earth metals in the southern
province of Guangxi, the parent company’s spokesman Yuan Li said
yesterday by phone, confirming a report by China’s 21st Century
Business Herald.  More Rare Earths  Chinese limits on the production and sale of rare earths
have pushed up prices for the 17 chemically similar metallic
elements used in Boeing Co. helicopter blades and Toyota Motor
Corp. hybrid cars. Aluminum Corp. will have capacity to produce
34,700 metric tons of rare earths a year, after it took over
five rare-earth companies in the eastern province of Jiangsu,
the company said in June.  Beijing-based Chalco advanced 3.7 percent yesterday in
 Shanghai  to 6.81 yuan, or $1.08 per share.  The Chinese  economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the last three
months of 2011, the slowest pace for 10 quarters. The government
last month lowered this year’s economic growth target to 7.5
percent, after keeping the goal at 8 percent over the past seven
years. First-quarter gross domestic product data is scheduled to
be released on April 13.  “The economy is growing a little below trend, but not as
bad as the market has been thinking,”  Michael Buchanan , chief
Asia-Pacific economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  Hong Kong ,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. “We
are looking for macro easing and for growth to pick up.”  Dangdang Clothes  Consumer prices  in March, due to be released on April 9,
probably rose 3.4 percent, from 3.2 percent in February,
according to the median of 33 analysts’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , China’s largest online book
seller, jumped 5.5 percent to $9.73 yesterday in  New York , the
highest level since Aug. 15. The ADR rose 20 percent for the
week.  The company known as Dangdang has started to offer clothing
using its own brand on its online store, China National Radio
 reported  yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest online video website, rose for
the first time in three days after saying it received a license
to offer government-authorized content on computers, tablets and
smartphones.  China’s General Administration of Press and Publication
granted Youku the license on March 28, the Beijing-based company
said in a statement distributed by PRNewswire yesterday. Youku’s
ADRs climbed 0.7 percent to $22.2 after losing 3.8 percent in
the previous two days.  Airlines Rise  China’s airlines gained after a report that domestic
airlines raised passenger fuel surcharges to their highest level
since 2000 to offset higher oil costs.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH) ,  Asia ’s biggest airline by
passenger numbers, advanced for the first day in four, adding 2
percent to $23.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) , the nation’s
second-largest carrier by passenger numbers, climbed 3.5
percent, the most in four weeks, to $16.71.  The surcharge increased to 150 yuan ($23.76) from 140 yuan
for routes within China longer than 800 kilometers (497 miles),
the Shanghai Daily reported yesterday, citing domestic carriers.
The surcharge on shorter routes increased to 80 yuan from 70
yuan.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 1.7 percent to 2,302.24
in its first trading session after a three-day holiday. During
the break, China’s securities watchdog announced a plan on April
3 to increase the quotas for foreign institutions to invest in
equities, bonds and  bank deposits  to $80 billion, from $30
billion.  QFII Program  Offshore investors will also be allowed to pump an extra 50
billion yuan ($7.95 billion) of local currency into the
country’s capital markets under a so-called Renminbi QFII
program, up from 20 billion yuan, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said on the same day.  The increased Renminbi QFII quotas will mainly be used for
investments in China’s domestic A-share market, without the
previous restriction that no more than 20 percent of the
approved amount should be used to buy stocks and stock funds,
the official China Securities Journal reported yesterday, citing
an unidentified official with the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  