-- Chief of Smallest Bank Gets Biggest Pay: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k ,   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-05T14:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/chief-of-smallest-bank-gets-biggest-pay-corporate-canada.html
National Bank of Canada  Chief
Executive Officer Louis Vachon runs the smallest of Canada’s six
biggest banks, yet he’s tops in pay relative to profit.  Vachon was awarded C$7.48 million ($7.49 million) in total
compensation for 2011, excluding pension costs, as the Montreal-
based lender posted record net income of C$1.21 billion.  That means the bank earned C$162.27 for every dollar Vachon
was awarded in compensation. By comparison, Gordon Nixon, CEO of
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest bank by assets,
brought in C$480.40 in profit for every dollar in pay, and
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  CEO  Edmund Clark  brought in C$517.45.  “These are scandalous pay packages,” said Yves Michaud of
Mouvement D’Education et de Defense Des Actionnaires, a Quebec-
based shareholders’ group. “I like Mr. Vachon, but it’s not
hard to make money when you’re a bank.”  Michaud’s group and other investors raised questions about
Vachon’s compensation yesterday at the bank’s annual meeting of
shareholders in  Montreal .  “People are concerned about the irrational behavior of
banks,” said Michaud, 82. “If people like me don’t do
anything, the compensation situation will get even worse.”  Vachon, 49, whose compensation rose 38 percent from the
previous year, declined to comment after the annual meeting.  Underpaid  In 2010, when the bank claims he was underpaid relative to
peers, Vachon brought in C$190.69 in profit for every dollar he
was awarded. Nixon and Clark -- as well as  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
CEO  Richard Waugh ,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  CEO William Downe and
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s Gerald McCaughey -- all
increased earnings relative to their pay in 2011.  Vachon “has enabled the bank to distinguish itself for
many years,” spokesman Claude Breton said, pointing to National
Bank’s No. 3 ranking among the world’s strongest banks last year
by Bloomberg Markets magazine. “The Board recognizes his
leadership and believes that the bank’s approach to executive
compensation ensures a right balance between loyalty of the best
talent, a compensation that is tied to performance and sound
risk-taking.”  Breton said more than 95 percent of shareholders voted in
favor of the bank’s compensation plan at the annual meeting
yesterday.  National Bank’s shares outperformed peers last year,
increasing 5.3 percent compared with a decline of less than 1
percent on the 10-member  S&P/TSX Banks Index (STCBNK) . National is also
the best performing bank stock among the country’s six largest
lenders over the past five years.  Total Pay  Vachon, who took the top job at  Canada ’s sixth-largest bank
in June 2007, received C$954,473 in salary, C$2.5 million in
share-based awards, C$2 million in option-based awards, C$1.8
million in non-equity incentive plan compensation and C$220,813
in “other compensation” such as dividends earned, according to
the bank.  National Bank said Vachon’s total compensation had been
lower than its peer group over the past few years. The lender
said in its management proxy that it targets compensation at
“the peer-group median” when its results meet expectations.  According to the bank, Vachon met or exceeded objectives in
seven categories, including profit growth, return on equity and
improving “employee motivation.”  “The numbers make sense,” said Colette Southam, an
assistant professor of finance-economics at the Richard Ivey
School of Business at Western University in  London , Ontario.
“Since he came in in 2007, he’s been able to deliver. The
trends are very modest compared to some of the U.S. banks.”  Smaller Than Peers  National Bank is smaller than its five main peers. The
lender had C$175.3 billion in assets at the end of January,
about a fifth of the C$815 billion in assets at Royal Bank. At
C$12.8 billion, the company’s market value is less than half
that of CIBC, the No. 5 bank.  Vachon also earns more relative to earnings compared with
some CEOs outside of the banking industry.  Canadian National
Railway Co. (CNR)  CEO Claude Mongeau brought in C$798.65 in net income
for every dollar he was awarded at the country’s largest
railway. Metro Inc. CEO Eric Richer La Fleche brought in
C$255.33 for the Montreal-based grocer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa  at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  