-- Chile Annual Inflation Falls Back Within Bank’s Target Range
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-05T11:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/chile-annual-inflation-falls-back-within-bank-s-target-range-1-.html
Chilean consumer prices rose 0.2
percent in March from the previous month, less than analysts’
forecast, bringing annual inflation back within the central
bank’s target range for the first time in four months.  The inflation rate slid to 3.8 percent from 4.4 percent the
month before, the National Statistics Institute said in a report
published today. The median estimate of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for prices to rise 0.5 percent in the
month. Core prices, which excludes fuel and fresh groceries,
were unchanged in the month.  The central bank on April 3 raised its estimate for
inflation this year by 0.8 percentage point to 3.5 percent from
the 2.7 percent pace it had forecast in December. The bank said
it expects to raise its benchmark  interest rate  this year as
more Chileans find work and higher prices for the country’s
biggest import, oil, push up the cost of living. The inflation
target is 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  “Our evaluation points to higher inflation, especially in
the short-term,” central bank President Rodrigo Vergara told
Senators on April 3. “Experience has shown us how damaging a
rise in inflation is, especially for the most vulnerable
sections of the population.”  The bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate  to 5 percent
in January from 5.25 percent.  Interest-rate swap  markets at the
time were pricing in even lower rates in the first months of
this year. Traders now expect the bank to raise at least once in
the second half after the economy proved more resilient than
expected to weak global growth.  Economic Growth  Retail sales  leaped 12.4 percent in the 12 months through
February, while the  unemployment rate  fell to 6.4 percent in the
three months through February, the lowest in 15 years, according
to the central bank.  Strong levels of consumer demand increase the risks of
inflation and exacerbate the impact of rising prices for oil and
groceries, Vergara said.  The forwards market for unidades de fomento,  Chile ’s
inflation-linked currency unit was yesterday pricing in 0.44
percent inflation in March, down from the 0.48 percent it was
discounting on April 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 