-- China HSBC Services Gauge Shows Slower Expansion in March
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-05T02:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/china-hsbc-services-gauge-shows-slower-expansion-in-march.html
A Chinese services industry  index 
showed a slower expansion in March on weaker job growth and
little-changed backlogs of work.  The purchasing managers’ index for the services industry
was 53.3 last month, compared with 53.9 in February, according
to a statement issued by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
today. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  The gauge reinforces signs of slowing growth in the world’s
second-largest economy in exports and manufacturing.  China  is
developing services industries including catering, tourism, and
software to find new economic drivers as the government seeks to
cut reliance on exports amid rising labor costs and cooling
overseas demand.  “Overall economic growth is losing some steam as export
orders are weakening,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at
HSBC, said in the statement. The drag on industrial-production
growth as well as weaker job markets “call for further easing
measures,” Qu said.  China’s services PMIs have less predictive power than the
equivalents for manufacturing, according to economists including
Hong Kong-based Lu Ting of Bank of America Corp.  A separate survey by the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing showed on April 3
that non-manufacturing industries expanded on new orders in the
retail, information technology and software industries. The
gauge rose to 58 last month from a restated 57.3 in February.  The HSBC China Services PMI is based on data compiled from
monthly replies to questionnaires sent to purchasing executives
at more than 400 services companies.  Growth Estimate  China’s economy  may have expanded about 8.4 percent in the
first quarter, the least since the first half of 2009, according
to an estimate given April 3 by  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice chairman
of the National Development and Reform Commission. He cited
“relevant China research institutes’ initial figures.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this week that economic challenges
include “inadequate” domestic demand and rising export costs.
The government will offer more policy support to small companies
and boost exports of services, Wen said during visits to
companies in industries including ports, logistics, and
manufacturing April 1-3.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nicholas Wadhams  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  