-- China Hedge Fund Credence to Boost Stocks on QFII Quota
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-06T07:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/china-hedge-fund-credence-to-boost-stocks-on-qfii-quota.html
Credence Oriental Trade Enterprise
Ltd. (CRDOTPL) , a  China  hedge fund that has beaten 98 percent of its
rivals, will boost its Chinese stock holdings on the prospect of
economic expansion and increased equity purchases by foreigners.  Credence is increasing the percentage of yuan-denominated A
shares and Hong Kong-listed H shares it holds in its portfolio
to 70 percent from 50 percent, while reducing bets on
commodities, Tom Tang, co-manager of the China-domiciled fund,
said in a phone interview from  Hong Kong  on April 4. Credence,
which has 211 million yuan ($33.6 million) in assets, has
 returned  29 percent in the past three years, outperforming 1,203
China-focused funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Equities will be our major investment in the future,”
said Tang, 39, who is based in Shenzhen. “There’s less variety
in commodities and we want a more diversified portfolio.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has risen 4.9 percent this
year on speculation the government will ease monetary policies
and take measures to prevent stocks from slumping for a third
year. The China Securities Regulatory Commission announced on
April 3 that it increased quotas for qualified foreign
institutional investors to $80 billion from $30 billion,
spurring the biggest gains for the benchmark measure in three
weeks. The index rose 0.2 percent to 2,306.55 at the close.  “This is good news for the stock market,” said Tang. “It
will increase trading of blue-chip stocks and improve
valuations.”  The Shanghai Composite  trades  at 9.7 times estimated
earnings, compared with an average multiple of 18.4 over the
past five years, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Resilient’ Economy  Tang said the Chinese economy won’t have a so-called hard
landing and earnings will improve because the the government has
scope to support the expansion if growth slows too much.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5 that the government is
targeting a 7.5 percent economic growth rate this year, after
keeping the goal at 8 percent over the last seven years. The
Chinese economy probably expanded 8.4 percent in the first three
months of the year, according to the median estimate of 38
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The figure is due April 13.  The 573 companies in the Shanghai index that have published
annual earnings  reported growth  of 15 percent on average,
trailing analyst estimates by 1.6 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “I am still positive on this year’s earnings outlook
compared to last year,” Tang said. “With regards to the
macroeconomy, the government still has quite strong control over
it. The economy is still resilient.”  Tang’s comments contrast with JPMorgan Chase & Co.
strategist  Adrian Mowat  who said last month the nation is
already in a hard landing. Societe Generale SA said in a March
27 report Chinese corporate profits won’t grow at all this year.  Sinopec Top Pick  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials gained 6.6
percent this year, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks jumped 8.1 percent. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. on March 28 cut its three-month outlook on
commodities to neutral from overweight, saying that most raw
materials reached their targets and global economic growth may
soften in the next quarter.  Credence favors banks and resource stocks because they have
higher quality companies whose businesses are more diversified,
Tang said. Resource stocks will benefit from increasing demand
from the so-called BRIC nations of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and
China, he said.  Tang said China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as
 Sinopec (600028) , is a top pick because of its diverse businesses and
“stable operating model.” Sinopec said last week it would ramp
up crude production and develop natural gas fields to counter
losses from selling diesel and gasoline at state-fixed prices.  “I like the company because the business will not be
affected adversely by any one single factor,” said Tang. “It’s
more stable this way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  