-- Chinese Export Machine Upgraded as Cranes Replace Toys
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/chinese-export-machine-upgraded-as-cranes-replace-toys.html
From a sprawling manufacturing base
deep in  China ’s southwestern Hunan province, some 100 kilometers
from where Mao Zedong was born, construction-machinery maker 
 Sany Group (SANYIZ)  plans to take on the world.  While workers in blue overalls and yellow hard hats crawl
over cranes and cement mixer trucks in a gleaming factory, Sany
President Tang Xiuguo sits nearby, discussing the opening of
factories in  Brazil , India, and  Alabama  and the $475 million
acquisition of a German maker of cement pumps, Putzmeister
Holding GmbH. Tang, a founder of the 22-year-old company, aims
to lift overseas sales, now some 5 percent of its $16 billion
revenue, to up to one-fifth of revenues within five years.  China’s export business, which increased 17 percent a year
over the last three decades on plastic toys, cheap shoes, and
electronics assembled by companies such as Foxconn Technology
Group, is changing fast, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
April 9 edition. Rising labor costs, up 15 percent annually
since 2005, plus the yuan’s 30 percent gain since a peg to the
dollar was scrapped that year, are putting new pressures on the
nation’s cheap manufacturing model and driving textile, shoe,
and apparel factories to close or relocate to  Vietnam , Cambodia,
or Bangladesh.  “China’s share of the world’s low-end exports has started
to fall. This reflects a shift by Chinese producers into sectors
where margins are higher rather than a failure to compete,”
U.K.-based  Capital Economics  said in a March 28 note.  Ships, Locomotives  Last year, Chinese-built ships dominated the global market
with a 41 percent share, ahead of  South Korea (KOEXTOTY)  and  Japan ,
according to London-based shipping services company Clarksons.
Data from the International Trade Centre, a joint agency of the
 United Nations  and the World Trade Organization, show gains in
China’s global share of the markets for railway locomotives and
wagons, machinery, and industrial boilers.  In construction machinery, Sany’s specialty, three Chinese
companies including Sany rank in the top 10 globally. Many of
the new exporters are producing from inland China, rather than
the coast, the traditional region for manufacturing.  Overall, the portion of China’s exports made up by heavy
industry, about two-thirds of which is machinery, has grown from
29 percent in 2001 to 39 percent last year, surpassing light
industry and electronics, according to Beijing-based economics
consultants GK Dragonomics.  “They are making different products with higher
technology, things they can charge more money for,” says Andrew
Batson, GK Dragonomics’ research director, who estimates that
the new industries can help lift China’s share of global exports
from 10 percent now to 15 percent by 2020. “The typical Chinese
exporter is not a shoe factory in Guangdong anymore. Instead it
is some kind of equipment or machinery maker.”  India, Middle East  The Chinese makers of this machinery are targeting  India ,
 South America , and the  Middle East , as  Europe , still China’s
largest export market, struggles with its debt crisis. Europe,
the U.S., and Japan accounted for 48 percent of China’s total
exports last year, down from 56 percent in 2003, with  developing
countries  now taking the majority, says  Louis Kuijs , an
economist at the Hong Kong-based Fung Global Institute.  “We have an advantage because our technology and our
products level are more suitable for these countries,” says
Sany’s Tang. “And our price is a bit lower than other
international brands.”  Policy makers have made upgrading industry a national
priority. Equipment manufacturing, shipbuilding, and cars are
among the industries slated to receive $2.5 billion from the
government this year to improve technology and product quality.
Mergers and acquisitions inside China and overseas are also
being encouraged.  Caterpillar, Siemens  Shao Ning, vice minister of the State-Owned Assets
Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council,
says: “Our position is we support Chinese companies investing
abroad.”  While China’s new manufacturers have made limited inroads
in developed markets, already they are challenging Caterpillar
Inc.,  Siemens AG (SIE) , General Electric, and other established
equipment makers in places like South America and  Russia .
China’s construction-machinery industry may overtake Japan’s and
 Germany ’s to become the second-largest exporter in the category,
behind the U.S.  Winning market share in the U.S. and Europe could take
years, in part because of concerns over quality after incidents
such as the crash of a Chinese-built high-speed train in
Zhejiang province in July.  Sany says it spent $240 million last year upgrading its
factories, including the installation of welding robots. As the
company expands overseas, it aims to improve its products to
match the quality achieved by its newest acquisition, Germany’s
Putzmeister, which will share engineering know-how and suppliers
with its Chinese parent.  “We know that ‘Made in China’ doesn’t have a great
reputation. We want to change this through selling high-quality
products,” says Tang.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  