-- China’s Hawaii to Face Hotel Slump as Supply Triples
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/china-s-hawaii-to-face-hotel-slump-as-supply-triples.html
China ’s resort city of Sanya is
expected to face a “huge correction” in its hotel market in
the next two years as the supply of luxury accommodation triples
by early 2013, the head of its tourism association said.  The average hotel occupancy rate in Sanya, located on the
tropical island known as China’s  Hawaii , will drop about 10
percentage points from last year’s 65 to 70 percent, Michel
Goget, Ritz-Carlton Sanya’s general manager and chairman of the
city’s Tourism Association, said in an interview yesterday.  “There’s going to be a huge correction between now and
2014 because there’s an oversupply,” said Goget, citing new
additions by international chains in the city. “The demand is
still not there. And the airport is almost saturated, so we are
going to be all looking for the same business.”  The number of luxury hotel rooms will reach 21,000 in early
2013, he said, compared with 7,000 last year. China unveiled a
plan in December 2009 to develop the southern Hainan province,
where Sanya is the second-largest city, into an international
tourism destination.  St. Regis Sanya and MGM Grand Sanya opened in December last
year, adding a total of 1,384 rooms to the city’s hotel market,
which will have an additional 14,000 rooms by 2015, according to
 Horwath Asia Pacific , which tracks the hospitality industry.  Hotel chains such as  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT)  and  Marriott (MAR)  International Inc. already have properties
lined along Yalong Bay with private beach access in a location
with a similar climate as Hawaii and Miami.  Tropical Weather  The island’s tropical weather has drawn travelers with an
average winter temperature of 19.2 degrees Celsius (66.6
Fahrenheit), compared with cities such as the capital Beijing,
which falls below the freezing point.  Hainan also hosts the Boao Forum for  Asia , a gathering of
government and business leaders modeled after the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . It’s also home to  Hainan Airlines
Co. (600221) , backed by billionaire  George Soros .  Ritz-Carlton is optimistic about longer-term prospects in
Sanya and the outlook for its business in China. The Ritz-
Carlton Sanya, opened about four years ago, is the brand’s most
profitable hotel worldwide, Victor Clavell, Hong Kong-based vice
president for the chain in the Asia-Pacific region, said in an
interview in November.  In the next decade, China will account for 25 percent of
hotels managed by Ritz-Carlton, the brand owned by Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Marriott (MAR) , up from 10 percent last year, he said.  The number of internationally branded hotel rooms is
expected to surge 52 percent by 2013 after rising 62 percent in
the past five years, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels,
which tracks data in 30 Chinese cities.  “We have 300 million people in China, the size of America
or  Europe  basically, that have the ability to buy for themselves
a nice weekend,” Goget said. “People come to Sanya today at the
Ritz-Carlton like they’re buying a Louis Vuitton bag. They’re
spending like $400 or $500 to spend a night in here and then go
back to  Shanghai  or Beijing to be able to have bragging
rights.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  