-- Chrysler Sees Ram Pickup Beating Ford’s F-150 Fuel Rating
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-05T16:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/chrysler-sees-new-ram-pickup-beating-ford-s-f-150-fuel-rating.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , said it expects new powertrains and
lighter materials in its 2013 Ram 1500 to push the truck’s fuel-
economy ratings past  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s F-150 pickups.  The 2013 Ram 1500 will be available with six- and eight-
cylinder engines that improve fuel economy from their
predecessors by as much as 20 percent, the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker said in an e-mailed statement.
Production is scheduled to begin in September, Fred Diaz,
president of the Ram truck brand, said in a telephone interview.  Chrysler is equipping the 1500 with eight-speed
transmissions and features such as stop-start, which conserves
fuel when the vehicle stops, to gain on F-Series. Ford
introduced six-cylinder engines to the 2011 F-150 to achieve as
much as 23 miles (37 kilometers) per gallon in highway driving,
which leads the full-size pickup segment.  “We’re going to be best-in-class fuel economy in both the
V-6 and V-8 segments,” Diaz said in a telephone interview from
the New York auto show. Chrysler redesigned the truck to
“extract every ounce of MPG that we could out of this
vehicle.”  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will issue its
 ratings  for the 1500 closer to when the pickup arrives in
dealerships, which is scheduled for October. The agency rates
the 2012 model year 1500 at as much as 20 mpg highway.  Claim ‘Unsubstantiated’  “Our goal is to continue to meet and exceed customers’
needs and continue to be a leader in the segment,” Marc Lapine,
Ford’s F-150 consumer marketing manager, said today in a
telephone interview. “We’re going to wait and see what the EPA
numbers actually come out to be. As of right now, the claim is
unsubstantiated.”  Chrysler may sell the 2013 Ram 1500 for about six months
before  General Motors Co. (GM)  starts deliveries of its redesigned
Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra trucks, Diaz said in a
January interview.  GM will introduce new pickups in 2013,  Tom Wilkinson , a
company spokesman, said in e-mail, without being more specific.
The trucks’ new powertrains will offer direct-injection
technology to boost efficiency and capability, he said.  “Our experience has been that truck customers won’t trade
off capability for fuel economy,” Wilkinson said.  Ram Features  Chrysler said it will be the first automaker to introduce
stop-start to pickups in the U.S. The feature shuts off the
engine when the vehicle is stopped and improves fuel economy by
about 1 mile per gallon in the city, the company said.  The new 1500 cuts 67 pounds (30 kilograms) from the
previous model by using lighter-weight steel in the frame, truck
bed and bumper plus aluminum in the hood, according to the
company’s statement.  Chrysler said its Pentastar V-6 engine paired with the
eight-speed transmission cuts about 76 pounds from the previous
comparable powertrain. The V-8 engine and the eight-speed
transmission are at least 30 pounds lighter than the pair they
replace, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  