-- Citigroup Ordered to Bolster Its Money-Laundering Safeguards
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-05T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/citigroup-ordered-to-bolster-its-money-laundering-safeguards-2-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, agreed to improve compliance with the Bank Secrecy
Act to resolve a federal regulator’s complaint that the company
lacked sufficient safeguards against money laundering.  The bank failed to conduct proper due diligence on
customers and was too slow to file so-called suspicious activity
reports, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said
today in a  consent order . The deficiencies prevented  New York- 
based Citigroup from identifying risky customers and monitoring
client relationships, the regulator said.  The potential flow of illicit funds through Citigroup,
which has operations in more than 100 countries, has attracted
scrutiny in the past. Japanese regulators censured the bank in
2009 and 2004 for violating anti- money laundering , or AML,
rules, and congressional investigators found the bank allowed
money laundering to take place in the 1990s. The  Bank Secrecy
Act  requires banks to report all large cash deposits to help
prevent crimes such as drug trafficking and terrorist financing.  “The bank has internal-control weaknesses including the
incomplete identification of high-risk customers in multiple
areas,” the OCC said in the  order . “The bank failed to
adequately conduct customer due diligence and enhanced due
diligence on its foreign-correspondent customers, its retail-
banking customers, and its international personal-banking
customers.”  No Crimes Resulted  The OCC doesn’t allege that Citigroup’s shortcomings led to
any crime and the regulator didn’t fine the bank. Citigroup, led
by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , resolved the claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing and said that it has
worked to fix the deficiencies.  “We have taken significant steps and developed a
comprehensive plan to address legacy AML issues and better
manage AML risks,” the bank said in a statement. “Many of the
issues highlighted in the OCC’s Order have already been
remediated or are in the process of being remediated.”  The violations outlined in the OCC’s order could be used in
future enforcement actions against the bank, the OCC said.  Japan’s financial regulator ordered Citigroup to suspend
some operations in the country in 2009 after it found the bank’s
anti-money laundering controls had “fundamental problems.” The
lender had failed to implement an improvement plan submitted
after regulators forced the closing of its private banking
business in  Japan  in 2004 for a similar failure, the watchdog
said at the time.  Shell Companies  The violations followed the 1998 findings of U.S.
congressional investigators, who said Citigroup helped Raul Salinas de Gortari, brother of former Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, move as much as $100 million from  Mexico  to
Switzerland and  London  through shell companies and multiple
accounts.  Citigroup also opened more than 100 accounts held by
Russians suspected of money laundering, the General Accounting
Office found in 2000.  A Senate investigations subcommittee also criticized
Citigroup’s relationship with political figures including the
sons of  Nigeria ’s former military leader General Sani Abacha and
El Hadj Omar Bongo, president of Gabon, and Asif Ali Zardari,
the president of Pakistan and husband of slain prime minister
Benazir Bhutto.  Other banks have struggled with money-laundering controls.
In October, a U.S. unit of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HBC)  agreed to
strengthen a compliance program that the OCC said created
“significant potential” for money laundering and terrorist
financing.  In March 2010,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wachovia Bank unit
agreed to pay $160 million to resolve a criminal investigation
into drug cartels’ use of the bank to launder money through
Mexican exchange houses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 