-- ConocoPhillips Cuts Funding for $16 Billion Gas Pipeline
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-04-05T20:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/conoco-partners-suspend-16-billion-gas-pipeline-project.html
ConocoPhillips (COP)  cut funding for a
proposed C$16.2 billion ($16.3 billion) pipeline project that
would bring natural gas from northern Canada to U.S. markets,
citing low prices for the fuel.  Its partners are reducing spending on the project to an
unspecified level, said  Jon Harding , a spokesman for  Imperial
Oil Ltd. (IMO) , the operator of the Mackenzie gas project.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which are partners in
Mackenzie, referred questions to Imperial.  ConocoPhillips said it will have a one-time charge of about
$525 million in its first-quarter results because of the
project. The company suspended  capital expenditures  on the
project’s development, Davy Kong, a ConocoPhillips spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. Certain ongoing general and administrative
costs will be incurred, she said.  The company’s partners didn’t immediately announce any
expected charges. A combination of increased pipeline costs and
growing North American gas supplies have “reduced the
commercial viability of the project,” Imperial’s Harding said.  Gas futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange reached a
10-year low this month and settled at $2.089 per million British
thermal units today. A surplus of North American gas also led
ConocoPhillips and a partner to abandon plans last year for a
$35 billion  gas pipeline  in Alaska.  Mackenzie Gas Project  “The Mackenzie project has been on life support for a
while,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St.
Louis  who has a buy rating on ConocoPhillips shares and owns
none. “It’s really right now just a natural-gas price issue. At
$2 gas, it’s hard for them to get sufficient contracts to make
it viable.”  The Mackenzie gas project’s 743-mile (1,196-kilometer)
pipeline would link three gas fields in Canada’s Northwest
Territories with a  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  system in Alberta. The
fields are beyond the area serviced by existing pipelines. The
partners included an aboriginal group being funded by
TransCanada, according to the company’s website.  The 2012 budget approved by partners in the venture cut
funding to “minimal levels” because of historically low gas
prices, O.D. Hansen, a spokesman for Mackenzie Valley Aboriginal
Pipeline LP said today in an e-mailed message. “The partners
have not ceased funding,” he wrote.  Writedown of Assets  The pipeline would move as much as 1.2 billion cubic feet
of gas a day. Three fields -- Parsons Lake, Taglu and Niglintgak
-- are capable of supplying 800 million cubic feet of gas a day
for shipment on the pipeline. ConocoPhillips has a 75 percent
stake in Parsons Lake with Irving, Texas-based Exxon holding the
remaining interest, according to the project website.  ConocoPhillips’s charge includes its interest in the
Mackenzie Valley Pipeline and gathering system and its stake in
Parsons Lake, Kong said. The writedown of the assets “does not
mean they are no longer an important part of our portfolio or
that they can’t be developed in the future,” she said.  Exxon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rex Tillerson
said in July 2010 the project wouldn’t happen for at least a
decade because of high shipping costs and the time necessary to
build across semi-sovereign tribal areas and indigenous hunting
grounds.  Canada’s National Energy Board approved the project, then
valued at C$16.2 billion, in December 2010.  This isn’t the first time ConocoPhillips has changed course
on a pipeline project amid the rise of unconventional gas
supplies from shale formations. In May 2011, ConocoPhillips and
 BP Plc (BP/)  dropped plans for their $35 billion Denali gas pipeline
in Alaska, intended to send the fuel to U.S. and Canadian
markets because they didn’t get enough customer interest.  ConocoPhillips fell 1.1 percent to $75.36 at the close in
New York, while Exxon declined 0.2 percent to $84.82. Imperial
Oil fell 1.5 percent to C$43.77 in Toronto. Shell rose 0.4
percent to 2167.5 pence at the close in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  