-- Consumer Loan Delinquencies Fall Across the Board, ABA Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-04-05T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/consumer-loan-delinquencies-fall-across-the-board-aba-says.html
U.S. consumer-loan delinquencies
fell across the board in the fourth quarter as borrowers
benefited from improving job and housing markets, the  American
Bankers Association  said.  Total delinquencies in the  11 loan categories  surveyed by
the Washington-based trade group fell to 2.49 percent of all
accounts, from 2.59 percent in the preceding quarter, the ABA
said today in its Consumer Credit Delinquency Bulletin. The
report covering a three-month period through Dec. 31 marked the
first time in eight years all 11 loan categories fell in the
same quarter.  “You can’t get a better consumer credit report card than
this,”  James Chessen , the ABA’s chief economist, said in a
statement. Chessen credited consumer deleveraging and
improvements in the broader economy for the positive results.  February’s job numbers marked the  best six months  of growth
since 2006, with unemployment reaching a three-year low, and
gains in the stock market have contributed to an uptick in
 consumer confidence  and spending.  The ABA survey, which defines delinquency as a late payment
that is 30 days or more overdue, found that  credit card  late
payments dropped to 3.17 percent of all accounts, from 3.25
percent, equaling the lowest level since 2001, the ABA said.
Home-equity credit line delinquencies fell to 1.69 percent of
all accounts, from 1.93 percent in the third quarter.  “The economic tide at the end of 2011 lifted most boats,”
Chessen said. “The biggest concern I have now is retail gas
prices.”  Home equity loan delinquencies fell to 4.08 percent in the
fourth quarter, from 4.12 percent three months earlier as the
housing market moved closer to stabilization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  