-- Copper Advances as Signs of U.S. Growth Point to Higher Demand
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-04-05T17:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/copper-rallies-as-china-may-ease-monetary-policy-boost-demand.html
Copper climbed for the first time in
three days as reports showing an improving labor market and
rising consumer confidence added to signs of recovery in the
U.S., the world’s second-biggest consumer of the metal.  Claims for  unemployment benefits  fell last week to the
lowest in four years, Labor Department figures  showed  today. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index increased last week to the
highest in four years as brighter job prospects and an advancing
stock market bolstered Americans’ view of the economy.  “The outlook for copper is quite constructive,”  William
O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in Upper Saddle River, New
Jersey, said in a telephone interview. “The U.S. is doing well,
and  China’s economy  may be better than people think.”  Copper futures for May delivery rose 0.1 percent to settle
at $3.7955 a pound at 1:20 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Yesterday, the metal slid the most since Dec. 14 after the
 Federal Reserve  damped expectations for more economic stimulus.  A report tomorrow may show payrolls in the U.S. increased
by more than 200,000 workers for a fourth month, based on the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Markets reopened in China, the world’s largest copper
consumer, after closing for a holiday the prior three sessions.
Economic figures next week “should provide information about
the extent to which the Chinese central bank could implement
further measures to loosen monetary policy,”  Daniel Briesemann ,
an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months advanced 0.1 percent to $8,361 a metric ton ($3.79 a
pound).  Aluminum, zinc, lead, tin and nickel also gained in London.  The U.S. and London exchanges will be closed tomorrow for
public holidays, and the LME will be shut on April 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  