-- Coty Prefers Closely Held Structure for Avon Turnaround
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-04-05T20:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/coty-prefers-closely-held-structure-for-avon-turnaround.html
Coty Inc., the closely held perfume
maker seeking to buy  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  for $10 billion, has
determined that a private-company structure will make it easier
to turn around the door-to-door seller of cosmetics, said people
with knowledge of the matter.  Coty initially pushed for an all-stock sale to Avon that
would have left it as the biggest  shareholder  of a combined
public company, said the people, who declined to be identified
as the talks were private. Coty, which makes OPI nail polish and
Calvin Klein fragrances, has since ruled out selling itself and
concluded any combination should be closely held so it can focus
on resolving bribery charges and reviving  sales growth  at Avon
without the scrutiny of public shareholders, the people said.  To persuade Avon’s investors to support a deal, Coty is
seeking to secure committed financing from  Byron Trott ’s
Chicago-based advisory firm, BDT Capital Partners,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and majority owner Joh. A Benckiser as soon as next
week, the people said. New York-based Avon rejected Coty’s
offer, saying in a statement this week that a deal undervalued
the company and wouldn’t be in the best interests of
shareholders.  “This may be the best option Avon shareholders will get
for a long time,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said today in an e-mail. “Avon is
likely fixable, but it will take time.”  Avon’s board has a fiduciary duty to consider Coty’s
proposal, Dibadj said. He rates the shares “market perform.”  Coty’s Value  The  board  didn’t discuss details of a possible deal after
receiving Coty’s earlier proposal for an all-stock merger, one
person said. While Avon got access to some non-public financial
and operational information about Coty, it determined it didn’t
know enough about the company to make an offer or consider
specific terms, said the people.  A spokesman for New York-based Coty declined to comment, as
did an Avon spokeswoman.  Coty, which has about $800 million in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, would be valued
at about $8.6 billion in an acquisition, based on the median
price to Ebitda ratio of 10.8 for a basket of Coty’s peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
Avon’s $10 billion market value.  It may take three years to turn around Avon’s operations,
one person said. In December, the company said it would seek a
replacement for Chief Executive Officer  Andrea Jung , who will
remain chairman. Avon is close to naming a new CEO and has
narrowed down its list of candidates to a small number, said one
person. One focus has been on finding an executive with overseas
experience, the person said.  Avon Probes  More than 80 percent of Avon’s sales last year came from
outside  North America , and the company is dealing with internal
and federal investigations into whether executives bribed
foreign officials in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. In 2008, the company began investigating its Chinese
operations’ compliance with the law, leading to the firing of
several executives. Avon expanded the probe to other  developing
countries , and the Securities and Exchange Commission opened its
own investigation.  Coty’s next steps will be to meet with Avon  shareholders ,
possibly as soon as next week, to try to persuade them they
should pressure Avon’s board to consider their overture to buy
the larger beauty company, according to two people.  Coty’s Backers  BDT’s equity investors won’t support a hostile offer, and
Coty’s management is also opposed to an antagonistic process
because there are too many unknowns to commit to a deal at a
certain price, one person said.  Avon rose 3 percent to $23.42 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York . The
shares soared 17 percent on April 2 following Coty’s offer, and
are up 34 percent this year.  Coty and Avon agreed that a combination makes some
strategic sense, with Avon bringing skin care and make-up to
Coty’s perfume-focused offerings, along with an entry into
 Brazil  and other developing markets, the people said. Coty sells
to a range of retailers including upscale department stores and
mass merchants. Avon would get access to Coty’s marketing and
research and development resources, along with some higher-end
Coty products its representatives could sell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  