-- Covidien to Buy Jerusalem-Based Oridion for $346 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-04-05T14:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/covidien-to-buy-jerusalem-based-oridion-for-346-million.html
Covidien Plc (COV)  agreed to buy  Oridion
Systems Ltd. (OSL) , an Israeli maker of devices for patient breathing
safety, for $346 million.  Covidien will pay about 21.08 Swiss francs ($23) a share,
Jerusalem-based Oridion said today in a statement, 75 percent
more than Oridion’s closing price yesterday. Oridion rose 71
percent to 20.50 francs at 4:50 p.m. in Zurich, where the
company is listed on the Swiss stock exchange. Covidien, which
is based in Dublin and run from Mansfield, Massachusetts, fell
0.5 percent to $53.565 in New York.  The acquisition will add to Covidien’s portfolio of devices
for monitoring people’s respiratory functions, Robert J. White,
president of Respiratory & Monitoring Systems at Covidien, said
in the statement. Oridion had $64.5 million of revenue in 2011.  Covidien doesn’t expect the transaction to affect fiscal
2012 sales, operating margin or earnings per share, the company
said. The boards of both companies have cleared the deal, which
is subject to Oridion shareholders’ approval, it said.  Oridion, which has another headquarters in Needham,
 Massachusetts , said it had net income of $6.5 million last year.
The company, founded in 1987, makes medical devices that monitor
carbon dioxide in a patient’s breath for critical care or post-
anesthesia care.  The merger may add competition for medical device developer
 Masimo Corp. (MASI) , which as of now has distribution agreements with
Oridion, Joanne Wuensch, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets in
New York, wrote in a note today.  “Covidien has proven itself extremely capable of
integrating acquisitions and leveraging acquired technology
while increasing margins, and Oridion should fit nicely into the
company’s patient monitoring business,” she added.  Masimo fell 0.8 percent to $22.99 in New York trading.  The transaction will help Oridion expand more quickly,  Alan Adler , the company’s chairman, said in a phone conference.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. acted as financial adviser to Oridion
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advised Covidien, Adler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  