-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Climb Most in Four Months on Spain Concerns
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-05T20:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-jump-most-in-almost-four-months.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk jumped by the most in about four months as Spanish
bond yields rose amid investor concern that the country may need
international aid.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 4.5 basis points to a mid-price of 97.1 basis points at
4:47 p.m. in New York, the biggest increase since Dec. 8,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  Traders pushed the measure higher as the yield on  Spain ’s
10-year benchmark bond reached the most since Dec. 13 at 5.84
percent. Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, is in
“extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
yesterday, raising the possibility of a bailout. Investors are
concerned that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis may spread, infecting bank
balance sheets globally.  “When it rains, it pours -- and when the Prime Minister
says that his nation is in difficulty, he means it,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York, said in an e-mail. Today’s events remind investors
that “global risks are greater than was perceived just weeks
ago.”  The U.S. swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates, has climbed from a more than one-year
low of 84.7 basis points it touched on March 19.  Constellation Swaps Surge  Credit-default swaps on  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)  surged
after the world’s largest wine company forecast full-year profit
that was less than analysts estimated.  The contracts jumped 39.9 basis points to 253.4 basis
points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s the biggest one-day increase
this year.  Comparable earnings per share may be $1.93 to $2.03, the
Victor, New York-based maker of Simply Naked and Black Box wines
said today in a statement. Analysts projected profit of $2.23,
the average of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  