-- Denham Earmarks 20% of $3 Billion Fund for Renewable Energy
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-05T11:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/denham-earmarks-20-of-3-billion-fund-for-renewable-energy.html
Denham Capital Management LP, a U.S.
private equity firm investing in energy and resources, said as
much as 20 percent of the $3 billion fund it closed on April 3
will be directed into renewable power companies.  Brazil  will be a “key” market for the investor’s sixth
fund, Scott Mackin, managing partner, co-president and head of
power and renewables at Short Hills, New Jersey-based Denham,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. It’s one of the few
markets where wind energy is able to compete against new-build
power stations.  “In Brazil, you’re competing against a new-build combined-
cycle plant at $800 to $1,000 a kilowatt to build, with gas at
$8 plus, so wind is very competitive in that market,” he said.  Brazil may become the world’s fourth-largest installer of
wind farms this year, up from 11th last year, as some developed
nations slash clean-energy subsidies. It may build wind farms
with as much as 2,000 megawatts of capacity this year, trailing
 China , the U.S. and  India ,  Steve Sawyer , secretary general of
the Brussels-based industry lobby group Global Wind Energy
Council, told Bloomberg News on Feb 7.  The investor is also looking at Eastern  Europe  for wind
power investments, Mackin said. It tends to invest $50 million
to $200 million in each company, typically over three to three-
and-a-half years for each fund.  Investors in the Denham Commodity Partners Fund VI LP
include public and private pension funds, sovereign wealth funds
and family offices, based in the U.S., Europe and Asia. In
addition to clean energy it will invest in power, oil and gas
and metals and mining.  The fund already has invested $190 million for a majority
stake in a solar-plant venture with Spain’s Fotowatio Renewables
Ventures Inc. It will focus on Australia,  South Africa  and  Latin
America , the partner said.  “We now have an international solar platform with
Fotowatio and it’s likely that we’ll invest in an international
wind platform also to focus on the best wind opportunities
globally.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  