-- Dewey, Skadden, Allen & Overy, Baker Botts: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/dewey-skadden-allen-overy-baker-botts-business-of-law.html
Six  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP (1151L)  partners
left the firm yesterday, bringing the total departures to 46 for
the year, according to the  New York  Times.  Four insurance and reinsurance dispute resolution lawyers
went to  Patton Boggs LLP (1211L) , including partners John M. Nonna,
Larry P. Schiffer, Eridania Perez and of counsel Suman
Chakraborty. They will join the commercial litigation practice
in New York, the firm said in a statement.  Nonna was chairman of Dewey’s insurance and reinsurance
dispute resolution practice and a member of the firm’s
international arbitration and cross-border dispute resolution
practice group.  Edward Newberry, managing partner of Patton Boggs, said in
a phone interview that the firm wooed Nonna and his team over
the past several months. Last year, the firm expanded its
insurance dispute resolution practice with the addition of three
insurance litigation partners to the firm’s  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
office, led by Mark Sheridan.  Mayer Brown LLP (1120L)  also announced yesterday that insurance
regulatory adviser James R. Woods has joined the firm as a
partner and a co-leader of the global insurance industry group.
He will also be a member of Mayer Brown’s corporate & securities
practice. Woods will divide his time between the firm’s offices
in  Palo Alto ,  California , and New York. Previously, he served as
Dewey’s co-chairman of the global insurance industry sector
practice.  Bankruptcy partner Peter Ivanick is expected to join  Hogan
Lovells LLP’ (1131L) s New York office today. The New York Times reported
his hiring yesterday. Patent lawyer and partner Lawrence Sung
joined  Baker & Hostetler LLP (1155L)  in  Washington  yesterday, according
to the office managing partner Jeffrey H. Paravano, who
confirmed that Sung was hired as a partner.  Dewey has been losing lawyers because of partner
compensation, according to the Times. The firm lost 12 insurance
and regulatory lawyers to  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP (1179L)  on March
17. Last month, it created a chairman’s office with five co-
equal members.  “We have said for weeks now that there would be additional
departures both at the firm’s insistence and from professionals
who didn’t feel they fit in with the new structure of the
firm,” Dewey said in a statement yesterday. “These departures,
like the ones before them, will not have a negative economic
impact on the firm. When we put the new structure of the firm
together, it was with the anticipation that while it still would
be a major international firm in terms of scope, size and
practice areas, it would be somewhat smaller in terms of the
number of professionals. In keeping with that, there will be
some additional departures yet to come.”  In-House  Skadden Partner Named General Counsel of Occidental Petroleum  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP partner John C.
Ale was appointed vice president and general counsel of the
firm’s long-time client Occidental Petroleum Corporation,
succeeding Donald P. de Brier, who is becoming corporate
executive vice president.  Ale, who joined Skadden in 2002, was head of the Houston
office since 2005. He was a member of the global energy and
infrastructure projects practice. Charles W. Schwartz, head of
the litigation practice in Houston, will take over as Houston
office leader. Schwartz focuses his business litigation on
representing companies and their officers and directors in
merger and acquisition litigation and contests for corporate
control, particularly in the energy sector. He also represents
clients in corporate governance disputes, class and derivative
actions involving fiduciary duty issues, and federal securities
and antitrust law claims.  Fees  Allen Stanford’s Receiver Fights Investors for Pay Boost  Kevin Sadler (1112L)  of  Baker Botts  LLP, outside counsel to R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed receiver,  Ralph Janvey (OXY) , asked a
U.S. judge to increase the amount of money he and his team of
professionals can get for marshaling and liquidating the
financier’s assets.  Janvey and his counsel made the request of U.S. District
Judge David Godbey at a hearing in  Dallas  yesterday. Stanford’s
defrauded investors, who haven’t been repaid any of the $7
billion owed to them, opposed the motion.  Sadler argued that the receiver’s team has been working at
the same pay rates since 2009. He also said investors might have
had more money if the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
sued Stanford sooner than February 2009.  Godbey rejected Sadler’s argument about the SEC as
irrelevant to the fee issue. He didn’t make a decision on the
request.  A federal jury last month found Stanford, 62, guilty of
lying to people who bought certificates of deposit issued by his
Antigua bank about what he was doing with their money and with
what oversight. He’s scheduled to be sentenced on June 14.  Janvey, whom Godbey appointed in February 2009 -- four
months before Stanford was indicted -- and his outside counsel
have been paid more than $52 million. That sum doesn’t include a
court-imposed $16 million hold-back.  “The investors, who have not received any money to date,
would be in opposition to a change in rate at this point,”
David Kitner, an attorney representing a court-sanctioned
investors’ committee, told the judge today.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  Firm News  Baker & McKenzie,  Jones Day  Take Top Spots in Headcount Survey  Baker & McKenzie LLP, with 3,805 lawyers, is the biggest
U.S. law firm, the National Law Journal said in a report based
on its annual survey. Jones Day has the most lawyers in the
U.S., 1,742, the trade newspaper said.  The survey, which examined regional data on firms’ growth
found that there are 126,000 attorneys at the 250 biggest firms,
a 1.7 percent increase from last year. DLA Piper LLP is second
on the global list, followed by Jones Day.  Ranked by U.S. lawyers, Greenberg Traurig LLP, with 1,591,
came in second and  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP (1111L) ,
with 1531 U.S. lawyers, was third.  Baker & McKenzie  is 47th by U.S.-based lawyers, with 629.  Moves  Procurement Lawyer Olaf Otting Joins Allen & Overy  Olaf Otting is joining the Frankfurt office of  Allen &
Overy LLP as  a partner and head the public law practice.  Otting is coming from  Gleiss Lutz (1191L)  with his core team of
Wiland Tresselt and Udo H. Olgemoller, the firm said in a
statement. The exact date of their joining  Allen & Overy  hasn’t
been fixed.  “We are expanding our range of services in the field of
public law and are now able to advise our clients in particular
in the important areas of procurement law, especially in the
transport, energy and health-care sectors, and public private
partnerships,” Neil George Weiand, senior partner of Allen &
Overy  Germany , said.  Otting specializes in administrative law with a focus on
procurement law, privatization, public-private partnerships, and
building and real estate law. He headed the public law practice
at Gleiss Lutz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 