-- DirecTV Settles Tribune Pay Dispute to End Blackouts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-04-05T13:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/directv-settles-tribune-pay-dispute-to-end-blackouts.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-
TV company, reached an agreement to carry  Tribune Co. (TRB)  television
stations, ending a four-day blackout of 23 local outlets as
 Major League Baseball ’s 2012 season gets under way.  The deal will allow DirecTV subscribers in  Chicago , New
York, Philadelphia and  Washington  to watch their teams, Tribune
said yesterday in a statement. WGN America, Tribune’s national
cable channel, is also covered. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Tribune had pulled the stations off the air for DirecTV
subscribers on April 1. The companies came to terms almost a
week after an earlier proposal was rejected by Tribune
creditors, according to DirecTV. The Chicago-based newspaper
publisher and broadcaster, in bankruptcy since 2008, sought
retransmission fees from DirecTV for carrying local stations.  “We’re pleased that Tribune and their creditors now
recognize that all DirecTV wanted from day one was to pay fair
market rates for their channels,” Derek Chang, a DirecTV
executive vice president, said in a separate statement. “It’s
unfortunate that Tribune was willing to hold our customers
hostage in an attempt to extract excessive rates, but in the end
we reached a fair deal.”  DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California ,  rose  0.3 percent
to $49.05 at 9:45 a.m. New York time. The shares had advanced 14
percent this year before today.  Bad Faith  The dispute over payments took an unusual turn April 2 when
DirecTV filed an FCC complaint against Tribune for negotiating
in bad faith. DirecTV accused Tribune of agreeing to terms on
March 29 and then rejecting the deal a day later when debt
holders including Oaktree Partners, Angelo Gordon & Co.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
overruled management.  Five million DirecTV households had been blacked out from
at least one station, according to DirecTV. The blackout “cries
out for an examination in Washington” of retransmission laws
that allow content providers to pull their content as leverage
for more money, DirecTV said in its statement.  A 1992 U.S. law  mandates  pay-TV companies must negotiate
retransmission fees for local broadcast stations unless the
stations choose to give their programming for free in exchange
for guaranteed carriage. Pay-TV companies paid $1 billion in
retransmission fees to local affiliate broadcast channels in
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ; Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
8278 or  asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  