-- DOJ Said Near E-Book Pricing Settlement With Publishers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-04-05T13:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/doj-said-near-e-book-pricing-settlement-with-publishers.html
The U.S. Department of Justice is
close to a settlement with three of the world’s biggest
publishers on e-book price contracts with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , said three
people with knowledge of the situation.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster, News Corp.’s HarperCollins
and  Lagardère SCA (LH) ’s Hachette Book Group may finalize a Justice
Department accord next week, said one of the people, who
requested anonymity because the talks are private.  The situation may change, the people said. Justice
officials may delay a settlement until an agreement is reached
with publishers that also include  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group
and Macmillan, owned by Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck
GmbH, they said.  A settlement would allow  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and other
retailers to offer lower prices for digital versions of books,
according to the Wall Street Journal, which reported the status
of the talks yesterday. To compete, Apple may stop selling books
or match lower prices, in some cases resulting in a loss on each
book, according to the newspaper.  Publishers are attempting to avoid a court battle with the
 Justice Department  after the agency opened a probe into how
Cupertino, California-based Apple changed the way publishers
charged for e-books on the iPad, a person familiar with the
matter said last month. European antitrust regulators also have
said they’re investigating whether Apple’s pricing deals with
publishers restrict competition.  Setting The Price  When Apple came out with the iPad in 2010, it allowed
publishers to set their own prices for e-books as long as it got
a 30 percent cut and the publishers agreed to offer their lowest
prices through Apple. This so-called agency model overtook
Amazon.com Inc.’s tactic of buying books at a discount from
publishers and then setting its own price on the Amazon the e-
reader device.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment. Apple spokesman  Tom Neumayr , Holtzbrinck spokeswoman
Beatrice Richter-Beck and a spokeswoman for HarperCollins also
declined to comment. Spokesmen for Pearson, Lagardere and Simon
& Schuster did not immediately return calls requesting comment.  CBS, controlled by  Sumner Redstone , fell 0.1 percent to
$32.97 at 9:55 a.m. New York time while  News Corp. (NWSA) , controlled
by Rupert Murdoch, lost 0.6 percent to $19.31. Lagardere
declined 0.4 percent to 21.53 euros in Paris as of 3:55 p.m. and
Pearson rose 0.1 percent to 1,137 pence in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  