-- Dragados, Judlau Settle Minority Hiring Suit With U.S.
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-05T00:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/dragados-judlau-settle-minority-hiring-suit-with-u-s-.html
Dragados USA Inc. (0007233D)  and Judlau
Contracting Inc. settled a suit brought by the U.S. accusing the
companies of fraudulently claiming they used disadvantaged
subcontractors for a $447 million  New York  tunnel project.  As part of the accord, Dragados and Judlau have agreed to
pay $6.5 million to the U.S. and $1 million to New York’s
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority . Dragados and Judlau, a
joint venture, also “admitted and accepted responsibility” for
violating federal regulations governing contracts with the MTA
and the U.S., according to a copy of the agreement.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain, in New York,
approved the accord today, said Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman
for  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office filed
the lawsuit today.  Federal regulations required the joint venture to hire
disadvantaged business enterprises, or DBEs, businesses owned by
socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, as
subcontractors, the U.S. said.  The companies falsely claimed they had hired such
businesses for the construction of the $447 million East Side
Access Project, a tunnel linking the Long Island Rail Road to
Grand Central Terminal in New York, Bharara’s office said.  ‘Fair Shot’  “The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program plays an
important role in ensuring that qualified minority- and women-
owned businesses get a fair shot at government contracts that
eluded them for years,” Bharara said in a statement.
“Compliance with the program is not optional.”  The U.S. Transportation Department, which is funding
approximately 42 percent of the project, requires a winning
bidder to establish that it has made good-faith efforts to meet
established goals to employ DBEs as sub-contractors.  Federal regulations required the winning bidder to hire
disadvantaged businesses to perform at least $22 million worth
of work. The U.S. said New York-based Dragados and Judlau
falsely claimed to have paid out more than $17 million of the
total project to disadvantaged businesses.  “The issues relating to the DBEs were discovered by
Dragados as part of its internal integrity processes and
procedures,”  John Kelly , a spokesman for Dragados USA said.
Dragados reported the information to the MTA, Kelly said. “As a
result, the U.S. Attorney initiated a civil investigation with
Dragados’s full cooperation.”  Mark Rosen, a lawyer for Judlau, didn’t return a voice-mail
message left after business hours seeking comment on the case.  The case is U.S. v. Dragados/Judlau, 12-CV-2563, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  