-- Dubai Ruler’s Private Equity Firm Reoirganizes its Debt
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-04-05T09:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/dubai-dic-reaches-deal-on-2-5-billion-debt-appoints-new-board.html
Dubai International Capital LLC, the
owner of Travelodge Ltd., reached an accord to alter terms of
$2.5 billion of liabilities as Dubai’s state-linked companies
restructure debt after roiling global markets in 2009.  Lenders will get 2 percent interest on about $2.15 billion
of debt that will be extended for five years, Dubai Holding LLC,
the company’s parent, said in an e-mailed statement today. The
maturities of a further $350 million will be extended for three
years at an “unchanged contractual rate of interest.”  Optimism about the Persian Gulf’s tourism and trade hub,
which was rescued from default in 2009 by a $20 billion loan
from the  United Arab Emirates ’ central bank and  Abu Dhabi , has
surged after state-owned Dubai World restructured $25 billion of
debt last year. Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC
repaid a $500 million bond that matured in February.  “We have seen Dubai Inc. achieving tangible progress on
debt restructuring and refinancing, and making repayments on
time,” Chavan Bhogaita, head of the markets strategy group at
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC, said in an e-mail today. “The
combination of these factors, and the improved communication
with the markets, has helped generate a much more positive tone
in the debt capital markets toward Dubai credits.”  Market Gains  Yields on Dubai government’s dollar-denominated bonds
dropped to record lows this year. Dubai’s  benchmark index  has
advanced 25 percent this year, making it the best performing
measure in the  Persian Gulf .  Dubai International, the private equity unit owned by the
emirate’s ruler, has already sold stakes in Sony Corp., European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. and  India ’s ICICI Bank Ltd. in
recent years. It still owns stakes in companies such as German
industrial packager Mauser AG, alumina-products maker Almatis
and Doncasters Group Ltd., according to its  website .  The company sold its stake in Oger Telecom Ltd. in August
and two months later offloaded the holding in hotel operator
Ishraq Dubai for $130 million. It also sold its 45 percent
interest in steel castings company KEF Holdings Ltd. to Tyco
International Ltd. for $178 million in June after paying $126
million for the stake in September 2008.  ‘No Pressure to Sell’  Dubai International is under “no pressure to sell
assets,” Chief Executive Officer David Smoot said in the
statement. “Despite the challenging macroeconomic environment,
the portfolio is well-positioned to navigate current markets
with less leverage, better liquidity and long-term financing,
reflecting significant future value potential.”  A group of six lenders,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Emirates NBD
PJSC,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) , Mashreqbank PSC and Noor Islamic Bank PJSC, negotiated with
Dubai International on behalf of about 20 lenders.  New Board  Dubai International is considering a sale of Mauser, people
familiar with the plans said on Feb. 10. Its U.K. budget hotel
chain Travelodge is restructuring its debt with financing from
New York-based hedge funds Avenue Capital Group LLC and
GoldenTree Asset Management LP.  Dubai Holding, owned by ruler Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al
Maktoum, also appointed a new board for Dubai International with
Fadel Al Ali, executive chairman of Dubai Holding Commercial
Operations, becoming the chairman. Other board members include
Smoot and three independent directors Aidan Birkett, Christopher
Rowlands and Abdullah Sharafi.  Dubai Group  Dubai Holding said it is now focusing on restructuring the
debt of Dubai Group LLC, another  investment company  owned by the
emirate’s ruler.  “Dubai Holding will continue to focus on reaching a
consensual agreement with Dubai Group lenders and remains
confident that the Dubai Group restructuring will also reach a
successful agreement,” CEO Ahmed Bin Byat said in the
statement.  Dubai Group offered to pay creditors over five to 10 years
as it seeks to restructure $6 billion of bank debt, a banker
familiar with the proposal said in February. RBS, Emirates NBD
and  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  are among banks that are leading the talks
with the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  