-- Dutch Soccer Fans Advised to Get Measles Jab for Championship
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-05T14:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/dutch-soccer-fans-advised-to-get-measles-jab-for-championship.html
Dutch soccer fans planning to travel
to European Championship matches in Poland and Ukraine in June
and July should make sure they’re vaccinated against measles,
the Netherlands’ Ministry of  Public Health  said.  Ukraine, which organizes the soccer championship together
with Poland from June 8 to July 1, is suffering from a measles
epidemic in the country’s west near the border with its co-host,
the ministry wrote on its  website  today.  Measles is one of the most infectious viruses for humans.
More than 6,000 cases have been reported in Ukraine this year
and the epidemic is expected to accelerate in the run up to the
start of the matches in June, according to the Stockholm-based
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.  “Most Dutch people are well protected against measles,”
the ministry’s National Institute for Public Health and
Environment said. “The advice therefore applies to people who
haven’t been vaccinated against measles and who haven’t had the
disease in the past.”  Since 1976, all Dutch children are offered a jab against
measles, mumps and rubella through a national vaccination
program, while before the program almost all children were
exposed to the disease naturally, building up lifelong immunity,
according to the ministry.  The European Championship, known as Euro 2012 for this
year’s edition, is one of soccer’s biggest tournaments after the
 World Cup . It attracted about 1 million spectators in 2008 when
it was held in Austria and  Switzerland .  Travellers to Ukraine are also advised to vaccinate against
hepatitis A and diphtheria, tetanus and polio, according to the
notice.  Rabies  circulates in both Poland and Ukraine, and
travellers should avoid contact with cats and dogs, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  