-- East Europe Savers Curb Deleveraging Woes, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-04-05T16:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/east-europe-savers-curb-deleveraging-woes-development-bank-says.html
Eastern European savings have risen
from their pre-crisis level, mitigating the impact of funding
cuts by Western lenders to meet tighter capital rules, according
to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  “This has likely contributed to the continued accumulation
of new deposits in the region’s financial institutions,
suggesting that they may continue to at least partially replace
the ongoing decrease in cross-border funding,” EBRD economists
Franto Ricka, Jonathan Lehne and Peter Tabak wrote in a blog
post on the London-based  development bank ’s website.  Western lenders, which own three-quarters of eastern
Europe’s banking industry, are cutting funding to their units in
the region as stricter regulatory requirements force them to
sell assets and bolster capital. The banks, which include
UniCredit SpA and Erste Group Bank AG, have said they want their
subsidiaries to shift toward local-deposit financing.  The eastern units have attracted additional deposits since
the beginning of the financial crisis, with the exception of
Latvia, Lithuania and Slovenia, helping them avoid an even
larger contraction in credit caused by reduced cross-border
funding, the EBRD economists wrote.  While three-year loans from the  European Central Bank  have
helped lower sovereign risk in eastern  Europe , the direct impact
has been “limited” as the funds haven’t trickled eastward,
they wrote, citing ECB data on credit to the private sector.  The ECB allocated 529.5 billion euros ($695 billion) in
three-year loans to 800 European banks on Feb. 29, after
supplying 489 billion euros on Dec. 21. Credit growth turned
negative in all eastern EU members except  Bulgaria  between late
2011 and early 2012, the economists said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  