-- Electric-Drive Vehicle Demand Recharged by Gas Prices
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-04-05T03:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/electric-drive-vehicle-demand-recharged-by-gas-prices.html
Just when it looked like electric
cars were running out of juice, the return of $4 a gallon
gasoline is generating new life for battery-powered vehicles.  Electric-drive vehicles, including hybrids, plug-in models
and pure battery-powered cars, were the fastest-growing segment
in the U.S. auto market in the first quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of those models rose 49 percent to
117,182 vehicles in the first quarter, from 78,527 a year
earlier before  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami pinched output.  Electric cars and hybrids are surging in tandem with
gasoline prices, which averaged $3.93 a gallon on April 3,
approaching the July 2008 peak of $4.11, according to AAA.
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius hybrid and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid electric car each had record sales
in March. Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
repeated he’s “bullish” that pure electric cars will capture
10 percent of the market by 2020.  “There are a lot of concerns today that the electric car
is going to solve,” Ghosn said yesterday in an interview at the
 New York  auto show. “People don’t want to have to go to the
gasoline station. They just want to fill their tank at home.
They want to make sure they’re not paying too much money for
their gasoline bill every month.”  Sales of the Nissan Leaf electric car will take off in
August when Nissan begins producing it in the U.S., boosting
output and possibly lowering prices, Ghosn said.  Differing Opinions  Ghosn’s view of one in 10 cars being electric by 2020 isn’t
widely shared. LMC Automotive predicts 2 percent of cars in the
U.S. will be electric by 2020. Add in gasoline-electric hybrids
and plug-ins and the Troy, Michigan-based researcher’s forecast
rises to 9.2 percent.  Ghosn’s forecast is “is way too optimistic,” said Mike Omotoso, LMC’s senior manager for powertrain forecasting. “Ten
percent share for hybrids is achievable, but not for EVs. They
will still be too expensive to become a mass-market product
within the next 10 years.”  GM had halted Volt production for five weeks because of
sluggish sales following a federal investigation into fires in
the car’s battery, which resulted in the vehicle getting a clean
bill of health. At a congressional hearing about the probe,
Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said the car was being used
as a “political punching bag.”  Rising sales last month spurred GM to restart Volt
production one week earlier than planned. GM sold 2,289 Volts in
March, a record monthly total for the car. The previous high was
1,529 deliveries in December.  New Volt Target  “We’re adding a week back and that’s all you need to
know,”  Mark Reuss , GM’s North American chief, said yesterday in
New York, showing a flash of anger over a car that has become a
lightning rod for critics of government bailouts, including
GM’s, in 2009. “We’re doing it because we sold a lot.”  Production will resume April 16, Chris Lee, a GM spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Separately, Akerson said in a Bloomberg Radio interview to
be broadcast in May that he wants to raise monthly Volt sales to
3,000 or more in the coming months.  Electric cars and battery makers have suffered high-profile
power failures. Fisker Automotive Inc.’s $103,000 Karma sports
sedan shut down in a test by Consumer Reports magazine.  A123
Systems Inc. (AONE)  is recalling the electric  car batteries  it made for
Fisker and other automakers.  Mitt Romney , leading in the race for the Republican
presidential nomination, calls the Obama administration’s loans
to startups such as Fisker, “crony capitalism.”  Hybrid Premium  Last year, consumers turned away from battery-powered cars
as automakers improved the efficiency of gasoline-fueled
internal combustion engines and supplies of electrified vehicles
were limited by natural disasters in  Asia .  Hybrids fell to 2.2 percent of the U.S. market last year,
down from 2.4 percent in 2010, after peaking at 2.8 percent in
2009, LMC says. Electrified vehicles secured 3.4 percent of the
U.S. light-vehicle market in this year’s first quarter, up from
2.6 percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  With rising prices at the pump, consumers are beginning to
see value in paying as much as $5,000 extra for a hybrid,
automakers say.  ‘Peaking’ Interest  “Hybrid interest is peaking and it correlates very well to
gas prices,”  John Krafcik , chief executive officer of the North
American unit of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , said in an interview
yesterday. “Our Sonata hybrid sales are fantastic.”  As much as 30 percent of Sonata sedans Hyundai is building
are equipped with gasoline-electric hybrid systems, Krafcik
said.  The market for all-electric vehicles such as the $35,200
Leaf and plug-in hybrids like the $39,145 Volt will remain
“tough,” Krafcik said. Such vehicles also are a less-
attractive option for people who live in urban areas, with
limited access to garages where they can recharge their cars at
night, he said.  Higher gasoline prices have provided a lift to  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s Civic hybrid sales, which more than doubled last month and
are up 29 percent for the year, said  Tetsuo Iwamura , head of the
automaker’s North American operations.  Consumers are not ready to embrace all- electric vehicles 
because of concerns about how long the battery will last and how
far the car can go before recharging for hours, Iwamura said.  “Electric vehicles, do we really have a market for that?”
Iwamura said yesterday in an interview. “I’m not quite sure the
future of battery vehicle. I’m not so clear as Mr. Ghosn.”  Nissan’s Ghosn says his company’s tests show the batteries
will outlast the electric cars they’re in and he contends
concerns about recharging and plug-in infrastructure are being
resolved.  “This is the car of the future,” Ghosn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  