-- Most Emerging Stocks Drop as Spain Revives European Debt Concern
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-04-05T22:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/emerging-market-stocks-fall-second-day-as-spanish-bonds-slide.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell as
Spanish bonds slid after weak demand at an auction renewed
concerns Europe won’t contain its debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed at
1037.26, with 376 stocks falling and 274 rising out of 819
members.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. (2330) , the
world’s largest contract maker of chips, lost the most in three
weeks, while  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ,  Turkey ’s largest bank
by market value, fell the most in a month.  Banco Santander
Brasil SA (SANB11)  fell to the lowest since Jan. 17.  Spanish bonds fell for a third day after Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy said the nation is in “extreme difficulty.”
 Spain  struggled to borrow in financial markets yesterday,
selling 2.6 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds at an auction,
an amount that was near the bottom of a range set by the
nation’s Treasury for the sale. Taiwanese stocks slumped on
concern the island will introduce a tax on share transactions to
address social inequalities and to raise revenues.  “We are not really going to get a sustainable rally,”
said Nicholas Field, who helps oversee $21 billion of emerging
market assets in  London  at Schroders Plc. For emerging-market
stocks to advance, “you need real confidence in a sustained
 Europe  recovery, which we don’t’ have.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds climbed seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.76 percent, the most
since Dec. 12. The MSCI EM Financials Index, a  gauge of
emerging-market bank shares , retreated 0.5 percent on concern
that the European financial turmoil may cut the funding to
 developing countries .  Banco do Brasil  Turkey’s Turkiye Garanti fell 2.5 percent. Banco Santander
dropped 3.6 percent after Banco do Brasil, Latin America’s
largest bank, said it will cut  interest rates  and increase
credit limits for clients.  Brazil ’s Bovespa benchmark index
gained 0.3 percent after a report showed annual inflation
declined to a 17-month low last month . MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes SA (MRVE3) , Brazil’s fourth-biggest homebuilder by
revenue, rose 3.7 percent after the statistics agency said
inflation slowed to 5.24 percent from 5.85 percent in February.  Mexico ’s markets are closed today for the Good Friday
holiday.  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 0.5 percent to $42.74. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
 Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices
on the fund and expectations of price swings, fell 1 percent to
26.33.  Currencies Weaken  The Mexican peso and the Polish zloty led a drop of
emerging-market currencies. Both the peso and zloty lost 0.7
percent versus the dollar. The Brazilian real rose 0.2 percent,
paring its losses in the past month to 4.6 percent.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  has slumped 5 percent since the
Economic Daily reported on March 29 that the government was
evaluating the transaction-tax proposal. Taiwan Semiconductor
dropped 2.2 percent to NT$83.10.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of Chinese stocks rose 1.7
percent after the government said on April 3 it will more than
double the amount foreigners can invest in equities, bonds and
bank deposits. The China Securities Regulatory Commission
increased quotas for qualified foreign institutional investors
to $80 billion from $30 billion.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s
biggest lender, lost 1.7 percent in  Shanghai , as Premier Wen Jiabao said the nation needs to break a banking monopoly of a
few big lenders that make easy profits because it’s hard to
borrow money elsewhere.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks
listed in  Hong Kong  fell 1.1 percent, after returning from
yesterday’s public holiday. Markets in  India  and the  Philippines 
were shut for holidays.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries jumped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 346, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  