-- End Double Mandate to Save Fed’s Independence
-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2012-04-05T23:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/end-double-mandate-to-save-fed-s-independence.html
There’s one prediction that can
safely be made about the decision that the  Supreme Court  will
render on the Affordable Care Act: The final vote will almost
certainly be along party lines.  The court’s progressive politicization in recent years is a
natural reaction to the increasingly activist role it has
adopted. As justices have weighed in on questions that were
traditionally the province of elected officials -- such as
abortion rights -- political institutions have fought back by
making ideological orthodoxy a requirement for a Supreme Court
appointment.  What’s worse is that a similar dynamic is now occurring at
another important U.S. institution: the Federal Reserve Board.
In June 2011,  Peter Diamond , a Nobel laureate in economics, was
forced to withdraw his nomination because of Republican
opposition in the Senate. True, his expertise isn’t monetary
policy, but was he really so unqualified?  This politicization of the Fed reached a new peak in recent
days, with at least one senator saying he would seek to block
the confirmation of two new board nominees (one Republican and
the other Democrat). I don’t know Jerome Powell (the Republican
nominee), but I do know  Jeremy Stein  (the Democratic one) very
well. Even if I don’t agree with him on everything, I couldn’t
imagine a wiser, more competent and independent choice to serve
at the Fed. So why does his nomination risk being thwarted?  Overstepped Boundaries  It is common to blame conservatives for this gridlock. That
amounts to confusing cause and effect. The truth is that the
visceral anti-Fed position of many Republicans is simply a
political reaction to the interventionism of the central bank,
which in the last decade has overstepped its boundaries.  The lesson of the inflation of the 1970s was that central
banks should be independent of the political process in setting
monetary policy. As we saw then, elected officials are too often
tempted to push for immediate, if temporary, improvement in
unemployment at the cost of higher inflation rates down the
road. Hence the need for central-bank governors to make
decisions free from political pressure.  A separate lesson from the Great Depression, as  Milton Friedman  and Anna Jacobson Schwartz taught us, is that monetary-
policy mistakes can be extremely costly. Hence the need for
central-bank governors to be highly competent.  Yet in a democracy, an institution can be independent only
as long as it isn’t involved in important political decisions,
particularly those with large redistributive effects. Delegating
political decisions to an independent technocratic body is
better suited to the Chinese model of governance than the U.S.
one. We wouldn’t want an independent board to set  taxation  or
public-spending priorities. But that is exactly what the Fed has
done over the last decade.  The protracted low interest-rate policy is a tax on savers
that wasn’t voted by Congress. The “put options” offered to Bear
Stearns Cos. and Citigroup Inc. were subsidies to those banks
that were never approved by the political process. More
recently, the Fed’s second round of quantitative easing was a
gift to wealthy borrowers with good credit ratings that excluded
the deserving needy.  To be sure, all these interventions were well intentioned
and some were beneficial to the economy. But so are many of the
Chinese leaders’ decisions; that doesn’t make them legitimate in
a democratic system.  Congressional Restraint  It might be too late to reverse the politicization of the
Supreme Court, but Congress can still use its power to save the
 Fed (FDTR) , namely by passing laws that restrain the central bank’s
activism.  The first step would be the elimination of the double
mandate. Unlike the  European Central Bank , which is in charge
only of price stability, the Fed has two main legislated goals:
promoting full employment and promoting stable prices.  This gives the Fed too much flexibility, pushing it to
substitute for the government in designing economic policy. The
temptation to act in this way is particularly strong when
Congress is divided and paralyzed. It is precisely this
substitution that makes the Fed politically vulnerable. The
central bank can be independent or activist; it cannot be both.
Independent is better.  ( Luigi Zingales  is a professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business
and a contributor to  Business Class . He is the author of “A
Capitalism for the People,” which will be published in June. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on the  latest job numbers  and
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed’s trial ;  Jonathan Alter  on the  auto
bailout ;  Michael Kinsley  on saving the  dollar bill ;  Amity Shlaes 
on  tax policy  and  “The Hunger Games” ; Alex Marshall on  improving
U.S. roads .  To contact the writer of this article:
Luigi Zingales at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 