-- Tepco Reports Another Radioactive Water Leak at Fukushima Plant
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-04-05T07:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/tepco-reports-another-radioactive-water-leak-at-fukushima-plant.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. said as
much as 12 tons of radioactive water leaked from a pipe at its
crippled Fukushima nuclear station, the second such incident in
11 days at the same pipeline, raising further doubts about the
stability of the plant.  Part of the water may have poured into the sea through a
drainage ditch, Osamu Yokokura, a spokesman for the utility,
said by phone. The company known as Tepco stopped the leak from
a pipe connecting a desalination unit and a tank today, he said.  “There will be similar leaks until Tepco improves
equipment,” said Kazuhiko Kudo, a research professor of nuclear
engineering at  Kyushu University , who visited the plant twice
last year as a member of a panel under the Nuclear and Industry
Safety Agency. “The site had plastic pipes to transfer
radioactive water, which Tepco officials said are durable and
for industrial use, but it’s not something normally used at
nuclear plants,” he said. “Tepco must replace it with metal
equipment, such as steel.”  Tepco has about 100,000 tons of highly radioactive water
accumulated in basements at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
station nearly 13 months after the March 11 quake and tsunami
caused meltdowns and the worst radiation leaks since Chernobyl.
The tsunami knocked out all power at the station, causing
cooling systems for reactors to fail. The utility was forced to
set up makeshift pumps to get cooling water to the reactors,
with most of it then draining into basements.  More Leaks  Tepco has been criticized before over its handling of the
radioactive water following several leaks into the sea,
including the one reported on March 26.  Last year, the environment group Greenpeace International
said it found seaweed and fish contaminated to more than 50
times the 2,000 becquerel per kilogram legal limit for
radioactive iodine-131 off the coast of Fukushima during a
survey between May 3 and 9.  Mol, Belgium-based Nuclear Research Centre and Herouville-
Saint-Clair, France-based Association pour le Controle de la
Radioactivite dans l’Ouest confirmed at the time they conducted
analysis of the samples supplied by Greenpeace.  The radioactive material discharged into the sea from the
Fukushima plant is the largest in history, according to a study
by the Institute for Radiological Protection and Nuclear Safety.
The institute, which is funded by the French government, made
the estimate in October last year and said it was 20-times the
amount calculated by Tepco. Tepco declined to comment on the
report at the time.  Strontium Risk  The latest leak contains about 16.7 becquerels per cubic
centimeter of radioactive cesium 134 and 137 combined, Tepco
said in a  statement  today. It’s still investigating how much
strontium and other types of radioactive particles are contained
in the water, Yokokura said.  Strontium can be absorbed in the body through eating
tainted seaweed or fish. It then accumulates in bone and can
cause cancer, said Tetsuo Ito, the head of Kinki University’s
Atomic Energy Research Institute, in a December interview.  On March 26, about 120 tons of radioactive water may have
leaked from a pipeline connected to the desalination unit,
Yokokura said. Of the leaked water, Tepco believes about 80
liters poured into the sea, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  