-- Mets Beat Braves in Opener, Magic Johnson Watches Dodgers Win
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/mets-beat-braves-1-0-in-opener-as-santana-returns-from-surgery.html
Johan Santana  pitched five scoreless
innings and David Wright drove in the lone run as the  New York
Mets  defeated the Atlanta Braves 1-0 in their first game of the
Major League Baseball season.  In San Diego, Magic Johnson, whose group is paying $2.3
billion for the  Los Angeles Dodgers , watched his team open the
season with a 5-3 defeat of the Padres. Johnson sat next to the
dugout with Frank McCourt, who is selling the team.  At Progressive Field in Cleveland, J.P. Arencibia’s three-
run homer gave the Toronto Blue Jays a 7-4 win against the
Indians in 16 innings, the longest opening day game in major
league history. The previous longest openers were 15 innings
between  Cleveland  and Detroit in 1960 and 15 innings between
Philadelphia and  Washington  in 1926.  At Citi Field, Santana, making his first start in 570 days
after shoulder surgery, allowed two hits while striking out five
and walking two. Both walks came with two outs in the fifth
inning, to the Braves’ eighth- and ninth-place hitters. Michael Bourn then grounded out to Santana on a full count. Santana, who
didn’t figure in the decision, left after 84 pitches, including
50 strikes. Ramon Ramirez, who pitched an inning and a third in
relief, got the win.  Tommy Hanson (0-1) pitched five innings for the Braves,
allowing one run on four hits, striking out four and walking
three.  Tribute to Carter  Opening day at Citi Field began with a tribute to former
Mets catcher Gary Carter, who died in February at 57 after a
nine-month battle with  brain cancer . Carter’s nickname, “Kid,”
and uniform number, 8, were displayed on the outfield wall. His
family threw out the honorary first pitch.  With the departure of All-Star shortstop Jose Reyes during
the offseason and the team having trimmed its payroll while
fighting a lawsuit tied to the Ponzi scheme run by Bernard L. Madoff, the Mets entered the season with more than 200-1 odds to
win the World Series, according to Las Vegas-based handicapping
information service Pregame.com. Those are the third-longest
odds of MLB’s 30 franchises.  With the Mets having hit a major league low 331 home runs
since 2009, the team moved the outfield fences as much as 12
feet closer this season and lowered their height to 8 feet from
16, adding more than 100 seats in left field. The additional
seats resulted in a record attendance of 42,080 yesterday at the
four-year-old stadium.  The  Philadelphia Phillies  beat the Pirates 1-0 in
Pittsburgh as Roy Halladay allowed two hits over eight innings,
striking out five.  Jonathan Papelbon  retired the Pirates in
order in the ninth inning to earn his first save as a Phillie.  The  Detroit Tigers  beat the Boston Red Sox 3-2 when Austin Jackson capped a three-hit day with a game-winning single in the
bottom of the ninth inning.  Justin Verlander  allowed two hits
over eight shutout innings for the Tigers, who gave up the tying
runs in the top of the ninth.  In other contests yesterday, the Washington Nationals beat
the Chicago Cubs 2-1 and the Cincinnati Reds defeated the Miami
Marlins 4-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 