-- Europe’s Tech Startups Spurn Home Turf for Facebook Fever
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-04-06T15:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/europe-s-tech-startups-spurn-home-turf-for-facebook-fever.html
After years lamenting their local
technology scene, Europe’s startups and their venture capital
backers are finally bullish about building businesses on their
home continent. They just don’t want to list their shares there.  Instead, companies including Irish communications software
developer Openet and Prague-based antivirus firm  Avast Software
BV (AVST)  are headed for initial public offerings in  New York , spurred
in part by mounting investor interest in  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s $5
billion share sale. While cities like  London , Dublin, and
Stockholm have proven fertile ground for nurturing startups,
listing in the U.S. may gradually drive operations there, too,
depriving Europe of the full fruits of its tech boom, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its April 9 issue.  “Ten years ago, we would have expected that the majority
of the companies we backed would go public in Europe, with a
minority in the U.S. It’s been completely the reverse,” said
Barry Maloney, founding partner of London-based venture capital
firm Balderton Capital. “There’s huge opportunity that’s being
missed by European economies because most of the value in these
companies is created after they go public.”  Last year, four European technology companies led by the
Russian search engine  Yandex NV (YNDX)  raised a record $1.8 billion in
New York IPOs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
companies are fleeing their domestic bourses as U.S. markets,
less affected by Europe’s debt crisis, offer higher valuations
and greater liquidity. The average ratio of price-to-book value
for companies in the MSCI U.S. Information Technology Index is
3.7, compared with 2.3 for tech companies in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, as of April 4.  Investing Public  The investing public in the U.S. “understands the sector
better and is more willing to pay for growth,” said Craig Coben, the London-based head of  equity capital markets  for
Europe, the  Middle East , and Africa at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   The value of tech IPOs in the U.S. last year was $4.5
billion, compared with $389 million in Europe, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the San Francisco-based
developer of games for Facebook, raised $1 billion in December
and has seen its shares climb 19 percent as of April 5. LinkedIn
raised $389 million in its May IPO.  The last large-scale Internet IPO in Europe was in 2010,
when Russia’s Mail.ru Group raised $912 million in London.  While the  European markets  have shown some signs of
recovery this year, with Dutch cable operator  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  and Swiss
marketing group DKSH Holding Ltd. raising a combined $2 billion,
the total amount raised in Europe still lags the U.S. by a
third.  Tech Lag  Even with some successes, such as online jukebox Spotify,
Europe’s tech industry continues to lag the U.S. Total venture
capital investment in the third quarter of 2011 in the U.S.
outstripped that in Europe by almost eight times, according to
the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and
the National Venture Capital Association. Only one of the 10
largest global technology companies by market value,  Germany ’s
 SAP AG (SAP) , is European. The value of tech companies in the U.S. is
$3 trillion, according to Bloomberg data, almost nine times the
$351 billion in Western Europe.  Balderton, whose investments have included stakes in
British online loan provider Wonga.com Ltd., is planning U.S.
share sales for Openet, based in Dublin, and Globoforce Ltd., a
provider of employee-recognition systems also founded in the
Irish capital that’s now based near Boston, Maloney said.  NXP Semiconductor NV (NXPI) , the Eindhoven, Netherlands-based
company that held a 2010 IPO in New York, now has more offices
in the U.S. than any other country.  Xyratex Ltd. (XRTX) , a data storage
and network provider based in the U.K., has four offices in the
U.S. and only one in  Europe  after its 2004 New York IPO.  Closing the Gap  To close the gap, Europe’s governments have been trying to
encourage the growth of technology businesses. In the U.K.,
Prime Minister  David Cameron  has voiced support for plans to
turn a gritty stretch of East London into “Tech City,” a
European rival to Silicon Valley. In  France , President Nicolas Sarkozy’s government has pledged its support for projects such
as the European School for Internet Professions, which offers a
three-year program for aspiring Web entrepreneurs that has
opened in the former Paris stock exchange building.  “Money follows success,” said Eric Van Der Kleij, CEO of
Britain’s Tech City Investment. “Currently there are a lot of
exits on U.S. markets. Eventually you will get the same in the
U.K. and elsewhere, as investors see there’s value to be
obtained.”  In the near term, Europe may lose out as talented
technology executives follow investors and customers to the
U.S., Balderton’s Maloney said, matching the example of
companies like  Qlik Technologies Inc. (QLIK) , a business-intelligence
software provider founded in  Sweden  that’s now based near
Philadelphia and listed in New York.  Distinct Advantages  The Finnish startup Alekstra, which provides services to
help corporations slash their phone bills, may also opt for an
IPO in the U.S., instead of a double listing, if it does not get
sufficient subscriptions from Finnish institutional investors to
support a share sale in Helsinki, CEO Toni Toikka said in an e-
mail last month. The company has headquarters in the Finnish
capital and  Manhattan .  “Most companies list at home because that’s where their
customers are,” said Maria Pinelli, global vice chairman at
Ernst & Young LLP in London, who oversees the firm’s IPO
advisory business. “But when you are a technology company, your
customers can span the globe regardless of where you are
headquartered.”  For now, U.S. markets continue to offer distinct
advantages, said Mike Chalfen, a general partner at London’s
Advent Venture Partners, which has backed startups including
Paris-based video-sharing site Dailymotion. In the U.S., he
said, “investors are experienced, there’s a lot more capital
for technology, and it’s easier to tell your story. If you have
the choice right now, why wouldn’t you go there?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  