-- Euro Set for Biggest Weekly Drop in 7 Months on Debt Woes
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-04-06T11:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/euro-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-7-months-on-debt-woes.html
The euro headed for the biggest
weekly drop against the yen in seven months as  Spain ’s rising
borrowing costs fueled concern that the region is failing to
contain its debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency traded at almost a three-week low
versus the dollar before data next week that may show German
exports fell and growth in French industrial production slowed,
adding to evidence that the fiscal woes are hampering the
region’s economies. Demand for the greenback was supported as
data indicating a recovery in the U.S. labor market damped
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will add new stimulus. The yen
gained against its peers as Asian stocks fell for a third day.  “We haven’t seen any major improvements in the European
debt situation,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director in
Tokyo at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company. “After
 Greece , investors may be beginning to shift their focus onto
countries like Spain, Portugal and Italy. I expect the euro will
gradually sink as the region’s economy deteriorates.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to 107.70 yen at 7:27 a.m. in  New
York  from 107.61 yesterday. It has fallen 2.6 percent this week,
the steepest five-day slide since the week ended Sept. 9. The
currency was little changed at $1.3069, after sliding to $1.3035
yesterday, the weakest level since March 15. The dollar was
little changed at 82.41 yen.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2
percent. Markets in  Hong Kong , Australia,  New Zealand , Singapore
and  India  are closed today for a public holiday.  ‘Extreme Difficulty’  Spain, the euro-region’s fourth-largest economy, is in
“extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said April 4,
raising the possibility of a bailout for the second time this
week. Spanish bonds fell yesterday, pushing the yield on the  10-
year benchmark bond  to 5.84 percent, the highest since December,
and widening the spread with similar-maturity German bunds to
more than 4 percentage points.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond has jumped
nearly one percentage point since March 2, when Rajoy announced
the government would miss its budget-deficit target this year.
He warned that public debt will surge to a record 79.8 percent
of GDP this year as it imposes the deepest austerity in at least
three decades.  German exports probably decreased 1.2 percent in February
from January, when they rose 2.4 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the report due on April 10. In  France , output increased 0.2
percent in February, after gaining 0.3 percent the prior month,
another poll showed before the nation’s statistics office
releases data the same day.  Euro Worst Performer  The euro has declined 1.3 percent in the past week, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has
gained 1.6 percent and the dollar has appreciated 1 percent.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls probably rose by 205,000 in March
after climbing by 227,000 in February, economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast ahead of today’s data. A separate report may
show the jobless rate held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent.
That would follow data from ADP Employer Services this week that
showed U.S. companies added 209,000 workers in March after
hiring 230,000 in February.  “The dollar will strengthen if the job market improves
further,” said FX Prime’s Ueda. “If the  unemployment rate 
falls below 8.3 percent, investors may buy the dollar expecting
the Fed to start the rate-hike cycle at the end of next year.”  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was at 80.02 from 80.08 yesterday, when it
touched 80.18, the highest since March 16.  The gauge may gain toward 80.74, the March 15 high, after
rising above the so-called resistance level of 79.96 yesterday,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said, citing trading patterns.  “Short-term bias suggests additional upside is likely,”
 Niall O’Connor , a New York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan,
wrote in a note yesterday. “We continue to highlight the setup
in the DXY as the retracement from the 78.66 weekly low and
break through the 79.95 resistance suggests a closer test of the
80.74 March peak is underway as the broad consolidation phase
remain firmly intact,” he wrote, referring to the  Dollar Index .
Resistance is where there may be orders clustered to sell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  