-- European Stocks Fall for Third Week as Spain Bonds Drop
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-04-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/european-stocks-fall-for-third-week-as-spain-bonds-drop.html
European stocks  fell for a third
week, the longest losing streak since August, as Spain’s rising
borrowing costs boosted concern the euro-area has yet to contain
its debt crisis, and the U.S.  Federal Reserve  damped
expectations for further monetary stimulus.  Banking shares led declines.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI) 
and UniCredit SpA slid at least 12 percent each this week.
 Peugeot SA (UG)  dropped 10 percent after a report showed U.S. sales
of light vehicles rose less than forecast.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) 
gained 3.7 percent after agreeing to buy Agora Oil & Gas AS to
expand in the North Sea.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 1.6 percent to 259.07
this week. The benchmark measure  climbed 7.7 percent in the
first quarter , its best performance during the first three
months of the year since 2006, as the ECB disbursed 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) in three-year loans to the region’s
financial institutions and U.S. economic reports beat estimates.  “The fact that Spain is back in the news makes equity
investors nervous about where we go from here,” said  Peter Dixon , global equities economist at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in  London .
“So long as we have some kind of concern to worry about, there
are going to be limits to which equities will be able to take
off.”  Spanish bonds fell for a third day on April 5, widening the
spread between yields on 10-year Spanish and German debt to more
than 400 basis points for the first time since Dec. 12.  National benchmark indexes dropped in 16 of the 18 western-
European markets this week. France’s CAC 40 Index slid 3
percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost 0.8 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index decreased 2.5 percent.  Spanish Auction  Spain is in “extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said April 4, raising the possibility of a bailout for the
second time this week. The government has widened its budget
deficit target to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product from 4.4
percent and warned on April 3 that public debt will surge to a
record 79.8 percent of GDP this year.  Spain  sold 2.6 billion euros of bonds, near the minimum
target for the sale on April 4. Borrowing costs rose in its
first auction since the country said public debt will jump to a
record this year. The Treasury had set a range of 2.5 billion
euros to 3.5 billion euros for the sale.  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve is holding off on
increasing monetary accommodation unless U.S. economic growth
falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent
target, minutes released from a March 13 policy meeting showed
on April 3.  “A couple of members indicated that the initiation of
additional stimulus could become necessary if the economy lost
momentum or if inflation seemed likely to remain below” 2
percent, according to the minutes.  ECB Interest Rate  The  European Central Bank  left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 1 percent on April 4. The euro-
area’s economic outlook remains subject to “downside risks,”
President Mario Draghi said at a press conference later that day
in  Frankfurt .  “The remaining tensions in euro area sovereign-debt
markets are expected to dampen economic momentum,” he said.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a second month in March. A composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both industries dropped to 49.1 from 49.3
in February, London-based Markit Economics said on April 4.
That’s above an initial estimate of 48.7 on March 22. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King and his
committee voted on April 5 to leave their asset-purchase program
unchanged at 325 billion pounds ($514 billion), as predicted by
all 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S., China Economies  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed  initial
jobless claims  fell to 357,000 in the week to March 31, the
lowest level in four years. The median forecast of 43 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey estimated a decrease to 355,000.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded more than forecast in
March, according to a report on April 2. The Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index climbed to 53.4 from 52.4 in
February, data showed. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
estimated an increase to 53. Readings above 50 signal growth.  A report on April 3 showed that factory orders in the
world’s biggest economy rose 1.3 percent in February, missing
the median estimate of a 1.5 percent-gain predicted by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  In  China , a purchase managers’ index compiled by the
logistics federation and the National Bureau of Statistics rose
to 53.1 in March from 51 in February.  The index, which was released on April 1, has a pattern of
gaining each March. In contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics fell to a four-month low of 48.3, showing
that manufacturing contracted and export orders declined.  Bank, Auto Shares Drop  A gauge of banking shares was the worst performer among 19
industry groups on the Stoxx 600 Index this week.  Banca Popolare di Milano  plunged 16 percent, while
 UniCredit (UCG)  tumbled 12 percent.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest bank, slipped 6.2
percent. Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-biggest lender, lost
7.8 percent.  Auto companies were among the worst-performing industries
on the Stoxx 600. A report on April 4 showed U.S. sales of cars
and light trucks rose to a 14.4 million seasonally adjusted
annual rate, falling short of the 14.5 million median estimate
of 16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Peugeot SA led losses, dropping 10 percent.  Renault SA (RNO)  slid
3.9 percent and  Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  decreased 2.2 percent.  Veolia, Cairn Energy  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  tumbled 9.9 percent this week.
Deutsche Bank AG cut its recommendation on the shares to sell
from neutral. Les Echos said on April 4 without citing anyone
that the company may decide to take sole control of Societe
Nationale Maritime Corse Mediterranee.  Logica Plc (LOG)  plunged 10 percent. The Anglo-Dutch computer
services provider said on April 4 that Seamus Keating, the head
of its Netherlands unit, left after implementing a restructuring
plan.  Cairn Energy rose 3.7 percent. The energy explorer agreed
to buy Agora, a Norwegian company owned by RIT Capital Partners
Plc and financier  Jacob Rothschild , for an enterprise value of
$375 million and net working capital of $75 million. Cairn will
pay 43 percent in cash and 57 percent in shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  