-- Ex-Im Critic Delta Seen Gaining as Bank Backs Loan for Gol
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-04-05T16:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/ex-im-critic-delta-seen-gaining-as-bank-backs-loan-for-gol.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , a critic of
the U.S. Export-Import Bank’s financing of wide-body jets, will
benefit from a bank decision to provide an $84.8 million loan
guarantee to Brazilian airline Gol, the lender said.  The bank’s board of directors today approved the guarantee
for Gol, or VRG Linhas Aereas SA, to ship engines from  Sao Paulo 
to Atlanta, the U.S. carrier’s headquarters, for servicing by
Delta TechOps, the bank said in a statement.  “Ex-Im Bank’s financing will help sustain high quality
technical jobs for Delta employees in Atlanta,”  Fred Hochberg ,
the bank’s chairman and president, said in the statement.  Delta is at the center of a debate over renewal of the
Export-Import Bank, an independent federal agency that supports
exports by helping overseas buyers purchase goods and services
from U.S. companies. Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina
Republican and founder of the Senate Tea Party caucus, has said
the lender gives foreign airlines an edge over American
carriers, such as Delta, in buying new aircraft.  Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman, didn’t comment on the
bank’s loan guarantee for Gol. He said the lender needs to
establish “a diplomatic path to find a better way to balance
foreign credit agencies without damaging U.S. companies and
their employees.” The bank needs to be more transparent in its
decision-making, he said in an e-mail.  Delta agreed to perform maintenance on Gol engines in
aircraft manufactured by  Boeing Co. (BA)  under a 2010 agreement,
according to the bank. The loan guarantee covers two years of a
five-year contract with Delta’s maintenance, repair and overhaul
unit, known as TechOps, the bank said in its statement.  Delta’s TechOps  TechOps is largest unit of its kind in  North America  and
services Delta’s fleet of 775 aircraft plus more than 150
airline and aviation customers globally. Airlines such as Gol
typically ferry engines and other parts needing maintenance to
Delta’s TechOps facility on the edge of Hartsfield-Jackson
Atlanta International Airport, where Delta employees repair them
and ship them back to the customer.  The maintenance business combined with other units that
provide staff training, vacation planning and private-jet
rentals had $900 million in revenue last year, or 2.6 percent of
Delta’s total sales, according to the carrier’s most recent
annual report.  The Export-Import Bank’s charter expires May 31, and it may
reach its lending limit before then, according to Hochberg.  Delta is part of a lawsuit alleging that the Export-Import
Bank “routinely fails to evaluate the negative impact that its
commitments have on domestic industries and domestic
employment.” The  Air Transport Association  of America Inc., a
Washington-based industry group now known as Airlines for
America, filed the suit in November in U.S. District Court for
the  District of Columbia  on behalf of some of its members,
including Delta.  The Export-Import Bank exists “to make sure that when
American products are being sold overseas for export, that it’s
a level playing field,” Hochberg said in an interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  