-- MF Global Trustee to Return $685 Million to Customers
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-05T22:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/mf-global-trustee-to-return-685-million-to-customers.html
The  MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ)  brokerage trustee
is engaged in discussions with JPMorgan Chase & Co. about the
bank’s activities in connection with MF Global, the trustee,
James Giddens, said yesterday in a statement.  In a status update on his investigation of JPMorgan, the
trustee said the bank has been cooperating in a probe that’s
included witness interviews, and a review of documents by
attorneys and accountants from Ernst & Young.  “The Trustee and JPMorgan are presently engaged in
substantive discussions regarding the resolution of claims,”
Giddens said in the statement.  During a U.S. House investigations subcommittee hearing on
the collapse of the former broker last week, questions focused
on a $200 million transfer from a segregated account at MF
Global to a “house” account, followed by the move of $175
million from the house account to a London subsidiary’s account
at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the broker’s parent company, filed
the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 with debt of
almost $40 billion after making $6.3 billion in bets on
sovereign debt and getting margin calls.  Giddens has estimated a $1.6 billion shortfall to what
customers are owed from their segregated accounts.  Jon Corzine , chairman of MF Global Holdings until his
resignation on Nov. 4, has said he didn’t authorize any misuse
of customer money that may have occurred. Corzine is a former
governor of  New Jersey  and former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  Corzine gave “direct instructions” to move money from a
U.S. account to meet an overdraft with JPMorgan, according to a
memo by congressional investigators. He may face potential legal
liability if investigators show he knew customer money might be
used when he ordered the transfer.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  