-- Fed Outlines Guidelines for Rental of Foreclosed Properties
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-05T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/fed-outlines-guidelines-for-rental-of-foreclosed-properties.html
The  Federal Reserve  outlined the
rules it expects banks to follow in renting out properties
acquired through foreclosure.  The statement is aimed at “reiterating that statutes and
Federal Reserve regulations permit rental of residential
properties acquired in foreclosure as part of an orderly
disposition strategy,” the Fed said today in a  release  in
 Washington .  Converting foreclosed properties into rentals was a
strategy advocated by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in a study the
Fed sent to Congress in January on proposals to aid the housing
recovery. In a cover letter to the paper, Bernanke said that
“restoring the health of the housing market is a necessary part
of a broader strategy of economic recovery.”  “The general policy of the Federal Reserve is that banking
organizations should make good faith efforts to dispose of
foreclosed properties” at the earliest possible date, the Fed
statement said.  ‘In light of the extraordinary market conditions that
currently prevail,” the Fed said that banks may rent out
foreclosed properties “without demonstrating continuous active
marketing of the property for sale, provided that suitable
policies and procedures are followed.”  The central bank noted in the statement that the flow of
foreclosures onto the market would “continue to weigh on  house
prices  for some time.”  Fulfill Obligations  The Fed said that renting out foreclosed properties may
help banks fulfill obligations toward community development
under the Community Reinvestment Act. Banks with 50 or more
properties available for rent must document how they meet
supervisory expectations with their rental program.  Last year, Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke called for
government efforts to promote the rental of foreclosed homes,
saying a recovery in the U.S. housing market hinges on clearing
the backlog of such properties.  “We need to deal with the unprecedented number of loans in
or still entering the foreclosure pipeline, the disposition of
properties acquired through foreclosure, and the effect of a
high percentage of distressed sales on  home prices ,” Duke said
on Sept. 1.  “We, as a nation, currently have a housing market that is
so severely out of balance that it is hampering our economic
recovery,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  