-- Fed’s Bullard Sees No Need for New Stimulus as Economy Gains
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-05T15:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/fed-s-bullard-sees-no-need-for-new-stimulus-as-economy-improves.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said he sees no need for additional
easing as the performance of the U.S. expansion exceeds
expectations.  “An appropriate approach at this juncture may be to
continue to pause to assess developments in the economy,”
Bullard said today in a speech in St. Louis. “Past behavior of
the committee suggests a ‘wait-and-see’ strategy at this
juncture,” he said.  Bullard’s comments echoed Fed policy makers’ decision to
hold off on increasing monetary accommodation unless the
economic expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower than
its 2 percent target, according to minutes of their March 13
meeting released this week. The central bank also affirmed its
projection, first announced in January, that subdued inflation
and economic slack will probably warrant exceptionally low rates
through late 2014.  Many of the policy actions  the Fed  might consider would
have an impact lasting several years, Bullard said in remarks to
the 13th Annual InvestMidwest Venture Capital Forum.  “The ultra-easy policy has been appropriate until now, but
it will not always be appropriate,” he said. “As the  U.S.
economy  continues to rebound and repair, additional policy
actions may create an over-commitment to ultra-easy monetary
policy.”  Push Down Rates  The scheduled end in June of the Fed’s Operation Twist, the
purchase of long-term Treasury bonds and sale of short-term
securities intended to push down long-term rates, won’t cause a
spike in yields that is a de facto tightening, he said.  “I don’t think these end dates are that critical,”
Bullard told reporters after his speech.  “Each time we have ended one of these programs people have
said rates would jump,” he said. “That was wrong” previously,
“and I think it will be wrong again this time,” he said.  The  St. Louis  Fed chief also told reporters that rising
Treasury yields haven’t been “too much of a problem” so far
and he would be worried only if they reflected a rise in
inflation expectations. He repeated his forecast the U.S.
 unemployment rate  may drop below 8 percent by year’s end.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note has risen to
2.2 percent from 1.80 percent on Jan. 31 in response to reports
of an accelerating economy and improving labor market. About 1.2
million jobs were created in the past six months, the most since
the same period ended May 2006, Labor Department figures show.
The unemployment rate held in February at a three-year-low of
8.3 percent.  Boosted Output  Bullard reiterated his view that the amount of slack in the
economy may be less than most economists estimate because the
2002-2006 housing bubble artificially boosted output. He also
said he was opposed to the 2014 conditional pledge, which may
lead consumers and businesses to believe the Fed has an unduly
negative outlook.  “Neither the Fed nor any other forecaster has a clear idea
of what macroeconomic conditions will be like at that time,” he
said.  “This is an unwarranted pessimistic signal for the FOMC
to send.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed pushed down its
target interest rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy.  Bullard, 51, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  