-- Ferdinand Porsche, Creator of 911 Sportscar Icon, Dies at 76
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-04-05T15:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/ferdinand-porsche-creator-of-911-sportscar-dies-aged-76.html
Ferdinand Alexander Porsche, the
designer of the original version of the iconic 911 sportscar,
died today in Salzburg,  Austria . He was 76.  “As creator of the Porsche 911, he established a design
culture that molds our sportscars still today,”  Matthias Mueller , chief executive officer of Porsche AG, said in an e-
mailed statement. “His philosophy of good design is for us a
legacy that we will also honor in the future.”  Ferdinand Alexander Porsche, the grandson of Ferdinand
Porsche, who created the original  Volkswagen (VOW3)  Beetle, designed
the first 911 in 1962. He went on to develop racecars for the
German automaker until leaving the Stuttgart-based company in
1972 with other family members when Porsche was transformed into
a joint stock company.  The 911 remains the epitome of the Porsche brand, even as
the carmaker, which is jointly owned by the Porsche SE holding
company and  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) , expands beyond  sports cars . The
Cayenne sport-utility vehicle was the brand’s top seller last
year, with triple the deliveries of the 911. The Macan, a
compact SUV, is scheduled to start production next year.  Porsche unveiled the seventh generation of the $82,100 911
in September. The 350-horsepower sportscar has a top speed of
289 kilometers per hour (179 miles per hour) and surges to 100
kilometers in 4.6 seconds.  Porsche Design  “He was a very special man, and the company Porsche was
his life and what he stood for,” said Guenther Molter, who co-
authored his father Ferry Porsche's autobiography. “He carried
on the work of his father in his own way. He realized the
 Porsche 911 , which was his idea.”  After leaving Porsche, Ferdinand Alexander Porsche founded
the Porsche Design Studio, where he devoted himself to
developing watches, eyeglasses, writing utensils and other
design projects. He was a proponent of clear, austere lines.  His credo was “design must be functional and the
functionality must be visually implemented without gags that
need to be explained,” according to the Porsche statement.  Ferdinand Alexander Porsche will be interred among close
family members at a ceremony at Zell am See in Austria. A public
ceremony will take place at a later date, Porsche said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  