-- Fielder’s Home-Run Stroke Distracts Detroit From Fiscal Morass
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/fielder-s-home-run-stroke-distracts-detroit-from-fiscal-morass.html
Rick Spivey says he hopes that
 Detroit  Tigers first baseman Prince Fielder’s $214 million
contract leads to a blowout season for the team -- anything to
help his neighbors forget a similarly large hole in the city
budget.  “As far as people’s morale goes, this is the worst as I’ve
seen it with the economy being the way it is and all the
foreclosures,” said Spivey, 49, who owns a medical
transportation company in the city. “It’s probably going to be
a long, hot summer, and baseball and a winning team will be a
great distraction for people.”  The Tigers host the  Boston Red Sox  this afternoon in their
opening game, a day after the Detroit city council approved a 
consent agreement with the state to help plug a $270 million
deficit. Today had been the deadline for the city to accept the
agreement and avoid having a state-appointed emergency manager
take over the government.  “There was a lot of talk over the winter about the state of
the city,” said Laura Burmann, 32, over a breakfast of eggs,
toast and hash browns at the Steak Hut diner in Detroit with her
friend Ron Shelton. “All our conversations pretty much revolved
around that. Now with the Tigers coming in, I think there’s
going to be more talk about baseball.”  A big part of the hype is based on Tigers owner Mike Ilitch’s January decision to approve a nine-year, $214 million
contract for Fielder, the fourth-biggest in baseball history.
Fielder is the son of Cecil Fielder, who hit 51 home runs for
the Tigers in 1990.  After falling two wins short of a trip to the World Series
a year ago, oddsmakers are fueling optimism for Detroit in 2012.
The Tigers are tied with the  New York Yankees  as the second-
favorites to win the World Series, with 6-1 odds at the Las
Vegas Hotel and Casino’s sports book. The  Philadelphia Phillies 
are the favorites with 5-1 odds.  10th Biggest Payroll  The Tigers had a $105.7 million player payroll last season,
ranking 10th among  Major League Baseball ’s 30 teams.  “It’s a great distraction,” said Shelton, 47, who has
lived in a downtown Detroit apartment for two decades. “It’s a
great thing to look forward to. People who don’t even have
tickets gravitate to the downtown. Everybody is working the same
direction, and it’s fun.”  The source of the controversy is a consent agreement the 
Detroit city council approved last night on a 5-4 vote. The
proposal requires the state and city to create a nine-member
advisory board to enforce spending changes and union
concessions. The plan is being fought by city union members in
multiple lawsuits.  Contract concessions are “absolutely horrible,” Ron Hill,
35, a Detroit police officer and Tigers fan, said during an
interview at Detroit city hall. He operates a vending machine
business while off duty that includes a contract in city hall.  Good for Morale  Hill, who doesn’t remember the Tigers’ 1984  World Series 
because he was only eight years old, said Detroit sports teams
are good for the city’s morale and its economy, like the Lions’
playoff run in the  National Football League  last season.  “Regardless of everything else that was going on in the
city, when the Lions won, Sunday was a good day,” he said. “A
winning season from the Tigers would be something good. It kind
of makes you forget about everything else that’s going on.”  The Tigers drew 2.64 million fans to their 81 home dates
last season, ranking 13th among baseball’s 30 teams. The
addition of Fielder and the added national interest in the team
this year probably also mean in-stadium advertisers will get an
increase in exposure worth between $185,000 to $225,000, said
Eric Smallwood, senior vice president of Front Row Marketing
Services in Port Huron,  Michigan .  Winning Red Wings  For Ilitch, a winning Tigers team is another professional
sports success. He also owns the National Hockey League’s
Detroit Red Wings, which are about to enter the playoffs for a
record 21st year in a row at their downtown rink.  “I’ve worked for good ownership before, believe me,”
Tigers’ Manager  Jim Leyland  said in January. “But I’ve never
seen ownership like this, where it’s, ‘I want to win, I want
this for the city of Detroit, and I’m willing to pay the
freight.’ It’s unbelievable.”  Ilitch, 82, with his wife Marian, is 212th on Forbes
Magazine’s list of the 400 richest Americans, with a net worth
of $2 billion. The Ilitches co-founded closely held pizza chain
Little Caesars Enterprises Inc. in the Detroit area in 1959.  The Tigers wouldn’t make him available to be interviewed.  Smart Spending  Residents won’t fault Ilitch for spending lavishly to
create a winning team with so many residents struggling because
people understand what it takes to compete, said Spivey, as he
had his second bowl of soup at the Steak Hut. He had a newspaper
article spread out at his booth about foreclosures slowing the
Detroit recovery.  “We know that he does spend money on this team, but he
seems to spend wisely,” Spivey said. “They were close last
year.”  Fielder combines with  Miguel Cabrera  to give Detroit one of
the best third- and fourth-place hitters in the game. Fielder
and Cabrera combined for 68 homers last season, when Cabrera won
the  American League  batting title. last year,  Justin Verlander 
won the Cy Young Award as the American League’s top pitcher as
well as the Most Valuable Player Award.  Ease the Pain  Detroit sporting success has been a salve for the city’s
dire times in the past, said Mike Bernacchi, a marketing and
economics professor at the University of Detroit Mercy. The
Tigers’ 1968 World Series victory helped heal some of the pain
from a five-day riot in 1967 that killed more than 40 people and
destroyed hundreds of buildings, he said.  “This is a wonderful topic to help you forget that Detroit
is potentially in its greatest jeopardy, ever,” Bernacchi said.
“I have a feeling if you asked most people if they’d be willing
to trade away the Tigers in exchange for the city being out of
hoc, they’d say ‘Play Ball!’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  