-- FirstRand’s RMB to Sell Stocks, May Cut Staff Numbers
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-04-05T15:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/firstrand-s-rmb-to-sell-stocks-may-cut-staff-numbers.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s investment-banking
unit, Rand Merchant Bank, plans to sell all of its stakes in
publicly traded stocks and may reduce staff to boost returns for
shareholders, according to the head of the business.  Rand Merchant Bank will dispose of investments including
its equity holdings “in an orderly manner,” Alan Pullinger,
chief executive officer of the Johannesburg-based division, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. Some staff have been
informed and are considering alternative roles at RMB, he said,
adding that any job cuts will be completed by July.  The division of  South Africa ’s second-biggest financial-
services company is aiming to boost the rate of return and
reduce its capital burden before Basel III international bank
rules come into effect, said Pullinger, who has been CEO since
2008. The unit, started in 1977, said last month that it was
exiting proprietary trading because it couldn’t produce
sustainable returns.  Rand Merchant Bank’s largest equity holdings include 14.6
percent of  Premium Properties Ltd. (PMM) , 5.8 percent of  Evraz
Highveld Steel and Vanadium Ltd. , 9.9 percent of  Blackstar Group
SE (BLCK) , 30.3 percent of  Control Instruments Group Ltd. (CNL)  and 11.8
percent of  Simmer & Jack Mines Ltd. (SIM) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Pullinger, 44, also said the unit is considering making
acquisitions and may increase the risk it will take on as a
single counterparty in some transactions. The bank may also
charge clients for services that were free, as well as expand
its asset-management business and prime brokerage, he said.  Risk, Reward  “What RMB really is doing is reacting to the changes
brought about by Basel III, and in the new environment equity
risk-taking is a very heavy consumer of capital and the risk-
reward balance no longer makes sense,” said Neville Chester, a
 fund manager  and FirstRand shareholder at Cape Town-based
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  While equities “used to be a
high-return generator for RMB, it came with higher risk as we
saw in 2008. The argument now is that investors will payer a
higher price for stable, lower returns than volatile higher
returns,” he said.  Rand Merchant Bank reported a 15 percent drop in pretax
profit and a declining rate of return on equity in the second
half. The unit contributed 23 percent of FirstRand’s earnings,
down from 34 percent a year earlier.  Morgan Stanley Venture  The bank will discontinue proprietary trading while
combining its fixed income, currency, commodity and equity
trading units into a new division called global markets, Rand
Merchant said in a statement on March 28. C.J. Giddy and Pierre
Joubert will be the joint heads of global markets. Giddy was
appointed head of fixed income, currencies and commodities in
2008, while Joubert has been head of equities trading.  Rand Merchant Bank’s securities joint venture with  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , which has topped Bloomberg’s debt underwriting league
table for the local market since 2010, will not be affected by
the changes, Pullinger said.  “We will continue, and in fact grow, our trading and
market-making business that enables our client franchise,” he
said.  FirstRand fell as much as 2.2 percent to 23.05 rand, its
lowest level in six weeks, and closed 0.2 percent higher at
23.60 rand in Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  