-- Former Tyco Chief Kozlowski Is Denied Parole in New York
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-05T22:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/former-tyco-chief-kozlowski-is-denied-parole-in-new-york.html
Former  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  Chief
Executive Officer L. Dennis Kozlowski was denied parole “due to
concern for the public safety and welfare,” the  New York  state
Department of Corrections and Community Supervision said.  The Parole Board interviewed the 65-year-old Kozlowski
yesterday and informed him today of its decision, Peter Cutler,
a spokesman for the department, said in an e-mail. Kozlowski was
convicted in 2005 of looting his company and sentenced to
8 1/3 to 25 years in prison.  “Your instant offenses are the result of your theft of
over $100 million dollars from Tyco, an international public
corporation, in glaring violation of the trust placed in you as
CEO by the board of directors and corporate shareholders,” the
board said in its decision, according to Cutler’s e-mail.  “Mr. Kozlowski is deeply disappointed by the decision of
the Parole Board,” Alan Lewis, an attorney with Carter Ledyard
& Milburn LLP who represents Kozlowski, said in a statement.
“Respectfully, he does not agree that his parole would
compromise public safety.”  Kozlowski was transferred in January to the Lincoln
Correctional Facility, a minimum-security facility on
 Manhattan ’s 110th Street near Fifth Avenue, from the medium-
security Mid-State Correctional Facility in Marcy, Cutler said
last month.  Work Schedule  Kozlowski leaves every weekday morning as part of a work-
release program and must return every night to the prison,
Cutler said. He is permitted to spend Saturday nights outside
the facility, Cutler said.  Kozlowski is working as a clerk at a software company and
has helped other inmates learn to read and to earn their general
equivalency diplomas, his lawyers said last month. While the
Parole Board noted that Kozlowski’s disciplinary record
“appears clean” and that he has made “progress and
achievement,” it denied his request.  “Your discretionary release, at this time, would not thus
be compatible with the welfare of society at large, and would
tend to deprecate the seriousness of the instant offenses and
undermine respect for the law,” the board said, according to
Cutler’s e-mail.  Kozlowski, along with former Chief Financial Officer Mark Swartz, was convicted in June 2005 of  securities fraud , grand
larceny and falsifying business records. Swartz also has been
transferred to the Lincoln facility and is participating in
work-release, according to his lawyer,  Charles Stillman .  The jury, in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan,
found that Kozlowski and Swartz stole about $137 million from
Tyco in unauthorized compensation and made $410 million from the
sale of inflated stock. An earlier trial resulted in a mistrial
after a juror reported receiving threats.  Tyco, based in Schaffhausen,  Switzerland , is the world’s
biggest maker of security systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  