-- Fortis Misled Investors as Early as 2007, Court Rules
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-04-05T12:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/fortis-misled-investors-as-early-as-2007-court-rules.html
Fortis (AGS) ’s management failed to
respond in a timely way to worsening market conditions and
didn’t properly inform investors about potential subprime losses
when selling shares in 2007, a Dutch court  ruled .  The Belgian-Dutch financial-services company didn’t make
sufficient efforts to complete  divestments  and strengthen its
equity position, Peter Ingelse, presiding judge of the
Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam appeals court, said today.
Fortis, now known as Ageas, also misled investors about the risk
of subprime mortgage-backed investments in  statements 
accompanying a 13.4 billion-euro ($17.5 billion) rights offering
in September 2007.  “Fortis used overly optimistic look-through figures for
its  solvency policy  and thus headed for insufficient future
solvency,” Ingelse said. “Fortis made  incorrect statements ,
which led to the impression Fortis would meet its capital
targets by the end of 2008 and 2009 and that neither a share
sale nor a scrapping of dividend was needed or considered.”  The verdict is another court victory for investors who lost
money in the collapse of Fortis, which took part in the 72
billion-euro purchase of ABN Amro Holding NV in 2007, still the
world’s biggest bank takeover. Another Dutch court ruled on Feb.
15 that Fortis and its former executives Jean-Paul Votron and
Gilbert Mittler misled investors about the bank’s ability to
meet  capital requirements  for more than a month in 2008 and are
liable to damages.  Liability Discharge  The Amsterdam court canceled the liability discharge of
Fortis directors granted at the annual meeting in April 2008,
upholding their responsibility for misleading investors in
September 2007 about the risks of Fortis’ subprime portfolio.
Dutch investor group Vereniging van Effectenbezitters is seeking
damages from Ageas and former Fortis executives.  “We are very happy with this  ruling , it’s a big support in
our legal proceedings about the misleading of investors,” VEB
Chairman Jan Maarten Slagter said after the ruling. “The
current Ageas management should now make the former Fortis
executives liable for mismanagement; we can’t do that.”  Ageas will cover any damages its former top executives are
found liable for, according to their 2008 termination
agreements. Ageas is contesting those commitments in a lawsuit
Votron, Mittler and Maurice Lippens, the former chairman, filed
in the Utrecht district court.  Greet Poulmans, a spokeswoman for Ageas in Brussels,
declined to comment by telephone, pending the publication of a
statement by the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net . 