-- Four Fed Regional Bank Presidents See Less Need for Easing
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-04-05T14:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/four-fed-regional-bank-presidents-see-less-need-for-new-easing.html
Four Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents who vote on monetary policy this year see less of a
need for the Fed to spur the economy with new accommodation.  “The probability of needing to do additional stimulus is
lower,”  San Francisco  Fed President  John Williams  told
reporters yesterday.  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto , Atlanta’s
 Dennis Lockhart  and Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  also spoke against
additional accommodation this week, with Lacker saying yesterday
he “was surprised a couple months ago at the probability market
participants seemed to ascribe to further easing.”  The presidents’ comments echo the minutes of the Fed’s
March 13 meeting, in which a “couple of” participants called
for easing only “if the economy lost momentum” or if inflation
fell below the central bank’s 2 percent target. Fed officials
will hold their target interest rate close to zero at least
through 2014, a date “subject to revision in response to
significant changes in the economic outlook,” according to the
minutes released on April 3.  Stocks fell for a third day today, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropping 0.2 percent to 1,396.80 at 9:56 a.m.
after a 1 percent decline yesterday and a 0.4 percent decline on
April 3. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.19 percent
from 2.22 percent as speculation the euro region’s sovereign-
debt crisis is worsening increased demand for the safest assets.  Voting Power  Eleven regional bank presidents rotate voting on monetary
policy with Lacker, Williams, Lockhart and Pianalto voting this
year. The New York Fed President and the Washington-based Fed
governors always have a vote.  St. Louis  Fed President  James Bullard , who votes next year,
said today that he also sees no need for additional easing as
the performance of the U.S. expansion exceeds expectations.  “An appropriate approach at this juncture may be to
continue to pause to assess developments in the economy,”
Bullard said today in a speech in St. Louis. “Past behavior of
the committee suggests a ‘wait-and-see’ strategy at this
juncture,” he said.  The Fed’s forecasting staff revised up their near-term
outlook for U.S. growth “a little,” and reduced their estimate
of potential U.S. output as unemployment fell faster than
expected in a period of moderate economic growth, according to
the minutes.  Higher Gasoline Price  The best six months of job growth since 2006, unemployment
at a three-year low, and stock-market gains are giving Americans
the means to withstand a higher gasoline price. A March 30
report from the Commerce Department said Americans increased
their spending by the most in seven months, with purchases
climbing 0.8 percent in February.  “While further easing is obviously something that’s
conceivable, I wouldn’t favor it unless conditions deteriorated
quite substantially” for growth and inflation, Lacker told
reporters and editors at the Bloomberg News Washington bureau.  Pianalto and Lockhart also expressed reluctance about
further easing this week.  “I would have to see some pretty severe circumstances
before I endorse for another round of quantitative easing,”
Lockhart said in an April 3 interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “The outlook is positive
enough that I am not sure I see the need for it.”  Further Stimulus  Pianalto said in a speech April 2 that further monetary
stimulus could put the central bank’s inflation goal “at
risk,” and that the Fed’s  current stance  is “best suited to
foster steady gains in output and employment and to maintain
stable prices.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s survey of primary
dealers conducted before policy makers met last month showed
that the firms saw the probability of another round of bond
buying declining from January.  The median respondent saw a 50 percent chance that the Fed
would expand its balance sheet through securities purchases
within one year, down from 55 percent odds in the survey
conducted before the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Jan. 24-25
meeting, results released yesterday by the  New York  Fed showed.  The Fed presidents, while backing away from stimulus,
aren’t removing it as an option.  “Relative to a few months ago, I think that the downside
risks to the  U.S. economy  have lessened,” Williams said
yesterday in San Francisco. Still, another round of asset
purchases is “not off the table.”  Cautious Tone  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has maintained a cautious tone
on the economy since the March meeting, saying in an interview
last week with ABC News television that “it’s far too early to
declare victory.”  Asked if another round of quantitative easing, or large-
scale bond purchases, remains “on the table,” the Fed chief
said, “we don’t take any options off the table” and “we have
to be prepared to respond to however the economy evolves.”  Policy makers at last month’s FOMC meeting raised their
assessment of the economy as the labor market strengthened, and
refrained from taking new action to cut borrowing costs. The Fed
next meets April 24-25.  Richmond’s Lacker, also appearing in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Trish Regan , said a U.S. law restricting
proprietary trading at banks and scheduled for enactment in July
may be “impossible to implement.”  The so-called Volcker rule, named for its original
champion, former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , is aimed at reducing
the odds that banks will make risky investments with their own
capital and put depositors’ money at risk. Lacker said bank
trading books were “kind of tangential” to the financial
crisis of 2008-2009, when bank capital was eroded by losses on
risky mortgages, many of them bundled into complex securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  