-- Swiss Franc Breaches Cap Versus Euro Amid Crisis Concern
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-04-05T18:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/franc-touches-6-month-high-versus-euro-before-inflation-report.html
The Swiss franc breached 1.20 per
euro for the first time since the central bank set that rate as
a limit after a slide in Spanish bonds raised concern the euro
area has yet to contain its debt crisis.  Switzerland ’s currency appreciated for a second day as
Italian and Portuguese bonds also declined. The  Swiss National
Bank  won’t allow the franc to go below 1.20 against the euro and
is ready to buy foreign currencies in “unlimited quantities,”
spokesman Walter Meier said. The central bank acted to stem the
advance today, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The franc appreciated to 1.19995 before trading 0.1 percent
stronger at 1.2022 at 2:03 p.m.  New York  time. It weakened 0.5
percent to 91.97 centimes per dollar.  “It’s been our prediction for a while that the floor won’t
hold, not when you have renewed concern about the euro region,”
said  Hans-Guenter Redeker , head of currency strategy at Morgan
Stanley in  London . “In the near-term, the SNB may have to
intervene to defend their credibility, but whether this policy
will continue to work remains to be seen.”  The SNB set its foreign-exchange cap on Sept. 6 to protect
exports after investors seeking a haven from the euro-area
turmoil drove the currency to a record 1.00749 per euro. Board
member Jean-Pierre Danthine said the central bank still regards
the franc as “overvalued,” the Tribune de Geneve newspaper
reported yesterday.  The breach of the 1.20 level was the result of the absence
of a bilateral credit relationships between market participants,
according to a spokesman for EBS ICAP, a unit of London-based
interdealer broker ICAP Plc. There was no malfunction in the EBS
electronic trading platform, he said.  Franc’s Strength  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds rose a third day to 5.75
percent, while rates on similar-maturity Italian securities
increased seven basis points to 5.44 percent. Portuguese yields
climbed 19 basis points to 12.24 percent.  The Swiss central bank stepped into the market to buy
foreign currencies after the franc strengthened through the 1.20
threshold, according to Credit Suisse.  “The move was driven by renewed Europe-centric bouts of
 risk aversion  and an attack on the floor driven by significant
orders by speculators,” said Bernd Berg, a currency strategist
at Credit Suisse in Zurich. “As the move drove euro-franc below
1.20 the SNB reconfirmed its credibility by coming into the
market and also verbally reconfirming its commitment to the
floor. We therefore think the floor will hold.”  The franc strengthened against the euro even after a
government report showed Swiss consumer prices fell 1 percent in
March from a year earlier, after dropping 0.9 percent in
February. It weakened 0.5 percent to 89.55 yen.  ‘Negative Inflation’  The franc has gained 1.1 percent against the euro since
Jan. 6, the last day of trading before the resignation of SNB
President Philipp Hildebrand, who imposed the cap on the
currency. Thomas Jordan, his interim replacement, pledged to
defend the limit on March 15, saying the franc remains “very,
very strong.”  “Even with Hildebrand gone I still expected the SNB to
intervene when the market tested its resolve,”  Neil Jones , head
of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “The SNB has protected 1.20 remarkably successfully
until this point, and they will use their resources to defend
it.”  Danthine said the SNB’s limit has helped the country’s
exporters, the Tribune de Geneve newspaper reported. He expects
“negative inflation” this year and said the Swiss mortgage
market is in a “perilous” state of overheating, according to
the report.  Franc Survey  The SNB abandoned previous efforts to weaken the franc in
June 2010 after quadrupling its currency holdings. The Swiss
currency advanced 19 percent against the euro that year, and
appreciated another 2.8 percent in 2011.  The SNB doesn’t disclose how much money it spends on
defending the cap. The Zurich-based central bank had currency
reserves of 237.5 billion francs at the end of March, up from
227.2 billion at the end of the previous month, according to a
statement on the bank’s website today.  The SNB will be able to hold the franc from appreciating
beyond 1.20 per euro in the near term, said  Sebastien Galy , a
senior currency strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York,
citing a survey by the bank. Of the respondents, 75 percent said
the central bank will be able to defend the 1.20 floor at least
in the next three months.  The franc has gained 3.2 percent in the past year, making
it the third-best performer after the  New Zealand dollar  and the
yen, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
track the performance of 10 developed-nation currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  