-- From Elvis to Nunnery; ‘Magic City’ Mobs; ‘Scandal’: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/from-elvis-to-nunnery-magic-city-mobs-scandal-greg-evans.html
Starz ’s “Magic City,” set in a
gorgeous  Miami Beach  hotel in 1959, looks as cool as a pair of
 Ray-Bans .  Lovely women in (and sometimes out of) bikinis swim in a
pool visible, aquarium-style, from the hotel’s bar while victims
of a sadistic mobster sway like seaweed at the bottom of the
Atlantic.  If only the storytelling equaled the imagery.  “The
Godfather Part II”  couldn’t have drained  Florida ’s coast and
pre-Castro Cuba of all of the decent mob stories. So why does
“Magic City” feel underheated?  Created by Mitch Glazer, the series stars Jeffrey Dean
Morgan as Ike Evans, owner of the Miramar Playa Hotel, Miami
Beach’s most glamorous resort.  A cabana boy who married well, Ike struggles to keep his
chunk of paradise on the up and up, both fiscally and ethically
-- no easy task given the devil’s bargain he made years earlier
with mobster Ben “The Butcher” Diamond (Danny Huston).  Ike’s worst fears begin to pan out when his best friend, a
union leader threatening to strike the hotel, goes missing.  Butcher’s Wife  His problems are only beginning. Son Stevie (Steven Strait,
the series’ sexy, bad boy) is having an affair with the
Butcher’s gorgeous young wife. Good son Danny (Christian Cooke)
is a law student under the watchful eye of a mob-busting
 district attorney .  With characters like that, “Magic City” all but writes
itself, and sometimes feels that way. The three episodes
available for review, though solid, offer few surprises. Ike’s
Jewishness (and the era’s anti-Semitism) is by far the freshest
angle on the by-now too familiar gangland doings.  Morgan nicely underplays the desperate Ike, while the often
shirtless Strait is the show’s early breakout. Alex Rocco,
forever Moe Green from  “The Godfather,”  guest stars as Ike’s
elderly, seen-it-all dad, perfect casting for a show that
occasionally comes close to deserving him.  “Magic City” airs Friday on Starz at 10 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Scandal’  ABC (DIS) ’s soapy new political drama “Scandal” stars Kerry
 Washington  as a high-heeled, fast-talking fixer whose clientele
reaches all the way to the White House.  The show itself is beyond fixing. The latest in diminishing
returns from Shonda Rhimes, creator of “Grey’s Anatomy” and
its spin-off “Private Practice,” squanders a perfectly good
guilty-pleasure premise with witless writing and Washington’s
overacting.  Washington plays Olivia Pope, a former White House staffer
heading up a crisis-management team of lawyers. She still has
the run of the Oval Office, though, thanks to a smitten, hunky
two-timing president (Tony Goldwyn). Maybe Rhimes has been
watching “The Good Wife.”  Apparently not closely enough.  “Scandal” airs Thursday on ABC at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: *1/2  ‘God/Elvis’  Dolores Hart gave  Elvis Presley  his first screen kiss in
1957’s “ Loving You ,” and six years later gave up the Hollywood
life (and a fiance) for a Connecticut nunnery.  Now the Mother Prioress of the  Abbey of Regina Laudis  tells
her story in Rebecca Cammisa’s Oscar-nominated  HBO  short film
“God is the Bigger Elvis.”  Using clips from Hart’s films, vintage home movies and new
interviews with Mother Dolores and other nuns taped within the
rarely photographed confines of the abbey, “God is the Bigger
Elvis” ponders the cost of faith in one woman’s life. Most
poignantly, the film includes a visit from the man Hart left
nearly at the altar, and who never really got over her.  In its scant 36 minutes, the film makes a star of Dolores
all over again. She’s as charming and thoughtful as the film,
and suggests why, 52 years later, the fiance still professes his
love.  “God is the Bigger Elvis” airs Thursday on HBO at 8 p.m.
New York time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 