-- Gap, Target Same-Store Sales Gain on Warm March Weather
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-04-05T20:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/gap-target-same-store-sales-gain-on-warm-march-weather.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  reported
March same-store sales that topped analysts’ estimates as
unseasonably warm weather and an earlier Easter holiday boosted
purchases of spring merchandise.  Sales at Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, climbed 8
percent, beating the average projection for a 4.6 percent gain
from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail Metrics Inc. Target,
the second-largest U.S. discount chain, posted a 7.3 percent
increase in same-store sales, topping the 5.7 percent estimate.  Retailers are benefiting from warm weather that boosted
demand for spring products and accelerated Easter shopping as
the holiday moved more than two weeks earlier this year. Last
month was the warmest March for  North America  in more than 50
years, according to  Planalytics , a weather data provider.  “It puts people in the frame of mind to buy the product,”
 Dorothy Lakner , an analyst at Caris & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The other important thing to keep in mind
is just the fashion trends -- the color is really appealing to
people.”  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 3.9 percent,
beating the average estimate for a 3.3 percent gain. Sales have
topped estimates for four straight months.  Gap, based in  San Francisco , fell 0.8 percent to $26.45 at
the close in New York. Minneapolis-based Target fell 0.2 percent
to $57.72. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index gained 0.7
percent, compared with a 0.1 percent decline for the  S&P 500 .  Easter Spending  Easter spending is expected to rise to $145.28 per person
this year, an 11 percent increase from last year, according to a
March 20  report  from the  National Retail Federation . Total
spending will be about $16.8 billion, including $3 billion in
apparel purchases, the Washington-based NRF said.  TJX Cos., operator of T.J. Maxx discount stores, reported
same-store sales that rose 10 percent, topping the 4.8 percent
average estimate. The company also boosted its first-quarter
earnings forecast to as much as 52 cents a share from as much as
47 cents. The shares gained 2.4 percent to $40.29.  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s comparable-store sales rose 7.3 percent last
month, beating estimates for a 4.8 percent increase. The gain
led the owner of Bloomingdale’s and namesake stores to boost its
forecast for March and April same-store sales to an increase of
4.3 percent to 4.5 percent, from 3 percent to 3.5 percent.  ‘Received Enthusiastically’  The sales “exceeded our expectations beyond the benefits
we anticipated from an earlier Easter and a shift in a cosmetics
event from April last year to March this year,” Macy’s Chief
Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said in a statement. “The
early warm weather drew attention to our outstanding assortments
of fresh spring goods, which were received enthusiastically by
customers.”  The Cincinnati-based company’s shares fell 0.1 percent to
$40.87.  Limited Brands Inc., the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of
the Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain, posted an 8 percent
increase in same-store sales, topping the 4.6 percent estimate.  Gap’s March same-store sales gain was the company’s biggest
since April 2011 and follows a 10 percent decrease in March
2011.  Target now projects first-quarter profit of as much as
$1.10 a share, up from a previous forecast of as much as $1.07.
Food sales led the gains, increasing at a mid-teen percentage
rate, CEO  Gregg Steinhafel  said on a conference call today.  Teen Retailers  Teen retailers  Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA)  and  Buckle Inc. (BKE)  missed
analysts’ estimates for same-store sales. Wet Seal, based in
 Foothill Ranch ,  California , reported sales that fell 7.8
percent, steeper than the estimated 5.9 percent drop, as
purchases of tops and jewelry declined. Kearney, Nebraska-based
Buckle said sales rose 6.4 percent, trailing the estimated 7.8
percent gain. [bn:WBTKR=ZUMZ:US]   Zumiez Inc. (ZUMZ)  [], the sports-apparel retailer that also targets
teens, yesterday reported a 14 percent increase in same-store
sales for March, beating estimates for a 10 percent rise. The
company “continues to be one of the least promotional teen
retailers,” and is snapping up market share, especially as
competitor  Pacific Sunwear of California Inc. (PSUN)  shrinks,  Adrienne
Tennant , a Washington-based analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC, said in an e-mailed note today.  Costco Trails Estimates  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, reported sales that rose 6 percent, missing analysts’
estimates of 6.5 percent. The Issaquah, Washington-based company
cited a decline in its electronics business and impact from
foreign currency exchange rates in a conference call today.  Excluding  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , which posted a 6.8 percent decline
in comparable sales, same-store sales for the chains tracked by
Retail Metrics rose 6.5 percent for March.  “We’re not expecting the same kind of numbers in the month
of April, but certainly February and March are two very good
months,” Lakner said. “You do have to consider March and April
together.”  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  