-- Geothermal Projects Less Vulnerable to Subsidy Cuts
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-04-05T16:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/geothermal-projects-less-vulnerable-to-subsidy-cuts.html
Geothermal energy projects are less
vulnerable than wind farms to the pending loss of federal
subsidies because they take longer to complete, according to the
executive director of the  Geothermal Energy Association .  About 100 megawatts of geothermal capacity will be added
this year, and “steady growth” probably will continue because
the industry is less volatile than wind, Karl Gawell, GEA
executive director, said today in an interview.  A tax credit for wind farms will expire at the end of this
year, and development of new wind farms may grind to a halt. A
similar credit for geothermal projects will expire at the end of
2013, and Gawell doesn’t expect his industry to be affected in
the same way.  “There’s some hysteria of, ‘Oh, if this changes, it means
the industry won’t grow,’ but it’ll still grow,” Gawell said.
“We’re still going to need renewable technologies. They’ll be
growing here and around the world.”  The U.S. added about 91 megawatts of geothermal capacity in
2011 for a cumulative total of 3,187 megawatts, the most in  the
world, according to the GEA. Projects typically take four to
eight years to complete, compared with one year for many wind
farms, Gawell said.  Geothermal energy projects qualify for a tax  credit  of 2.2
cents for each kilowatt-hour of electricity produced.  Wind farms are eligible for the same credit, and turbine
makers and developers are seeking an extension. The uncertainty
surrounding potential subsidy extensions for renewables is
discouraging investment in projects, Gawell said.  Wind Industry Risk  If the wind credit expires on schedule, installations of
turbines in the U.S. may fall as much as 95 percent to 500
megawatts in 2013 from this year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest turbine maker,
said in January it may close U.S. factories that employ 1,600
people if the credit expires.  The $637 million spent last year on U.S. geothermal
projects amounted to 1.4 percent of all renewable-energy
investments, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The $3
billion invested worldwide in geothermal plants equaled 1.1
percent.  Much of the growth is coming outside the U.S. Geothermal
capacity in  Japan  could grow to 2 gigawatts in the 2020s,
according to New Energy Finance.  “Globally, we will see a continued shift toward  Asia ,”
said Stefan Linder, an analyst with London-based New Energy
Finance. “We expect over 50 percent of geothermal investment in
that region, thanks to the number of late-stage projects, high-
grade resources and increasing policy support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  