-- German Stocks Extend Weekly Retreat; Commerzbank Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-05T16:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/german-stocks-rebound-from-biggest-drop-in-four-weeks.html
German stocks  slid, extending a
third week of declines for the  DAX (DAX)  Index, as industrial output
fell more than forecast and Spanish and Italian bonds retreated
amid renewed concerns about the euro area’s debt crisis.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, dropped
1.9 percent. Merck KGaA lost 1.8 percent after Exane BNP Paribas
downgraded the drugmaker.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and Salzgitter
AG advanced as analysts recommended the shares.  The DAX lost 0.1 percent to 6,775.26 at the close in
 Frankfurt , extending this week’s fall to 2.5 percent. The gauge
sank 2.8 percent yesterday as the U.S. Federal Reserve damped
expectations for further stimulus and German factory orders
trailed forecasts. The broader HDAX Index was unchanged today.  “A further widening in periphery yield spreads has added
to the risk-off tone,” said Ioan Smith, a director at Knight
Capital  Europe  Ltd. in London. “Macro data in Europe has been
soft but concerns over  Spain  especially have weighed heavily.”  Spanish and Italian bonds led losses among Europe’s higher-
yielding government securities amid concern authorities will
struggle to stop the region’s debt crisis from spreading.  Spain’s 10-year bonds dropped for a third day, sending the
yield up six basis points to 5.75 percent, after demand fell at
a debt sale yesterday and an International Monetary Fund
spokesman said the nation is facing “severe” challenges.  Italy’s 10-year yield rose seven basis points to 5.44
percent, with the spread over bunds widening 12 basis points to
370 basis points. French 10-year bonds also declined as
borrowing costs increased when the nation sold 8.44 billion
euros of debt.  Output Declines  In  Germany , industrial output dropped 1.3 percent from
January, when it rose a revised 1.2 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. The median economist forecast was
for a drop of 0.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Commerzbank slid 1.9 percent to 1.75 euros. Allianz SE,
Europe’s biggest insurer, declined 0.5 percent to 86.68 euros.  Merck dropped 1.8 percent to 83.40 euros after Exane BNP
Paribas lowered its recommendation for the drugmaker to neutral
from outperform.  Lufthansa gained 1.1 percent to 10.19 euros, paring some of
yesterday’s 4.6 percent drop. Morgan Stanley resumed coverage of
the German airline with an overweight recommendation, meaning
investors should hold more of the shares than are represented in
benchmark indexes.  The analysts set a price estimate of 14.25 euros, 42
percent above yesterday’s closing price.  Salzgitter rose 3 percent to 40.56 euros, pacing a rebound
in European basic resource companies. DZ Bank AG upgraded the
German steelmaker to buy from hold.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS3)  preferred shares rose 4.1 percent to 87.97
euros after the German luxury-clothing maker was rated
overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in new coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  