-- German Industrial Output Declined More Than Forecast in February
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/german-industrial-output-declined-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
German  industrial output  fell more
than economists forecast in February as cold weather kept
workers off construction sites.  Production (GRIPIMOM)  decreased 1.3 percent from January, when it rose
a revised 1.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said
today. Economists forecast a drop of 0.5 percent after a
previously reported gain of 1.6 percent in January, the median
of 37 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. In the year,
production fell 1 percent when adjusted for working days.  “It was a freezing February, so a drop is a one-off
effect,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group
in Munich. “Overall, the German economy is in good shape and we
expect a gradual strengthening for the rest of the year.”  Europe ’s largest economy may avoid a recession as
unemployment at a two-decade low encourages consumer demand and
a strengthening U.S. economy bolsters export orders. Business
and investor sentiment rose last month after  Greece  received a
second bailout and the European Central Bank pumped more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system to
counter the region’s fiscal crisis.  Construction output slumped 17.1 percent in February from
the previous month, when it rose 4.7 percent, today’s report
showed. Production of investment goods such as machines rose 0.3
percent, while energy output advanced 1.6 percent.  ‘Bitterly Cold’  The first half of February was “bitterly cold,” pushing
down the average temperature for the full month to minus 2.6
degrees centigrade, according to the German weather service. The
ministry said the “unusual cold spell” was the main reason for
the slump in construction output in February.  In the U.K., manufacturing output unexpectedly declined for
a second month. Factory production fell 1 percent from January,
the most since April, the  Office for National Statistics  in
 London  said today.  German companies have relied on faster-growing markets to
bolster their sales as European governments from  Spain  to France
cut spending. While the 17-member euro economy will contract 0.3
percent this year, German gross domestic product may increase
0.6 percent, according to the European Commission.  Adding to signs of stabilization after an economic
contraction of 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, German  factory
orders  increased in February and business confidence rose to an
eight-month high in March.  Euro-Region Recovery  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, an improving
labor market has helped underpin demand and bolster consumer
sentiment. Private employment climbed 209,000 in March after a
February increase of 230,000, which was more than initially
estimated. A Labor Department report on April 6 is projected to
show private employment, which excludes government jobs, climbed
by 215,000 in March.  The  European Central Bank  yesterday kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent, matching a record low, with
President  Mario Draghi  forecasting the euro-region economy will
show a “moderate recovery” this year.  “Survey data confirm a stabilization in economic activity
at a low level in early 2012,” he said at a briefing in
 Frankfurt . “We continue to expect the euro-area economy to
recovery gradually in the course of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  