-- Gingrich-Founded Health-Care Think Tank Files Bankruptcy
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-04-05T21:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/gingrich-founded-health-care-think-tank-files-bankruptcy.html
Gingrich Group LLC, a health-care
“think tank” founded by U.S. Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich , sought  bankruptcy protection  from creditors
without citing a reason.  Gingrich Group, which operates the Center for Health
Transformation, yesterday listed debt of as much as $10 million
and assets of less than $100,000 in Chapter 7 documents filed in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Atlanta, where it is based. Chapter 7
of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  is used to liquidate assets by
companies that don’t intend to continue operating.  Gingrich, 68, a former House speaker and Georgia state
representative, founded the center in 2003 as a project of the
Gingrich Group, according to its  website . Members paid as much
as $200,000 a year, according to company documents.  The center’s membership “really declined” after Gingrich
ended his involvement in May to run for president, said  Stefan
Passantino , a lawyer for Gingrich’s campaign who formerly
represented the center. He described Gingrich’s thought process
on health reform as “the secret sauce” that drew members.  “It’s Newt’s brain that people wanted,” Passantino said.  The Gingrich Group and Center for Health Transformation
grossed $55 million between 2001 and 2010, Gingrich’s campaign
said in November. His American Solutions for Winning the Future
took in another $50 million in contributions, according to the
Washington-based Center for Public Integrity, which tracks
political expenditures. American Solutions shut down in July as
Gingrich prepared for his presidential bid.  The Atlanta Business Chronicle reported the Gingrich
Group’s filing earlier today.  Gingrich Owed  Gingrich is owed between $5 million and $25 million on a
convertible promissory note from Gingrich Group to another of
his many companies, Gingrich Productions Inc., according to
financial disclosure  report  on the opensecrets.org website.  It is unclear if any of the note has been paid or whether
any will be paid once assets are sold and proceeds are
distributed to as many as 99 creditors.  The center gained attention during the debate leading to
passage of the 2010 health-care law, when it issued dozens of
press releases in opposition.  In a March 5, 2010, release, Gingrich praised a congressman
for staying in office “to help defeat a proposal that would
ruin the American health care system and increase the national
debt.”  ‘Strategic Advice’  Gingrich has said he provided “strategic advice” to his
health center clients and held brainstorming sessions with them
on health reforms.  The Center for Health Transformation hasn’t disclosed a
complete member list. Companies including drugmaker Johnson &
Johnson, health insurer Blue Cross & Blue Shield Association,
U.K. drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc and  Wellpoint Inc. (WLP) , the nation’s
largest insurer by revenue, have identified themselves as
Gingrich clients. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
of America, the industry trade group known as PhRMA, also had a
contract with the center.  A book released by the center in May 2003 called “Saving
Lives and Saving Money” describes a “vision of a 21st century
system of health and health care.”  The center boasted of its role in helping to pass the 2003
expansion of Medicare to include  prescription drugs , in an
electronic newsletter which is no longer available.  Worked With Bush  Gingrich testified before Congress and “worked with the
 Bush administration ,” the newsletter said. Gingrich and several
center clients attended the bill-signing ceremony that December.  Gingrich didn’t register as a lobbyist and said he didn’t
lobby, a denial opponents including  Mitt Romney  and  Rick Perry 
said they found unbelievable.  Susan Meyers , a spokeswoman for the center, referred
questions to bankruptcy attorney George M. Geeslin, who declined
to comment. R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s spokesman, wasn’t
immediately able to respond to a call and e-mail for comment on
the bankruptcy.  Gingrich has vowed to continue campaigning for the
Republican presidential nomination after losing recent primary
elections. His campaign reported more than $1.5 million in debts
at the end of February, according to the most recent Federal
Election Commission filings available.  The bankruptcy case is In re Gingrich Group LLC, 12-59065,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington 
at   jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 