-- GM China Sales Climb in March on Demand for Excelle Model
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-05T09:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/gm-china-sales-climb-in-march-on-demand-for-excelle-model.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  sales in China,
where it is the largest foreign automaker, rose 11 percent from
a year earlier to a record for March led by demand for vehicles
including the Buick Excelle and Chevrolet New Sail.  Deliveries of cars and Wuling minivans increased to 257,944
units last month, the company said on its  website  today. Unit
sales for the three months ending March jumped 8.7 percent to
745,152 units, a record, according to the statement.  GM is counting on growth in China to maintain its lead over
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  as the world’s biggest
automaker. The Detroit-based carmaker attracted buyers with the
Malibu mid-sized sedan rolled out in February, while first-time
purchasers bought cars even though the economy slowed, said  John
Zeng , LMC Automotive’s Shanghai-based director of Asian
forecasting.  “Our new models such as the Chevrolet Malibu have gotten
off to a solid start, complementing the ongoing strength of
established products such as the Buick Excelle, Chevrolet Cruze
and Cadillac SRX,”  Kevin Wale , president and managing director
of the GM China Group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Sales of the Malibu totaled 4,289 units in its first full
month on the market, according to the statement.  Shanghai GM  Shanghai General Motors, which makes Buick and Chevrolet
vehicles in China, boosted sales by 11 percent to 110,038 units
in March. SAIC-GM-Wuling Automotive Co., the venture that makes
mini commercial vehicles used to transport goods and people,
boosted deliveries by 12 percent to 139,768, according to the
statement.  The two SAIC joint ventures are the Detroit-based
automaker’s two largest partnerships in  China . GM also has a
joint venture with FAW Group that makes commercial vehicles,
which had sales of 7,417 units during the month.  “When the economy slows, people tend to delay replacing
their cars,” LMC Automotive’s Zeng said. “But 82 percent of
the car buyers in China are first-time buyers, and are still
eager to buy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  