-- Great Wolf Rises to Highest Since 2008 After KSL Bid Tops Apollo
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-05T15:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/great-wolf-gets-offer-from-ksl-topping-apollo-s-bid.html
Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF) , which runs
11 resorts in the U.S. and  Canada , rose to its highest level
since June 2008 after receiving a higher buyout offer than one
proposed by  Apollo Global Management LLC. (APO)   KSL Capital Partners LLC offered to buy the company for
$6.25 per share in cash, Madison, Wisconsin-based Great Wolf
said in a statement yesterday after U.S. markets closed. Apollo,
based in New York, offered $5 a share on March 13 in a deal
valued at $703 million, including the assumption of debt.  Great Wolf said it will consider and evaluate the proposal
by KSL, a private-equity firm based in Denver, and had no other
comments. Great Wolf rose as much as 14 percent in intraday
trading today, the most since the day of Apollo’s bid. It  gained 
13 percent to $6.42 as of 10:40 a.m. in  New York .  Following Apollo’s bid, Great Wolf was sued by shareholders
who said the resort owner didn’t obtain the highest possible
offer. The lawsuits claimed the company’s own financial adviser,
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., valued it between $3.74 and $7.98
a share.  In its deal with Apollo, run by Chief Executive Officer
 Leon Black , Great Wolf was required to adopt a shareholders’
rights plan to thwart hostile acquirers and agreed not to
solicit other interested parties. It will also pay the buyout
firm $5.3 million, and as much as $1.7 million in Apollo’s
expenses, if the company accepts a superior offer.  The company owns, manages and licenses family resorts
featuring indoor water parks, suite-style rooms, restaurants,
spas and arcades. The company started its first Great Wolf Lodge
in  Wisconsin  Dells, Wisconsin, in 1997, and the chain has
expanded into eight other U.S. states and Canada.  The company had more than $143 million in cumulative
federal tax losses as of Dec. 31, which equate to $1.62 a share
of potential future tax benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  