-- Greece Urged to Sell ‘Virtual’ Solar Power to Help EU Meet Goals
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-05T13:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/greece-urged-to-sell-virtual-solar-power-to-help-eu-meet-goals.html
Greece , planning a 20 billion-euro
($26 billion) solar venture, would do well to sell the power
“virtually” to help other European countries offset more-
polluting generation, according to an adviser to the project.  Greece could strike energy-purchase deals whereby nations
buy output from the Helios venture without actually taking
delivery of the power, said Alex Papalexopoulos, chief executive
officer of energy consultants  Ecco International Inc . The
transaction, essentially an investment in renewable energy
abroad, can help buyers meet clean-power goals at home, he said.  “It’s a very imaginative way of allowing renewable energy
from countries which have plenty to meet the requirements of
other countries where renewable energy is expensive,”
Papalexopoulos said by telephone. The Helios development, a
“national priority” for Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , may
comprise as many as 10,000 megawatts of solar panels by 2050.  Greece, in its fifth year of a recession, plans to use
revenue from Helios to help repay debts that reached 165 percent
of gross domestic product last year, according to European
Commission estimates. By selling power virtually, an arrangement
permitted by European Union  law , the country avoids having to
make “serious” grid investments, according to Papalexopoulos.  “With this approach, there is no problem in terms of
having adequate infrastructure of the grid, because nothing is
moved to another country,” he said. Nations such as  Italy ,
struggling to meet binding clean-power targets, could benefit
from the arrangement, according to the adviser.  EU Targets  The EU has set individual goals for  member states  to get a
portion of their energy from renewable sources as the 27-nation
bloc works toward an overall 20 percent target by 2020. Italy is
one of only two EU nations planning to resort to “cooperation
mechanisms” to achieve their 2020 renewables target, the other
being Luxembourg,  European Renewable Energy Council  data show.  “The energy sector gives Greece an opportunity to become a
hub for the European Union,” Premier Papademos said April 3.
While boosting revenues for Greece, Helios will also help the EU
to meet clean-energy targets, he said, without commenting on the
potential for virtual power sales.  While avoiding the immediate burden of grid upgrades, the
power-purchase arrangement would allow Greece to amass funds to
improve the network and increase physical power exports at a
later date.  Germany , the EU’s largest power market, is one
country facing a potential supply gap as it phases out nuclear
energy after  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster.  German Deficit  Germany needs “serious plans for covering the gap that the
retirement of nuclear plants will create,” Papalexopoulos said.
The country, which itself has about 25,000 megawatts of
installed solar capacity, can’t offer investors the same returns
as Greece because of the climate, he said.  “Greece has so much sun; the solar potential is higher
than any other country in  Europe .”  Europe’s transmission network requires about 104 billion
euros to upgrade or build about 51,500 kilometers (32,000 miles)
of extra high-voltage  power lines  to secure supply and integrate
renewables, according to the European Network of Transmission
System Operators for Electricity. The association identified 100
grid bottlenecks, with 80 related to integrating renewables.  “We view Helios as a European project and not necessarily
a Greek project, which could be a pilot for harmonizing the
European electricity markets,” Papalexopoulos said.  Ecco, based in  San Francisco ,  was appointed  alongside the
National Bank of Greece SA and Guggenheim Partners LLC to
provide financial and technical services to Helios.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  