-- Highland Sues Citigroup to Stay on as CLO Manager
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-04-06T19:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/highland-capital-sues-citigroup-babson-capital-over-clo-1-.html
Highland Capital Management LP, the
firm founded by James Dondero and Mark Okada, sued  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Babson Capital Management LLC and  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  to stop its removal as portfolio manager of a
collateralized loan obligation.  Citigroup, the underwriter of the Liberty CLO put in place
in 2005, approached the Dallas-based firm about liquidating the
fund, Highland said in a state court filing yesterday in Dallas
County,  Texas . After the firm refused, Citigroup sought to
remove Highland as portfolio manager and replace it with Babson,
the manager said in the complaint.  “Citi is demanding that we violate the terms of the
Liberty CLO portfolio management agreement,” Stefan Prelog, a
spokesman for Highland, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“Given Citi’s clear disregard for the agreement and harm caused
to Liberty’s other investors and Citi’s own clients, our only
option is to take legal action.”  Highland, which has about $20 billion in assets, was
started in 1993 by Dondero and Okada. It recently completed the
sale of the management contracts on 2.1 billion euros ($2.7
billion) of European CLOs to  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)   Citigroup believes the claims are without merit, Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said
in an e-mail. Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit. Bank of New York Mellon is the fund’s
trustee. A Babson spokesman couldn’t be reached for comment
yesterday.  Divorce Proceeding  Dondero testified last month in a divorce proceeding that
he’s insolvent under Texas family law.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  The firm also sued Citibank yesterday in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan , accusing the company of unjust
enrichment and making other claims involving loans the bank made
in 2007 and 2008 to the Highland CDO Opportunity Master Fund LP,
a hedge fund that primarily invested in equity and mezzanine
tranches of collateralized loan obligations.  Highland’s New York suit accuses Citibank of “improperly
marking down” the assets that comprised collateral for the
loans, mostly interests in CLOs and CDOs, and then calculating
margin calls based on those valuations, according to the
complaint.  Margin Calls  The fund was forced to pay millions of dollars in margin
calls that it didn’t owe, and Citibank seized the collateral
when Highland was no longer able to meet the calls, Highland
said in court documents.  Citibank marked assets notionally valued at about $429
million at $20 million, and then seized the collateral and $18.6
million in cash posted by the fund, saying there was
insufficient margin against a $59 million facility, according to
Highland’s New York suit.  The collateral regained value after markets stabilized
following the 2008 financial crisis, and Citibank reaped an
“undeserved windfall” of at least $200 million, Highland said
in the complaint.  “Recognizing the opportunity to raid their financing
counterparties during a flailing, unstable market, Citi
initiated a course of action designed to generate quick cash
and/or seize assets at rock bottom prices and create a windfall
for itself upon the inevitable market correction,” Highland’s
complaint said.  Citibank believes the claims in the New York suit are also
without merit, Romero-Apsilos said.  The cases are Highland Capital Management LP v. Citigroup
Global Markets Inc., District Court, Dallas County, Texas; and
Highland CDO Opportunity Master Fund LP v.  Citibank NA ,
651127/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net  