-- Military Tribunal Is Fitting for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-05T18:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/military-tribunal-is-fitting-for-khalid-sheikh-mohammed.html
The Barack Obama administration’s
decision to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-proclaimed
mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, and four other al-Qaeda
members in a military tribunal has left plenty of Americans
unhappy.  Civil-liberties advocates say the commissions lack
legitimacy. Many  New Yorkers  feel cheated of a chance to
dispense justice for a devastating assault on their community.  Still, the White House made the right call. A criminal case
in  Manhattan  would have necessitated Congress ending its
effective ban on moving prisoners from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
into the U.S., which is highly unlikely. It would also have been
enormously expensive and a security nightmare. A military
tribunal is far preferable to no trial at all.  More generally, critics of the tribunals tend to ignore the
many significant improvements to the system made since 2006,
when the Supreme Court found that the commissions created by
President  George W. Bush  were in violation of both the Geneva
Conventions and the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Among
other changes, commissions now exclude any confessions obtained
through torture, degrading treatment or other coercion; they use
virtually the same rules for dealing with classified evidence as
a civilian court; they now allow detainees more freedom to
choose their own attorneys; defendants have the right to appeal
all the way to the  Supreme Court . Surprisingly, many experts
think that the sentences meted out in seven convictions reached
so far have been lighter than what the defendants might have
 expected in federal court .  Yes, commissions differ from criminal trials in some
significant ways: hearsay evidence is allowed (although rules
allowing it have been made far stricter) and there is no jury.
But, all in all, Attorney General Eric Holder was correct in
 saying  that “the reformed Commissions draw from the same
fundamental protections of a fair trial that underlie our
civilian courts.”  Indeed, Mohammed’s repeated admissions that he planned the
attacks will probably be excluded as evidence, because he was
repeatedly waterboarded. Rather, the prosecution is expected to
make use of testimony from Majid Khan, an al-Qaeda operative who
attended a Maryland high school and reached a plea agreement
with military prosecutors in February. The Khan deal was one in
a series of triumphs for Guantanamo’s chief prosecutor,
Brigadier General Mark Martins, who has also wisely created
venues for victims and journalists to watch the proceedings on
closed-circuit TV and put transcripts online.  The system could use more refining. We would like to see
the White House elucidate the criteria it uses in deciding
whether suspects will be sent to tribunals or civilian trials or
are to be held indefinitely. We also want the prison at
Guantanamo shut down, which means Congress has to give up its
collective not-in-my-backyard mindset and find a domestic
location for internment. Shuttering Gitmo would help convince
skeptics that the U.S. is committed to the rule of law in its
struggle against global terrorism. So, too, will a fair and open
military trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 