-- Illinois Republican Representative Tim Johnson to Retire
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-04-05T22:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/illinois-republican-representative-tim-johnson-to-retire.html
U.S. Representative Tim Johnson, an
 Illinois  Republican, announced he won’t seek re-election,
raising the possibility of a closer contest with Democrats over
a seat that has been safe for his party.  Johnson would have faced Democrat David Gill, an emergency-
room doctor he defeated in previous election battles, in a newly
drawn district that contained only parts of his old turf.
Johnson won his primary election March 20 with 69 percent of the
vote.  In a statement issued today by his press office, Johnson
called the district a “new and grossly gerrymandered
congressional map” that “created a district where two-thirds
of the voters had never been represented by me.”  Even so, Johnson said his decision was primarily driven by
family obligations. “I’m almost 66 years old; my time is
limited,” said Johnson, who said he intends to return to legal
practice. “I have been serving in office for 44 consecutive
years.”  First elected to Congress in 2000, Johnson was one of 91
Republicans who voted against an extension of a payroll-tax cut
in February. He was among 38 House members, including 16
Republicans, who on March 28 backed a budget proposal based on
the Simpson-Bowles commission leaders’ proposal. He also voted
for the budget passed by the House the following day.  Democratic legislators substantially revised his district,
currently based in eastern Illinois, to span almost the entire
width of the state. The reconfigured district takes in Decatur
and part of Springfield, the state capital.  According to the nonpartisan Cook Political Report’s  David Wasserman , residents of the new district voted 55 percent for
President  Barack Obama . Wasserman said the race will still be
tough for Democrats and that it remains favorable for
Republicans.  “It’s still Republicans who have more reason to be
optimistic about holding the seat,” he said in an online post
that added he is keeping the seat in the “lean Republican”
column.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  