-- Inrix Says $1 Billion Valuation Possible as IPO Is Considered
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-05T17:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/inrix-says-1-billion-valuation-possible-as-ipo-is-considered.html
Inrix Inc. , a traffic-information
provider backed by venture investors, is moving toward an
initial public offering that may value the enterprise at more
than $1 billion, Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Mistele  said.  The company, based in Kirkland,  Washington , might seek to
raise $75 million to $100 million by offering 10 percent to 15
percent of Inrix shares through underwriters, Mistele said in an
interview. Inrix is talking with banks, looking for a
transaction “in the short term,” he said.  “We’ve had numerous Fortune 500 companies approach us
about an acquisition,” Mistele said yesterday, while declining
to name any. “Our path is an IPO. Our company is certainly big
enough in terms of scale.”  While Inrix won’t disclose its revenue, the figure has
grown 75 percent annually for the last three years, Mistele
said. The company is the biggest in its field, is profitable and
has 300 employees in five countries, he said. Inrix faces
competitors such as Amsterdam-based  TomTom NV (TOM2)  in the market for
traffic data, directions and driver services.  Globally, the number of navigation systems receiving
traffic data may grow to 37.6 million in 2018 from 8.5 million
in 2010, according to  John Canali , a Newton, Massachusetts-based
senior analyst for Strategy Analytics Inc., a research company.  “This information can save us gas and aggravation of
sitting in traffic,” Canali said in an interview yesterday.  Venture Investors  Inrix’s investors include  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers (ZZISK) ,
Bain Capital LLC’s venture arm, Venrock Associates and August
Capital. Inrix  raised  $37 million last July to finance growth.
Mistele declined to name the potential underwriters for an IPO.  The company’s traffic information is viewed by more than
150 million people daily, according to Mistele. Inrix would use
the IPO proceeds to push expansion to  China , Brazil and Russia,
he said. The company, founded in 2005, also seeks to invest in
building analytics applications, such as software to help cities
pinpoint traffic bottlenecks.  Mistele said Inrix collects data, such as current driving
speed, from some 100 million cars worldwide, to help drivers map
faster routes via mobile phone applications and in-car
navigation systems.  Eight of the top 10 mobile traffic apps, including those
from  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  and  AT&T Inc., (T)  use Inrix’s data, Mistele said.
The company is working with a dozen carmakers, including  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and Toyota Motor Corp., to make its services available
in Internet-connected cars, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  