-- Insurers Probed by New York Over Force-Placed Coverage
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-05T22:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/insurers-probed-by-new-york-over-force-placed-coverage.html
New York ’s insurance regulator is
investigating whether force-placed insurance rates charged by
companies are excessive and is seeking information from  Assurant
Inc. (AIZ)  and other insurers.  The state Department of Financial Services, saying it is
seeking a basis for “consistently high profits” at the expense
of homeowners and investors, is requiring information from a
group of insurers, including Assurant units, QBE Insurance Corp.
and Balboa Insurance Co., it said today in a statement.  “We have asked insurers to provide a complete breakdown of
how much they collect and where every penny goes so we can
determine if the premiums are appropriate and the basis for
these payments,”  Benjamin Lawsky , the department head, said in
the statement.  Force-placed insurance is taken out on homes by banks or
mortgage servicers when, for example, a homeowner’s policy
lapses or the bank decides the borrower doesn’t have enough
coverage.  The insurance regulator, which began the investigation in
October, said there are “serious concerns” that premiums for
the insurance have been “artificially inflated.” The inquiry
is also looking into relationships among the insurers, banks,
mortgage servicers and insurance agents and brokers.  Robert Byrd , an Assurant spokesman, said the New York-based
company is “committed to cooperating” with the Department of
Financial Services. Paula Symons, a spokeswoman for QBE,
declined to comment. A Balboa representative couldn’t be reached
for comment.  The department’s information demands to the companies were
earlier reported by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  