-- Iran Officials Reject Istanbul as Talks Venue Over Syria
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-05T14:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/iran-officials-reject-istanbul-as-talks-venue-amid-syria-discord.html
Iranian officials say  Turkey  isn’t a
suitable location for nuclear talks expected in mid-April as the
neighbors clash over unrest in Syria,  Iran ’s ally.  “Given Turkey’s unprincipled policies, it isn’t beneficial
for the upcoming negotiations between Iran and the 5+1 countries
to be held in Istanbul,” said Alaeddin Boroujerdi, head of
parliament’s national security and foreign policy committee.
“Iranian lawmakers have many times said that negotiations need
to take place in another spot and in a country that is a friend
of Iran,” he told the Tehran-based  Etemaad  newspaper in a
report published today.  Boroujerdi’s remarks come after U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said on March 31 that negotiations between Iran
and the five permanent members of the  United Nations Security
Council  plus  Germany  will be held on April 13-14 in Istanbul.  The talks would be the first since a January 2011 meeting
between Iran and the so-called 5+1 group, which broke down
without agreements or commitments for further rounds. Since
then, Iran has come under increasing pressure with the piling up
of trade, financial and energy sanctions from the U.S. and the
European Union to force the Persian Gulf country to abandon its
uranium enrichment activity.  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
says its atomic program is aimed at securing electricity for its
growing population while the U.S. and its allies accuse the
Iranian government of seeking to build nuclear weapons.  Israel has threatened military strikes against Iran’s
nuclear facilities to forestall that development and U.S.
officials have refused to rule out the use of force against it.  Possible Venues  Yesterday, Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi 
suggested China and  Iraq  as potential venues. Salehi told his
Turkish counterpart that only the foreign minister, president
and supreme leader can speak for Iran and remarks by other
officials don’t necessarily represent the Islamic republic’s
position, Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said.  Speaking earlier this week, Mohsen Rezai, the secretary of
Iran’s Expediency Council, named Baghdad, Damascus or  Beirut  as
more suitable locations than Istanbul, citing Turkish officials’
failure to “stand by certain agreements.”  “Iran should not give a wrong indication to the 5+1 group
and they shouldn’t feel that Iran is in a weak spot,” Rezai
said in a report published April 2 on the Tehran-based  Tabnak 
website.  ‘Getting Results’  Davutoglu told reporters in Ankara yesterday that “the
important thing isn’t where the meeting is held, it’s getting
results.”  “If asked to play a role in the negotiations, Turkey will
do everything in its power, and if we’re asked to host the
summit, we will gladly do so,” he said.  Turkey has called on Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad to step
down and supports efforts by the Syrian National Council, the
leading opposition alliance, to establish a democracy. Turkey,
whose longest border is with  Syria , and Iran, which supports the
Assad regime, have said they’re working to mend differences on
how to resolve the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  