-- Iraq Veteran Delivers Pizza During Two-Year Job Search
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-05T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/iraq-veteran-delivers-pizza-during-two-year-job-search.html
U.S. Army Private Brandon Click was
driving a 68-ton Abrams tank in  Iraq  on March 25, 2008, when a
roadside bomb melted his eyelashes and peppered the left side of
his body with shrapnel.  Now back home in the  Cincinnati (BEESOH)  suburbs, the 26-year-old
Army veteran says he’s been delivering Papa John’s pizza at
night in his 2002 Pontiac Sunfire for a little more than $31,000
a year to help support his infant son while he searches for a
job.  “It gets the bills paid, but barely,” said Click, who
crossed the  Ohio River  to  Kentucky  last week for a job fair
intended to help returning Iraq and  Afghanistan  veterans.  As tens of thousands of young veterans come home from the
wars, many are struggling to find work with civilian employers
who don’t recognize their skills, haven’t shared their
experiences and aren’t sure what to make of them. The result is
that unemployment for veterans, particularly those ages 18 to
24, has been rising even as the  national jobless rate  declines.  “Unemployment is our No. 1 issue,” said Paul Rieckhoff,
founder and executive director of  Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans 
of America, a New York-based advocacy group, in an interview.
“Unemployment is not down, it’s up. And it’s a serious
problem.”  While the military offers all departing service members
transition assistance to help them prepare for civilian jobs,
the unemployment rate for veterans who’ve served since the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks was 12.1 percent last year, up from
11.5 percent in 2010, according to a report by the  U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics . Among non-veterans, 8.7 percent were
jobless last year, down from 9.4 percent in 2010.  May Get Worse  The gap may widen as the  U.S. economy  recovers. Tens of
thousands more troops will be coming home over the next two
years from Afghanistan, where the U.S. plans to withdraw most
combat forces by the end of 2014. At the same time, the Pentagon
intends to reduce the U.S. military by 123,900 troops, or 5.5
percent, by fiscal 2017 to meet budget-cutting goals.  The unemployment burden tends to fall harder on enlisted
veterans, especially those who lack technological skills. Most
military officers have college degrees and are better equipped
to make the transition to civilian careers. Younger veterans who
left high school, with or without diplomas, to bear the brunt of
combat in infantry or armor units often return to the civilian
workforce with no readily marketable skills, according to
veterans advocates such as Rieckhoff, who also served as an Army
lieutenant in Iraq.  Click, who was honorably discharged according to the Army,
spent the past two years delivering pizza as he hunted in vain
for more rewarding work to help support the baby he fathered
with a girlfriend.  ‘Can’t Find Nothing’  “I’ve looked at other things,” Click said as he waited to
talk to recruiters at the job fair in Fort Mitchell, Kentucky.
“I can’t find nothing. I don’t even know what a resume looks
like. I don’t know what’s supposed to be on it.”  The job fair paid off anyway for Click, who said he’s
taking a job starting April 16 working in a call center for a
unit of Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , which pledged to double
its hiring of veterans this year from more than 200 in 2011.  Emily King, a Herndon, Virginia-based consultant who
specializes in recruiting and training veterans for civilian
jobs, said many other veterans aren’t as fortunate.  “These people are out in the market without a clue,” King
said. “They either never get an interview, or they get an
interview and they don’t know how to tell the story of their
experience.”  ‘I Can’t Hear’  Josh Conner, a 28-year-old Army veteran who left the
military in February, showed up with his pregnant wife at the
Kentucky job fair saying his goal was to find work before his
son arrives in May.  The din in the convention hall was a challenge for Conner,
who lost much of his hearing from bomb blasts, firefights and
mortar rounds in Iraq.  “Most of the time I can’t hear what they’re saying,”
Conner said.  The former Army corporal, who fired mortars and provided
security on two tours in Iraq, now wears hearing aids. He said
he’s filled out about 20 job applications online, with no
interviews to show for it.  “It’s a lot tougher than I thought it would be,” Conner
said of his job search. “People are scared to take chances,”
he said of employers.  JPMorgan Chase, IBM  Companies across the U.S. say they are heeding the
government’s call to step up hiring of veterans.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Delta Air Lines Inc.,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and International Business Machines Corp.
are among more than 30 companies that pledged last year to hire
at least 100,000 veterans collectively by 2020.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has held 102 job fairs over
the past year in 45 states and the  District of Columbia , helping
more than 8,400 veterans and spouses land jobs, according to
spokesman Bryan Goettel.  King, the veterans consultant, said she has yet to see the
payoff.  “It’s the cause celebre for companies right now to say
they’re hiring veterans,” King said in an interview. “What the
veterans say to me is, ‘We’re not getting jobs.’”  Women leaving the military face added difficulties, from
gender bias to child-care responsibilities and spouses who are
still in the service and can’t relocate, according to Kimberly
Olson, a retired Air Force colonel who runs a support group for
female veterans in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , called Grace After Fire.  More Jobless Women  Of about 945,000 jobless veterans last year, 101,000 were
women, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Among
veterans who have served since 2001, annualized unemployment
rates have been higher for women by as much as 1.8 percentage
points since the 2008 recession.  In a January online survey by the Iraq and Afghanistan
Veterans of America, 21 percent of female veterans from those
wars said they were jobless, compared with 16 percent of men.  “They don’t look like vets,” Olson said. “A lot of them
are young. A lot of them are mothers. A lot of them are married
to military men. A woman veteran comes back and tries to fit in,
being a mom, the spouse. She’s got to get her family back
together after 12 months of deployment.”  Jessica McBride, a divorced Army veteran who as a private
first class dodged mortar attacks in Iraq and survived
unscathed, can’t get a job, lacks a home of her own, and said
she fears she won’t be able to support her eight-year-old son.  Hard Emotionally  “It’s hard on me emotionally,” said McBride, 27, who
lives with her stepmother in a double-wide trailer outside
Ennis, Texas, on a service road off Interstate 45, about 40
miles (64 kilometers) south of  Dallas . “As a mom, I feel like I
should be able to provide for my child without parental help.”  Since she left the Army in 2010, McBride said she’s applied
for 30 to 40 jobs, trying to get a position as a receptionist,
in fast food or at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  She hasn’t landed even a
job interview, and McBride said she’s had trouble explaining how
her military record is a plus for civilian employers.  “I have all this training but no way to put it into an
application,” McBride said.  A survey conducted in January by the Society for Human
Resource Management found 50 percent of employers that hire
veterans cite difficulty “translating military skills to
civilian job experience.”  ‘Lot of Jargon’  An Army veteran may say his MOS (military occupational
specialty) was 11 Bravo (infantry), with a rank of E-4
(specialist) and report a  skill level  on the military scale of
10 to 50.  “Their resume may have a lot of jargon in it,” Dave
Ferguson,  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s manager of military staffing
and recruiting, said in an interview.  Veterans “may not be able to convert their skills and
abilities, and sometimes we’re not sure what their skills might
be,” said Ferguson. In addition to the discipline and teamwork
that comes with military service, he said, some veterans have
repair and maintenance skills such as the ability to repair the
gas-turbine engines GE sells to the Navy. Those who’ve seen the
most combat, though, often have skills and training that are
harder to translate to the civilian world.  GE has pledged to hire 1,000 veterans a year for five
years. That would amount to about 10 percent of all new hires
annually, “a pretty lofty goal” that the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company hasn’t met in previous years, he said.  The transition programs offered by the military vary by
service branch, each offering at minimum a three-day workshop
run by the Department of Labor that teaches skills such as
resume writing and job interviewing.  Help ‘Not Relevant’  “So far, we haven’t heard anyone say one good thing about
it,” said Colleen Affeldt, an independent consultant based in
Dallas who’s working to help companies hire and retain veterans.
“They literally spent three days writing a resume, and the
product that was coming out was not relevant to the private
sector. It was pages and pages.”  Click, the veteran who’s been delivering pizza for
Louisville, Kentucky-based  Papa John’s International Inc. (PZZA) , said
the transition classes he took offered “nothing really
useful.”  Walter Herd, director of the Army’s transition program,
said its effectiveness is difficult to measure.  “Many of the components are being re-engineered to make
them more user-friendly,” Herd said in an interview.  Hiring Tax Credit  Federal legislation signed last year that took effect on
November 22 will provide tax credits of as much as $5,600 for
employers who hire veterans who have been unemployed longer than
six months. The credit rises to $9,600 for disabled veterans.  President  Barack Obama  also is seeking $1 billion over five
years to develop a Veterans Job Corps to hire as many as 20,000
veterans for conservation projects, a government-job approach
that’s been questioned by Republicans such as Senator John Boozmanof  Arkansas , a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs
Committee.  The issue won’t go away, though.  “One of the risks involved as we reduce the budget by this
level is how to ensure that we take care of those that are
returning,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said at a Feb. 14
hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Jobless veterans such as McBride in Texas, who lives on a
$1,000 monthly stipend for attending community college on the GI
Bill, say they aren’t expecting much more help from  Washington 
as they struggle to find careers.  “Sometimes I wake up thinking I should go back into the
Army,” she said. “It was  job security , and it was something I
was pretty good at. But my son doesn’t want me to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  