-- Ireland’s Central Bank Says 2012 Budget Targets Are Within Reach
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/ireland-s-central-bank-says-2012-budget-targets-are-within-reach.html
Ireland’s  central bank  said the
government’s 2012 budget targets are “within reach” and it
probably won’t have to add to its austerity measures announced
in December for this year.  Gross domestic product will rise 0.5 percent this year and
2.1 percent in 2013, the Dublin-based central bank said in its
quarterly bulletin today, reiterating a February forecast.
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has said he expects to downgrade
the government’s 1.3 percent growth forecast for 2012 this
month.  “The external environment has shown signs of limited
improvement over the last two months,” the central bank said,
adding that there are “indications that the growth slowdown in
the second half of last year in the euro area has not gathered
pace,” while U.S. data signal that expansion there might be
“slightly stronger than previously expected.”  Ireland’s economy unexpectedly contracted in the fourth
quarter, pushing the nation back into a recession, even as the
nation recorded annual growth of 0.7 percent, marking its first
expansion in four years. Noonan said this week the government is
on track to meet its full-year deficit target of 8.6 percent of
GDP, after the  first-quarter shortfall  narrowed 39 percent to
4.3 billion euros ($5.6 billion) from a year earlier.  The central bank said the “positive impulse” to growth is
coming exclusively from the international environment, while
domestic demand remains a drag on growth.  Deficit Target  “Despite the likely slower pace” of economic activity
than when the budget was set in December, “there are still a
number of reasons why the budget targets for 2012 remain within
reach,” the central bank said. It said stronger-than-expected
price increases are supporting nominal output and Ireland beat
fiscal targets last year, setting a better starting position.  The Finance Ministry estimates that Ireland recorded a
 budget deficit  below 10 percent last year, compared with a 10.6
percent target.  The central bank sees exports increasing for a third
consecutive year in 2012, while domestic consumption is likely
to contract both this year and next. Still, domestic demand
“may come close to bottoming out in 2013, reflecting limited
scope for further declines in a much diminished construction
sector and the prospect of some stability n disposable incomes
and a very gradual improving labor market,” it said.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that Ireland has a “very good chance” of returning to
international markets. The National Treasury Management Agency,
which manages the country’s borrowings, has said it may seek to
sell short-term securities again in the middle of this year,
before returning to the bond markets in 2013.  Ireland has been absent from market since September 2010,
two months before it sought an international bailout. Ireland’s
October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark, yielded 6.79
percent today, down from 9.1 percent at the start of December.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  