-- IRS Commissioner Says He Doesn’t Want Second Term
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-05T19:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/irs-commissioner-says-he-doesn-t-want-second-term.html
Douglas Shulman, commissioner of the
 Internal Revenue Service , said he doesn’t intend to stay in the
job after his five-year term expires in November.  “My plan is to leave at the end of my term,” he said
during a question-and-answer session today at the  National Press
Club  in Washington.  No IRS commissioner has served more than five years and one
month since  Guy Helvering , whose 10 years in the job ended in
1943. The president nominates the IRS commissioner, who must be
confirmed by the  U.S. Senate .  Shulman, 44, made his first public comments on his plans
after a speech in which he outlined the agency’s progress during
his term on technology, taxpayer service and enforcement.  For a financial agency, Shulman said the IRS spends a
“shockingly low” amount of money on long-term technology
improvements.  The IRS, which collected more than $2 trillion last year,
still uses magnetic tapes and older  mainframe computers  for some
functions, he said.  “We have a very complicated, interrelated set of systems
that, when you try to unbundle those, that makes the job even
harder,” said Shulman, who described recent improvements in IRS
technology as a breakthrough that is allowing faster processing
of tax returns.  Financial Regulator  Before becoming commissioner in 2008, Shulman was vice
chairman of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  He said he has tried to improve customer service and
technology and change an organization that was “mired in the
past” fewer than 20 years ago. “We’ve had a sustained arc of
progress from that beginning in the 1990s,” he said.  Shulman also defended the agency’s efforts to regulate tax
return preparers, who now face a requirement that they register
with the government, pass competency tests and get continuing
education. Some tax preparers and the Institute for Justice, a
Virginia-based libertarian organization, are suing to overturn
the regulations.  “We went through an extensive process to land where we did
and I’m very confident,” Shulman said in his first comments on
the lawsuit, which was filed March 13. “Not only is everything
we’re doing going to be seen as legal, but everything we’re
doing is going to benefit the American people.”  Expiring Tax Cuts  Shulman also warned Congress against waiting until 2013 to
decide the fate of miscellaneous tax cuts that expired at the
end of 2011 and income and payroll tax cuts that expire at the
end of this year.  “You could have a real disaster in the filing season where
there’s total confusion,” he said.  Shulman spoke less than two weeks before the annual tax-
filing deadline for individuals, which is April 17 this year
because the usual April 15 date falls on a weekend and the next
day is a holiday in  Washington .  Through the week ending March 23, the IRS had received 84.1
million tax returns and issued $200.9 billion in  refunds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  