-- Joan of Arc’s Lessons in Ill-Advised Fiscal Austerity
-- B y   N a n c y   G o l d s t o n e
-- 2012-04-05T16:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/joan-of-arc-s-lessons-in-ill-advised-fiscal-austerity.html
Most historians naturally tend
to focus on the more dramatic aspects of Joan of Arc’s life
-- her inexplicable prowess in battle, her mesmerizing
testimony at her Trial of Condemnation, her horrific death
by fire in Rouen.  But her most profound contribution to her kingdom’s
ultimate victory may well have been her impact on English
fiscal policy.  It worked like this: Until Joan showed up at the
dauphin’s court in 1429, the Hundred Years’ War (basically
a prolonged conflict between  England  and France over
inheritance rights) had been going very well for the
English. Henry V had invaded western France with a small
regiment and, at Agincourt in 1415, in a battle
immortalized by  William Shakespeare , he trounced the whole
of the French army, a fighting force at least 10 times the
size of its English adversaries.  England followed this unexpected success two years
later with a second assault that yielded, among other
French territories, the rich province of Normandy. Paris
capitulated soon after, and in 1424 the English again
decimated their French opponents and won most of the duchy
of Maine at the Battle of Verneuil.  By 1428, the  English commanders  were sufficiently
confident of victory to raise a new army to besiege
Orleans, one of the principal cities in  France  still loyal
to the dauphin, the aim being to break through the natural
barrier of the Loire and take over the rest of the kingdom.  A Girl Warrior  Then, a 17-year-old girl dressed in armor, carrying a
banner and leading a large  French army  suddenly appeared.
And the English regency watched, stupefied, as what had
been billed by the military as another easy triumph
disintegrated into a rout. Not only was the siege of
Orleans lifted in a single week, the French army, with Joan
in the lead, had the temerity to chase after the retreating
English soldiers and force their surrender.  England was obliged to put a new army hurriedly into
the field, and to bribe its ally, the duke of Burgundy, to
remain loyal in order to have enough troops to hold Paris.  Taken together, these unexpected expenses gave rise to
yet another highly regrettable development. For the first
time since the invasion had begun 14 years before, the
 royal budget  showed a deficit in the amount of 10,000
pounds.  (To add insult to injury, after the duke of Burgundy’s
forces captured Joan at Compiegne in 1430, the English
found themselves called on to pay her ransom and foot the
bill for her extended trial by the French Inquisition.)  The outcry by the English baronage over this shortfall
would have warmed the heart of today’s most avid fiscal
conservative. There being no liberal social programs
available to cut -- the peasantry was pretty much expected
to suffer and die in unalleviated poverty in the Middle
Ages -- the exchequer focused instead on reducing foreign
aid, which in this case meant discontinuing the policy of
bribing the duke of Burgundy.  The duke of Burgundy was naturally distressed with his
ally’s unforeseen commitment to austerity. He made his
displeasure known by refusing to attend the coronation of
10-year-old Henry VI in Paris, a signal that was picked up
immediately by the French court, headed by the former
dauphin, now (thanks to Joan’s intervention and his
coronation at Reims) legitimately known as Charles VII,
king of France.  What a Deal  Charles was a fiscal disaster. He was in so much debt
that he had to hock the tapestries off his wall to finance
his wedding. He couldn’t pay his soldiers. He couldn’t
ransom his brother-in-law. He’d been running deficits for
so many years he wouldn’t have known a  balanced budget  if
it got down on one knee and paid homage.  But he understood the value of the friendship of the
duke of Burgundy, and so did his creditors. Through back
channels, Charles offered the duke an enormous bribe to
change sides, which the duke graciously accepted. Although
it would take another 15 years to push the English out of
France completely, in that instant England lost the war.
So, to save 10,000 pounds, the English gave up Normandy,
 Maine , Gascony, Bordeaux and Paris. What a deal.  Just a short lesson in political economy from Joan of
Arc as election season moves into high gear.  ( Nancy Goldstone ’s most recent book is “The Maid and
the Queen:  The Secret History of Joan of Arc” published
this week by Viking. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more online from  Echoes , Bloomberg View’s economic
history blog.  To contact the writer of this post:
Nancy Goldstone at  nancygoldstone@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  