-- JPMorgan Investment Bank Chief Widens Pay Lead on Rival
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-04-05T14:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/jpmorgan-investment-bank-chief-widens-pay-lead-on-rival.html
Jes Staley, chief executive officer
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank, beat his  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  counterpart in compensation after boosting
earnings during last year’s market slump.  Staley’s $16 million award for 2011 almost held steady from
the $17 million he made the previous year as profit at the
firm’s investment bank climbed 2.3 percent to $6.8 billion. Bank
of America co-chief operating officer Thomas K. Montag’s pay
dropped 25 percent to $12 million after profit at the lender’s
investment bank plunged by more than half to $2.97 billion.  The 55-year-old executives, who received almost the same
amount for 2010, saw their pay diverge as the firms navigated
turmoil created by the European debt crisis. While clients
gravitated toward JPMorgan because it was considered a “safe
harbor,” Bank of America executives traveled the world to
reassure customers after the firm’s credit grades were cut in
September, the leaders have said.  “Jes probably deserved to make more money, though paying
him more would send the wrong signal politically,” said Gustavo Dolfino, a former UBS AG banker and now president of Whiterock
Group LLC, a New York-based executive search firm. “It was a
different ballgame at Bank of America. Montag is a decent guy,
but he is under pressure.”  Colm Kelleher and Paul J. Taubman, co-heads of  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley’s investment banking and trading division,
were each paid $9.25 million for 2011, the bank said today in a
regulatory filing. Citigroup Inc. doesn’t disclose pay for James “Jamie” Forese, head of the New York-based firm’s securities
and banking division.  Dimon’s Pay  Staley is the second-highest paid executive among the five
whose awards are disclosed by JPMorgan, after the $23 million
granted to CEO  Jamie Dimon , the New York-based company said
yesterday in a filing. The firm’s total net income climbed 9.2
percent to a record $19 billion last year.  JPMorgan said that Staley increased the company’s reach
overseas, cut risky assets by more than $80 billion and hit the
firm’s target for a 17 percent return on equity. Staley has led
the investment bank since 2009 after running its asset-
management unit.  Montag’s $12 million still made him the highest-paid of the
top six executives disclosed by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, according to a filing last month. His package
eclipsed the $7 million compensation of his 52-year-old boss,
CEO  Brian T. Moynihan .  Montag’s Promotion  Bank of America’s compensation board said in the filing
that apart from Moynihan, top managers’ performance “met or
exceeded” expectations. While Bank of America rebounded to a
$1.4 billion profit in 2011 from a $2.2 billion loss a year
earlier, the firm’s shares plunged 58 percent last year amid
concerns it may have to raise capital.  In September, Moynihan promoted Montag, a former head of
trading at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to co-chief operating
officer from head of the firm’s global banking and markets
division. That added oversight of commercial banking, where 2011
profit increased 37 percent to $4.4 billion.  Jessica Oppenheim, a Bank of America spokeswoman, and
 Jennifer Zuccarelli  of JPMorgan declined to comment on the
executives’ pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  