-- JPMorgan Trader’s Positions Said to Distort Credit Indexes
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e ,   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-06T14:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/jpmorgan-trader-iksil-s-heft-is-said-to-distort-credit-indexes.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trader of
derivatives linked to the financial health of corporations has
amassed positions so large that he’s driving price moves in the
$10 trillion market, traders outside the firm said.  The trader is London-based Bruno Iksil, according to five
counterparts at hedge funds and rival banks who requested
anonymity because they’re not authorized to discuss the
transactions. He specializes in credit-derivative indexes, a
market that during the past decade has overtaken corporate bonds
to become the biggest forum for investors betting on the
likelihood of company defaults.  Investors complain that Iksil’s trades may be distorting
prices, affecting bondholders who use the instruments to hedge
hundreds of billions of dollars of fixed-income holdings.
Analysts and economists also use the indexes to help gauge
perceptions of risk in credit markets.  Though Iksil reveals little to other traders about his own
positions, they say they’ve taken the opposite side of
transactions and that his orders are the biggest they’ve
encountered. Two hedge-fund traders said they have seen
unusually large price swings when they were told by dealers that
Iksil was in the market. At least some traders refer to Iksil as
“the  London  whale,” according to one person in the business.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on Iksil’s specific transactions. Iksil
didn’t respond to phone messages and e-mails seeking comment.  Most-Active Index  The credit indexes are linked to the  default risk  on a
group of at least 100 companies. The newest and most-active
index of investment-grade credit rose the most in almost four
months yesterday and climbed again today.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps  Series 18 (IBOXUMAE)  rose 3.3 basis points to 100.2
basis points as of 10:18 a.m. in New York, after jumping 4.4
basis points yesterday, according to Markit Group Ltd. The price
of the index is quoted in yield spreads, which rise along with
the perceived likelihood of increased corporate defaults.  A credit-default swap is a financial instrument that
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on a company’s creditworthiness.  Iksil may have “broken” some credit indexes -- Wall
Street lingo for creating a disparity between the price of the
index and the average price of credit-default swaps on the
individual companies, the people said. The persistence of the
price differential has frustrated some  hedge funds  that had bet
the gap would close, the people said.  Close Supervision  Some traders have added positions in a bet that Iksil
eventually will liquidate some holdings, moving prices in their
favor, the people said.  Iksil, unlike JPMorgan traders who buy and sell securities
on behalf of customers, works in the chief investment office.
The unit is affiliated with the bank’s treasury, helping to
control market risks and investing excess funds, according to
the lender’s  annual report .  “The chief investment office is responsible for managing
and hedging the firm’s foreign-exchange, interest-rate and other
structural risks,” Evangelisti said. It’s “focused on managing
the long-term structural assets and liabilities of the firm and
is not focused on short-term profits.”  Iksil probably traded under close supervision at JPMorgan,
said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia.  “The issue is how much capital they’re putting at risk,”
said Miller, a former examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia .  Volcker Rule  A U.S. curb on proprietary trading at banks, meant to
reduce the odds they’ll make risky investments with their own
capital, is supposed to take effect in July. Regulators are
still determining how the so-called Volcker rule will make
exceptions for instances where firms are hedging to curtail risk
in their lending and trading businesses.  Wall Street banks including JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley have submitted comment letters and met
with regulators to discuss their complaints about the rule.  “Several agencies claiming jurisdiction over the Volcker
rule have proposed regulations of mind-numbing complexity,”
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said in his annual
 letter  to shareholders released this week. “Even senior
regulators now recognize that the current proposed rules are
unworkable and will be impossible to implement.”  Combined Revenue  JPMorgan had $4.14 billion of combined revenue last year
from the chief investment office, treasury and private-equity
investments, according to the annual report. The treasury and
chief investment office held a combined $355.6 billion of
investment securities as of December 2011, up 14 percent from a
year earlier, according to a  year-end earnings statement .  Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, who runs the unit, was
among JPMorgan’s highest-paid executives in 2011, earning $14
million, a 6.8 percent pay cut from 2010, the bank said in a
regulatory filing this week. Drew referred a request for comment
to Evangelisti.  Iksil has earned about $100 million a year for the chief
investment office in recent years, the Wall Street Journal said
in an article following Bloomberg News’s initial report, citing
people familiar with the matter.  Iksil joined JPMorgan in 2005, according to his  career-
history record  with the U.K. Financial Services Authority. He
worked at the French investment bank  Natixis (KN)  from 1999 to 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trader’s Position  The French-born trader commutes to London each week from
Paris and works from home most Fridays, the Journal article
said, citing a person who worked with him.  The trader may have built a $100 billion position in
contracts on  Series 9 (IBOXUG09)  of the Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, according to the people, who said they based their
estimates on the trades and price movements they witnessed as
well as their understanding of the size and structure of the
markets.  The positions, by the bank’s calculations, amount to tens
of billions of dollars and were built with the knowledge of
Iksil’s superiors, a person familiar with the firm’s view said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Ruhle in  New York  at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net  