-- JSE Proposes Average 8.5% Rise in Corn-Transport Formula
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-04-05T13:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/jse-proposes-average-8-5-rise-in-corn-transport-formula-1-.html
JSE Ltd.’s South African Futures
Exchange proposed an average 8.5 percent increase in the price
differential used to indicate the cost of transporting corn to
silos the country for the year starting May 1.  The bourse has also included a rand-per-ton figure in its
formula to calculate the so-called location differential to
reflect the price of getting the grain from farmers to buyers,
Commodities Derivatives Director Chris Sturgess said in an e-
mailed statement from Johannesburg today. The average advance
equates to 15 rand ($1.92) a metric ton, he said.  “The JSE has spent a significant amount of time reviewing
and reconfirming all the adjustments based on the improved
methodology,” Sturgess said. “We are confident following this
year’s alignments we should not see such large variations across
delivery points going forward since the road distance together
with a rand per ton will drive actual road costs.”  Some growers say they are disadvantaged by how transport
costs are factored into contracts due to their distance from
Randfontein in the northern Gauteng province, the point from
which the so-called location differential is calculated.  The differential is applied to contracts to reflect the
cost of moving stock from any one of 198 Safex-registered silos
in the country to Randfontein. The traded price is referred to
as a Randfontein price, and the amount the buyer pays is cut by
an estimate of how much it costs to transport the grain to
Randfontein from the silo the buyer was allocated, the JSE said.  The JSE’s agricultural advisory committee last year said
that doing away with the location-differential system could
increase risk in the market, which would lead to the lowering of
finance available to the industry, according to a  July 29
statement . Transparency on how the differential is calculated
could be improved, it said.  Market participants have until April 12 to comment on the
figures, Sturgess said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  