-- Holder Memo Says Obama Didn’t Question Powers of Courts
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-05T17:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/justice-department-gives-judicial-review-memo-to-appeals-court.html
The Obama administration never
questioned the power of federal courts to review the validity
of legislation, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder told a panel
of appeals judges in a letter.  U.S. Circuit Judge Jerry E. Smith ordered the  Justice
Department  to give the appellate court a three-page, single-
spaced memo detailing the Obama administration’s views on
courts’ authority to overturn laws that judges find
unconstitutional.  Smith made the request April 3 during oral arguments in a
challenge brought by a group of Texas doctors against part of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. The
Obama administration’s health-care law was the subject of three
days of oral arguments the preceding week in a broader legal
challenge pending before the U.S. Supreme Court.  “At no point has the government suggested that the court
would lack authority to review plaintiffs’ constitutional claims
if the court were to conclude that jurisdiction exists,”
Attorney General Eric Holder said in the letter drafted to
Smith’s specifications. “While duly recognizing the court’s
authority to engage in judicial review, the executive branch has
often urged courts to respect the legislative judgments of
Congress.”  ‘Judicial Activism’  Smith ordered the Justice Department to peg its memo to
Obama’s April 2 comment that it would amount to “judicial
activism’’ for the  Supreme Court  to throw out the health-care
statute, which requires all Americans to buy health insurance.  “I’m referring to statements by the president in the past
few days to the effect, I’m sure you’ve heard about them, that
it is somehow inappropriate for what he termed ‘unelected’
judges to strike acts of Congress that have enjoyed -- he was
referring, of course, to Obamacare -- what he termed broad
consensus in majorities in both houses of Congress,’’ Smith said
during April 4 arguments at a Houston session of the Fifth
Circuit.  Smith, who was appointed by  Ronald Reagan , a Republican,
said the president’s statement “has troubled a number of people
who have read it as somehow a challenge to the federal courts or
to their authority to the appropriateness of the concept of
judicial review.’’  ‘Regarding Obamacare’  He ordered the Justice Department to clarify its position
in writing “as it relates to the specific statements of the
president regarding Obamacare and the authority of the federal
courts to review that legislation.’’  The appellate panel is considering a bid by a Texas
physicians’ group that sued U.S. Secretary of Health and Human
Services Kathleen Sebelius last year. The group is seeking to
overturn a provision of the law that restricts growth by
physician-owned hospitals in ways that don’t apply to other
hospitals, according to court papers. The act blocks federal
medical payments to doctor-owned hospitals while allowing them
for all other hospitals.  Holder said Supreme Court precedents “often acknowledged
the appropriateness of reliance on the political branch’s policy
choices and judgments.” Citing a 1984 high court decision,
Holder said, “the courts try not to nullify more of a
legislature’s work than is necessary because they recognize that
a ruling of unconstitutionality frustrates the intent of the
elected representatives of the people.”  The case is Physicians Hospitals of America v. Sebelius,
11-40631,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 