-- Olbermann Trades Lawsuits, Insults With Gore’s Current TV
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-06T20:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/keith-olbermann-sues-gore-s-current-tv-over-sudden-firing-1-.html
     April 6 (Bloomberg) -- Keith Olbermann  and former Vice
President  Al Gore ’s Current TV LLC filed lawsuits against each
other after the anchor’s firing last month from the progressive
political cable channel.  Olbermann, 53, filed a breach-of-contract complaint
yesterday in Los Angeles Superior Court, saying he “was
disheartened to discover Al Gore,  Joel Hyatt , and the management
of Current are no more than dilettantes portraying entertainment
industry executives.” Current TV filed a countersuit today.  Olbermann clashed with producers at the channel this year,
refusing to anchor election segments and taking himself off the
air. Current TV said on March 30 that it had dismissed Olbermann
because he no longer represented the channel’s values.  “Current’s sudden and public termination of Olbermann was
the latest in a series of increasingly erratic and
unprofessional actions undertaken by Current’s senior
management,” according to the former anchorman’s complaint,
which seeks unspecified damages.  In its breach-of-contract complaint, filed in the same
court, Current TV said that on April 3 the former anchor
appeared on the “Late Show with  David Letterman ” where he said
that his termination was “my fault” and that “I screwed up.”
Such admissions appear nowhere in his lawsuit, Current TV said.  ‘Falsehoods and Distortions’  Olbermann’s complaint is “riddled with falsehoods and
distortions in which he refused to take any responsibility
whatsoever for that termination,” according to Current TV.  “Current seeks a determination that it is no longer
obligated to pay a dime to Mr. Olbermann who, having already
been paid handsomely for showing up sporadically and utterly
failing to keep his end of the bargain, now seeks to be paid
tens of millions more for not working at all,” the channel said
in its complaint.  The channel replaced Olbermann with former New York
Governor  Eliot Spitzer  on a new show, “Viewpoint with Eliot
Spitzer.”  Current TV has 68.5 million subscribers and estimated net
operating revenue of $127 million for 2012, according to
researcher SNL Kagan.  Suspension Over Donations  Olbermann, who left  MSNBC  in 2011 after serving a two-day
suspension over political donations, received equity in New
York-based Current Media, according to a statement at the time.  “As the old adage says: ‘When the law is on your side, you
argue the law. When the facts are on your side, you argue the
facts. When neither the law nor the facts are on your side, you
pound the table,’’’ Laura Nelson, a Current TV spokeswoman, said
in a statement yesterday. ‘‘It is well established that over his
professional career Mr. Olbermann has specialized in pounding
the table.’’  Olbermann’s lawyer, Patricia Glaser, said today in a phone
interview that Current TV’s lawsuit had no merit and posed no
problem for her client.  In a post on Twitter, Olbermann wrote: “After reading the
@Current filing my attorneys and I think it should be subtitled
‘How to Try To Pound The Table...And Miss.’”  Olbermann’s case is Olbermann Broadcasting Empire v.
Current TV; the cross-complaint is Current TV, LLC v. Olbermann
Broadcasting Empire, BC482335, California Superior Court ( Los
Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  