-- Kenya Shilling Gains for Second Day as Central Bank Curbs Supply
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-05T13:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/kenya-shilling-gains-for-second-day-as-central-bank-curbs-supply.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for a
second day as the central bank removed money from the market
through  repurchase agreements  to curb supply.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.4 percent to 82.80 per dollar and was trading 0.2
percent stronger at 82.95 at 4:26 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital.  The Central Bank of Kenya accepted all 9.6 billion
shillings ($116 million) of bids for repurchase agreements at a
weighted- average rate of 15.794 percent, after offering 10
billion shillings of the seven-day securities, Godfrey Putunoi,
an official with the Nairobi-based bank, said by phone today.  The monetary policy committee retained the central  bank
rate  at 18 percent yesterday to try to slow inflation toward the
government target, while maintaining exchange-rate stability  “CBK will continue its interventions through open market
operations more actively to reduce the volatility in the
 interbank rate  and bring it closer to the CBR, while ensuring
consistency with the current monetary policy stance,” Njuguna Ndung’u, the governor of the central bank, said in an e-mailed
statement from the capital, Nairobi, yesterday.  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in the previous month, the
Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said March 30.  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated for the second day, to the
highest in almost 12 weeks, as the central bank sold dollars to
the market.  The currency of the second-biggest economy in East Africa
gained as much as 0.7 percent to 1,578 per dollar and was last
trading 0.4 percent stronger at 1,583. A close at this level
will be the highest since Jan 13 according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The shilling has gained following the sale of dollars to
the market by the central bank,” Fred Siwale, a trader with
CRDB Bank Plc said today by phone from  Dar es Salaam , the
commercial capital.  The Ugandan shilling was unchanged at 2,485 to the dollar.  -- Editors: Linda Shen, Peter Branton  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  