-- Facebook Said to Pick Nasdaq Over NYSE for Stock Listing
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k ,   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-04-05T22:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/nasdaq-wins-facebook-listing-as-market-fends-off-nyse-nyt-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  plans to list its
shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market, further cementing the
exchange operator’s position as the favored venue for the
biggest U.S. technology companies, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The person declined to be named because the discussions are
private. Facebook filed for a $5 billion initial public offering
on Feb. 1. While the market capitalization of New York Stock
Exchange shares is about triple the value of Nasdaq companies,
the latter market operator has about twice as many technology
corporations trading for more than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Exchange operators NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ)  Group Inc.,
rivals for virtually every IPO in America, competed for what may
be the biggest listing by a technology company. Winning the IPO
means more fees, a boost in  trading  revenue and the chance to
link an exchange’s brand with the largest social-networking
website in the world.  “There’s cachet to winning one of the biggest IPOs ever,”
Tim Hoyle, the director of research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Haverford Trust Co., which manages $6 billion including
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shares, said in a phone interview. “The straight-
up value of this IPO will make for a nice gain in listing fees,
which make up a meaningful portion of the revenue stream for
exchanges.”  Robert Madden, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman, declined to comment
on the decision. So did Jonathan Thaw of Facebook and  Rich Adamonis  of NYSE Euronext.  Stock Moves  Nasdaq shares extended gains after the New York Times
reported Facebook had picked Nasdaq, and rose 1.2 percent to
$25.52 as of 4 p.m. in New York. NYSE Euronext fell 1.3 percent
to $28.31 today.  Nasdaq OMX lists seven of the 10 biggest U.S. technology
companies by market value, including Apple Inc. and Microsoft
Corp., the two largest, as well as Google Inc. and  Intel Corp .
The NYSE is the home venue for International Business Machines
Corp., ranked third.  Nasdaq OMX had more at stake because of the perception it
gets all the technology companies, according to Sang Lee,
managing partner at Boston-based Aite Group LLC. Among Internet
IPOs since the start of 2011, LinkedIn Corp. and Pandora Media
Inc. picked NYSE, while Nasdaq won Groupon Inc. and Zynga Inc.  “Having that brand name on that listings side would be
huge,” Lee said of Facebook’s selection. “If they’re able to
do it correctly, the other social-media sites and players would
certainly be talking to Nasdaq initially,” he said. “It would
certainly put them in a very nice position.”  Blow to Niederauer  The loss is another blow to Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer , who saw his bid to merge with Deutsche Boerse AG
fall apart this year when European antitrust regulators blocked
the deal. Shares of the company slid 13 percent last year, while
Nasdaq OMX climbed 3.3 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index was little changed.  Robert Greifeld , the CEO of Nasdaq OMX, exacts a measure of
payback after his unsolicited attempt to acquire the New York
Stock Exchange parent fizzed out when the  Justice Department 
said last May it would sue to block such a transaction.
Niederauer was on the board that rejected Greifeld’s offer and
referred to it as “loosely worded and full of unanswered
questions” in an interview with Bloomberg on April 10.  Bats IPO  The decision by Facebook follows Bats Global Markets Inc.,
the third-largest U.S. exchange operator, withdrawing its IPO on
March 23. Bats planned to compete with NYSE and  Nasdaq  in
corporate listings, making its own shares the first to call the
Bats BZX Exchange home. A computer bug prevented Bats from
getting its own shares to trade.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , filed Feb. 1 to
raise $5 billion in the largest Internet IPO on record. The
amount was a placeholder used to calculate fees and may change.
The combined U.S. and German debut of Infineon Technologies AG
in 2000 totaled about $5.85 billion, making it the biggest
technology offering in history.  Facebook wants “their brand identity associated with
Nasdaq, where the leading pioneers in technology have listed,”
Philip Panaro, president and chief executive officer of IM2
Consulting LLC, said in a phone interview. He was an adviser to
Nasdaq in the mid-1990s and to NYSE in 2004 and 2005. “NYSE is
still the Big Board and Nasdaq has more technology companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  