-- National Bank of Canada Sued by Employees Over Sale to Fiera
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o ,   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-04-05T04:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/national-bank-of-canada-sued-by-employees-over-sale-to-fiera.html
National Bank of Canada  is being
sued by current and former employees of its Natcan asset
management unit who argue that the bank unfairly bought them out
at a discount before selling the business to  Fiera Sceptre Inc. (FSZ)   National Bank,  Canada ’s sixth-biggest bank by assets,
agreed on Feb. 27 to sell Natcan to Montreal-based Fiera for
C$309.5 million ($310 million) and a stake in the asset manager.
Natcan, also based in Montreal, had more than 45 employees and
C$25 billion of assets under management at the time of the sale.  Natcan Vice Chairman Michael Quigley and Marc-Andre Gaudreau, senior vice president of fixed income, are among a
group of seven current and former employees suing the bank’s
Placements Banque Nationale unit in connection with the
transaction. The lawsuit, which doesn’t quantify the amount of
damages sought, was filed in Quebec Superior Court on March 27,
and a hearing has been scheduled for April 30 in  Montreal ,
according to a court filing.  Claude Breton, a National Bank spokesman, declined to
comment. Melanie Tardif, a spokeswoman for Fiera, didn’t
immediately return an after-hours voice mail message.  Colin K. Irving, a lawyer listed on the Irving Mitchell LLP
website, didn’t immediately return a phone call placed after
regular business hours. Irving Mitchell is representing the
employees.  Minority Stake  Through 9130-1564 Quebec Inc., a holding company, the seven
Natcan employees held 13.75 percent of the asset manager, while
National Bank owned 86.25 percent, according to the lawsuit.  The executives, who borrowed “significant sums of money”
to buy their shares, were all instrumental in the development
and growth of Natcan, according to the document.  Fiera’s purchase of Natcan “will have the effect of
multiplying the book value” of the holding company shares held
by the seven executives “by a factor of over 20,” according to
the lawsuit.  Even so, 9130-1564 last month bought out the Natcan holders
at book value before the closing of the Fiera transaction,
according to the lawsuit. Although Quigley sits on the board of
the holding company, “no resolution to that effect was put
forward for consideration by the board at any meeting of which
he was aware or attended,” the lawsuit states.  ‘Abusive Conduct’  “The actions of the defendants are clearly oppressive,”
according to the lawsuit.  Under a June 2003 agreement, 9130-1564 had the right to
authorize the sale of stock held by any of its shareholders to
 National Bank, (NA)  its Placements Banque Nationale unit or any other
shareholder picked by the holding company, according to the
lawsuit. The transaction would take place at book value.  According to the lawsuit, Natcan’s employees “never had
the opportunity of negotiating” the shareholder agreement,
“and its terms were imposed on them.”  As a result, the Natcan employees want the court to order
“the buyout of their shares in 9130 at their book value taking
into account the value received from the transaction,”
according to the lawsuit.  Some of the Natcan employees involved in the lawsuit have
been offered positions with Fiera, while others have been
dismissed.  The former Natcan employees being offered severance “are
prevented from even considering accepting these packages, as
they entail a complete waiver of their right to assert their
shareholder rights in Natcan,” according to the document.  The case is Quigley vs. Placements Banque Nationale Inc.,
500-11-042399-127, Quebec Superior Court (Montreal).  To contact the reporters for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  