-- New Clean-Energy Loan Guarantees Planned by Obama Administration
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-05T20:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/new-clean-energy-loan-guarantees-planned-by-obama-administration.html
The U.S. Energy Department plans to
issue new loan guarantees for clean-energy companies amid
criticism from congressional Republicans that a previous effort
wasted taxpayer money.  The agency has $170 million from Congress to support
cutting-edge projects, David Frantz, acting executive director
of the agency’s loan office, said today in a letter to
lawmakers.  Companies denied funding from a program financed by the
2009 economic stimulus are being asked to re-apply. Solyndra LLC
won $535 million in loan guarantees from the earlier effort
before its collapse prompted Republicans to fault President
 Barack Obama ’s administration for seeking to pick “winners and
losers” among energy companies.  The loan program created jobs and helped “the United
States keep pace in the fierce global race for clean-energy
technologies,” Frantz wrote to Senators  Jeff Bingaman , a New
Mexico Democrat who is the chairman of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, the top
Republican on the panel.  Republicans including House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman  Fred Upton  of Michigan had sought loan guarantees for
companies in their districts before Solyndra halted operations
in September.  Upton, whose committee is investigating Solyndra, has since
said the administration missed “red flags” in awarding the
guarantee in 2009. Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican and chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, has accused the Energy Department of
mismanaging the loan program.  Agua Caliente  The 2009 economic stimulus provided more than $2.5 billion
to finance clean-energy loan guarantees. The program eventually
supported about $16 billion in projects, including the Agua
Caliente solar development in Yuma County,  Arizona , backed by
 NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , which Frantz said would be the world’s biggest
photovoltaic installation when finished later his year.  That loan-guarantee program ended on Sept. 30. In May, the
Energy Department notified more than three dozen companies that
they wouldn’t qualify before the deadline. Projects needed to be
under construction before the end of September.  A budget agreement negotiated by Senate Democrats and House
Republicans before Solyndra went out of business included $170
million to finance clean-energy loans.  Frantz said he didn’t know how many projects would win
backing in the fresh effort. Conditional commitments will be
made “over the next several months,” he said. Companies have
until April 27 to apply.  Separately, Chicago-based  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) 
in Tempe, Arizona, said they received the first advance of a
previously approved U.S. loan guarantee valued at $646 million.  First Solar is building  Antelope Valley (30778MF)  Solar Ranch One, a
230-megawatt project, and will run and maintain it for Exelon,
the owner. It will generate enough electricity to power the
equivalent of 75,000 average California homes, according to a
statement from the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  