-- New York Fed Markets Group Chief Brian Sack to Resign
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-05T17:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/new-york-fed-markets-group-chief-brian-sack-to-resign-1-.html
Brian Sack , markets group chief at
the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , is resigning this year
after leading operations implementing the central bank’s
monetary policy since June 2009.  Sack, 41, will remain at his current post until June 29,
the district bank said today in a statement on its website. He
will then be placed on leave until his resignation from the New
York Fed effective Sept. 14, according to the statement.  As head of the markets group, Sack oversaw the record
expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet while policy makers turned
to unconventional tools such as two quantitative-easing programs
in the aftermath of the credit crisis. Using bond purchases as a
stimulus tool, the central bank expanded its  assets  to a record
$2.94 trillion on Feb. 15. The Fed cut its benchmark  interest
rate  to near zero in December 2008.  “Brian’s service to the bank over the past three years has
been critical to our response to the financial crisis and the
country’s economic recovery,” William C. Dudley, president of
the New York Fed said in the statement. “I accepted his
resignation with great regret and wish him well.”  Sack succeeded Dudley as markets group chief after working
as an economist with Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, where he
specialized in Fed analysis. Prior to joining the firm in 2004,
he headed the monetary and financial analysis section at the Fed
Board’s Monetary Affairs Division.  First Officials  The head of the open market account is one of the first
officials to speak at meetings of the  Federal Open Market
Committee (FDTR) , briefing policy makers on market conditions.  Sack directed the execution of the central bank’s second
round of quantitative easing, or bond buying, which was dubbed
QE2 by analysts and investors. The program, designed to reduce
borrowing costs through the purchase of $600 billion in
Treasuries, was completed last June. It triggered the harshest
political backlash against the Fed in three decades, with
Republican lawmakers warning of an inflationary surge.  The markets desk now is pursuing a maturity-extension
program announced in September to replace $400 billion of short-
term debt with longer-term securities. The so-called Operation
Twist is scheduled to be completed in June.  The Fed’s bond buying succeeded in driving down borrowing
costs, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
falling to a record low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23. The 10-year
note yield fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.18 percent at 1:30 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  Sack received a Ph.D. from the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  in 1997 and a bachelor’s degree from the University
of  Vermont  in 1992.  The New York Fed has “started the search process” to
replace Sack, the district bank said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  