-- Nicklaus Lewis Meets Namesake in 54-Year-Old Dad’s Masters Debut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-05T18:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/nicklaus-lewis-meets-namesake-in-54-year-old-dad-s-masters-debut.html
Randy Lewis wasn’t the only member
of his family to fulfill a lifelong quest today at the  Masters
Tournament .  Nicklaus Lewis, the 19-year-old son of golf’s Mid-Amateur
champion, tracked down his namesake,  Jack Nicklaus , moments
after the six-time Masters winner hit ceremonial tee shots with
 Arnold Palmer  and  Gary Player  to start the year’s first major
tournament.  “I showed him my nametag and told him that I have the two
best last names in golf, his and my dad’s,” Nicklaus Lewis said
while watching his father play Augusta National Golf Club’s 11th
hole. “It was brief, but it’s been something I always wanted to
do. I don’t care about any of the other big names. I just care
about my dad and I wanted to meet Jack, so I’m living the dream,
too.”  Randy Lewis, a 54-year-old financial planner for Raymond
James & Associates’ DLP Financial Group in Alma,  Michigan , shot
a 9-over-par 81 in what is believed by the club to be the oldest
rookie appearance in Masters history.  He ended up in Augusta, Georgia, by winning last year’s
Mid-Amateur, a championship staged by the U.S. Golf Association
created in 1988 after the U.S. Amateur began to be dominated by
college players.  Mid-Amateur  competitors must be at least 25.  “We all still have a hard time imagining what Randy has
truly accomplished at the age of 54 -- for that matter -- at any
age,” Daniel De Jong, who works with Lewis, said in an e-mail.
“This couldn’t have happened to a nicer individual.”  Support Group  Nicklaus Lewis, a student at Central Michigan University,
walked the undulating fairways with his older brother,
Christopher; their mother, Melanie; and a throng of the elder
Lewis’s supporters. All wore green bracelets with the words,
“We’re pulling for you Randy.”  Randy Lewis had visited the club numerous times to play
practice rounds since winning the Mid-Amateur in September. On
April 2, he played the course with five-time British Open
champion  Tom Watson , at 62 one of the few players in the
tournament who is older.  Lewis had written Watson a letter asking if he could play
with him, telling the 1977 Masters winner that his runner-up
finish in the 2009 British Open had inspired him. When Watson
responded to the letter, Melanie Lewis framed it next to her
husband’s Masters invitation.  “I kind of have a shrine for him,” she said.  When he leaves the club, Lewis will also have a closet full
of Masters-logoed clothes. He has spent about $800 on
merchandise and said he plans to wear a hat or shirt from the
tournament as often as he can.  “I’m going to be one of those guys always wearing
something from here,” he said in an interview.  Weekend Unlikely  Lewis is unlikely to become the first Mid-Amateur champion
to make the 36-hole cut for weekend play. Still, he plans to
stick around as a spectator through the finish of the tournament
on April 8.  “They’re probably going to have to get security to escort
me out of here,” he said. “I wish things would slow down, this
is going way, way too fast. It’s just a place that you, gosh,
just want to be here as much as you possibly can.”  His son’s name can always serve as a reminder of the
tournament.  “We kind of subjected him to a life of having a misspelled
first name,” the father said of the son. “Jack was always my
hero, so it’s pretty cool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Augusta,  Georgia  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  