-- Nigeria’s Diamond Bank to Boost Network, Considers Purchases
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-04-05T14:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/nigeria-s-diamond-bank-to-boost-network-considers-purchases-2-.html
Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB) , the 10th-largest
Nigerian lender by market value, wants to expand its branch
network in  Africa ’s biggest oil producer by more than 50 percent
over two years, and may make acquisitions to spur growth.  The Lagos-based lender wants 130 more branches, taking its
total to 350, either through a purchase or “organic” growth,
Chief Financial Officer Abdulrahman Yinusa said by phone today.
The lender also plans to expand its loan book by 20 percent this
year to about 80 billion naira ($508 million), he said.  Diamond Bank doesn’t have a “specific” acquisition
target, Yinusa said. According to Muyiwa Oni, a Lagos-based
analyst at  Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (IBTCCB) , Diamond Bank may buy one of
the three state-owned banks that were bailed out in 2009 as a
lending crisis threatened the nation’s financial system.  Diamond Bank said two days ago that on April 30, it will
ask shareholders’ permission to enter into acquisition talks.
The bank also posted a more-than-fourfold increase in first-
quarter profit as deposits grew and bad loans declined.  “We like to keep our options open,” Yinusa said. With
shareholder approval for a potential purchase, “we are ready if
something comes up.”  Rescued Banks  So far, five of the banks rescued in 2009 have been bought
by other lenders. A state agency created to buy bad debt said
last month it’s seeking advisers to help sell Mainstreet Bank
Ltd., Keystone Bank Ltd. and Enterprise Bank Ltd.  Those banks “appear to be the easiest options right now,”
Oni said by phone yesterday. Diamond “doesn’t have the muscle”
to buy larger banks such as  United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA) , he said.  Diamond Bank said in July it was in talks to buy Oceanic
Bank International Plc, which was ultimately acquired by  Ecobank
Transnational Inc. (ETI)  in September.  Nationalized banks’ loan books “will most definitely be
very clean or tiny,” and the state may be willing to unload
them for nothing, said Bunmi Asaolu, head of equity research at
FBN Capital Ltd.  The company’s stock was unchanged at 2.54 naira at the 2:30
p.m. close in Lagos. Diamond Bank’s shares have risen 32 percent
this year, compared with the 6.8 percent gain of the  Bloomberg
NSE Banking Index (NGSEB10) , which tracks the performance of  Nigeria ’s 10
largest lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  