-- Nissan to Use Intel Chips for Car Entertainment Systems
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-04-06T00:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/nissan-vehicle-entertainment-systems-to-include-intel-chips-1-.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s vehicles will use
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  microprocessors for in-car information and
entertainment systems starting next year, helping the largest
chipmaker lessen its reliance on sales to computer makers.  Nissan,  Japan ’s second-largest automaker, presented an
 Infiniti LE  concept car at the New York International Auto Show
yesterday that includes a dual-screen display powered by Intel’s
Atom chip.  Intel Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  has identified
the  auto industry  as an opportunity to diversify beyond the
personal-computer business, which now accounts for more than 90
 percent  of revenue. Intel, which also has deals with Daimler AG
and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, is trying to persuade more
carmakers that enhanced computing functions can woo consumers.  “The industry is in the middle of this very significant
transition to bring much richer connectivity into the vehicle,”
Ton Steenman, vice president of Intel’s intelligent systems
group, said in the statement. “We are beyond the pivot point of
this becoming a significant business.”  Intel will help speed the introduction of consumer
electronics functions in vehicles, Andy Palmer, Nissan’s
executive vice president in charge of Infiniti, said in the
statement.  ‘Faster Cycle’  “We spend about four years developing a car and it lasts
in the market about six years with a minor change in the
middle,” Palmer said. “That has been OK for the last 80 years,
but consumer electronics and smartphones are moving at a much
faster cycle.”  Nissan is trying to separate electronics that control
things such as the engine and brakes from the in-vehicle
 information systems . The rate of innovation in electronic
systems facing the driver is increasingly going to be a
“battlefield” in the competition for car buyers, Palmer said.  Cars need a better way to work with personal electronic
devices, such as mobile phones, and connect with services
provided by remote computers over the Internet, said Intel’s
Steenman.  The two companies have been jointly testing systems with
new features such as sensors and rearview cameras to alert the
owner when a car gets hit in a parking lot. Future systems may
also use a chip or bar code on a mobile phone’s screen to
replace keys, Intel said.  Intel rose 0.5 percent to $28.07 at the close in  New York .
Nissan fell 2 percent to 852 yen at 9:16 a.m. in Tokyo trading.  Sales Growth  Nissan is targeting a 14 percent increase in U.S. sales of
Nissan and Infiniti autos this year, and for global deliveries
to rise 12 percent to 5.4 million vehicles,  Carlos Ghosn , CEO of
both the Yokohama, Japan-based company and  France ’s Renault SA,
said in New York this week.  Ghosn has also committed Nissan to dominating an emerging
global market for all-electric vehicles, led by its Leaf compact.
That hatchback features a smartphone application to let drivers
remotely check the level of battery charge, begin and end
charging, see estimated driving range and turn on or off the
car’s heating and cooling system.  A version of the electric Infiniti model shown yesterday
will be sold within two years, Nissan said. The all-electric
sedan has a 24-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack that
provides about 100 miles (160 kilometers) of driving range per
charge, the company said.  Last year, the division that includes Intel’s car-chip
business increased sales 64 percent to $5 billion. The unit also
includes the business that’s trying to get Intel processors in
mobile phones and tablets. Intel had $54 billion in total
 revenue  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  