-- NLB Bank Capital Boost to Be Completed by June: Minister
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-04-05T12:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/nlb-bank-capital-boost-to-be-completed-by-june-minister.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. will get
as much as 400 million euro ($523 million) capital increase by
the end of June from private owners as Slovenia shies away from
spending public money to re-capitalize its biggest bank.  “I am optimistic this will be completed by June,” Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic said in an interview. “Talks with
investors are ongoing and it’s in the interest of all parties
involved that no details are divulged before the deal is
completed.”  The state-owned bank, in which  Belgium ’s  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  is
the second-largest holder, wants to raise equity capital to
increase its core Tier 1 capital ratio to above 9 percent as
demanded by the European Banking Authority. The region’s banking
regulator said in December NLB should raise 320 million euros.  Nova Ljubljanska reported a loss for a third consecutive
year as the 2009 recession and last year’s faltering economy
pushed companies into bankruptcy, forcing the lender to set
aside record-high reserves for bad loans. Slovenian lenders have
set aside 1.1 billion euros in 2011 for asset writedowns and
bad-loan reserves, the central bank said in February.  “We rely on a slim budget with all the savings measures
and on a successful capital boost for Nova Ljubljanska Banka,”
Sustersic said in the capital Ljubljana yesterday. “We don’t
plan big capital boosts for state-owned companies or banks from
public money.”  Slovenia’s budget shortfall swelled to 6.4 percent of total
output last year as the previous administration of Prime
Minister  Borut Pahor  spent 243 million euros to buy shares of
Nova Ljubljanska and helped other state-run companies.  Spending Cuts  The new government of Premier Janez Jansa wants to reduce
state spending by 800 million euros and cut the deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product as it seeks to allay investors
concern over its public debt, which more than doubled since the
country adopted the euro five years ago.  Nova Ljubljanska is also seeking a new chief executive
officer after Bozo Jasovic stepped down in December over a
disputed sale of retailer  Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d. to the
Croatian competitor Agrokor d.d. The government which indirectly
owns a majority in NLB, wants to reduce its holding to 25
percent plus one share, Sustersic had said.  “The main question is the future of the bank and we count
on better management of NLB which will be helped by the new or
additional owners,” Sustersic said. “NLB can be a positive
story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  