-- Nokia U.S. Future at Risk as AT&T Sales Seen Below Millio
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-05T07:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/nokia-u-s-future-at-risk-as-at-t-debut-sales-seen-below-million.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK)  is seeking to revive its
U.S. business with a smartphone release this weekend that may
determine the company’s future. Initial sales will probably
trail competitors’ recent debuts, hurting the company’s chances.  Nokia’s flagship Lumia 900 that runs  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows Phone software will start selling through  AT&T Inc. (T) , the
second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, on April 8. Sales in the
first three months of availability may reach hundreds of
thousands, rather than millions like for the market-leading
iPhone, according to Deutsche Bank AG and Avian Securities LLC.  “It’s going to be an uphill fight,” said Matthew Thornton, an analyst at Avian in  Boston . “The Nokia brand,
while I think it’s still known here, lags Apple and even
Samsung. I don’t see the phone becoming a hit.”  The price has been set at half that of the iPhone as Nokia
is trying to rekindle  sales  in a market that drives smartphone
innovation and global consumer trends. The Espoo, Finland-based
company losing its mobile-phone leadership in the U.S. years ago
foreshadowed eroding sales in  Europe  and  Asia  too as consumers
worldwide followed U.S. users in adopting  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “This launch will set the tone for Nokia’s recovery,”
said Alex Spektor, an analyst at  Strategy Analytics  in Newton,
 Massachusetts . “The U.S., since the rise of the iPhone, has
become the most important market for mobile devices so success
here is important for any vendor who wants to succeed on a
global scale.”  Lost Value  Nokia, once the world’s biggest smartphone maker, has lost
more than 80 percent, or $80 billion, of its market value since
the iPhone’s 2007 release. The stock has slid 51 percent since
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop started in 2010. The shares
rose 0.9 percent to 3.88 euros as of 10:11 a.m. in Helsinki.  While Nokia and AT&T declined to give specific targets for
the device, quarterly sales at below one million would likely
disappoint them given Nokia’s typical volumes in other markets,
according to John Jackson, an analyst at CCS Insight in Boston.  “It’ll have to be a number that starts with an ‘m,’”
Jackson said. “Nokia doesn’t tend to get out of bed for any
less than several million in the course of a year.”  Elop has said Nokia needs a revival in the U.S. as part of
its turnaround plan. The debut at AT&T may be Nokia’s best
chance to win back U.S. customers because new models from Apple
and BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  aren’t expected
before the second half.  IPhone, Android Debuts  “It’s critical for them to get this phone in people’s
hands,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics in
Dedham, Massachusetts. “The timing is good, there’s no other
major phone entering the market right now. The iPhone 5 is still
months away.”  Citing muted consumer demand for Windows Phone and intense
competition, Deutsche Bank’s Kai Korschelt estimates that Nokia
could sell 680,000 Lumias a quarter at AT&T. If consumers show
little interest and AT&T cuts back its support, sales could be
as small as 140,000 a quarter, the analyst said in a March 30
research note.  Avian’s Thornton, who  rates  Nokia shares neutral, estimates
that the company will sell 370,000 Lumia 900s this quarter. That
would be about 5 percent of AT&T’s smartphone sales, he said.  In the fourth quarter, AT&T activated 7.6 million iPhones
after introducing the latest version in October. Apple sold more
than  4 million  units of the new model in its first weekend
alone, though it was released in other countries in addition to
the U.S.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the biggest manufacturer of
Android phones, sold  5 million  Galaxy Note phones worldwide in
the first five months after its debut.  Banking on Windows  The Lumia’s aggressive price and marketing spending may
mean Nokia and Microsoft won’t make any profit with the device,
and that may not be their focus, Thornton said. It’s crucial for
the phone to become a hit to give carriers a reason to offer
Nokia’s future Windows Phone devices, he said.  “If it flops, AT&T is going to have very little incentive
to push this again when they come out with the next product,”
Thornton said.  Nokia’s strategy is risky because while it can support its
smartphone business with the money it makes from cheaper phones,
its  financial performance  as a whole has deteriorated.  Plunging smartphone demand has driven Nokia’s revenue to
below 2006 levels and the company’s loss exceeded $1 billion
last year. Standard and Poor’s cut Nokia’s rating to one level
above junk last month and signaled it may reduce it further.  Windows Phone  To fight Apple and Google, Elop sidelined Nokia’s own
operating systems and rebuilt a smartphone business using
Windows Phone. His plan is to differentiate Nokia from rivals in
markets such as the U.S., where the iPhone, Android and
BlackBerry control 94 percent of sales.  As part of the debut, the Lumia 900 is being supplied free
to the sales staff at AT&T stores in a bid to persuade them to
recommend it to shoppers. The phone costs $99.99 with a two-year
AT&T contract and $449.99 without one.  Windows Phone, unveiled in 2010, has so far won a niche
following. At the end of 2011, it  ranked sixth  with 1.9 percent
of the global market, down from 5th place and 3.4 percent of the
market at the end of 2010, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  “Windows Phone is the best operating system that no one is
using,” Entner said.  ‘Steady Growth’  The software is attractive, yet the Lumia 900 has drawbacks
including a Web browser that stalled frequently, a battery that
drained in less than a day in heavier use and a camera that took
worse photos than the iPhone, Walt Mossberg, the technology
columnist for the Wall Street Journal, said in his review.  Rich Jaroslovsky , the technology columnist for Bloomberg, called the
device “a very good phone and an even better value,” citing
its user-friendly interface, video-chat function and camera
quality.  The Lumia 900 is the first Nokia device to run on so-called
long-term evolution, or LTE, networks that allow faster data
speeds. The first models in the Lumia line were introduced
already last year and have sold “well over 1 million” units,
Nokia said in January.  Still, Nokia and AT&T executives still say they don’t put a
lot of emphasis on Lumia’s sales numbers right out of the gate.  Chris Weber, Nokia’s U.S. sales chief, said the important
number he will look for is the Lumia’s net promotion score. That
is the tally from a one-question survey asking users how likely
they are to recommend the device to a friend or colleague, on a
scale of 1 to 10. Low scores are subtracted from high scores to
give a numerical rating, which Nokia hasn’t revealed.  “How many we sell on the first weekend may not be the most
important metric for us,” said Jeff Bradley, AT&T senior vice
president of devices. “We want to see slow, steady growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  