-- Novatek Shows Interest in Cyprus Offshore Oil, Gas Licenses
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-04-05T15:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/novatek-shows-interest-in-cyprus-offshore-oil-gas-licenses-1-.html
OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s second-biggest
natural-gas producer, is looking at bidding for licenses to
explore off Cyprus after the island nation’s first gas discovery
attracted global companies.  Leonid Mikhelson, Novatek’s billionaire chief executive
officer, flew to Cyprus for talks yesterday, Neoklis Sylikiotis,
Cyprus’ commerce and industry minister, told reporters in
Nicosia today. The country is accepting applications for a
second licensing round until May 11.  Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  reported the first
discovery off Cyprus’s coast in December, with results from the
Cyprus A-1 well indicating as much as 8 trillion cubic feet of
gas. The find prompted “a lot of interest” in the area,
Sylikiotis said.  Cypriot President Demetris Christofias also met with
Mikhelson and a Russian delegation including OAO Gazprombank
Chairman Andrei Akimov, said Phidias Pilides, the chairman of
the Cyprus Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  Novatek’s press service confirmed the company is
considering participating in the announced tenders.  The Siberian company’s natural-gas production and sales are
now limited to Russia where state-run  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s
biggest producer, controls the pipeline network and exports.
Novatek ended a concession agreement last year to its only
exploration project outside Russia, the El-Arish project in
 Egypt , after drilling didn’t find commercial prospects.  Gas Liquefaction  The Russian gas producer may invest in Cyprus’s gas
industry, including gas production, transport and processing, if
it is successful in the licensing round, Pilides said by phone
from Nicosia. Liquefaction and petrochemical projects may
follow, he said.  Chinese companies have already submitted proposals for
construction of a gas facility, Sylikiotis said last week.  The east Mediterranean island is working with  Israel , 300
miles (480 kilometers) south across the sea, on plans to build a
pipeline to link their gas fields before the fuel is liquefied
for export to Europe or  Asia , Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Feb. 16.  Cyprus must hold a “considerable” stake in a proposed
liquefaction plant to export its gas, Sylikiotis said on March
28. As construction costs will be “extremely high,” Cyprus is
seeking “multiparty cooperation with the involvement of other
important countries and energy giants,” he said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  