-- Obama Risks Voter Backlash by Warning Court on Health Law
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-04-05T19:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/obama-risks-voter-backlash-by-warning-high-court-on-health-law.html
President  Barack Obama  has shown a
willingness to campaign against the U.S.  Supreme Court  if the
justices strike down his 2010 health-care law. It’s a strategy
that’s as risky as it is rare.  With the court months away from a ruling, Obama ratcheted
up the political stakes this week by saying a decision to reject
the law and its requirement that Americans get insurance would
be “judicial activism” by “an unelected group of people.”  Taking on the court would mean fighting an institution that
polls show is historically the most admired branch of
government. That’s one reason no major party nominee has made
the court a central issue since 1968, when  Richard Nixon  tapped
into voters’ unease about rising crime by attacking the
expansion of suspects’ rights under Chief Justice  Earl Warren .  “The risk any president faces is that criticism of the
Supreme Court can backfire,” said William G. Ross, a
constitutional law professor at Samford University in
Birmingham,  Alabama , who has written about the role of judicial
issues in presidential campaigns. “People can perceive it as
unduly disrespectful of an institution that commands tremendous
amounts of public respect.”  Declining Ratings  Still, the court’s approval ratings have declined in recent
years, and there are indications the public sees politics
infusing the biggest rulings. In a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted March 8-11, 75 percent of respondents said they expect
politics will influence the health-care decision, while only 17
percent said they believe the case will be decided solely on its
legal merits. Eight percent said they weren’t sure.  Democrats are increasingly questioning the motives of the
court and its majority of five Republican appointees. A decision
striking down the law would almost certainly be along party-
based lines, with the five Republican-appointed justices joining
to invalidate the measure and the four Democratic appointees
dissenting.  “It sure looks like a court of conservative activists,”
Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York told reporters
today.  Obama was training his sights on the court even before the
health-care case landed there. The president used part of his
2010 State of the Union address to criticize a court decision
letting corporations spend unlimited sums on political
advertising, saying it would “open the floodgates” for special
interests to “spend without limit in our elections.”  Not Waiting  This time, he isn’t waiting for the court to rule. Last
week’s three-day, 6 1/2-hour argument -- the longest in 44 years
-- suggested the court might turn down at least the core of the
health-care law, the insurance mandate. The session at times
took on almost a political air as the justices debated whether
Congress would be able to re-enact or repeal parts of the law.  This will mark the first time the court has ruled on a
president’s signature legislative accomplishment in the middle
of his re-election campaign. The decision will probably come in
late June, less than five months before the election.  Obama twice this week said he was confident the court will
uphold the law, which would expand health insurance to at least
30 million people and reshape an industry that makes up one-
sixth of the  U.S. economy .  ‘Judicial Activism’  In almost the same breath, he went on the attack, saying a
ruling against the law would be the very type of “judicial
activism” Republicans have long denounced. The phrase has
become a standard Republican line for criticizing Supreme Court
decisions backing abortion access, expanding gay rights and
limiting the death penalty.  Senator  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, the top Senate
Republican, said in an interview that Obama is “trying to
intimidate them into making a decision on Obamacare that he
favors.” The Kentucky senator added, “And the threat is, if
you don’t decide the way I want you to, I will make you an issue
in the campaign.”  In remarks prepared for delivery to the Rotary Club of
Lexington,  Kentucky , today, McConnell said Obama “crossed a
dangerous line this week” and needs to “back off.”  Republicans have already begun to use the case for campaign
purposes, posting an Internet advertisement last week that
altered the audio from the argument to attack the law.  No Intimidation  Jay Carney , a White House spokesman, yesterday called the
president’s comments “the reverse of intimidation.”  Obama was saying only that he expects the court to uphold
the law on the basis of prior cases backing congressional power,
Carney told reporters. “He’s simply making an observation about
precedent and the fact that he expects the court to adhere to
that precedent,” he said, adding that Obama spoke about the
case only after being asked a question by a reporter.  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman for Obama’s re-election campaign,
declined to comment on the prospect of the court becoming a
campaign issue.  Outside observers questioned the wisdom of Obama’s comments
at a time when the justices might not have made up their minds.
The president risks alienating Chief Justice John Roberts and
Justice  Anthony Kennedy , the very ones he needs to support the
law, said Grier Stephenson, a government professor at Franklin &
Marshall College in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania .  ‘Might Backfire’  “That he warned the court against doing it would almost be
like a challenge to the court, and that might backfire,” said
Stephenson, author of “Campaigns and the Court.” “You never
know how individual justices might take being warned away from a
particular decision.”  Already, at least one Republican-appointed judge is
bristling at the president’s comments. A day after Obama spoke,
a federal appeals court reviewing a separate part of the health-
care measure ordered the  Justice Department  to submit at least a
three-page letter stating whether it believes courts can strike
down unconstitutional laws.  Obama’s statement “has troubled a number of people who
have read it as somehow a challenge to the federal courts or to
their authority,” Judge Jerry Smith told a Justice Department
lawyer in court.  Attorney General Eric Holder responded to Smith today with
a letter saying “the power of the courts to review the
constitutionality of legislation is beyond dispute.” The
president’s remarks were “fully consistent” with that
principle, the attorney general wrote. Holder’s reply was 2 ½
pages.  Court Remains Popular  More broadly, Obama would run a political risk in attacking
an institution that remains popular, though less so than in
previous years. The court’s approval rating stood at 46 percent,
with 40 percent disapproving, according to a  Gallup  poll taken
in September. As recently as 2009, the court’s approval rating
stood at 61 percent.  “Even many Americans who disagree with individual
decisions of the Supreme Court or even the general trend of
Supreme Court decisions nevertheless retain immense respect for
the court as an institution,” Ross said.  Obama’s approval rating was 42 percent during that same
period. It has since risen to 48 percent, with 45 percent
disapproving, according to the latest Gallup three-day tracking
 poll . A Gallup poll taken last month showed Congress’s approval
rating at 12 percent.  An attack on the court would mark a historic shift for
Obama’s party. The last Democratic presidential nominee to make
the court a campaign issue was  William Jennings Bryan , who lost
the 1896 election after criticizing the court’s rulings against
labor unions and an income tax.  Roosevelt and Court  In 1936,  Franklin Roosevelt  refrained from attacking the
court during his re-election bid even though it had overturned
central aspects of his New Deal economic-recovery plan.
Roosevelt waited until after his landslide victory to propose
packing the court with as many as six additional justices who
would be more sympathetic to his programs.  The idea went nowhere, in part because the public was
uneasy about undermining the court’s independence, said Barry
Friedman, a  New York  University law professor and author of a
 book  on public opinion and the Supreme Court.  “Probably Obama’s best strategy would be to run quietly
against the court rather than loudly, to allow the court to be
an issue but not be seen as the primary attacker,” Friedman
said. “History suggests there’s sometimes a danger in attacking
the court too aggressively.”  A criticism of the court would underscore the power the
winner of the presidential election may have to reshape the
nine-member bench. Four justices are 70 or older, including  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  at 79,  Antonin Scalia  at 76, Kennedy at 75; and
 Stephen Breyer  at 73.  Ultimately, Obama’s criticisms may have less to do with
winning over swing voters than reminding his political base of
the court’s importance.  Focusing on the court tells his supporters that, “if he
remains in office for the next four years, in all likelihood he
will have the opportunity to appoint at least one or two
justices to the court,” Ross said. “And that could have a
profound impact on the court.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  