-- Obama Assails Ryan Budget Without Long-Term Alternative
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/obama-assails-ryan-budget-without-long-term-alternative.html
President  Barack Obama  has rebuked
Republicans for their “radical vision” of a scaled-down
government and says it’s time to “get serious about the
 deficit .” His own budget fails to do that over the long term.  White House projections show federal debt as a proportion
of gross domestic product growing by more than three-quarters
under Obama’s plan to a record 124 percent in 2050, well above
the 90 percent danger zone identified by economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff . And the government’s share of the
economy climbs to levels not seen since World War II, largely
because of surging spending on health care.  That concerns Rogoff, a professor at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , who co-wrote with Reinhart the book
“This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.”
Countries with excessive government liabilities historically
have suffered “very long periods of tepid growth,” he said.  “You don’t have to have a financial crisis” for that to
occur, yet one is often “lurking” in the background, he said.  The conflict over the budget underscores how far apart
Republicans and Democrats are in solving the nation’s fiscal
challenges heading into an election. The fight will only
intensify at the end of the year when the administration and
Congress must decide whether to extend income-tax cuts, raise
the debt ceiling and allow automatic budget cuts to be enacted.  Beyond 10 Years  In the short term, Obama brings down the  deficit  to
manageable levels while stabilizing publicly held debt at about
76 percent of GDP in 2022, the  Congressional Budget Office  said
in a report last month. To do that, the president raises taxes
on households making $250,000 or more while cutting spending on
defense and other “ discretionary ” programs, or those whose
budgets Congress sets each year.  It’s beyond the 10-year budget window that the troubles
begin to pile up. The growing ranks of retired baby boomers --
the approximately 76 million Americans born between 1946 and
1964 -- and the rise in health-care costs will drive government
outlays, the deficits and debt higher.  As a share of GDP, federal spending increases to 27 percent
in 2050 and keeps on rising, according to projections by the
White House Office of Management and Budget. That would be up
from 24 percent in 2011 and would be the highest level since
1945, when the military build-up during World War II pushed it
to 42 percent.  The president’s proposal “is not a long-term solution to
our problem,” said former Congressional Budget Office Director
 Robert Reischauer . “It gets us through what he hopes is his
second term, but it doesn’t do much for the second term of his
successor.”  Senate Democrats Punt  Senate Democrats , for their part, haven’t even put out a
proposal of their own: They’ve already announced they have no
plans to pass a budget this year, which means Congress will go
without a tax-and-spending blueprint for the third consecutive
year.  The Office of Management and Budget said in a statement
that the president’s budget would bring down deficits in the
short term to where they are at sustainable levels.  So far, investors have shrugged off forecasts of mounting
U.S. government debt. The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note
stood at 2.22 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York  yesterday, compared
with an average of more than 4 percent since 2000.  The U.S. looks attractive to investors when compared with
 Europe , where the debt in a number of countries is higher, said
Reischauer, a Medicare public trustee. “We’re the best-looking
horse in the glue factory,” he said.  Republican ‘Trojan Horse’  The budget passed by  House Republicans  last week has also
drawn criticism from Reischauer and other analysts.  Long term, the budget is more aggressive than Obama’s in
tackling the debt, reducing it to 10 percent of GDP by 2050,
according to the CBO. Yet the plan, sponsored by Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, does that
by lowering government’s share of the economy to a level not
seen since 1951, before  Medicare (USBOMDCA) , the Environmental Protection
Agency and the space program. And it raises no extra revenue.  Still, “The president’s budget is more realistic than
Ryan’s,” said  Bob Bixby , head of the Concord Coalition, whose
Washington-based nonprofit group advocates for balanced budgets.  Obama this week attacked the Republican blueprint, charging
that it would slash vital government programs to pay for tax
giveaways for the wealthy. The plan “is a Trojan horse,
disguised as deficit-reduction plans,” the president said at an
Associated Press luncheon in  Washington  on April 3. “It is
thinly veiled social Darwinism.”  ‘Duck and Run’  Ryan took Obama to task. “History will not be kind to a
president who, when it came time to confront our generation’s
defining challenge, chose to duck and run,” he said in a press
statement.  The White House budget submission in February noted that
the administration hadn’t put forward a long-term fix for the
U.S.’s fiscal problems.  “The policies in this budget stabilize the deficit at less
than 3 percent of GDP,” according to a budget document.
“Beyond 2022, however, the fiscal position gradually
deteriorates mainly because of the aging of the population and
the high continuing cost of the government’s health-care
programs,” it said. “The policies in the 2013 budget will
allow more time to develop long-term policies to address the
persistently rising debt.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  told Ryan at a budget
committee hearing in February that the administration didn’t
have a “definitive solution to that long-term problem -- but
what we do know is we don’t like yours.”  ‘Bold Proposals’  Bixby of the Concord Coalition likened the president’s
approach to “leading from behind” -- a reference to the
strategy an unnamed administration adviser told The New Yorker
magazine last year that Obama was following in  Libya .  “If we’re going to break through to the public and
actually make some changes on health care and  tax reform , I
think you do need to put out a bold proposal and get people
talking about it,” said Bixby. “There really aren’t any bold
proposals in the president’s budget.”  Obama defended the administration’s budget this week,
saying it puts “annual domestic spending on a path to become
the smallest share of the economy since Dwight Eisenhower” was
president more than 50 years ago. That reflects spending caps
agreed to with the Republicans last year as part of a deal to
raise the debt ceiling and covers discretionary outlays on
everything from military equipment to school lunches.  ‘Detailed Plan’  The president also told the AP luncheon that he had put
forward “a detailed plan that would reform and strengthen
Medicare and Medicaid.” His proposals include requiring
wealthier beneficiaries to pay higher premiums for health care
beginning in 2017, and giving a board of experts more power to
wring savings out of the programs.  Even with those steps, Medicare and Medicaid expenditures
continue to climb as a share of the economy, though not as much
as they would if they were left untouched, the White House
budget shows. Medicare outlays increase to 5 percent of GDP in
2050 from 3.25 percent in 2011 while Medicaid spending increases
to 3 percent from about 2 percent.  Ryan takes a different approach. He wants to provide fixed
subsidies to seniors to either buy private health insurance or
participate in Medicare, a move designed to harness competition
to drive down costs. He would also lop $800 billion off Medicaid
over the next decade.  Those cuts would reduce Medicaid’s share of the economy in
the coming decades, but not Medicare’s, according to the CBO.  Waiting for Elections  Lawmakers probably won’t make any substantive progress
toward taming the deficit until after the November elections,
when the across-the board income tax cuts enacted under
President  George W. Bush  will expire, the automatic spending
reductions will be set to kick in, and the government once again
nears the debt limit.  Both sides are focused instead on wooing voters, seeking to
gain a stronger hand in the elections for negotiations.  It won’t be easy. More than 4 out of 5 Americans oppose
scaling back Medicare benefits to help narrow the federal  budget
deficit , according to a Bloomberg-Washington Post national poll
conducted last October.  The two parties are taking opposite approaches, with
Republicans betting voters’ concern with government red ink will
outweigh their desire to maintain popular programs at current
levels. Democrats are gambling it’s better to avoid spelling out
what they’d do to reduce long-term deficits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt in Washington at  choyt2@bloomberg.net  