-- Obama Backs Admission of Women to Augusta Golf Club
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/obama-backs-admission-of-women-to-augusta-golf-club.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney have come out
against the all-male membership rule at Georgia’s Augusta
National Golf Club, home to the Masters Tournament.  “His personal opinion is that women should be admitted to
the club,” Obama’s spokesman Jay Carney said yesterday in
response to a question at a White House briefing. “It’s
obviously up to the club to decide.”  “If I were a member, and if I could run Augusta, which
isn’t likely to happen, but of course I’d have women in Augusta.
Sure,” Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, told a
reporter who questioned him on the topic at a campaign stop in
Tunkhannock, Pennsylvania.  Bloomberg News revived the debate when it reported on March
28 the conflict between Augusta’s men-only membership policy and
Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, the new chief executive officer of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   IBM,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  are sponsors for the
Masters, which is holding its second round today at Georgia’s
Augusta National, where no woman has been offered membership
since its founding eight decades ago. Historically, the club has
offered a membership to the CEO of IBM, allowing him to don the
club’s green member blazer.  Club Chairman Billy Payne said he wouldn’t discuss the
organization’s lack of female members.  Edward Barbini, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
declined to comment after the remarks by the White House and
Romney. He also declined to say whether Rometty or her
predecessor at IBM, Sam Palmisano, would attend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  