-- Obama Health-Care Plan Can Live Even If Insurance Mandate Dies
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-04-05T14:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/obama-health-care-plan-can-live-even-if-insurance-mandate-dies.html
Judging from the skeptical questions
posed by justices last month, there’s a real chance that the
 Supreme Court  will strike down the central provision of the
Affordable Care Act: the mandate that individuals carry health
insurance.  Without it, the Obama administration says, some healthy
people will forgo coverage, which will force insurers to raise
premiums on everyone else, thus prompting even more people to
drop out of the insurance pool until only the sickest and
costliest remain -- a spiral to the death for what critics call
Obamacare.  Getting everyone or almost everyone to pay in is essential
for financing the key protections of Obama’s health-care law:
the requirement that insurers cover all comers, and that they do
so without charging extra for costly pre-existing conditions.  Work being done by economists, health policy experts, and
lobbyists suggests there may be alternatives to the individual
mandate that would rope healthy people into buying insurance in
ways that don’t attract legal challenges, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its April 9 issue.  In theory, a mandate is a good way to get more people into
the insurance pool. The Affordable Care Act imposes a mild
penalty for noncompliance: $695 annually, or 2.5 percent of
 household income , whichever is higher.  No Criminal Penalty  The law also says non-payers “shall not be subject to any
criminal prosecution or penalty.” Even with generous government
subsidies, a basic health insurance policy would cost more than
$2,000 for an individual earning $30,000 a year.  A healthy person might prefer to opt out and pay the fine,
says Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on
Health, which represents  American Express Co. (AXP) , Boeing Co., FedEx
Corp.,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , and other large
companies.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that even with
the mandate, about 26 million Americans, down from about 56
million now, would be uninsured in 2016 -- mostly undocumented
immigrants, people exempted because of low income, and those who
simply prefer to pay the penalty.  Because the penalties for non-coverage are so weak, it
doesn’t take a lot to come up with alternatives that would
accomplish much of what it’s supposed to achieve. Some people
say those options could work better.  Partial Approaches  “It’s quite possible,” says Paul Ginsburg, president of the
nonpartisan Center for Studying Health System Change, “that some
of these partial approaches might be more effective than the
mandate they would replace.”  The alternative that comes closest to preserving the
mandate would be to give tax credits to everyone who carries
health insurance. That’s functionally the same as fining those
who don’t have coverage, and less subject to constitutional
challenge.  It’s essentially the approach being advocated by House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican who
would provide refundable tax credits, usable solely for buying
health insurance, of $2,300 for individuals and $5,700 for
families.  Converting the insurance requirement to a tax credit is
“both a really smart idea and shows you the fallacy of the
argument against the mandate, if you can solve the
constitutional problem with such a simple thing as relabeling
it,” says Peter Gosselin, a senior health policy analyst for
Bloomberg Government.  Impact on Deficit  One hurdle is that handing out tax credits would worsen the
federal  budget deficit  unless the move were offset by spending
cuts elsewhere or a tax increase. Ryan would cut spending.  If the credits don’t fly, another way to maneuver people
into buying insurance without a mandate is to warn them that
their premiums will go up if they put off getting covered.  Medicare has late enrollment penalties for both Part B
doctors’ and outpatient coverage and Part D prescription drug
coverage. The Part D penalty is 1 percent of the premium for
each month after age 65 that someone enrolls.  A related idea, used in most company health plans, is to
give people just one opportunity per year to sign up. That way
they can’t game the system by waiting until they’re sick or hurt
to rush to buy a policy.  Just One Shot  Deciding how tough to make the conditions for enrollment
would be tricky. The strongest inducement would be to warn
people they have just one shot to apply for coverage under the
Obama health plan protections.  If they miss the deadline, they have to buy coverage at
whatever price the market will bear -- which could be
prohibitively high for the seriously ill. That might be more
punitive an idea than America can stomach.  When misfortune befalls the uninsured, “are we really
prepared to turn them away?” asks Larry Levitt, a senior vice
president at the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonpartisan health
policy think tank.  The likelihood that Congress would pass any of these
proposals is tough to gauge. Many Republicans are committed to
overturning Obama’s plan in its entirety; their mantra is
“repeal and replace.”  They value the idea of near-universal coverage far less
than Democrats. The Republicans’ priority is lowering the cost
of health care through measures such as limiting medical
malpractice suits, which Republicans say would enable more
people to afford insurance.  Finding a Balance  Republicans understand they’ll need to get healthy people
into the insurance pool somehow if they want to preserve the
Obama law’s popular prohibitions on denial of insurance and
higher premiums for pre-existing conditions.  “We’d have to get that balance right,” Michigan Republican
Fred Upton, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
told the New York Times on April 4.  Whether the mandate lives or dies, old-fashioned marketing
would be an easy way to sign people up.  In  Massachusetts , which has an individual mandate, players
from the  Boston Red Sox  urged people to get covered. More than
98 percent of state residents have health insurance.  Behavioral economists would suggest enrolling people in a
health plan automatically and giving them an option to drop it
if they truly object.  Companies that automatically enroll employees in 401(k)
retirement savings plans have found that contribution rates have
risen as much as 30 percentage points, according to the Employee
Benefit Research Institute.  Alternatives to the mandate would undoubtedly leave many
people uncovered. Still, supporters of the health-care law’s
protections are banking on them being enough, if the mandate
falls, to keep Obama’s plan from falling into the dreaded death
spiral.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  