-- Obama Signs Bill Easing Securities Laws for Startup Firms
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-05T20:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/obama-signs-bill-easing-securities-laws-for-closely-held-firms.html
President  Barack Obama  signed a
measure easing securities laws for closely held firms and newly
public companies.  “America has always had the most daring entrepreneurs in
the world,” Obama said at a signing ceremony at the White
House. “Some of them are standing with me today. When their
ideas take root, we get inventions that can change the way we
live. And when their businesses take off, more people become
employed,” he said.  The new law “is one useful and important step” to ensure
that start-ups and small business have access to financing,
Obama said.  Elements of the plan, which received bipartisan support in
the Democratic-led Senate and Republican-led House, were
outlined by Obama in his economic proposals to spur job growth
in September.  Guests at the Rose Garden ceremony included  Steve Case ,
former chairman of America Online Inc. and now chairman of
Startup American Partnership Board; members of Congress, Mark G.
Heeson, president of  National Venture Capital Association ;
Timothy Rowe, chief executive of Cambridge Innovation Center,
which is a community of more than 500 startup firms ranging from
computer to coal-gasification companies.  The law “shows we can set aside our differences and work
together on areas of common ground to grow the economy and get
people back to work,” said House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, who attended the event.  Bipartisan Action  The measure is the second bipartisan piece of legislation
enacted this week, after the president signed a measure April 4
strengthening the ban on  insider trading  by members of Congress
and other government officials.  The Labor Department is preparing to issue its monthly jobs
report tomorrow. The department is projected to show a gain of
205,000 jobs in March, according to a median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The jobless rate is projected
to hold at a three-year low of 8.3 percent.  In a further sign of an economy in recovery, the department
today reported that claims for U.S. unemployment benefits fell
6,000 to 357,000 in the week ended March 31, the lowest level in
four years.  Proponents say the legislation would allow closely held
firms to more easily raise capital and present more
opportunities for startup companies to go public.  Investor Protections Eased  Helping startup companies “is more concerned with getting
 Washington  out of the way than getting it more involved,”
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said in a
statement. “This bill is exactly the kind of thing Americans
have been asking for -- greater freedom and flexibility.”  Even with the support of Obama and more than 150 Democrats
in the House, the measure was slowed by Senate Democrats who
voiced concerns about rolling back investor protections, many of
which were enacted after the collapse of the dot-com bubble.  Obama, in response to concerns, said he would instruct the
Treasury and Justice departments, along with the  Small Business
Administration , to monitor implementation of the law and report
regularly to him on their findings.  It will be done “in a way that retains necessary investor
protections,” spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters today.  Access to Capital  “By increasing access to capital and reducing onerous
regulations, entrepreneurs and small business owners will have
more ability to take risks, grow and create jobs,” according to
a statement by Cantor, who said he spent time this week meeting
with entrepreneurs in  California ’s Silicon Valley.  The House initially passed the bill, H.R. 3606, on March 8
by a vote of 390-23. The Senate passed the measure with an
amendment on March 22 by a vote of 73-26. The House agreed to
the Senate change on March 27, clearing the measure with a vote
of 380-41.  The law undoes a ban on closely held businesses soliciting
investments, increases the number of investors they can have,
and exempts newly public companies with less than $1 billion in
revenue from some reporting requirements of the Dodd-Frank and
Sarbanes-Oxley laws.  The measure also permits so-called crowdfunding, a
mechanism where startup companies use social networking
platforms such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. to raise
capital.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  