-- Morgan Stanley-Backed PetroVietnam Unit Eyes Bonds on Loan Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-05T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/morgan-stanley-backed-petrovietnam-unit-eyes-bonds-on-loan-costs.html
PetroVietnam Finance Joint-Stock
Co. (PVF) , which makes loans and helps arrange investments in local
companies, plans to raise as much as 8 trillion dong ($384
million) from bond sales this year as high  interest rates  make
bank loans more expensive.  The company is seeking approval from the country’s central
bank to sell 5 trillion dong of three- to five-year notes as
early as this quarter, chief executive officer Nguyen Thien Bao
said in an interview in  Hanoi  April 4. It also plans to sell 3
trillion dong of convertible bonds this year, he said. The
bonds’ coupons will be determined by market conditions, Bao
said.  PetroVietnam Finance, backed by Morgan Stanley, joins
 Joint-Stock Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam , or Vietcombank,
 Vincom Joint-Stock Co. (VIC)  and  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank
for Industry and Trade , known as VietinBank, in seeking to raise
money by accessing debt capital markets as higher interest rates
make borrowing from domestic banks more costly.  “Bank loans are costly due to higher rates and banks are
cautious, lending only to long-standing customers,” said Alan
Pham, the chief economist at VinaCapital Investment Management
Ltd. “Issuing new shares dilutes the value for existing
shareholders. So out of the three sources of funding, the  bond
market  is the best choice.”  High borrowing costs and “limited” access to credit led
to a 6 percent increase in the number of companies closing in
the first quarter from a year earlier, Vu Duc Dam, chairman of
the Government Office, said April 1. Banks in  Vietnam  are also
hobbled by soured loans, which the government is trying to
address by buying bad-debt from commercial banks to strengthen
their balance sheets.  Earnings Targets  The government cut its credit growth target to as low as 15
percent this year from less than 20 percent in 2011. Vietnam’s
loans expanded 13 percent last year, according to the central
bank. Policy makers raised the refinancing rate to 15 percent
from 9 percent at the start of last year, before lowering it to
14 percent on March 12.  PetroVietnam Finance, a unit of Vietnam Oil & Gas Group,
expects pretax profit to rise 20 percent to 660 billion dong
this year, Bao said at the company’s headquarters in Hanoi.
Revenue is forecast to fall to 6.9 trillion dong from 8 trillion
dong last year, he said. Morgan Stanley holds a 10 percent stake
in the company, according to PetroVietnam Finance’s website.  Vietcombank, the country’s largest lender by market value,
said last month it plans to sell as much as $1 billion of 10-
year bonds internationally as early as 2012. VietinBank also
said it will offer as much as $2 billion of notes this year.  Refrigeration Electrical Engineering Corp. (REE)  said in March it
will sell 557.8 billion dong of convertible bonds in the second
quarter to its strategic partners, while real estate developer
Vincom JSC sold $185 million of convertible bonds in March.  Singapore Listing  PetroVietnam Finance will cancel its Singapore listing plan
because the company currently doesn’t “see any benefits” from
listing overseas, Bao said. The company had initially planned to
list its shares on the  Singapore Exchange  in the second quarter
of 2010.  The company is also advising investors from Japan and  Korea 
on purchasing stakes in Vietnamese companies and expects to help
manage two to three deals with an average value of about $100
million to $200 million each, Bao said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  