-- Most Emerging Stocks Slide on Europe Crisis, Taiwan Tax
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-04-05T06:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/most-emerging-stocks-slide-on-europe-crisis-taiwan-tax-concern.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell as
weaker demand at a Spanish bond auction renewed concerns  Europe 
won’t contain its debt crisis and on worries Taiwan may impose a
capital-gains tax on stock transactions.  Hotai Motor Co. (2207) , an automaker, sank 6.9 percent in Taipei
after BNP Paribas SA downgraded the stock. STX Pan Ocean Co.,
South Korea’s biggest bulk carrier, slid 4.3 percent on concern
it will post a wider-than-estimated quarterly operating loss.
Citic Securities Co. surged 6 percent in  Shanghai , leading gains
by brokerages, after  China  said it will raise the amount
foreigners can invest in stocks, bonds and  bank deposits .  About seven stocks fell for every four that rose on the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which climbed 0.1 percent to
1,038.03 as of 2:20 p.m. Hong Kong time. The gauge surged 14
percent in the first quarter. Taiwan’s  Taiex index  slumped 1.6
percent, the most in  Asia . The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.4
percent. In Europe, Spain struggled to borrow in financial
markets, selling 2.6 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds at an
auction yesterday, an amount that was near the bottom of a range
set by the Treasury for the sale.  “Europe is not completely out of the woods and the Spanish
bond auction is an indication of that,” Katherine Schapiro, a
San Francisco-based manager at Sentinel Asset Management Inc.,
which oversees about $20 billion, said on Bloomberg Television.
“After such a strong first quarter, it’s not a surprise to
expect some profit-taking. We have a little room here for some
downside and frankly, we think that’s healthy.”  Tax Concern  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has declined 0.4 percent
this week and is on course for a third straight week of losses.
Still, the measure has climbed 13 percent this year, beating a 9
percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed nations.
The gauge of developing nations is  valued  at 10.7 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
12.6 times.  Markets in India and Philippines are shut for holidays.
Taiwan’s stock index slumped for a third day to its lowest close
since Feb. 1. There’s a “99 percent” chance that Taiwan will
introduce the tax to address social inequalities and to raise
tax revenues, Schive Chi, chairman of Taiwan Stock Exchange
Corp., said in an April 3 interview.  “There’s a lot of displeasure among investors,” Eric Chou, who helps manage around $1.8 billion at Jih Sun Securities
Investment Trust Co. in Taipei, said in a telephone interview.
“There will be more talks this afternoon and there’s still a
lot of uncertainty.”  China Rallies  Taiwan’s Hotai Motor fell the most since October 2008, the
biggest decliner on the MSCI Emerging Markets gauge. The
company’s stock rating was cut to reduce, an equivalent of sell,
from hold at BNP Paribas.  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474) , a chipmaker,
plunged 6.5 percent in Taipei.  STX Pan Ocean tumbled to its lowest level since Jan. 19 in
Seoul. The company may post a wider-than-expected first-quarter
operating loss of 72.7 billion won, Daishin Securities wrote in
a report today.  Stocks in China climbed after the nation accelerated the
opening of its  capital markets  as the government shifts its
growth model to domestic consumption from exports. The China
Securities Regulatory Commission increased quotas for qualified
foreign institutional investors to $80 billion from $30 billion.  Offshore investors will also be allowed to pump an extra 50
billion yuan ($7.9 billion) of local currency into the country,
up from 20 billion yuan, according to a  statement  on its website
April 3.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s
biggest lender, lost 1.4 percent in Shanghai, while largest
rival  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  retreated 1.2 percent.
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation needs to break a
banking monopoly of a few big lenders that make easy profits
because it’s hard to borrow money elsewhere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 