-- Payless Shoes Seen Accepting Lowest Apparel Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-04-05T02:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/payless-shoes-seen-accepting-lowest-apparel-valuation-real-m-a.html
Payless ShoeSource is poised to sell
itself for less than any apparel retailer in America, which may
be the best price it can get.  Collective Brands Inc. (PSS) , owner of the discount chain and the
Saucony and Sperry Top-Sider brands, is expecting offers at the
end of April that will value the company at $20 to $22 a share,
people familiar with the matter said last week. While the range
is more than double Collective’s price since it began reviewing
its options in August, a buyer would get the retailer at a 62
percent discount to sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s less than any of its publicly traded rivals.  Collective, which had a  record loss  last fiscal year, is
attracting interest from  South Korea ’s E-Land Group,  Brown Shoe
Co. (BWS)  and private-equity firms, the people said, after fourth-
quarter same-store sales rose the most in more than two years.
While Collective’s wholesale unit also boosted sales 24 percent
last year, potential buyers would have to take on the retailer’s
debt, which exceeded a half-billion dollars. Collective would
then cost more relative to earnings than any U.S. apparel
retailer deal on record, the data show.  An offer of $20 to $22 is “the right price given what the
company’s doing now,” Bill Kavaler, a special situations
analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “Making progress takes time.”  Stephanie Waugh, a spokeswoman for Topeka, Kansas-based
Collective, declined to comment on how much the company could
be worth in a sale.  Stride Rite, Keds  Payless ShoeSource Inc. became Collective Brands after
acquiring Stride Rite Corp. in August 2007. Its retail
operations, which included about 3,500 Payless ShoeSource
outlets in the U.S. last fiscal year, accounted for about 80
percent of revenue, according to a company filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The rest came from its
wholesale business, which supplies Saucony,  Sperry Top-Sider ,
Stride Rite and Keds shoes to retailers.  After  plunging  71 percent from its all-time high in May
2007 and reporting same-store sales declines for four straight
years, Collective said on Aug. 24 that it would review “a full
range” of alternatives to boost shareholder returns.  Over the same span, the S&P Midcap Consumer Discretionary
Index fell 10 percent.  While no final bids have been made, the price range of $20
to $22 a share is higher than Collective anticipated in August,
said the people familiar, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private.  Potential Bidders  E-Land has indicated to Collective it will put in a solo
bid to acquire the whole company and hasn’t given a price, said
one of the people. St. Louis-based Brown Shoe also has indicated
it will bid, most likely with Cerberus Capital Management LP,
said one of the people.  Ro Byung Gyoo, a spokesman for E-Land, declined to comment
on whether the company plans to submit a final offer, bid
jointly with other partners or what it might pay. Peggy Reilly Tharp, a spokeswoman for Brown Shoe, wasn’t immediately
available to comment. A representative from New York-based
Cerberus declined to comment on whether the private-equity firm
will bid for Collective.  Collective’s shares have already  rallied  88 percent to
$19.33 yesterday since the company initiated its review in
August and announced an effort to revive  flagging sales  at
Payless. It included shuttering 475 under-performing stores,
implementing brand-loyalty programs and changing the product mix
to focus more on lower-priced items.  ‘Bearing Fruit’  Same-stores sales, or sales at outlets open more than one
year, grew 1.6 percent at the company’s U.S. Payless stores in
the fourth quarter and 1.7 percent overall, the most since 2009,
the company said.  “You’re starting to see some of these things bearing
fruit,” Christopher Svezia, senior analyst for Susquehanna
International Group LLC in New York, in a telephone interview.
Susquehanna owns shares of Collective Brands. Still, “at the
end of the day Payless is a very mature business, it’s not a
growth business.”  Svezia said a takeover price of $22 or $23 a share “makes
some sense.”  Collective’s sales are  projected  to rise 2 percent in the
current fiscal year and 4 percent the following year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At yesterday’s closing price, Collective was valued at 0.34
times its sales in the fiscal year ended in January, the lowest
among publicly traded apparel retailers with a market
capitalization greater than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A $22 per-share offer would value
Collective at about 0.38 times sales, still the lowest among its
peers, the data show.  Debt Drag  While Collective’s stock is trading at the cheapest among
rivals relative to sales, the company’s $610 million in
 borrowings  make it more expensive by other measures.  Taking net debt into account, Collective’s $19.33 closing
price yesterday valued the company at 14.2 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, compared with
the median 8.68 times for peers and also higher than the median
9.22 Ebitda multiple on U.S. apparel retail deals greater than
$500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Collective’s debt load is “a hold back, it’s definitely a
negative,” Patrick McKeever, an analyst at MKM Partners in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  Given the revival in demand at Collective’s Payless
outlets, the company may still justify a higher price, according
to Dorothy Lakner, an analyst at Caris & Co. in New York.  Gaining Traction  Collective’s earnings for its  fiscal first quarter , which
ends at about the same time that final bids are expected, could
sway the company’s decision on price, she said.  “Why would management simply accept what to me looks like
a relatively lowball offer in the low 20s if on their own they
were beginning to do better?” Lakner said.  The average 12-month stock-price  estimate  of $19.50 among
analysts who cover Collective, less than 1 percent above its
current price, suggests a lower valuation for the company.  “Something north of $20 is aggressive, but certainly
within the realm of possibility,” McKeever at MKM said. Still,
“I just don’t see a quick or easy fix for Payless. You have to
weigh that pretty heavily in valuing the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 