-- Pennsylvania High Court Takes Appeal on Marcellus Shale Rights
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-05T17:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/pennsylvania-high-court-takes-appeal-on-marcellus-shale-rights.html
The  Pennsylvania  Supreme Court’s
decision to hear an appeal of a dispute over Marcellus Shale
natural-gas rights may clarify the status of thousands of
drilling leases in the state.  Two Pennsylvania landowners, John and Mary Butler, are
challenging an intermediate appeals court ruling that called for
scientific opinion on whether Marcellus Shale gas, which is
released by the process known as hydraulic fracturing, should be
considered a mineral under an 1882 decision of the state’s high
court. In the trial court, the landowners won their claim to the
natural gas rights.  “It is essential to have established law and expectations
with regard to oil and gas conveyancing,” the Marcellus Shale
Coalition, which represents the gas industry, said yesterday in
a statement. “As there already is established and long-standing
Pennsylvania legal precedent on this subject, the timely
reaffirming of that precedent will provide important and
necessary certainty.”  Since 2009, Pennsylvania’s  high court  has taken at least
four significant cases that deal with the state’s portion of the
Marcellus shale, a dense rock formation that stretches from  New
York  to  West Virginia . The Butler case could mark the first time
in more than five decades that the court will address a 130-
year-old rule governing land transfers, which serves as a
foundation for many Marcellus Shale leases.  Months Away  Oral argument before the court is probably months away,
Greg Krock, an attorney for the Butlers, said yesterday in a
phone interview. The court denied a request from the
Pennsylvania Independent Oil & Gas Association to file papers in
support of the appeal. Written arguments in the case are due by
May 15, according to court records.  “The case introduces a tremendous amount of uncertainty
into mineral rights in Pennsylvania,” said Michael Joy, an
attorney with  Reed Smith LLP (1157L)  in Pittsburgh who also holds a
doctorate in geology. “A whole host of companies had to re-
evaluate their lease portfolios, to try and understand what they
had,” he said.  The case arose from a dispute between the Butlers and the
heirs of an 1881 deed governing 244 acres in Susquehanna County.  The deed, drawn by one Charles Powers, transferred to his
heirs the oil and mineral rights for the land, which can be
separated from surface rights under Pennsylvania law.  ‘Dunham Rule’  At issue is whether Pennsylvania’s long-standing “Dunham
Rule” applies to natural gas from the Marcellus Shale. The
rule, stemming from a case before the state  Supreme Court  in
1882, provides that when a deed transfers ownership in minerals,
it must refer specifically to oil and gas to transfer rights to
those products, said David Fine, a Harrisburg, Pennsylvania-
based attorney at  K&L Gates LLP (1142L) . In this instance, the Powers
deed mentions petroleum oils and minerals. There is no mention
of gas, according to court documents.  The Butlers sued in 2010 to claim the gas under their land.
They argued that Powers’s failure to include the word “gas” in
separating subsurface rights on his former property gives them
the right to tap it.  The Powers heirs, in an argument with wider implications
for gas leases in the state, claimed that since Marcellus gas is
trapped in rock and doesn’t flow freely to the surface, as gas
did from  oil wells  in the 1880s, it should be considered a
mineral and part of the rights explicitly transferred in the
deed, according to court records. They own the gas trapped in
the shale the same way they would own the gas trapped in a coal
seam, they said.  Half the Gas  Powers’s heirs are seeking rights to half the gas.  After the trial judge ruled for the Butlers, an appeals
court judge decided in September that state law isn’t clear with
respect to shale gas and ordered the trial court to solicit
expert opinions on the issue.  Laurence Kelly, an attorney for the Powers heirs, declined
to comment on the Supreme Court’s decision to take the case.  The Butler case won’t affect mineral leasing in other
states because the rules on ownership are unique to each state,
Joy said in an interview.  Pennsylvania has attracted some of the biggest oil-and-gas
operators in the country, including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
 Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  Chesapeake has leased 1.78 million acres
in the Marcellus Shale, an area larger than  Delaware , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the way the court has phrased the issue in the
order granting review, it’s not even entirely clear that it will
squarely address the rule,” Fine said, referring to the state
high court.  ‘Significant Chaos’  “If the Supreme Court were to revisit the Dunham Rule and
modify it in any meaningful way, it would have the potential to
cause significant chaos in the oil and gas industry in
Pennsylvania,” Fine said. “People in Pennsylvania have
understood that this is the way you wrote deeds since the
1880s.”  The Marcellus Shale may hold as much as 141 trillion cubic
feet of gas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the
past decade, energy companies have learned how to recover oil
and gas from the Marcellus Shale and similar fields using
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a process that breaks up the
rock using water, sand and chemicals.  Drilling in Pennsylvania’s portion of the Marcellus Shale
formation could mean $20 billion to the state’s economy by 2020,
from $13 billion last year, according to an industry-funded
study published by researchers from  Pennsylvania State
University  in  State College .  The case is Butler v. Charles Powers Estate, 27 MAP 2012,
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Middle District (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  