-- Pettitte Pitches Scoreless Inning in Yankees’ 8-3 Defeat of Mets
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/pettitte-pitches-scoreless-inning-in-yankees-8-3-defeat-of-mets.html
Andy Pettitte , pitching in his first
game since the 2010 American League Championship Series, threw a
scoreless sixth inning in the  New York  Yankees’ 8-3 victory
against the New York Mets in their final preseason game.  Pettitte, 39, allowed a leadoff single by Cory Vaughn and
then retired the side yesterday at George M. Steinbrenner Field
in Tampa, Florida.  “I felt good,” Pettitte told reporters. “It was good to
be able to get out there and get the inning in, especially in a
big league game. It’s just another good step.”  Last month, the All-Star pitcher signed a minor-league
contract to return to the Yankees, ending his one-season
retirement. The deal included an invitation to the Major League
Baseball team’s spring training camp.  “It was good to see him get on the hill,” Yankees manager
 Joe Girardi  told reporters. “What I thought was pretty special
to watch was how many of our guys stayed around to see him pitch.
Usually when guys come out, they shower, ice and they go home.
You had a lot of guys stay a long time today.”  Pettitte said in February 2011 that he decided to end his
16-year major league career because he didn’t want to play
another season although he was healthy.  He won’t be with the Yankees when they open their season
April 6 against the  Tampa Bay Rays . CC Sabathia will be pitching
for New York and  James Shields  will take the mound for the Rays.  Pettitte, a three-time All-Star who has 240 victories in 16
seasons with the Yankees and  Houston Astros , said he’ll make
some starts for the Class A Tampa Yankees or in extended spring
camp with the possibility of rejoining the major league club in
early May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  