-- Polycom Falls on Sales Miss Amid Turnaround: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-04-05T20:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/polycom-declines-after-revenue-shortfall-san-francisco-mover.html
Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , a maker of
videoconferencing equipment, declined the most in more than five
months after preliminary first-quarter earnings and revenue fell
short of analysts’ expectations.  The  shares  tumbled 20 percent to $14.56 at the close in
New York, the biggest drop since Oct. 20. Polycom, based in
Pleasanton,  California , has fallen 11 percent this year.  Quarterly earnings excluding some items will probably be
21 cents to 23 cents, the company said in a statement today.
That compares with the average 30-cent estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue will likely be $364 million to
$370 million, compared with a $400 million average estimate.  “Polycom announced a pretty big miss,” said Tim Long, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  New York , in a report today.
He lowered his rating to an equivalent of hold from buy.
“Investors are concerned about execution and increased
competition.”  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Miller  has expanded his
sales force to step up competition with Cisco Systems Inc. for
corporate customers. Cisco’s yearlong management overhaul and
streamlined promotional efforts have made it difficult for
Polycom to gain more traction with corporations, said Joanna Markis, an analyst with Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  “Developing a channel strategy takes a long time, but this
miss tells you they need to restructure the internal
organization and reset the bar,” said Markis, who has a neutral
rating on the shares, in a telephone interview today. “Cisco’s
competitive impact is disconcerting.”  Polycom is scheduled to report full financial results
on April 18. In the first quarter  last year , the company
announced earnings excluding some items of 24 cents and revenue
of $344 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  