-- Priebus Says Gender Battle Fictional as Caterpillar War
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-04-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/priebus-says-gender-battle-as-fictonal-as-caterpillar-war.html
The leaders of the two political
parties clashed over the role of gender in U.S. elections, with
the Democrat saying her opponents have been “shockingly out of
touch” on women’s issues and the Republican saying Democrats
and the media have created a phony conflict.  “If the Democrats said we had a war on caterpillars and
every mainstream media outlet talked about the fact that
Republicans have a war on caterpillars, then we’d have problems
with caterpillars,” Republican National Committee Chairman
Reince Priebus said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. “It’s a
fiction.”  Democratic National Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  and fellow party leaders have been hammering Republicans
for supporting policies such as requiring women seeking
abortions to get an ultrasound.  “The jury of women across America have ruled that the
Republicans have been unbelievably extreme and out of touch and
hyper-focused on cultural issues,” Wasserman Schultz said on
“Political Capital.” That’s reflected in polling showing
President  Barack Obama  beating former Massachusetts Governor
 Mitt Romney  or other Republican presidential contenders by 18
points, she said. That gender gap showed up in a  survey  of swing
states published April 2 by USA Today/Gallup.  Making the Case  While Priebus rejected the idea that Republicans are waging
a war on women, he said they can combat the perception by
focusing on their plans for the economy. He said they will be
making their case “to women and everyone in this country.”  “This president hasn’t fulfilled his promises,” Priebus
said. “We can do better in this country in regards to jobs and
the economy.”  The two leaders, in separate interviews, also disagreed
over the likely outcome in the Supreme Court challenge to
Obama’s health-care law, with Wasserman-Schultz saying she is
confident it will be upheld. The court heard three days of
arguments last week over the constitutionality of the law, which
requires Americans to buy health insurance.  Priebus said he expects the court to strike down the law,
which he said would be “good for our country.” He criticized
Obama’s recent suggestion that such a move would amount to
“judicial activism.”  “It makes him look foolish as a lawyer,” Priebus said.  Money Advantage  Both party leaders suggested the other will have an
advantage when it comes to fundraising. Priebus said he doesn’t
know if Republicans would be able to take in as much as Obama,
though he said the election will boil down to ideological
issues, not the $1 billion likely to be raised by either side.  Wasserman Schultz focused on Obama’s ban on taking money
from lobbyists and other special interests.  “President Obama’s campaign and the  Democratic Party  is
fueled by people,” she said.  Both expect a tough race for the White House. Priebus said
Romney’s three primary wins on April 3, including in Priebus’s
home state of  Wisconsin (BEESWI) , represent a “big night” for the
party.  “Obviously I have to be neutral, but I don’t have to avoid
the facts,” he said. “It was a good night for Mitt Romney.”  Wasserman Schultz said she expects Romney to have trouble
in the general election because he has shifted positions on
issues. “None of his positions have any conviction because he’s
willing to change them at the drop of a hat,” she said.  The chairwoman disagreed with her rival when it came to
predictions for congressional races, saying she expected
Democrats to hang onto the  U.S. Senate , while Priebus said
Republicans can claim the chamber for their party.  “We’ve got so many opportunities in the Senate,” he said,
predicting that Republicans will take over Democratic seats in
Ohio, Virginia, Florida,  Wisconsin  and  Hawaii . That would give
Republicans a majority, overturning the Democrats 53-47 control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  