-- Putin’s Longest-Serving Minister Appointed to Run Moscow Region
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-04-05T15:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/putin-s-longest-serving-minister-appointed-to-run-moscow-region.html
President-elect  Vladimir Putin ’s
longest-serving minister, Sergei Shoigu, was unanimously
approved as Moscow Region governor today by local lawmakers,
according to a statement on the regional parliament’s website.  Shoigu, 56, has been Emergency Minister since 1991,
including two years as the head of the ministry’s predecessor.
He said he’ll be inaugurated as governor on May 11, RIA Novosti
reported. He’ll replace Boris Gromov, who’s held the governor’s
post since 2000.  “Polls show Shoigu was the most popular minister of all
time,” Grigory Kertman, a senior analyst at the Public Opinion
Foundation, said by phone.  According to an October 2011 VTsIOM survey, Shoigu had an
approval rating of 69 percent, beating Foreign Minister  Sergei
Lavrov  by 26 percentage points. “The federal government
considers Shoigu’s new role so important, that it’s ready to
have a Cabinet without its popularity anchor,” former Kremlin
adviser Gleb Pavlovsky said by phone.  With 7 million residents, the Moscow region is  Russia ’s
second-largest region by population behind the capital it
surrounds. President  Dmitry Medvedev  last June announced a plan
to expand Moscow’s borders to absorb the region and create a
“metropolitan federal district.”  “It’s about creating a mega region that will compete with
the rest of Russia in terms of property volumes and human
resources,” Pavlovsky said, adding that Putin won’t let this
project be run by only one person. “Shoigu and Moscow Mayor
 Sergei Sobyanin  will manage it in tandem.”  The appointment will be “a strong impulse for the
development” of Moscow and Moscow region cooperation, Sobyanin
said in a congratulatory letter to Shoigu, according to the
mayor’s website. Shoigu may replace Sobyanin after the project
is completed, Pavlovsky said.  Shoigu is like “Batman, always coming to people’s
rescue,” with a charismatic TV personality, Konstantin Abramov,
deputy head of the All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public
Opinion , or VTsIOM, said in 2010 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  