-- Putin’s Port Project to Divert Russia Urals Oil to Baltic
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-04-05T20:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/putin-s-port-project-to-divert-russia-urals-oil-to-baltic.html
A  Baltic Sea  oil terminal opened in
March by President-Elect  Vladimir Putin  to boost  Russia ’s direct
access to international markets may weaken the country’s crude
price in northern Europe compared with the south.  Urals crude in Northwest Europe was $1.13 a barrel  less 
than in the Mediterranean yesterday after the start of
operations at the Ust-Luga terminal, the most since July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
20-cent premium at the start of March and an average discount of
6 cents in the past year.  Russia wants to elevate the role of Urals, which has high-
sulfur qualities similar to Middle Eastern crudes, as an
international benchmark. Building the new export terminal on its
own territory may help the country allay concern that Urals
supply is vulnerable to disruption because of political disputes
with transit countries such as Belarus and Ukraine and the
tanker chokepoint of the Bosphorus Straits near Istanbul.  “Moscow will gain an important tool in securing control of
crude shipments going to central and northern  Europe , and will
no longer have to deal with potential unilateral hikes in
transit fees by Minsk and Kiev,”  David Wech , an analyst at JBC
Energy GmbH in Vienna, said by e-mail, referring to the capitals
of Russia’s western neighbors.  TNK-BP, the Russian oil producer that accounts for 40
percent of BP Plc’s crude production, expects to send some oil
intended for the Black Sea to the Ust-Luga terminal instead,
Jonathan Kollek, the company’s senior vice president for sales,
trading and logistics, said Feb. 21 in London. Russia exported
about 28 percent of its crude via the Baltic last year. A barrel
of  Urals (EUCRURNW)  cost $118.47 in Northwest Europe on April 4.  New Exit Point  “You’ve got another point of export,”  Ian Taylor , chief
executive officer of Vitol Group, the world’s biggest
independent oil trader, said in a March 21 interview in London.
“In the  Commonwealth of Independent States , the more points of
export the better.”  Moscow-based Summa Group and Vitol are investing in a $1
billion storage facility and terminal in Rotterdam, Europe’s
largest port, which will make it easier for daily price
discovery of Urals, Russia’s main export crude.  “The market will decide” whether the $1 billion dollar
terminal, which is expected to open by 2015, achieves Russia’s
goal of turning Urals into a benchmark grade, Jorge Montepeque,
Global Director of Markets and Pricing at oil pricing and
information company Platts, said in  London  on Feb. 20.  New Price Assessment  Platts has proposed to reflect cargoes shipped from Ust-
Luga in its Rotterdam Urals price assessment as of April 16 in
addition to Primorsk, which is Russia’s main Baltic port, and
Gdansk, it said in a note to its subscribers on March 28.  The  difference  between Mediterranean and north European
prices for Urals may stabilize at a discount of about 40 cents,
according to the average estimate of five traders of the crude
and analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The 600,000-barrel-a-day
Ust-Luga terminal will probably take oil away from Black Sea
ports, thus maintaining the price gap between northern and
southern markets, according to consultant KBC Energy Economics.  “Urals Med in the short term may get tighter,” compared
with Northwest Europe, said Maria Gradobitova, a senior analyst
at KBC in Walton-on-Thames,  England . “The arbitrage opening
could reach 50 cents before you might see shipments getting
diverted back to the Mediterranean.”  OAO Transneft (TRNFP)  will halt exports via the Polish port of
Gdansk when the pipeline to Ust-Luga, known as the Baltic
Pipeline System-2, begins regular operations, Igor Dyomin, a
spokesman for Russia’s monopoly pipeline operator, said by
telephone from Moscow Feb. 21. Putin pressed a button to
symbolize the start of the BPS-2 link at a ceremony on March 23.  Loading Programs  The facility is not without its critics. Katrin Goering- Eckhardt, a vice president of  Germany ’s Bundestag and member of
the  Green Party , sent a letter to Putin asking him to postpone
operations at the port to allow for an environmental review,
Moscow daily Vedomosti  reported  April 4.  Russia will ship nine cargoes of 100,000 metric tons each
from Ust-Luga in April, according to a loading program obtained
by Bloomberg News. Loading programs are monthly schedules of
shipments compiled by field operators to allow buyers and
sellers to plan their supply and trading activities. Combined
with Primorsk, Russia plans to export 7.205 million tons of
Urals via the two Baltic ports this month, up from 6 million
last month.  “We expect that the high export levels will be difficult
for Russia to maintain, especially given only marginal supply
growth expected over the year and high global crude prices
leading to higher refinery utilization rates in the country,”
 Johannes Benigni , managing director at Vienna-based JBC Energy,
said in an April 4 report.  Baltic and Black Sea  The BPS-2 will transport 15 million to 20 million metric
tons this year, Dyomin said. It may take as much as 5 million
tons, or 36.7 million barrels, away from Novorossiysk on the
 Black Sea  and a similar quantity away from Primorsk, the
Transneft spokesman said. The remainder will come from increased
Russian crude production.  Primorsk, on the Baltic Sea, exported 70 million tons of
oil last year, according to  Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port (NCSP) ,
the owner. The company’s Black Sea port, which is called
Novorossiysk, exported 43 million tons.  TNK-BP estimates by 2015 Russia will have 109 million tons
of annual spare export capacity because of new Transneft
projects, including the second phase of the East Siberia-Pacific
Ocean pipeline, or ESPO-2, according to Kollek.  Diversify Export Routes  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, has made
diversification of its export routes a priority under Putin, who
will return for a third term as Russian president on May 7 after
winning the March election.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s natural gas export monopoly, has
twice in the past six years cut gas deliveries to Ukraine on New
Year’s Day because of pricing disputes while Transneft halted
oil deliveries to Belarus for most of January 2011, rerouting
about 650,000 tons.  The $3.3 billion BPS-2 pipeline is part of Russia’s
strategy to develop direct connections to its main customers in
Europe. Separately, Gazprom opened the first spur of the $10
billion Nord Stream gas pipeline under the Baltic to Germany in
November.  “The development is also likely to see, at least in the
short term, a tighter Mediterranean market and growing
importance of Caspian crude oil in the Mediterranean and  Central
Europe ,” Gradobitova said. 