-- Quattrone Says IPOs Can’t All Go to Morgan Stanley and Goldman
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-05T17:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/quattrone-says-ipos-can-t-all-go-to-morgan-stanley-and-goldman.html
Frank Quattrone , the banker who
managed almost 200 technology initial public offerings in the
1990s, said companies should look beyond  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for banks to lead their debuts.  One of those two firms has been the primary manager on
every high-profile technology IPO in the past year, including
LinkedIn Corp., Groupon Inc., Zynga Inc. and Yelp Inc., with
Morgan Stanley picked to lead Facebook’s upcoming offering.
Getting other banks to lead would enable more companies to go
public, Quattrone said yesterday at a conference in  Menlo Park ,
 California .  “There’s a perception in the marketplace that Morgan
Stanley and Goldman Sachs are the only real worthwhile, safe
bookrunners,” said Quattrone, who now runs investment advisory
firm Qatalyst Group in  San Francisco . “I wouldn’t feel forced
to impose this underwriting duopoly on yourselves.”  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, and Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, didn’t immediately
return calls for comment.  Quattrone, 56, knows about working at the biggest banks.
Since joining the investment banking industry in the 1970s, he’s
led the technology groups at Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and
Credit Suisse Group. He worked on the public offerings of Cisco
Systems Inc., Netscape Communications Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.  At Morgan Stanley, where Quattrone stayed until 1996, his
group managed about 10 percent of technology IPOs, Goldman Sachs
led 5 percent to 10 percent, and the rest were handled by
smaller firms, he said.  ‘Boutique-Dominated’  “For the most part, it was a boutique-dominated
practice,” Quattrone said. Today, it’s unheard of for a
boutique bank to lead a big deal, he said.  Still, Quattrone said this is the best climate for IPOs
since 2000, and may even improve after President  Barack Obama 
signs a law that eases the regulatory burden on companies
preparing to go public. For his own business, he’s sticking
mostly with the mergers and acquisitions market.  Quattrone founded Qatalyst in 2008 after a five-year hiatus
from the industry, during which he successfully defended himself
against allegations he hindered an investigation of Credit
Suisse’s IPO practices. He said Qatalyst has worked on 36
transactions valued at $65 billion. They include Autonomy
Corp.’s $10.3 billion sale to Hewlett-Packard Co., and Google
Inc.’s $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 