-- Traders Eye 45-Minute Window After Good Friday Report
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/traders-eye-45-minute-window-after-good-friday-report.html
While stock markets around the world
are closed for Good Friday, the U.S. Labor Department will
publish its monthly employment report today at 8:30 a.m. New
York time. That means another early morning for Wedbush
Securities Inc.’s  Michael James  in  Los Angeles .  “It’s too important,” James, managing director of equity
trading at Wedbush, said in a telephone interview on April 2.
“People, whether they’re working or not, whether they’re on the
buy-side or sell-side, are going to be paying attention to the
number and the reaction in the futures.”  Equity traders will have 45 minutes to react as futures
linked to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  will continue until 9:15 a.m. on  CME Group
Inc. (CME) ’s Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Exchanges will be closed for
the rest of the day. The  U.S. economy  added 205,000 jobs in
March, according to the median estimate of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the report.  The Labor Department usually publishes the report on the
first Friday of every month. The timing of Good Friday depends
on the cycles of the moon. The New York Stock Exchange has
closed every year for the holiday since 1885, except in 1898,
1906 and 1907, according to  Eric Ryan , a spokesman.  “The stock markets can’t tell the government when to
release the data, and the government can’t mandate that stock
markets be open,” James said. “It’s an unfortunate confluence
of dates.”  Open Government  Stacey Standish, a spokeswoman at the Bureau of Labor
Statistics in  Washington , said in a telephone interview the
Labor Department is releasing the employment numbers because the
federal government is open.  The last time the monthly employment report coincided with
Good Friday was 2010. U.S. stock-index futures, yields on  10-
year Treasuries (USGG10YR)  and the dollar rose on April 2, 2010, after the
report showed employers added the most jobs in three years. S&P
500 futures rose 0.3 percent, while Treasuries fell, driving the
yield on 10-year notes up to 3.94 percent.  Among the biggest nations, only  Russia ’s equity market will
be open when the report comes out. Exchanges from  London  and  Sao
Paulo  to Toronto and Paris will be shut. While bourses in China
and  Japan  are open, they will have closed by the time the report
is published.  U.S. commodity markets will be shut. Traders will be able
to place bets on gold for immediate delivery in London after the
employment report is released. The Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association  recommended  that trading in fixed-
income securities end at noon in  New York , opting for an early
close rather than a complete shutdown because of the employment
report. It recommended  no trading  on Good Friday last year.  ‘Big Conundrum’  “We’ve got a big conundrum, which is that bond markets
will be open,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. “The thin liquidity in the bond markets means that
the job report could move the needle.”  Other strategists said the reaction will be muted. The
closed equity market means investors will be less willing to
take on risk, according to  John Manley , chief equity strategist
for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in New York. His firm oversees
$209 billion.  “It takes the edges off the bullishness or bearishness,”
he said in a phone interview on April 2. “If there was a liquid
stock market the day the jobs number came out and I thought we
were going to see a positive surprise, I might be a little more
long, a little more aggressive than I would be this time.”  2010 Reaction  When U.S. stock exchanges reopened on the Monday after Good
Friday in 2010, the  S&P 500  climbed 0.8 percent to 1,187.44, its
biggest gain in a month and highest close since September 2008.
The 10-year Treasury yield topped 4 percent for the first time
in 10 months.  Almost 7.8 billion shares  changed hands  on April 1, 2010,
the day before the stock market closed. Volume slowed to 7.05
billion on April 5 when trading resumed, 18 percent lower than
average in the three months leading up to Good Friday.
Yesterday, volume amounted to 5.76 billion shares, 15 percent
less than the three-month average.  The jobs report and Good Friday also coincided in 2007,
1999 and 1996. After the Labor Department said on April 6, 2007,
that employers added 50,000 more jobs than economists projected,
S&P 500 futures climbed 0.4 percent and the 10-year Treasury
yield jumped to an almost two-month high of 4.75 percent. When
trading resumed on April 9, the S&P 500 and Dow reached six-week
highs.  Barclays, Goldman Sachs  Barclays Plc’s “markets businesses will be appropriately
covered to support our clients’ needs,” said Erica Chase, a New
York-based spokeswoman for the firm. Trading desks at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. “will be adequately staffed, as they always
are, to handle trades that our clients want to execute,” said
Michael Duvally, a spokesman for the bank.  The  unemployment rate  held at a three-year low of 8.3
percent last month, according to economists’ projections.
Filings for jobless benefits dropped by 6,000 to 357,000 in the
week ended March 31, the fewest since April 2008, the U.S. Labor
Department said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month
that a further reduction in the employment rate will probably
require a quicker expansion of business production and consumer
demand, which “can be supported by continued accommodative
policies.” The S&P 500  tumbled  1.5 percent in the past three
days as minutes from the Fed’s latest policy meeting damped
speculation about further monetary stimulus.  “The broader reaction from participants will most likely
be seen Monday, when equity markets reopen,” said  Ryan Larson ,
Chicago-based head of U.S. equity trading at RBC Global Asset
Management (U.S.) Inc. His firm oversees $250 billion in assets.
“From our standpoint, we will certainly be monitoring the data
regardless if the U.S. equity market is closed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  