-- Rand Gains for First Day in Three as U.S. Jobs Data Improves
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-04-05T14:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/rand-gains-for-first-day-in-three-as-u-s-jobs-data-improves.html
The rand gained for the first time
in three days as commodities rose after better-than-expected
jobless claims in the U.S. outweighed concern that the euro area
has yet to contain its debt crisis.  The currency gained as much as 0.7 percent and traded 0.2
percent stronger at 7.82 per dollar at 4:37 p.m. in
Johannesburg, paring this week’s loss to 1.9 percent. Yields on
 South Africa ’s 8.25 percent bonds due 2017 were unchanged at
7.397 percent.  Claims (INJCJC)  for U.S. unemployment benefits dropped last week to
the lowest level in four years. A report tomorrow may show the
world’s largest economy added more than 200,000 workers in March
for a third straight month.  “The numbers from the States are pointing to some decent
job growth; I think those numbers are kind of encouraging for
the local market,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based
chief dealer at Bidvest Bank Ltd., the nation’s biggest chain of
money-changers, said by phone. “Even the Canadian numbers were
quite impressive. It looks like economies are showing signs of
growth on that side. It will certainly help emerging markets a
bit if the global economy wants to lift its head.”  Canada  added  the most jobs since 2008 last month, lowering
the jobless rate to 7.2 percent from 7.4 percent.  Copper for three-month delivery rose as much as 1 percent,
reversing an earlier 0.4 percent decline. Standard & Poor’s  GSCI
index (SPGSCI)  of commodities increased as much as 0.7 percent.
Commodities including metals account for 64 percent of South
Africa’s exports, according to government data. The nation has
the world’s biggest reserves of platinum, manganese and chrome.  Euro Weakens  The rand’s recovery might be temporary due to continuing
concern about  Europe ’s debt problems, Bidvest’s De Vleeschauwer
said.  “It is by no means over yet because the euro is still
pretty weak,” he said.  The euro declined for a fourth day versus the dollar as
Spanish and Italian bonds slumped and borrowing costs increased
at a French auction, adding to concern the region’s debt crisis
is spreading.  Spain  struggled to borrow in financial markets, selling 2.6
billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds at an auction yesterday,
an amount that was near the bottom of a range set by the
Treasury for the sale.  France  sold 8.439 billion in bonds, at
the top end of its target, with borrowing costs rising for much
of the debt sold.  ‘Riskier Investment’  “The outlook for the Eurozone no longer looks as stable or
convincing,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based
ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments. “A riskier
investment climate cannot be ignored and will have an influence
on the pricing of risk assets.”  The euro-region accounts for 22 percent of South Africa’s
exports. Slower economic growth and worsening debt issues have
implications for South Africa’s trade and current accounts, Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone.  Rand traders might also be closing their positions due to a
shortened week, Cruickshanks said. South Africa’s markets are
closed on April 6 and April 9 for the Easter holidays.  “You don’t want an open position ahead of four days of the
market being closed here in South Africa,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net 
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at  