-- Treasuries Rise as Concern Over Euro-Region Crisis Boosts
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-05T21:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/treasuries-snap-gain-before-jobless-claims-payrolls-data.html
Treasuries advanced for a second day
as speculation the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening spurred demand for the safest assets.  Ten-year  yields  posted the biggest two-day drop since
January as borrowing costs rose at a French auction. Treasuries
pared gains after higher-than-forecast employment growth in
 Canada  spurred speculation tomorrow’s U.S. jobs report may
indicate the economic recovery is strengthening. The U.S.
announced it will sell $66 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “ Europe  is back on the front burner,” said  Thomas Roth ,
senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
USA Inc. “It’s a constant battle between the U.S. getting
better and fears in Europe. It’s one of the fears that the Fed
has, that Europe could crumble and drag us down.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.18 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after dropping as low
as 2.14 percent. The 2 percent security due February 2022 rose
3/8, or $3.75, to 98 13/32. The yield on the 10-year note
dropped 12 basis points in two days, the most since Jan. 26.  The  difference  between the yields on the U.S. 10-year
Treasury note and the comparable German bund widened to 44 basis
points as German yields dropped on the region’s debt crisis. The
gap touched 49 basis points on April 3, the widest since January
2011.  France  sold 4.32 billion euros of benchmark 10-year debt at
an average yield of 2.98 percent, more than the 2.91 percent
paid at the last auction on March 1. The borrowing costs for
five-year and 15-year debt also rose, while that for the 30-year
bonds fell.  ‘Wood to Chop’  In Europe, “there’s still wood to chop over there in terms
of getting everything under control,” said  David Coard , head of
fixed-income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors.  Spain , the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, is in
“extreme difficulty,” Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said yesterday. The government has widened its budget deficit
target to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product from 4.4 percent
and warned public debt will surge to a record 79.8 percent of
GDP this year.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday the economic
outlook remained subject to “downside risks.”  “The markets have exhausted the good news and you’re
seeing a move back to reality in Europe,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors.  Fed Minutes  Volatility rose yesterday to the highest in a week, a day
after Federal Reserve minutes from its March 13 meeting dashed
speculation policy makers would hint at more asset purchases or
quantitative easing. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index ,
which measures Treasury price swings based on options, rose to
84.6 basis points. It touched 69.9 basis points on March 12, the
least since July 2007. It rose to 93.3 basis points on March 20,
the highest this year.  Investors speculated a 12-basis-point rise in yields on the
10-year note on April 3 after the minutes were released wouldn’t
be sustained without stronger-than-forecast economic data.  “People are coming to the realization that the Fed
minutes, although they certainly were not dovish, were not as
hawkish as originally perceived,” Rogan of Guggenheim Partners
said.  Employment Gains  Valuation measures show government debt has climbed to the
most expensive levels in three weeks. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, reached negative 0.50 percent
today, retreating from negative 0.26 percent on March 19, the
least expensive since October. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Canadian employment rose by 82,300 following a decline of
2,800 in February,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa,
lowering the jobless rate to 7.2 percent from 7.4 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 10,500 gain in
jobs and 7.4 percent unemployment.  U.S. payrolls climbed by more than 200,000 in March for a
fourth month, economists said before the Labor Department report
tomorrow.  The  difference  between the yields on the 10-year note and
10-year TIPS, known as the break-even rate, dropped to as low as
2.258 percentage points, the least since March 9.  Regional Presidents  The Fed purchased $12.5 billion in Treasuries this week,
including $1.347 billion in Treasury inflation-protected
securities. The four rounds of purchases were part of Operation
Twist, a program ending in June that replaces $400 billion of
shorter-term debt with longer maturities to hold down borrowing
costs.  Four Fed regional bank presidents who vote on monetary
policy this year said they see less of a need for the Fed to
spur the economy with new accommodation.  “The probability of needing to do additional stimulus is
lower,” San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  told
reporters yesterday.  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto , Atlanta’s
 Dennis Lockhart  and Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  also spoke against
additional accommodation this week, with Lacker saying yesterday
he “was surprised a couple months ago at the probability market
participants seemed to ascribe to further easing.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that the
central bank will consider further stimulus, even after
upgrading its economic outlook March 13.  The U.S. announced it will sell $32 billion in three-year
notes, $21 billion in 10-year debt and $13 billion in 30-year
bonds on three consecutive days beginning April 10. The amounts
are the same as the previous auctions of the maturities in
March.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.51 percent by year-end,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of banks
and securities companies, with the most recent projections given
the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  