-- Republican Donor Simmons Seeks Rule to Fill Texas Dump
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-04-05T17:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/republican-donor-simmons-seeks-rule-to-fill-texas-dump.html
Harold Simmons built a West  Texas 
dump for radioactive waste that is bigger than 1,000 football
fields and he can’t fill it.  To turn it into a profitable enterprise, the Texas
billionaire hired lobbyists to urge the Obama administration to
expand the types of nuclear waste, including depleted uranium,
the dump can accept and award his company disposal contracts. If
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission changes the rule, it could
open access to a market worth billions. The deadline for a
decision is in 2014.  Simmons now is spending money in a new way that could
improve his business prospects: He’s invested $15.9 million this
election cycle in various groups to help elect Republicans, who
advocate easing regulations on the nuclear industry.  The largest chunk of Simmons’s campaign cash -- $12 million
-- has gone to American Crossroads, a so-called super political
action committee that takes unlimited donations and has a stated
mission of defeating President  Barack Obama . He has given at
least $700,000 to Restore Our Future, a super-PAC backing  Mitt Romney , the front-runner for the Republican presidential
nomination whose call for a fast-tracked permitting process for
new nuclear plants could benefit Simmons’s Waste Control
Specialists LLC.  “Whatever federal switch has to be thrown to get uranium
into the hole, believe me, it will be thrown; that’s how Harold
Simmons works,” said Glenn Lewis, a former Texas environmental
employee who retired in protest to Simmons’s influence in the
state permitting process for his dump.  Million-Dollar Donors  Eighteen people have given at least $1 million to
Republican super-PACs so far this election cycle, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a  Washington  group that
tracks political spending. Before 2010 U.S. Supreme Court
rulings and regulatory changes allowing unlimited donations,
those individuals would have been confined to contributions of
$2,500 to candidates and $5,000 to PACs.  Those wealthy backers have said they give because they
share Republican Party policies for a less active federal
government or on national security issues.  “What scares me is the continuation of the socialist-style
economy we’ve been experiencing for almost four years,”  Sheldon Adelson , a casino owner, told Forbes in a Feb. 21 article,
explaining why he gives money to Republicans.  Federal Business Interests  The donors also have business and financial interests that
could be influenced by who wins the 2012 presidential race.  Adelson, a Las Vegas billionaire whose family has
underwritten  Newt Gingrich ’s presidential bid with $16.5
million, is facing Justice Department and Securities and
Exchange Commission  investigations .  William Doré has given $1.5 million through his  Louisiana 
oil and gas exploration company to the Red, White and Blue Fund,
which backs former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  in the
Republican race. “Drill, baby, drill. Mine, baby, mine,” said
Santorum, the grandson of a coal miner, March 21 in Mandeville,
Louisiana.  In the elite donor pool, Simmons stands out because of the
amounts he’s given, the number of entities he’s backed, and his
history of donating large sums to Texas politicians who oversee
his businesses.  Simmons, who declined an interview request, was quoted in a
March 22 Wall Street Journal article saying he contributes to
Republicans who would help “block that crap,” a reference to
what he said is the overregulation of business.  No Strings Attached  Chuck McDonald, a spokesman for Waste Control Specialists,
said “there really is no connection between Mr. Simmons’s
personal political giving, which he has said he is doing because
he believes very strongly in pro-business and free enterprise,
and anything WCS is doing.”  A native of Golden, Texas, Simmons, 80, built his fortune -
- Bloomberg estimates his net worth as at least $6.5 billion --
by investing in struggling companies and making them profitable.
Through his  Contran Corp. (CTRW)  holding company, he is chairman of
publicly-traded  Valhi Inc. (VHI) , which made $2 billion in net sales
last year, according to its annual report. Waste Control
Specialists is the most unprofitable Valhi entity, registering a
$38 million operating loss last year, part of at least five
consecutive years of red ink, the report shows.  Government’s Role  Valhi’s report lays bare to stockholders the extent to
which the federal government impacts its waste-disposal earnings
potential:  “While we attempt to monitor and anticipate regulatory,
political and legal developments that affect the industry, we
cannot assure you we will be able to do so,” it says. “Nor can
we predict the extent to which legislation or regulations that
may be enacted, or any failure of legislation or regulations to
be enacted, may affect our operations in the future.”  In 1995, Simmons invested in Waste Control Specialists,
founded by former Texas U.S. Representative Kent Hance, a
Democrat who in 1985 became a Republican. The company got its
start accepting hazardous wastes, and in 2003 sought state
permission to dispose of radioactive materials. The Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality, whose three commissioners
were appointed by Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican,
issued the permits in 2009.  Resignations  During the commission’s deliberations, at least three of
its employees resigned over what they said was a biased
licensing process. Among their chief complaints was the use of
an assessment by company-hired university scientists of the
location of the Ogallala Aquifer, which provides water for
drinking and agriculture for much of the plains, to overcome
objections from environmentalists.  Simmons has made an estimated $6.8 million in campaign
contributions to Texas politicians, Republicans and Democrats,
since 2000, according to Texans for Public Justice, an Austin-
based nonprofit that tracks state political donations. That
includes more than $1 million for Perry’s three gubernatorial
campaigns.  Texas environmental and political-spending watchdogs who
have followed the trajectory of Waste Control Specialists said
Simmons is trying to replicate on a federal level the success
he’s found investing in Texas politics over the past decade.  “The money is so huge, and the political pressure is so
strong -- that’s what we’re dealing with here,’ said Karen Hadden, executive director of the Austin-based Texas SEED
Coalition that opposes the site. “Harold Simmons wants it to be
a nuclear mega-mall.”  Federal Contributions  For the 2012 federal elections, Simmons gave $1.1 million
to support Perry’s failed presidential primary bid. Through
personal donations and Contran, Simmons has given at least $12
million to American Crossroads. He and his wife, Annette Simmons, donated $1.1 million to Winning Our Future, a pro-
Gingrich super-PAC and, in February, $1 million to the super-PAC
backing Santorum.  As Romney solidified his front-runner status in the race,
the super-PAC backing him, Restore Our Future, began collecting
more of the Simmons money. Romney won primary contests Feb. 28
in Michigan and  Arizona , and Simmons wrote a $100,000 check,
adding to $100,000 he’d given a month earlier. The Wall Street
Journal reported March 22 that he’d chipped in another $500,000
that week. A Simmons spokesman couldn’t confirm the sum.  One Democrat, Gene Green, a Texas congressman who sits on
the House Energy and Commerce Committee, got $1,000 during the
2012 cycle, records show. No Democratic super-PACs have received
Simmons’s donations.  Waste Dump  Simmons’s 1,338-acre dump, located near the West Texas town
of Andrews, includes a three-part facility for radioactive
byproducts, low-level commercial nuclear waste such as that from
 power plants , and low-level federal nuclear waste. The
commercial side is licensed to take as much as 2.3 million cubic
feet of waste and can begin importing it from at least 36 states
this year, according to McDonald.  Construction of the federal side -- 10 times as large -- is
about a month from completion, he said. Still to be determined
is how much government waste will be available for storage in
it.  Changing Policy  About the time Simmons’s company began applying for a
license in 2003 to take radioactive waste, the U.S. Department
of Energy had a robust forecast for what would be available,
said a person familiar with the department’s policy
deliberations. About nine years later, department policy is to
bury waste onsite, or at another federal site. The third option
is to sell it to vendors like Waste Control Specialists. That
leaves the company with a smaller-than-expected market.  That would change if the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
expands its rule on low-level nuclear waste to allow disposal of
depleted uranium, leftover from weapons manufacturing during the
 Cold War  and from the production of fuel at nuclear power
plants.  The NRC in 2006 began examining whether such non-government
entities as Waste Control Specialists could safely dispose of
depleted uranium. Public hearings on the topic have been going
on since 2009, with a final rule due by mid-2014.  Texas has told Waste Control Specialists that it won’t
revise the license to include depleted uranium until the NRC
acts, McDonald said.  The market for disposal of that waste “would easily be in
the billions of dollars,” said Arjun Makhijani, president of
the Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, a nonprofit
science group based in Takoma Park,  Maryland .  One Competitor  Waste Control Specialists has a single competitor, the Salt
Lake City-based  EnergySolutions Inc. (ES) , said Makhijani.  In addition to spending $885,000 to lobby the Obama
administration from 2009 to 2011 on waste disposal issues,
according to disclosure reports, Simmons’s representatives have
been involved in the NRC’s working group on the rule change.  Waste Control officials have spoken at the public meetings,
as have executives from EnergySolutions and leaders of interest
groups opposed to depleted uranium disposal, such as Heal  Utah .  At a March 2 hearing in Phoenix, William Dornsife, an
executive with the waste company, asked several times about how
quickly the commission would act.  “Well, when are you going to have something on paper?” he
said, according to a  transcript .  High-Level Waste  There’s an even bigger potential jackpot for Simmons’ waste
company: high-level nuclear disposal.  Obama’s Blue Ribbon Commission on nuclear policy
recommended that the government start looking for an alternative
to  Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain for long-term storage of spent fuel
from nuclear plants and weapons-grade plutonium.  As the commission began studying the issue in 2010, a Waste
Control Specialists official invited members to visit the West
Texas site, which he said has “ideal” geology for nuclear
waste disposal, as well as the support of local and regional
leaders.  “You should come explore the values and the opinions of
our local leaders as well as the citizens and understand why
they embrace nuclear technology and nuclear energy,” Scott Kirk
said at a March 26, 2010, commission hearing in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  