-- Rinehart’s Hancock Loses Bid to Withhold Financial Report
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-05T05:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/rinehart-s-hancock-loses-bid-to-withhold-financial-report.html
Hancock Prospecting Pty, controlled
by  Asia ’s richest woman Gina Rinehart, lost a bid for an
exemption from having to submit its financial report, the
Australian Securities & Investments Commission said.  The commission on March 2 denied Hancock’s 2011 request for
relief from having to file financial reports, including company
accounts, for a range of periods as required by Australian law,
the regulator said in a  statement  today. It didn’t say why the
announcement was made now, rather than when the initial ruling
was issued.  Hancock, the closely held Australian miner, has sought a
review of the regulator’s ruling by the Administrative Appeals
Tribunal, ASIC said. The commission said it wouldn’t comment
further on the issue until the decision is reviewed.  The majority of Rinehart’s $18.6 billion fortune is held in
Hancock, which owns stakes in some of the biggest coal and iron-
ore mining projects in  Australia  and holds rights to royalties
on revenue Rio Tinto Group gets from some of its Hamersley iron
mines. Rinehart is also a shareholder in  Ten Network Holdings
Ltd. (TEN)  and  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)   Mark Bickerton, Hancock’s information manager, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on the ruling.  Hancock last filed its financial statements with ASIC on
Dec. 24, 2010, citing profit in the year ended June 30, 2009, of
A$225 million ($232 million) on revenue of A$738 million.  Rinehart vs Children  Rinehart is fighting a lawsuit by three of her children who
have accused her of abusing her role as trustee of a
multibillion-dollar family fund and have sought to have her
removed as trustee. Rinehart’s youngest daughter has said the
claims showed the greed of her siblings and has sided with her
mother.  Bianca Rinehart, who had sought accounting of the trust,
was told by Hancock’s Chief Financial Officer Jay Newby she
could have the trust’s financial statements provided she agreed
that would be the last request for trust information, according
to court filings.  Bianca, the eldest daughter, only received extracts from
Hancock Prospecting’s constitution in response to the request,
her lawyers said in the court filing.  The case is Hope Rinehart Welker v Gina Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  