-- Romney’s Gaffes Won’t Cost Him As Many Votes As His Views
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-04-05T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/romney-s-gaffes-won-t-cost-him-as-many-votes-as-his-views.html
If  Barack Obama  prevails this
November, it will be in large part because of what has come out
of  Mitt Romney ’s mouth in the last year.  I’m not talking about gaffes, for which the presumptive
Republican nominee has a Freudian propensity. It’s as if the
gaffe that ended his beloved father’s 1968 presidential campaign
( George Romney  said he had been subject to  “brainwashing”  on a
trip to South Vietnam) puts Mitt Romney into “Don’t think of an
elephant” mode. He’s so conscious of not making a gaffe that his
subconscious insists on one every couple of weeks.  But gaffes are overrated as decisive campaign events. With
the possible exception of President  Gerald Ford  saying during a
televised  debate  a month before the 1976 election that  Poland 
was not under Soviet domination (a howler that slowed an amazing
comeback against  Jimmy Carter ), it’s hard to think of a
misstatement that has determined the outcome.  Romney letting slip that he pals around with Nascar owners,
or that corporations are people, too, or that his wife drives a
couple of Cadillacs may cement his position as the out-of-touch
poster boy of the 1 percent. But if he convinces people he can
fix an ailing economy, not much else will matter. Swing voters
rarely vote against someone just because he’s  rich .  Viral Boo-boos  Between now and the election, these and other cable-ready
boo-boos will become distant memories. Web ads about them may go
viral, but they aren’t likely to sway anyone who hasn’t already
decided against Romney.  The bigger problem is what the soon-to-be Republican
nominee has said on substance. The news media doesn’t focus much
on issues, which are duller than the circus but usually more
lethal politically. Unlike gaffes, political positions are fair
game for Obama to exploit in front of 60 million voters watching
the fall debates.  Romney has flip-flopped so much that he now has little room
to back away from what he said during the primaries. The
“lamestream media” would crucify him for it; so would
conservative base voters. Their “meh” on Mitt would quickly
morph into a sense of betrayal. (The same logic explains why
Romney, whatever his background, can’t possibly govern as a
moderate.)  Obviously, Romney needed to prove during the primaries that
he was a stout conservative, but he went overboard. He was never
going to convince right-wingers he was the most conservative
candidate in the race, so why harm his chances in the fall by
trying? If Romney loses, historians will ask whether he really
had to box himself in so tightly to win the Republican
nomination.  Let’s say that instead of repeating his 2009 flat-out
opposition to the successful auto bailouts, Romney had said they
were structured wrong. Or instead of declaring Representative
 Paul Ryan ’s budget plan “marvelous” (a word Obama mocked in his
speech attacking the plan this week), Romney had said that Ryan
had many good ideas but that if he was elected, he would have
his own budget blueprint. I’m not defending this kind of
politically convenient fudge, but would it have destroyed his
chances of being nominated?  Romney went the other way. He has so lashed himself to
Ryan, an Ayn Rand libertarian, that there’s talk of Ryan going
on the ticket. The Ryan-Romney plan -- from slashing federally
funded scientific research to forcing seniors from nursing homes
because of draconian Medicaid cuts -- will be wildly unpopular
if Obama and his team find the resonant language to exploit it.  The Fudge Factor  Even if one argues that fudging the Ryan plan was
impractical (after all, Republicans in Congress overwhelmingly
approved it), on two other critical issues -- women’s health and
immigration -- Romney clearly went further than was necessary to
claim the nomination. These issues happen to be of great concern
to the two constituencies that account for his lagging behind
Obama in the polls. If Romney can’t break 40 percent with women
and Latinos, it’s hard to see how he wins.  Let’s stipulate that Romney’s history left him no room to
dissent on the Blunt amendment, which would permit employers to
strip their health plans of  birth control  or anything else they
find objectionable to their religious beliefs or moral
convictions. Romneycare in  Massachusetts  gave employers
(including religious institutions) no such exemptions.
Conservatives would have endlessly hassled Romney if he fell
short of a full repudiation of everything he did on health care
as governor.  But does his attendance at a Planned Parenthood fundraiser
in 1994 and previous support of abortion rights really compel
him to race to the other extreme and proclaim that he would “get
rid of” Planned Parenthood? (His spokesman later clarified that
he meant all federal support for Planned Parenthood.) Over the
last 40 years, this organization provided the first birth
control to millions of middle-class swing-vote suburban women.
They haven’t forgotten.  It’s hard to believe that Romney would have lost the
Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin primaries to  Rick Santorum  if he
had refused to attack  Planned Parenthood  hammer and tong. By
pandering unnecessarily, he worsened his chances with women in
these and other battleground states in the fall.  Immigration put Romney in a similar pickle. Attacked during
the 2008 campaign for hiring a lawn care agency that employed
undocumented workers, Romney tried to be tougher than all the
other Republican candidates on this issue. He was so worried
about  Rick Perry  that he cold-cocked him during an early debate
for allowing the innocent children of undocumented immigrants to
attend the University of  Texas . Even after Perry had been
marginalized, Romney was still touting “self-deportation” and
other anti-immigrant ideas.  Suppose instead that Romney had talked tough on border
enforcement but, like Gingrich, left the door open to working
out a solution for the children of immigrants. (His current
position of making allowances only for those who join the
military satisfies no one.) A more vague position would hardly
have cost him the Republican nomination. But it would have
protected him against Obama clobbering him with the Dream Act in
a debate.  What Romney thought was de rigueur in the primaries may
bring rigor mortis in the general. He seems to have forgotten
that everything he said to win the nomination is now etch-a-
sketched in stone.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on the  latest job numbers  and
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed’s trial ;  Michael Kinsley  on saving the
 dollar bill ; Luigi Zingales on  Fed nominees ;  Amity Shlaes  on  tax
policy  and  “The Hunger Games” ; Alex Marshall on  improving U.S.
roads . Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 