-- Romney Goes for PA Knockout While Blasting Obama
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/romney-goes-for-pennsylvania-knockout-while-blasting-obam.html
Mitt Romney  is remaking his campaign
into a machine to take on President Barack Obama while keeping
one eye on finishing off his Republican rivals, as chief
challenger  Rick Santorum  grasps for a strategy to keep his
nomination bid alive.  Romney barnstormed Santorum’s home state of Pennsylvania
yesterday after a run of primary victories that solidified his
hold on his party’s nomination. Yet he made it clear his focus
is less on prevailing in the state’s April 24 primary -- which
he said he expects Santorum to win as the native son -- and more
on making the state a battleground against Obama in November.  “I need only one thing from you guys, and that’s to make
sure I beat  Barack Obama  in November,” Romney told voters in
Tunkhannock, Pennsylvania, where he visited Mountain Energy
Services Inc., a company that supplies trucks and equipment to
the oil and gas industry in the Marcellus and Utica shales.  In a mark of the combative general election campaign to
come, Obama and his campaign aides took to Twitter to accuse
Romney of trying to hide his wealth and call on him to release
his tax returns, after a Washington Post report that he has used
ethics rules to limit his financial disclosures.  Romney spent the day eviscerating Obama’s economic record,
including charging that he has been an “anti-energy president”
who has done everything in his power to hamper the development
of oil, gas and coal resources.  Harder for Economy  “Almost everything he did made it harder for the economy
to recover, and he tries to look around and find someone else to
blame for almost every single one of his failures,” Romney, a
former  Massachusetts  governor, said.  Santorum, 53, trailing far behind Romney in the nominating
race, met with social conservative leaders to discuss
overhauling his flagging bid after his recent string of primary
losses. The former Pennsylvania senator is weighing changes to
reinvigorate his campaign as he works to prevent a defeat in
Pennsylvania that could end his candidacy.  “Everybody recognizes we’ve got to do things
differently,” said  Richard Viguerie , a veteran Republican
strategist who has been advising Santorum and said he attended
two meetings with him yesterday in the Tyson’s Corner, Virginia,
area. “The most important thing is how do we get control of the
narrative, or become part of the national political discussion.
Right now, the campaign has lost control of the narrative out
there.”  Romney, 65, intent on continuing to drive that narrative,
sought yesterday to damp expectations he would win
 Pennsylvania ’s primary even as he looked toward November.  Winning Home State  “I think everybody expects someone to win their home
state,” Romney said of Santorum during a stop at his
Pennsylvania campaign headquarters in Harrisburg, where he spent
a few minutes phone-banking with volunteers. “I do believe that
I will win Pennsylvania in the fall, and winning Pennsylvania
will give us the White House, so it’s a critical state for me.”  Not waiting for the end of the primary season, Romney is
overhauling his campaign to target Obama, repair damage to his
image inflicted during the Republican contest and broaden his
appeal to voters. As one step in that process, he is bringing on
 Ed Gillespie , a former chairman of the  Republican National
Committee  and a former top adviser to President  George W. Bush ,
as a senior adviser, the campaign said yesterday.  Romney tried out a more inclusive message -- laced with
criticism of Obama -- in Harrisburg.  “This isn’t about one person, or about even one party,”
Romney told supporters on the roof of the building that houses
his office. “We’re Republicans and Democrats in this campaign,
but we’re all connected with one destiny for America.”  Time at Harvard  “We have a president who I think is a nice guy, but he
spent too much time at Harvard, perhaps, or maybe just not
enough time working in the real world,” said Romney, a former
private-equity executive who also has a law degree, as well as a
business degree, from  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Romney has ceased referring to Santorum or any of his
rivals in public appearances, instead focusing on portraying
Obama as an “out-of-touch” leader who has hurt the economic
recovery and is running a “hide-and-seek” campaign to obscure
his record and plans for the country.  Obama’s campaign fired back at Romney, saying he was
mischaracterizing the president’s record and had switched his
own position on  energy policy  to suit his political goals.  ‘Backward-Looking’  Romney “has advocated a backward-looking drilling-and-
drilling-alone strategy that wouldn’t allow America to take
control of our energy future,”  Ben LaBolt , Obama’s campaign
press secretary said in a statement. “The position Romney says
he has today may come as a surprise to the Republican primary
voters  Governor Romney  made an entirely different set of
promises to, attacking investments in clean energy as he
campaigned across the country.”  Budd Beamer, a retired truck driver and steel worker from
Montrose, Pennsylvania, who came to see Romney in Tunkhannock,
said he is a recent convert from the “anyone-but-Romney”
column. He said he now leans toward backing the ex-governor
because he is so intent on getting Obama out of the White House.  “Looks like we’re going to go with Romney,” Beamer said
as he waited to hear him speak. “He’s not our first choice, but
it looks like he’s got the numbers and the momentum, and it’s
looking like it’s pretty much of a done deal.”  Need for Change  “This administration’s run this country into the ground
and bled it for all it’s worth, and we’re in dire need of a
change,” Beamer added.  After the latest round of voting, Romney has 658 delegates,
according to an  Associated Press  tally. That is more than half
the 1,144 needed to capture the nomination. Santorum has 281
delegates, meaning he would need to collect about three-fourths
of those remaining to win the party’s nod while Romney -- who
has won about 58 percent of the delegates so far -- would need
to win just over 40 percent.  Newt Gingrich , a former U.S. House
speaker, trails with 135 delegates and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  has 51.  Gingrich Group LLC, a health-care advocacy group founded by
the candidate, sought  bankruptcy protection  yesterday from
creditors without citing a reason. Gingrich Group, which
operates the Center for Health Transformation, listed debts of
as much as $10 million and assets of less than $100,000 in
documents filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Atlanta, where it is
based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Tunkhannock, Pennsylvania at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  