-- Rothschilds to Unite French, U.K. Banks to Secure Control
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-04-05T10:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/rothschilds-to-unite-french-u-k-banks-to-secure-family-control.html
The Rothschild family plans to merge
its French and U.K. banks into one company to tighten control
over the assets before an eventual succession of the group’s
chief, David de Rothschild.  Rothschild & Cie Banque, the company that holds the French
assets of the family such as the eponymous Paris-based mergers
and acquisitions bank, and Rothschilds Continuation Holdings AG,
which holds assets including London-based bank N.M. Rothschild &
Sons Ltd., will be combined under French-traded  Paris Orleans et
Cie. SA , it said in an e-mailed statement last night. Paris
Orleans will change its legal structure to a limited partnership
to give the family control over the long term, it said.  “This will enable us to address the requirements of a
globalized and competitive world while securing control of the
family over the group,” David de Rothschild, 69, who oversees
the whole firm, said in the statement.  The decision is part of a unification process between the
two branches of the family that started when David de Rothschild
took managerial control of the U.K. side of the bank after his
cousin Evelyn de Rothschild retired in 2004. While David is the
first French national to run the English half, the ownership of
the investment bank has remained split between the two families.
The plan simplifies the ownership of the banking operations
worldwide and will help integrate the teams further.  Succession Planning  The new structure will also facilitate the succession plans
of David de Rothschild. He will be chairman of PO Gestion, a
company fully owned by the Rothschild family and which will
control  Paris Orleans (PAOR) , while Nigel Higgins, chief executive
officer of Rothschilds Continuation, and Olivier Pecoux, CEO of
Paris Orleans, will become co-heads of PO Gestion. His son
Alexandre de Rothschild, 32, joined the family bank in 2009 from
Argan Capital, Bank of America Corp.’s former European private-
equity division.  “My son at 37 may be qualified to play some role,” David
de Rothschild said in a 2005 interview. “It’s subject to him
enjoying it and having the qualities.”  He envisages stepping down when he is between 72 and 76, he
was quoted as saying in an interview with French newspaper Le
Figaro today.  David was born in the U.S. when his parents fled the Nazis
during World War II. The family returned to Europe when the war
ended, and during the 1960s, Evelyn and his cousin Jacob rebuilt
the London bank, N.M. Rothschild & Sons Ltd.  June Approval Sought  In Paris, David’s father, Guy, expanded the bank by opening
branch offices and taking deposits. David joined the investment
bank as chairman of the management committee in 1978 when he was
36. In 1982, the Paris bank was nationalized by Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand . The same year, David opened an
asset-management business in  France , which he called PO Banque.  Paris Orleans is offering to buy out minority shareholders
at 17 euros ($22) per share and will seek approval at a meeting
in June, it said. Paris Orleans directly and indirectly owns 45
percent of Rothschild & Cie. and controls about 53 percent of
Rothschilds Continuation. RIT Capital Partners Plc, the London-
based investment trust led by  Jacob Rothschild , and Edmond de
Rothschild Group aren’t part of the group led by David de
Rothschild.  Paris Orleans shares rose 3.4 percent to 16.86 euros at
12:50 p.m. in Paris, valuing the company at 548.2 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  