-- Royal Joins Her Ex, Hollande, on Stage to Urge Sarkozy’s Defeat
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-05T07:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/royal-joins-her-ex-hollande-on-stage-to-urge-sarkozy-s-defeat.html
Segolene Royal joined her ex-partner
and the father of her four children,  Francois Hollande , for the
first time on stage last night to support his bid to defeat her
old nemesis, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Royal and Hollande, who studied together at the elite
 National School of Administration  in the 1970s and worked for
Socialist President  Francois Mitterrand  starting in 1981,
separated in 2006 and split officially in June 2007 after Royal
lost her presidential bid to Sarkozy.  Speaking at a rally in the Breton city of Rennes in western
France, Royal, who was defeated by Hollande in the Socialist 
primary in October, urged the crowd of about 18,000 “from the
bottom of my heart” to support “Francois.”  “I am passing the torch to the one who can win,” Royal,
58, told reporters in Rennes before the event. “The cause that
the Socialists are fighting for is greater than us. We are here
to serve this cause and not the reverse,” she said, pledging to
“put aside her own ambitions.''  Seventeen days before the first round of the presidential
election, the  Socialists  sought to show a  united front  to
persuade wavering voters to pick Hollande over Communist-backed
Jean-Luc Melenchon, who is running third in polls. Royal is
bidding to ensure that the 17 million people who voted for her
will again pick for the Socialist candidate.  The couple’s kids are also jumping into the fray.  Thomas Hollande , 27 and their eldest son, is volunteering
on his father’s Internet campaign team. He created the online
Radio Hollande and invited Royal as first guest on March 26. In
2007, he participated to his mother’s campaign.  ‘I Believe’  Flora Hollande, an 18-year-old psychology student,
participated in her mother’s primary campaign and posed for a
glossy magazine Gala last month saying ‘‘I believe he can win.”
The two other children, Julien and Clemence, have kept out of
the public eye.  Hollande has consistently led Sarkozy in voter support,
with 13 polls since mid-March giving him a lead of between six
and 12 points in the May 6 runoff. French voters will cast their
ballots among 10 candidates on April 22.  After losing the party nomination for this election, Royal
began to work on Hollande’s behalf. She is participating in
door-to-door campaigning in French towns, speaking out on radio
and television shows and posting hundreds of posts on her
Twitter Inc. account criticizing Sarkozy.  “Oh yes Mr. Sarkozy, with me  France  would have  had another
style , other results,” she wrote on March 6. She said he had
“only one message: ‘I’m not responsible of this crisis.”  ’’It’s a great, a beautiful reunion tonight because
Segolene Royal is here,’’  Hollande said  as he opened his hour-
long speech. “She is here as the symbol of unity that we lacked
in 2007, a powerful, irreversible unity. We are reunited
tonight.” His partner, Valerie Trierweiler a journalist for
Paris Match weekly magazine, and Royal shook hands before the
speech, the first time that they’ve been photographed together.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  