-- Saints’ Gregg Williams Urged Team to Aim for Head in Speech
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-05T15:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/saints-williams-urged-team-to-aim-for-head-in-recorded-speech.html
Former New Orleans Saints defensive
coordinator  Gregg Williams  repeatedly encouraged his players to
injure the  San Francisco 49ers  in a speech on the eve of their
playoff game last season, according to a filmmaker who recorded
his comments.  The  profanity laced audio  was provided to Yahoo! Sports and
posted on the website of filmmaker Sean Pamphilon, who had been
given access to various team functions for much of the 2011
National Football League season, according to  Yahoo.   Saints coach Sean Payton is appealing a yearlong suspension
for a bounty program run by Williams and exposed by the league
last month, with a hearing before Commissioner  Roger Goodell  set
for today in New York, the  Associated Press  reported.  Williams, now defensive coordinator for the  St. Louis Rams ,
was suspended indefinitely. He and Payton have apologized for
the bounty program.  Neither Greg Bensel, a spokesman for the Saints, nor Artis
Twyman, a spokesman for Rams, immediately returned e-mails
seeking comment on the audio.  The audio’s release also comes as hundreds of former NFL
players are suing the league for ignoring the consequences of
head injuries.  At one point during the speech, Williams gestured with his
hand to indicate that he would pay for the first hard hit on
49ers quarterback  Alex Smith ’s chin, according to Pamphilon.
Williams also encouraged his players to injure the knee of 49ers
wide receiver  Michael Crabtree .  ‘Affect the Head’  Several times during the speech, Williams said, “Kill the
head and the body will follow,” an expression that can be used
as a psychological ploy. He then got more specific.  “Every single one of you, before you get off the pile,
affect the head,” Williams said. “Early, affect the head.
Continue, touch and hit the head.”  Williams specifically encouraged the team to “put a lick
on” receiver Kyle Williams to “find out” if he was still
suffering from the effects of a December concussion.  It was the last game Williams would coach for the Saints,
who fell 36-32 to the 49ers.  Former NFL players including Super Bowl-winning quarterback
Jim McMahon have sued the NFL in more than a dozen complaints
over allegations that the league ignored the consequences of
head injuries in order to promote the sport.  Stiffest Penalty  Williams, who was hired to be defensive coordinator of the
Rams after the season, was suspended last month, joining Payton
and Saints General Manager Mickey Loomis in receiving the
stiffest penalties ever handed to an NFL team because they ran a
program that paid bonuses to players who injured opponents.  Loomis was suspended for half a season and the team was
fined $500,000 and stripped of two draft picks.  Between 22 and 27 Saints players were involved in the
program over the past three seasons, the NFL said March 2 in an
e-mailed release following an investigation that began in 2010.
The league has yet to hand down penalties against any player.  Set up by Williams, the Saints’ bonus pool may have reached
as much as $50,000 during the 2009 playoffs, which culminated in
the team’s  Super Bowl  victory against the  Indianapolis Colts ,
according to the NFL release. Williams occasionally contributed
funds himself, the NFL said.  Players were among those who funded the program, which gave
cash for plays such as interceptions, fumble recoveries and hits
that injured the opposition, the NFL said. All such payments
violate NFL rules for non-contract bonuses.  Favre Bounty  Saints defensive captain Jonathan Vilma was the only player
specifically named by the NFL, for offering $10,000 to any
player who knocked Minnesota Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre  out
of the 2010 National Football Conference championship game.  Players would receive as much as $1,500 for a
“knockout,” in which an opposing player was unable to return
to the game, and $1,000 for a “cart-off” in which opposing
players were carried off the field, according to the release.
Payments doubled or tripled during the playoffs, according to
the NFL investigation.  “It was a terrible mistake, and we knew it was wrong while
we were doing it,” Williams said in a statement that followed
the league’s release. “Instead of getting caught up in it, I
should have stopped it. I take full responsibility for my
role.”  Pamphilon was the writer and director of the documentary
“Run Ricky Run,” which was part of ESPN’s “30 for 30”
series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 