-- Samsung Profit Exceeds Estimates on Smartphone, TV Demand
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-04-06T08:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/samsung-profit-beats-estimates-on-smartphone-television-demand.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Asia’s
largest consumer-electronics maker, posted first-quarter  profit 
that beat analyst estimates as gains from selling phones and TVs
helped mask a slump in earnings at the chip business.  Operating  profit  rose to a quarterly record 5.8 trillion
won ($5.1 billion) in the three months ended March 31 from 2.95
trillion won a year earlier, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a statement today. That surpassed the 5 trillion
won average of 32 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit at the mobile-phone business probably more than
doubled in the quarter from a year earlier after Samsung
introduced the Galaxy Note and new smartphones to compete with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , a  key customer  that it’s also fighting in a patent
battle on four continents. Samsung is also bringing out 3-D and
Internet-enabled TVs to counter falling chip prices that are
eroding earnings at the semiconductor unit.  “Sales of new models of smartphones, such as the Note,
were better than expected,”  James Song , a Seoul-based analyst
at Daewoo Securities Co., said by phone today. “They have a
good line-up of new products, so they will be able to keep the
momentum alive for two or three quarters, at least.”  Samsung rose 0.2 percent to 1,332,000 won on the Korea
Exchange at the close of trading. The benchmark Kospi index was
little changed. The shares have gained 26 percent this year.  Galaxy Phones  Operating profit may be 200 billion won higher or lower
than today’s estimate when audited results are announced later
this month, Samsung said. The company didn’t provide net income
figures or a breakdown of divisional earnings.  First-quarter sales jumped 22 percent to 45 trillion won.  Operating profit at the telecommunications unit more than
doubled to 3.5 trillion won, according to the median estimate of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Sales are estimated to
have gained 75 percent to 18.6 trillion won.  Samsung probably sold 44 million smartphones in the first
quarter, more than tripling from a year earlier, Matt Evans, a
Seoul-based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in an
April 2 report. That would exceed Apple’s shipments “by a
significant margin,” making Samsung the top smartphone seller
during the three-month period, according to the report.  The maker of Galaxy devices aims to double sales of
smartphones and tablet computers this year, helped by new
products, the company said in a statement in February. Including
basic phones, Samsung expects to sell about 380 million handsets
this year, after shipping a record 300 million units last year.  Samsung Versus Apple  Global sales of the Galaxy S II reached 20 million in about
10 months since it went on sale, about seven months faster than
shipments of its predecessor, Samsung said in February. The
Galaxy phones and tablets compete with Apple’s iPhone and iPad.  The company sold more than 5 million units of the Galaxy
Note, equipped with a 5.3-inch screen and a stylus, since sales
began in October. Samsung expects to sell 10 million units of
the model by the end of this year and plans to introduce more
pen-equipped products with different screen sizes.  Samsung and Apple have been suing each other in the past
year regarding patent-infringement claims related to mobile
technology and design. Apple is Samsung’s biggest  customer ,
buying chips and displays from the Korean company.  Chip Prices  Profit at the semiconductor division probably fell 28
percent to 1.2 trillion won on sales of 8.65 trillion won,
according to the Bloomberg News survey.  The price of the benchmark  DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM (DRAM84)  closed at $1
on April 2, compared with $2.10 a year earlier, according to
data from Taipei-based Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of
 Asia ’s largest spot market for semiconductors. Falling chip
prices pushed Elpida Memory Inc. to file for bankruptcy earlier
this year, while  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  reported a third
consecutive quarterly loss in March.  Memory-chip demand slowed in the first quarter as hard-disk
drive output didn’t recover as fast as expected after floods in
 Thailand , a key production site, Choi Sung Jae, a Seoul-based
analyst at SK Securities Co., said in a March 30 report.  Elpida’s bankruptcy will probably prompt major chip buyers,
including Apple, Dell Inc. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , to seek
alternative suppliers, helping boost prices in the second
quarter, Choi wrote.  LCDs, TVs  Samsung plans to invest $7 billion to build a factory in
 China , producing NAND flash, a different type of memory widely
used in smartphones and tablet computers.  Samsung’s display division probably had an operating profit
of 164.5 billion won, compared with a loss of 230 billion won a
year earlier, according to the Bloomberg News survey. Sales
probably rose to 8.25 trillion won from 6.51 trillion won.  While liquid-crystal-display prices were suppressed by
slowing TV demand, panels used in mobile devices such as phones
and tablets helped boost earnings, Choi at SK said. Samsung
supplies Apple with screens used in the latest iPad, according
to research company IHS Inc.’s iSuppli. Samsung spun off the LCD
business on April 1.  Last year, global TV shipments fell for the first time
since 2004, according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Flat-
screen TV shipments in the U.S. may fall for the first time this
year, to 37.1 million units from 39.1 million in 2011, according
to iSuppli.  Samsung’s TV-making unit probably had an operating profit
of 418 billion won, compared with 100 billion won a year ago,
helped by high-end models featuring 3-D functionality and Web-
based services, according to the survey. Sales are estimated to
have risen to 14.3 trillion won from 13.5 trillion won.  Samsung had a record market share in the U.S. LCD TV market
in the fourth quarter, accounting for about 25 percent of total
shipments, helped by a wide range of models and features,
iSuppli said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  