-- San Francisco Leads Rent Growth as U.S. Office Vacancy Falls
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-04-05T18:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/san-francisco-leads-rent-growth-as-u-s-office-vacancies-decline.html
Demand from  technology  and  energy-
industry  tenants led the U.S. office market to its fifth
straight quarterly gain in net occupancy, with  San Francisco 
leading the country in rent growth,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  Office landlords had a net increase in leased space of
almost 6 million square feet (557,000 square meters) in the
three months through March, compared with 6.1 million square
feet a year earlier, the New York-based real estate research
 firm  said in a report today. The vacancy rate dropped to 17.2
from 17.6 percent in the first quarter of 2011.  Occupancy and rents are increasing as the  U.S. economy 
slowly recovers from the recession and the office market
rebounds after three years of net losses in leased space. Cities
with a large base of technology employers, including Boston,
 Seattle  and San Francisco and San Jose in  California , accounted
for five of the 10 strongest markets for rent growth last
quarter, Reis said.  “Technology is growing faster than any other industry”
and those companies are willing to pay a premium for locations
that will attract employees, said Bill Goade, chief executive
officer of Boston-based  Cresa , the largest tenant-representation
firm in  North America . “Law firms and financial services are
all trying to do with less square footage.”  Technology Expansion  Expansion by technology tenants such as Apple Inc.,
Amazon.com Inc. and  EMC Corp (EMC) , the largest maker of storage
computers, helped shrink vacancies on the West Coast and
Northeast, while strength in oil and natural-gas demand
bolstered  Texas , Reis said. Office markets in cities that got
overbuilt during the housing boom, including Las Vegas, remain
weak, according to the report.  Nationwide, effective rents, or what tenants pay after
landlord concessions, rose to an average $22.66 a square foot
from $22.20 a year earlier, Reis said.  San Francisco’s average office rent rose 6.8 percent during
the past year. A slow recovery in financial services held  New
York  to the second-biggest gain, 4.8 percent, Reis said. Rents
climbed 4.1 percent in San Jose, 2.5 percent in Boston and
Houston, and 2.3 percent in Denver and Seattle. Houston is home
to  energy employers  including BP America, Citgo Petroleum Corp.
and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Washington  had the lowest vacancy rate, 9.4 percent,
followed by New York at 10.4 percent, according to Reis. San
Francisco had the eighth-lowest rate at 14.2 percent. Thirty-
four of the 79 major markets tracked by the firm had office
vacancies lower than the national average.  Washington Vacancies  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  said in a separate report today that
Washington’s vacancy rate rose to 10.2 percent in the first
quarter from 9.8 percent at the end of 2011, as reduced federal
spending on property and continued economic uncertainty caused a
softening of the office market.  “While this region remains one of the strongest real
estate markets in the nation, we are seeing a slowdown as
businesses and organizations maintain a holding pattern,” John
Germano, executive managing director of CBRE’s Washington-
Baltimore region, said in the report.  U.S. job growth remains tepid, raising the risk that leases
expiring this year may be renewed at equivalent or lower rents,
diluting landlord incomes, Ryan Severino, an economist at Reis,
said in the report.  “The labor market is struggling to consistently gain more
than 200,000 jobs per month,” he said. “This is very weak by
historical standards for periods of economic recovery.”  The U.S. office market is rebounding from a loss in
occupied space of 137 million square feet from 2008 to 2010,
more than the total inventory of office buildings in  Boston ,
according to Reis.  A small amount of development is keeping vacancies from
rising, the firm said. In the first quarter, 1.92 million square
feet of new  office space  was completed. That’s down from 4.87
million square feet a year earlier and the smallest annual space
increase since Reis began tracking the data in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  