-- Santorum Meets With Conservative Leaders on Campaign Changes
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-04-05T18:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/santorum-meets-with-conservative-leaders-on-campaign-changes.html
Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , trailing far behind  Mitt Romney  in the race for the
Republican presidential nomination, met today with social
conservative leaders to discuss overhauling his flagging bid.  After a recent string of primary losses, Santorum, 53, is
weighing changes to reinvigorate his campaign as he works to
prevent a defeat in his home state’s April 24 primary that could
end his candidacy.  “Everybody recognizes we’ve got to do things
differently,” said  Richard Viguerie , a veteran Republican
strategist who has been advising Santorum and said he attended
two meetings with him today in the Tyson’s Corner, Virginia,
area. “The most important thing is how do we get control of the
narrative, or become part of the national political discussion.
Right now, the campaign has lost control of the narrative out
there.”  Romney, 65, has rarely mentioned Santorum in his public
comments in recent days. Increasingly regarded as the party’s
nominee-in-waiting, the former Massachusetts governor has turned
his attention almost entirely toward President  Barack Obama  and
the general election campaign.  Santorum, who emerged as Romney’s chief rival as he rallied
support from Republicans whose focus is on such social issues as
abortion and gay marriage, is taking a four-day break to
celebrate the Easter holiday weekend, which begins tomorrow, and
plans to resume events April 9, his campaign said.  Viguerie said the sessions today were not about Santorum
quitting the race or finding a way to get former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  to do so to consolidate the anti-Romney
vote.  ‘Big, Bold Things’  “We’re in the locker room, it’s halftime, and we’ve got to
figure out what we’re going to do when we come out,” Viguerie
said in an interview, declining to provide specifics of the
proposals discussed. “We don’t need just little adjustments at
the edges here; we need to do some big, bold things.”  While Romney predicted today in Harrisburg, the state
capital, that Santorum would win the  Pennsylvania  primary, he
also said he would win the state in a November match-up against
Obama, which would help give Republicans the White House.  Recent polls have shown a close race between Romney and
Santorum in Pennsylvania. Santorum has been stressing at
campaign appearances his need to win the state.  After Romney swept three primaries on April 3, he has 658
convention delegates, according to an  Associated Press  tally,
more than half the 1,144 needed to capture the nomination.
Santorum has 281 delegates, meaning that he would need to
collect about three-quarters of those remaining to win the
party’s nod while Romney would need just over 40 percent.
Gingrich trails with 135 delegates, and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  has 51.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Hazleton, Pennsylvania
at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 