-- SAP Ventures Scours Silicon Valley for Startups as Parent Ages
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/sap-ventures-scours-silicon-valley-for-startups-as-parent-ages.html
SAP AG (SAP) ,  Europe ’s biggest software
maker, is celebrating its 40th birthday this week. To stay
relevant for the next 40 years, the company is calling on its
Silicon Valley venture arm for help.  Backed by $353 million from its parent,  SAP Ventures  is
searching for startups building cloud-computing applications,
open-source software and employee-collaboration tools. It led a
$50 million investment last week in Violin Memory Inc., a maker
of  flash memory  for data centers, and the firm has previously
made profitable bets on  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  and ExactTarget Inc.  Spun out of SAP as an independent entity in 2011, SAP
Ventures is tasked with turning a profit while helping keep its
sole investor on top of emerging trends. With $20 billion in
sales and more than 55,000 employees, SAP needs help coping with
the “innovator’s dilemma,” a phrase coined by Harvard Business
School professor  Clayton Christensen  in the 1990s that refers to
the challenges industry leaders face in spotting disruption
before it threatens their business.  “The world will change no matter what happens and you
might as well get insight into it,” said Nino Marakovic, chief
executive officer of SAP Ventures in  Palo Alto ,  California . SAP
“has been incredibly forward thinking and supportive of our
activities that step on SAP’s feet a little bit,” he said.  Broader Trend  The field of corporate venture capitalists is getting more
crowded. They increased their investments by 15 percent in 2011
to $2.3 billion from $2 billion the previous year, according to
a  report  last month from  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  and the
National  Venture Capital  Association.  Google Inc.’s venture unit is investing as much as $200
million annually in startups, and Comcast Corp. opened a San
Francisco office for its venture division last year. Dell Inc.,
meanwhile, hired Jim Lussier from Norwest Venture Partners in
2011 to restart a venture business more than a decade after
closing it.  SAP Ventures was started in 1997 and until last year
operated as the strategic investing unit of its parent in
Walldorf,  Germany . The division invested in more than 100
companies in those 14 years -- including WebEx Communications
Inc., now owned by  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , and  Red Hat Inc. (RHT)   SAP started SAP Ventures Fund I in January 2011 to give the
firm’s partners complete control over investment decisions. SAP
Ventures invests $3 million to $12 million in each startup and
is likely to raise another fund next year of a similar size as
the current one, Marakovic said.  Dot-Com Era  While large enterprises need to invest in innovation,
they’ve had a mixed record as venture capitalists, said Bob Ackerman, the founder of  Allegis Capital  in San Francisco and a
lecturer in venture finance at the  University of California  at
Berkeley. They tend to come in when there’s growth, such as
during the dot-com boom of the 1990s, and leave when the market
sours, he said. The significance they place on venture capital
can also shift when there’s a change in management or board of
directors.  “I’ve seen situations where there’s a change of CEO and
the program abruptly stops,” Ackerman said. “For the corporate
venture team, that can be very frustrating, but for the
portfolio company dependent on those corporate relationships, it
can be a disaster.”  That’s one reason SAP wanted more separation from the
venture unit. Now it’s just up to the partners to make the right
deals -- something they’ve had success at so far. The fund
backed business-networking site LinkedIn and e-mail marketing
provider  ExactTarget (ET) , which both went public in the past year.
It also owned a stake in Endeca Technologies Inc., which  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  bought for more than $1 billion in December, and LogLogic
Inc., purchased this week by Tibco Software Inc.  Box, Lithium  SAP Ventures has invested in some of the most high-profile
 business software  startups, including Box Inc., the provider of
cloud storage and collaboration, and Lithium Technologies Inc.,
a social-media marketing company.  In addition to providing a window into Silicon Valley
innovation, the investments are part of a plan to help SAP
expand beyond traditional business software. The company has
stepped up  acquisitions  to boost its cloud and mobile offerings,
purchasing SuccessFactors Inc. this year and Sybase Inc. in
2010. Cloud computing allows companies to get their software and
processing power delivered over the Internet, freeing them from
having to maintain servers themselves.  SAP also is investing in new fields such as in-memory
analytics, which allows clients to perform calculations rapidly
and directly from large amounts of data.  Dealing With Stigma?  Still, some entrepreneurs are concerned about taking money
from a potential competitor and other startups prefer to stick
with the traditional venture names, such as  Sequoia Capital  and
 Accel Partners . That forces SAP Ventures to work harder to reach
the hottest companies, said Lithium CEO Rob Tarkoff, who ran
Adobe Systems Inc.’s venture arm before joining the Emeryville,
California-based startup.  “They come from this mentality that because they’re a
corporate venturing arm, people are going to not be as
interested in them,” Tarkoff said. “They’re hustling more
because of that.”  For Tarkoff, that has included meetings with top SAP
executives to gain insight on new products that customers are
interested in buying. Jaspersoft Corp. CEO Brian Gentile said
his San Francisco-based company, a provider of business
intelligence software, has actually won clients because of SAP’s
support.  “There’s comfort in knowing SAP has made an investment and
backs this  software company  that you’re considering doing
business with,” Gentile said. “They’re looking for validation
and SAP brings some of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  