-- Seattle Signals Glut Risk as Apartment Construction Rises
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-04-05T16:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/seattle-signals-glut-risk-as-apartment-construction-rises.html
The biggest surge of Seattle-area
apartment construction in a quarter century is threatening to
undercut the growth in rents, a trend that’s also emerging in
such U.S. cities as Washington and Houston.  Seattle  went from “dead last” in rent increases three
years ago, following the collapse of mortgage lender  Washington
Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , to 13th out of 88 markets last year, according to
Axiometrics Inc., a multifamily real estate research company.
The construction boom spurred by rising rents is now stoking
concern that revenue growth may stall as an increasing number of
units compete for tenants.  “We went from almost a desert to a big pipeline” in two
years, said  David Young , the Seattle-based managing director who
oversees western U.S. apartments for commercial broker  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  “There will be a glut in 2013 and 2014 just
because of the amount of new product.”  Encouraged by hiring at local employers such as  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , developers are building
almost 10,000 apartments in Washington state’s King and
Snohomish counties, home to Seattle and the city of Everett,
where Boeing operates its main airplane-assembly plant,
according to Seattle-based  O’Connor Consulting Group LLC . Three-
quarters of the total are in Seattle, with 4,619 of those units
in or near downtown.  Seattle’s rental-housing renaissance comes as demand for
apartments nationwide is the strongest in a generation because
of home foreclosures, stiffer lending standards and a growing
number of young adults forming households.  Increase in Construction  U.S. apartment construction is rebounding from a 50-year
low reached in 2009 even as falling home prices and low  interest
rates  begin to attract buyers back to the purchase market.  “Around the country, we are seeing this trend of
development concentrated in the urban core,” said Ron Johnsey,
president of Dallas-based Axiometrics. “If the operators,
lenders and investors are not careful, the urban core submarkets
will become overbuilt in a couple of years.”  Building permits for U.S. apartments rose 56 percent in the
12 months ended in February from the low in 2009, more than
doubling in five of the six most-active construction markets --
 Dallas , Houston, Los Angeles,  Washington  and Seattle --according
to Axiometrics and  Census Bureau  data. In the sixth,  New York ,
permits rose 73 percent.  Vacancies Decline  The rebound in rental properties so far has shown no sign
of slackening. U.S. apartment vacancies fell to 4.9 percent in
the first quarter, their lowest since 2001, Reis Inc. reported
yesterday. It’s only the third time since the New York-based
firm began gathering the data 31 years ago that vacancies were
less than 5 percent.  Reis estimates about 70,000 units will open for leasing
this year, about double the supply growth in 2011. Next year,
Reis forecasts 150,000 to 200,000 new units in the 79 primary
markets it tracks. “Risks may manifest” in the apartment
industry as more units come to market, Victor Calanog, head of
research and economics at Reis, said in the report.  In Seattle, Amazon’s 2010 move to a new headquarters at the
north end of the city’s downtown after outgrowing its old
location on Beacon Hill helped buoy the local economy.  The biggest Web merchant relocated thousands of workers to
the South Lake Union neighborhood and accelerated development
beyond its new campus as landlords bet young professionals would
rent instead of buy and want to live within walking or biking
distance of work.  Surge in Hiring  Amazon hired 22,500 people worldwide last year, an increase
of 67 percent from the 33,700 employees it had at the end of
2010, according to its  annual reports . The company won’t say how
many work in Seattle.  Boeing hired about 8,000 workers last year in the Seattle
area, home to almost half its total 171,700 employees as of Dec.
31, said Doug Alder, a spokesman for the Chicago-based company.
Apparel retailer Nordstrom last year added 7,500 people,
including new employees in Seattle, expanding its workforce 14
percent.  The surge in apartment development that has accompanied
economic growth may eventually hurt landlords.  “We’re starting to get a little feedback that maybe
there’s too much supply,” said Brian O’Connor, principal of
O’Connor Consulting. The Seattle-based research and appraisal
company conducted market studies last year for more than 50
developers contemplating high-rise projects in the region. “One
lender said, ‘We did five construction loans last year. We’re
thinking we shouldn’t do any more.’”  Boom Through 2016  Apartment rents  in Seattle will rise 3 percent a year after
2012, half the 6 percent forecast for this year, according to
Dupre + Scott Apartment Advisors Inc., a Seattle-based research
company that said the building boom may last through 2016.  “If in fact we come to market when there’s excess supply,
we’ll just have to be aggressive on rents,” said Matt Griffin,
managing partner of Seattle-based Pine Street Group LLC, which
is building 654 dwelling units about eight blocks from Amazon’s
main office building. “That’s our downside.”  Pine Street’s  Via6  is scheduled to open in February 2013.
Its apartments will be among the first of an estimated 8,900 new
units coming to market next year in King, Snohomish and Pierce
counties. That’s the most since the late 1980s, according to
Dupre + Scott.  Growth to Slow  “We expect the next few years to be the most aggressive
development cycle we’ve seen in more than 20 years,” the firm
said in a December report. “With the onslaught of new
construction that will begin lease-up, particularly in 2013, the
rate of rent growth will slow.”  New apartment construction also is surging in other U.S.
cities. In the greater Washington area, including northern
Virginia and suburban  Maryland , the consolidation of military-
base personnel in the area, expansion by medical and education
employers, and a large pool of recent college graduates have
helped drive demand for rental housing, said Toby Bozzuto,
president of  Bozzuto Development Co.   The company, based in Greenbelt, Maryland, expects to
complete 3,500 new rental units in the Washington area within
the next two years, the most in the company’s 25-year history,
Bozzuto said.  “Washington-area rents have risen 5 to 8 percent a year
over the past two years but now we have a huge pipeline
coming,” he said. “We could potentially begin to see
concessions coming back into the market starting this year,”
Bozzuto said, referring to such landlord giveaways as a month of
free rent.  Historical Averages  Bozzuto said he expects no more than 3 percent rent growth
this year and 5 percent next, in line with the historical
inflationary averages in the area over the past 25 years.  Similar to Seattle, development in Houston has been
concentrated close to downtown in an area that locals call
“inside the loop,” the district encircled by Interstate 610,
where rent growth has been strongest.  Oil and natural gas have bolstered the Texas economy.
Houston is headquarters to the U.S. unit of  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s
second-biggest oil producer, as well as Citgo Petroleum Corp.,
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and ExxonMobil Chemical Co.  With few apartment projects started in Houston during the
past three years, there is pent-up demand to fulfill, said Ed
Wulfe, chairman and founder of Wulfe & Co., a Houston-based
commercial brokerage, development and management company. He
said he expects apartment rents will continue to rise even with
more than 9,000 new units under construction.  Appealing to Investors  Population growth and job creation coupled with high
occupancy rates and rising rents are appealing to apartment
developers and investors, Wulfe said. The city is one of just a
few U.S. metropolitan areas that may have a bigger increase in
rents next year, said Calanog of Reis.  “They might have another year for this bull run but for
most other markets, I suspect this might be the peak year,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Nationwide, permits were granted for 189,158 rental units
during the past year, up from 121,125 units in 2009, according
to Axiometrics and the Census Bureau. While U.S. permits remain
45 percent less than the annual average of 346,829 from 1997 to
2008, Washington is just 4 percent off its long-term average,
Dallas is down 14 percent and  Los Angeles  is off 15 percent,
Axiometrics figures show.  Seahawks’ Stadium  In Seattle, Goodman Real Estate Inc. and Harbor Urban LLC,
both based in the city, broke ground in March on a $95 million
project with 249 units in the Belltown district. Holland
Partners, a Vancouver, Washington-based developer, said it plans
to build 386 units across the street from the Paramount Theater,
between the downtown retail corridor and  Capitol Hill  to the
east.  At the south end of downtown, next to CenturyLink Field,
home to the Seahawks football team, Seattle-based R.D. Merrill
Co. said it’s helping finance about 700 new apartment units as
part of an office, retail and residential complex known as the
 North Lot Development .  East of downtown, Laconia Development LLC plans to build
about 323 rental units in a 30-story tower in the First Hill
neighborhood on a site it had planned for condominiums, said
Paul Menzies, chief executive officer of the Walnut Creek,
California-based company. Laconia has equity financing in place
and is in talks for a construction loan, Menzies said.  “I don’t think we’re anywhere near the top of the cycle,”
Menzies said in a telephone interview.  Keeping Apartments Filled  Pension funds, real estate investment trusts and other
institutions have flocked to buy or finance apartments in
Seattle since 2010 as they seek to invest in fast-growing
regions and assets they expect to hold value, said O’Connor, the
consultant. Offices can sit empty for long stretches and
condominiums go unsold, whereas apartment landlords are usually
able to keep apartments filled by reducing rents, he said.  While REITs including  Equity Residential (EQR)  and  AvalonBay
Communities Inc. (AVB)  own apartments in and around Seattle, most of
the area’s development is being undertaken by private
developers.  Some investors are reducing their holdings in the area amid
concern about an apartment glut.  Security Properties , a Seattle-
based developer that owns a 268-unit apartment complex about six
miles (10 kilometers) north of downtown, and its partner
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. are the sellers of the
site near the Paramount Theater.  Bubble Concern  “You never know how strong job growth is going to be, how
strong population growth is going to be,” said John Orehek,
president and chief executive officer of Security Properties,
which has built apartments in the Seattle area since 1969. While
concern that an apartment bubble may develop “wasn’t the
primary driver” behind the land sale, “it’s always in the back
of your mind,” he said.  Investors with a 10-year horizon aren’t daunted by the
surge of apartment construction, said brokers including Young of
Jones Lang LaSalle. Even if Seattle endures a few years of
slowing rent growth, the local economy is set to expand with the
construction of a regional light-rail network and the proposed
redevelopment of the city’s waterfront.  “We will be supply-constrained towards the end of the
decade,” Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  