-- Signature Theatre Will Get $10 Million From Irene Diamond Fund
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-04-05T17:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/signature-theatre-will-get-10-million-from-irene-diamond-fund.html
New York ’s  Signature Theatre  today
said the Irene Diamond Fund donated $10 million to the company,
which recently opened a three-theater complex near Times Square.  The Signature had been speaking to the Diamond Fund for two
years, artistic director James Houghton said in an interview. He
added that donors have been responding to the company’s
ambitious plan to expand its work and grow audiences.  “The combination of that ambition and vision in difficult
times captured the imagination of some folks out there who have
resources,” he said.  Two months ago, Signature announced a $25 million gift from
hedge fund manager  William Ackman . The Frank Gehry-designed
complex is named for Ackman’s foundation,  Pershing Square .  The 21-year-old theater company will name its largest
theater for Diamond, who died in 2003 and was the widow of New
York real estate developer Aaron Diamond. The other two theaters
are named for scholar Alice Griffin and playwright Romulus
Linney.  Signature presents multiple works by the same playwright.
Plays this season are by  Edward Albee , Authol Fugard, Will Eno,
Kenneth Lonergan and Katori Hall. Tickets for initial runs of
all its shows cost $25.  Houghton said the Diamond money will repay loans and
construction costs for the complex. The theater is still seeking
another $10 million to complete what Houghton described as a $75
million capital campaign to retire its mortgage and build a cash
reserve.  Naming rights remain for the Signature’s rehearsal space
and atrium, Houghton said.  “We have a lot of things still to name,” he said.  Ackman had committed his $25 million without having seen a
Signature show. Houghton said the  money manager  took the plunge
and recently saw Fugard’s “Blood Knot.” The playwright’s next
drama, “ My Children! My Africa!, ” begins previews on May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 