-- Sony Says Professional Products to Help Consumer Unit
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-04-05T05:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/sony-says-professional-products-to-help-consumer-unit.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest
electronics exporter, will use the technology of its business-
use products to help revive its consumer-products unit, Kazuo Hirai said in his first public address as company president.  Accelerating cooperation between the professional-products
business and the consumer division is key to reviving Sony’s
electronics operations, Hirai, who replaced  Howard Stringer  as
president and chief executive officer April 1, told reporters
today in Tokyo.  Hirai, 51, has vowed “painful” steps to turn around a
company facing a fourth straight annual loss as consumers flock
to devices from Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. The new
CEO, credited with making Sony’s PlayStation game business
profitable, put himself in charge of the company’s television
operations, aiming to end eight years of losses at the unit.  “Sony’s high-quality, advanced products for business use
can help our consumer unit lead the market,” Hirai said today.
“We will speed up development of products and promote
cooperation.”  The effort will be led by Shoji Nemoto, who has been named
to oversee Tokyo-based Sony’s technology strategy and digital
imaging and solution units, Hirai said. Sony’s professional-use
products include cameras employed by broadcasters and projectors
used by movie theaters.  New Strategy  The maker of Bravia TVs and Vaio computers plans to unveil
details of its new corporate strategy on April 12, Sony said in
a statement today.  Appointing Nemoto was a good move by Hirai, said  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst at  Barclays Capital .  “Sony used to be good at creating synergy between
business-use products and consumer products, such as digital
video cameras,” Fujimori said by phone today. “But these days,
they’re not. So I think it’s positive that Hirai is talking
about it.”  The company’s shares  rose  0.9 percent to 1,672 yen at 2:12
p.m. in Tokyo, extending their gain this year to 21 percent.
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.4 percent.  Cupertino, California-based Apple has gained 54 percent
this year in New York trading, while Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung has risen 25 percent in  Seoul .  Nemoto Appointment  Sony announced Nemoto’s appointment on March 27, when it
also named Kunimasa Suzuki as head of product strategy, mobile
phones and personal computers. Tomoyuki Suzuki was named to
oversee Sony’s chip and device solution businesses.  “There are technologies that our professional unit has
that can benefit products for the mass market,” Nemoto told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. “We’ll do it very quickly. We can
jointly develop chips, systems and modules to build a seamless
relationship.”  Nemoto has set up three groups under his technology
committee, he said today. A corporate research and development
group made up of select engineers will focus on developing a
“game-changing” technology that can drive Sony’s growth in
five to 10 years, he said.  Another group is tasked with improving Sony’s research and
development for existing products and products to be introduced
within five years. The third group will focus on technologies
for components and materials, Nemoto said.  Hirai, who worked in Sony’s music and entertainment
divisions, edged out three other candidates with engineering
backgrounds for the top job at the company that was a
trendsetter in the 1980s. Stringer, 70, will become chairman of
the  board  after a shareholders meeting in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  