-- South Korea Ruling Party Risks Parliament Election Loss
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-06T05:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/south-korea-ruling-party-risks-parliament-election-loss.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s ruling party faces losing control of parliament next week
to an opposition that vows to increase welfare spending, revisit
a U.S. trade deal and improve ties with North Korea.  The New Frontier Party is struggling to overcome bribery
and illegal surveillance scandals ahead of April 11’s National
Assembly elections that may forecast the December presidential
race. The opposition Democratic United Party has pledged to
create 3.3 million jobs and may get a boost from younger voters
who face an  unemployment rate  almost twice the national average.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy has had slower growth and
higher inflation under Lee than his predecessor, contributing to
a 50 percent drop in his popularity. Relations have also
worsened with North  Korea , who plans to fire a long-range rocket
between April 12 and 16 would scuttle a food aid agreement with
the Obama administration.  “An opposition victory will hasten Lee’s position as a
lame duck,” said Lee Nae Young, a political science professor
at Korea University in Seoul. “Regardless of who wins, we could
see many welfare policies enacted before Lee’s term ends, as
parties try to improve the odds for December.”  The national prosecutors office on April 1 said it was
looking into accusations the government illegally tapped phones
and watched civilians and politicians between 2008 and 2010. Lee
spokesman Choe Geum Nak the same day said the government would
wait for the results of the investigation.  The scandal follows the resignation of the National
Assembly’s speaker over allegations of vote-buying in February,
and Lee’s party chairman quitting in December after an aide was
named by police in a cyber attack on the election commission.  Popularity Contest  According to a Realmeter poll taken March 26-30 before the
investigation started, 39.8 percent of voters back the NFP,
compared with 30.5 percent for the main opposition DUP and 8.1
percent for its coalition partner, the United Progressive Party.
Lee’s approval rating was at 32.7 percent, less than half of his
76 percent when he  took office  in February 2008.  “The NFP’s ratings are expected to fall as they already
started to do so over the weekend, when the surveillance
allegations were made,” Realmeter said in a statement
accompanying the poll. “The popularity contest between the
ruling party and the opposition is expected to be very close
until the day of the voting.”  The party’s woes may be compounded by expectations of
greater participation by younger, more independent voters, said
Park Won Ho, a professor of political science and electoral
behavior at  Seoul  National University. The National Election
Commission last month said it expects a 10 percent increase in
voter turnout next week, led by people in their 20s and 30s.  ‘Unpredictable Youth’  While South Korea’s  unemployment rate  was at 4.2 percent in
February, joblessness for those aged 15-29 was 8.3 percent,
according to the  Finance Ministry . The youth vote helped an
independent candidate who later joined the DUP win Seoul’s
mayoral election in October.  “Older voters don’t veer from their conservative voting
orientation and provide a constant 30 percent support base for
the New Frontier Party, but the unpredictable youth contingent
could be enough to overcome that cushion and put the opposition
party into power,” Park said.  Lee, who ran  South Korea ’s largest construction company
before entering politics, has also suffered from his failure to
deliver on his pledge to boost annual growth to 7 percent and
per capita income to $40,000. Gross domestic product during his
term has averaged 3.2 percent, down from 4.3 percent during
predecessor Roh Moo Hyun’s five-year term, while consumer price
gains have averaged 3.6 percent, from 2.9 percent. The benchmark
 Kospi stock index  has fallen 4.6 percent in the past year.  ‘Past Wrongdoings’  “I understand people are struggling,” NFP leader and
likely presidential candidate Park Geun Hye said at an outdoor
market in Sejong City on April 3. “The New Frontier Party is
changing and reforming to undo and sever ourselves from past
wrongdoings.”  The opposition also seeks to revise the U.S.-South Korea
free trade agreement that took effect in March, saying the deal
could hurt domestic agriculture and investment. The UPP, the
smaller of the two parties, has called for its repeal.  The U.S. International Trade Commission says the deal may
increase American exports by as much as $10.9 billion the first
year it’s in full effect. It may help South Korea’s economy
expand by 5.7 percent within a decade, according to the
country’s trade ministry.  North Korea  North Korea  plans to launch a satellite attached to a long-
range rocket this month, a move which has drawn international
condemnation. It threatened a “tremendous catastrophe” should
the South intercept the satellite, saying it would constitute an
“act of war,” the official Korean Central News Agency reported
yesterday, citing a spokesman for the Committee for the Peaceful
Reunification of Korea.  Such national security concerns are unlikely to help the
NFP. The ruling party lost local elections in June 2010 three
months after the deadly torpedoing of a South Korean warship
that an international panel blamed on the North.  “Voters see any North Korean action more as Pyongyang
strengthening its rhetoric to escalate tensions rather than a
real national security threat or an actual move to attack the
South,” said Lee Taek Soo, president of Seoul-based polling
service Realmeter. “Parties have also abused the threat of
North Korea in past elections, so voters have learned their
lesson.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  