-- South Africa Bars Vietnam Hunters as Rhino Poaching Surges
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-04-05T12:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/south-africa-bars-vietnam-hunters-as-rhino-poaching-surges-1-.html
South Africa  has barred Vietnamese
nationals who have applied to hunt rhinos in the country because
it hasn’t been assured that they won’t illegally sell the
animals’ horns, which are worth more than their weight in gold.  All 23 rhino hunting applications by Vietnamese residents
this year were rejected, South  Africa ’s Minister of
Environmental and Water Affairs, Edna Molewa, said in an
interview yesterday. Hunters from the southeast Asian nation
didn’t convince South Africa’s government that they would adhere
to permit regulations, which stipulate that trophies can’t be
sold, she said. The number of rhinos poached in South Africa is
projected by the government to rise to a record this year.  “A majority of the people that are being arrested here, a
lot of the permits that are being applied for here, come from
 Vietnam ,” Molewa said at the Israel-sized Kruger National Park
in South Africa’s northeast. There is “no clear record of
proper processes that need to be followed.”  Nearly 60 percent of the rhino hunting requests since the
beginning of 2010 have come from Vietnam, where rising
prosperity has fostered demand for the horn, which some believe
can cure ailments including cancer, according to the government.
Made out of the same matter as hair, the horn fetches as much as
$60,000 per kilogram.  Illegal Hunt  About 90 percent, or 20,000, of the world’s rhinos are in
South Africa, which is tightening regulations on hunters, asking
Vietnam and  China  to help them clamp down on the illegal trade
in horns and creating a rhino DNA database which will help link
horns sold to animals killed.  With 159 rhinos already poached this year, the number of
the animals that are illegally hunted may increase to 619 from
an all-time high of 448 in 2011, according to the ministry. At
the current rate of slaughter, rhinos in the wild face
extinction by 2025 in Africa, conservationists including the
African Wildlife Foundation said in a statement released in
Nairobi,  Kenya  on April 3. Ninety people have been arrested so
far this year in connection with illegal rhino hunting.  South Africa has set up a  task force  uniting government,
national parks, police, prosecutors and private operators, and
the army to stem the tide.  Paramilitary Training  The Vietnamese government says it has agreed to do a count
of rhino trophies brought home by its residents to check whether
they still have their horns. It will also coordinate a tighter
surveillance of the legal import of horns with South Africa,
according to an as yet unsigned agreement between the two
states.  The South African officials will interview hunters
requesting a permit to ensure they have prior hunting expertise
and they don’t intend to sell the trophy on, Molewa said. Trophy
horns will be micro-chipped, she said.  Recent examples of fraud related to rhino hunting licenses
include the arrest of a Thai man last month over allegations
that he was part of a syndicate which was using Thai sex workers
who had never hunted before as a front to obtain a license to
hunt a rhino with the trophy then sold on commercially, Adrian
Lackay, the spokesman for the South African Revenue Service,
said in interview from his mobile phone today.  South Africa is giving 150 new rangers intensive
paramilitary training to protect the rhinos against poachers in
Kruger, where illegal hunters often gain access through holes in
a fence that runs along the 400-kilometer (250-mile) border with
 Mozambique .  Waging War  Rather than build a new fence, which would be too
expensive, South Africa and Mozambique will establish a 20
kilometer buffer zone to help police the border, Molewa said.  The rangers are equipped with rifles and night vision and
are deployed by helicopter to track through the bush for as long
as 10 days as they try to arrest poachers.  “I feel very optimistic where we are, that we are indeed
waging this war with all that we have at our disposal,” Molewa
said. “We have not lost this battle. We don’t see that we are
already at a decline at this point in time. We shall not give in
and we will not give in.”  South Africa is not ready to appeal to members of the
 Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species  to
legalize the international trade in rhino horn, which some
private ranchers say will undermine poachers by allowing rhino
owners to control the trade, Molewa said.  The government won’t be able to adequately increase its
monitoring of hunts, enforce trophy micro chipping and complete
its DNA database by October, by when it would need to make such
a submission, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  