-- Soybeans Poised for Second Weekly Gain on Brazilian Crop
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-04-05T12:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/soybeans-poised-for-second-weekly-gain-on-brazilian-crop.html
Soybeans rose in  Chicago , heading
for a second weekly gain, on speculation global harvests may be
lower than estimated as crop losses caused by drought worsen in
South America, spurring demand for U.S. supplies.  Brazil’s soybean crop will probably reach 66 million metric
tons, below the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s official 68.5
million-ton forecast, agricultural attaché Jeff Zimmerman said
in a  report  posted yesterday on the agency’s Foreign
Agricultural Service website. The South American country is the
second-largest producer after the U.S.  “There’s still some potential to the upside” for futures,
 Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co., said by
phone from Tokyo today. “We’re still seeing some downgrade in
production in  South America .”  Soybeans for May delivery climbed 0.2 percent to $14.2275 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 1:14 p.m.  London  time.
The oilseed is up 1.4 percent for the week. The exchange will be
closed tomorrow for Good Friday.  The USDA is scheduled to update production  forecasts  for
soybeans and other crops on April 10.  Lower-than-expected Brazilian output will probably spur
demand for U.S. soybeans, taking total shipments from the North
American nation to 1.33 billion bushels, higher than the USDA
estimate of 1.28 billion bushels last month, Morgan Stanley
analysts led by  Hussein Allidina  said yesterday.  Corn for May delivery slid 0.2 percent to $6.5575 a bushel.
The grain is up 1.8 percent this week. Showers since yesterday
in the southern Midwest and Delta region may benefit early
planted corn, Telvent DTN said today.  “The crop in the ground is off to a very, very good
start,” economist  Dennis Gartman  said today in his daily
Gartman Letter. Planting is taking place “early and with
moisture in most areas,” he wrote.  Wheat for May delivery rose 0.2 percent to $6.405 a bushel.
The grain is down 3.1 percent this week, on course to drop the
most in four weeks. November-delivery milling wheat traded on
NYSE Liffe in Paris gained 0.6 percent to 203.75 euros ($266.10)
a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  