-- Spain to Present Budget Stability Plan to EU After Bonds Fell
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-04-05T22:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/spain-to-present-budget-stability-plan-to-eu-after-bonds-fell.html
Spain  is preparing an outline of how
it will comply with European budget-deficit rules, after its
borrowing costs yesterday reached the highest since December,
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said.  “In the coming days we will present the stability program,
which covers next year’s budget deficit target, which has to be
3 percent,” de Guindos said last night in an interview with
radio station Radio Nacional de Espana.  Spanish and Italian bonds slid yesterday, leading losses
among higher-yielding European government debt, as Spain’s
borrowing costs surged on concerns Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
may request a bailout. Rajoy spoke on April 4 of “extreme
difficulty” after the nation with the euro area’s fourth-
biggest economy barely covered its minimum target at an auction.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  rose as high as
5.844 percent, the highest since Dec. 13, and more than 4
percentage points higher than similar German maturities.  The 10-year yield has jumped nearly 1 percentage point
since March 2, when Rajoy said the government would miss its
budget-deficit target this year as it enters a  recession ,
leading his country to replace Greece as the main focus of
investors’ concern in  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Easier Deficit Target  Rajoy’s People’s Party government, in power since December,
persuaded euro-zone members to ease Spain’s budget deficit
target for 2012 to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product instead
of 4.4 percent.  The government forecasts Spanish public  debt  will surge to
a record 79.8 percent of GDP this year as it imposes the deepest
austerity in at least three decades.  “It’s been two or three complicated days, for Spain and
also for other euro-zone countries,” de Guindos said, referring
to the increase in borrowing costs. Economic indicators show the
recession could be deeper than previously forecast and markets
think it will be much more difficult to achieve budget-deficit
targets, he said.  Spanish borrowing costs are unlikely to remain at current
levels long, the 52-year-old minister said.  “Requesting European aid is not on the table,” de Guindos
said. “Requesting aid would mean economic policies have failed
and it would send a negative signal to the markets, it would be
the worst possible solution, the last one to consider.”  Spain is capable of exiting the crisis without external
aid, and it makes no sense comparing the country to  Greece  as
the two nations’ situations are completely different, de Guindos
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  