-- Spain Left Behind in Global Debt Swaps Rally on Bailout Concern
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-04-05T09:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/spain-left-behind-in-global-debt-swaps-rally-on-bailout-concern.html
Spain  is the only country in the
world that hasn’t benefited from the credit rally fueled by
central bank cash as investors bet its government will be the
fourth in the euro region to request a rescue.  Credit-default swaps insuring Spanish bonds surged 21
percent since the start of the year to 461 basis points,
according to CMA, signaling a worsening perception of  credit
quality . That compares with a 1 percent decline in swaps on
Portugal, the next worst-performing nation, and more than 40
percent drops for Norway, Sweden and the U.S.  Spain is in “extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday, raising the likelihood of a bailout for
the second time this week. The government has raised its budget
deficit target to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product from 4.4
percent and warned public debt will surge to a record 79.8
percent of GDP this year as it imposes the deepest austerity in
at least three decades.  “The market is slowly coming around to realizing that
despite the fact the original target was abandoned, the current
target is still ambitious,” said Ralf Preusser, head of
European rates research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“Without growth, almost any debt burden is unsustainable.”  The bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  spurred
European finance ministers to increase the size of rescue funds
available to fight the deepening crisis to 800 billion euros on
March 30. When Greece restructured its debt last month, payouts
on $2.9 million  credit-default swaps  were triggered.  External Aid  Spain will get external aid from European authorities and
the  International Monetary Fund  this year to help overcome its
debt crisis, while continuing to “at least partially” raise
funds through bond sales, Citigroup Inc. analysts Ebrahim Rahbari and Guillaume Menuet wrote in an April 3 note.  Demand fell and borrowing costs rose at a debt auction
yesterday when Spain sold 2.59 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of
bonds, just above the minimum amount it planned and below the
3.5 billion-euro maximum target. The average yield on the bonds
due in October 2016, which act as the five-year benchmark, rose
to 4.319 percent from 3.376 percent at last month’s sale. The
yield was 4.46 percent today.  Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs are approaching levels last
seen in December, before the  European Central Bank  said it would
make unlimited three-year loans to banks. Some of the 1 trillion
euros taken in the longer term refinancing operations, known as
LTROs, was recycled into high-yielding government debt, helping
shave as much as 95 basis points off Spanish yields before they
began to rise again in March.  ‘Soft Auction’  “The Spanish sell-off in the wake of yesterday’s soft
auction results both raises the risk the LTRO-related bid may
already be losing steam and points to fundamental concerns
beginning to reassert themselves,” said  Richard McGuire , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “LTROs are a liquidity stop gap rather than a permanent
solution.”  Spanish borrowing and insurance costs are rising as a
deepening economic slump compounds the euro area’s fourth-
largest shortfall. The additional austerity measures may deepen
a recession that’s left the country with the euro-region’s
highest jobless rate approaching 24 percent.  Spanish export growth slowed in January to 3.9 percent from
a year earlier, compared with 6.6 percent in December. The
government predicts a 4 percent fall in domestic demand in 2012.  ‘Drastic Retooling’  “Before we see clearer evidence of significant
strengthening in its export industry or domestic economic
recovery, Spain will probably continue to trade at a discount
relative to other peripheral countries, namely  Italy , that don’t
need to engineer such a drastic retooling of the growth model,”
Preusser said.  Credit-default swaps on Spain are up from 380 basis points
at the start of the year and peaked at 492 basis points on Nov.
23, according to CMA. The contracts last month surpassed Italy,
which has fallen more than 70 basis points since the start of
the year to 408.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  