-- Spain’s Economic Woes Rattle Investors; Europe Markets Slide
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-04-05T13:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/spanish-economic-woes-rattle-investors-as-european-markets-slide.html
A slide in Spanish stocks and bonds
deepened as investors’ concerns that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  may require international aid rattled markets.  Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, is in
“extreme difficulty,” Rajoy said yesterday, raising the
likelihood of a bailout for the second time this week. The Ibex
stock index slid 0.7 percent in Madrid today. The benchmark
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index extended its biggest retreat in four
weeks and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.3 percent to
1,034.65 as of 3:14 p.m. in Madrid.  A rally triggered by more than $1 trillion of European
Central Bank loans to the region’s financial institutions to
stave off a credit crunch is running out of steam and, while
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is pressing ahead with an
economic overhaul, Rajoy is failing to meet deficit targets amid
a worsening recession.  “Stress has returned to the periphery of the euro area,”
David Mackie, chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase Inc.,
wrote in a note today.  Spanish bonds fell today, pushing the yield on the  10-year
benchmark bond  to the highest since Dec. 12 at 5.79 percent, and
widening the spread with similar-maturity German bunds to more
than 4 percentage points.  Asian Currencies  Asian currencies declined, led by  Indonesia ’s rupiah, as
the region’s stocks extended their biggest loss since December
after weak demand for Spanish bonds renewed concern Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares
dropped 0.1 percent, following a 1.5 percent slump yesterday.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond has jumped
nearly one percentage point since March 2, when Rajoy announced
the government would miss its  budget-deficit  target this year.
He set the target for 2012 at 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product -- lowering it from 5.8 percent under European Union
pressure -- instead of 4.4 percent and warned public debt will
surge to a record 79.8 percent of GDP as it imposes the deepest
austerity in at least three decades.  The concern about  Spain  also led to a slump in Italian
bonds, even as Monti moved to eliminate the budget deficit next
year and revamp the economy. The yield on  Italy ’s benchmark 10-
year bond rose 13 basis points to 5.50 percent, the highest
since Feb. 23.  ‘Closer Scrutiny’  Italy’s borrowing costs have fallen lower than Spain’s
since March as concerns about the latter’s solvency became
greater. One of Monti’s moves to increase confidence in
country’s economy has been to present an overhaul of labor-
market rules, cited by economists as one of the reasons why
Italy’s economic growth has lagged behind the European Union
average for more than a decade.  “Spain will remain under closer scrutiny,”  Janet Henry ,
chief European economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a report
today. “The concerns about the financial system are unlikely to
abate, in which case the markets will continue to question
whether or not Spain too could also find itself in need of
financial assistance.”  The ECB yesterday waived an exit from emergency stimulus
measures after Spain barely covered the minimum amount targeted
at an auction. ECB President  Mario Draghi  wants governments to
deliver on promised structural reforms and fiscal consolidation
before the impact of measures wears off.  Credit-default swaps insuring Spanish bonds have surged 21
percent since the start of the year to 461 basis points,
according to CMA, signaling investors bet its government may be
the fourth in the  euro region  to request a rescue. That compares
with a 1 percent decline in swaps on Portugal, the next worst-
performing nation, and more than 40 percent drops for Norway,
Sweden and the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  