-- Novartis Compound Spurs Cartilage in Arthritic Mice
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/stem-cells-that-make-cartilage-in-mice-offer-hope-for-arthritis.html
Scientists at  Novartis AG (NOVN)  have
discovered a compound that spurred cartilage growth from stem
cells to fix damaged joints of mice, a finding that may point to
a novel therapy for the  arthritis  that afflicts most elderly.  Researchers tested 22,000 drug-like molecules using a
robotic screen, applying each one to bone marrow stem cells in
tiny laboratory dishes. One compound, dubbed kartogenin,
promoted the development of chondrocytes, cells that become
cartilage, according to the report in the journal  Science .  Researchers injected kartogenin into the damaged knee
joints of mice, which prompted cartilage regeneration, improved
symptoms and lowered levels of proteins and collagen fragments
linked to damaged joints. The results suggest a unique, though
early-stage, way to regulate  cartilage  and possibly repair some
of the damage from osteoarthritis, the breakdown of cartilage
that leads to joint failure, the researchers said.  “We found this molecule that can take  stem cells  that are
already in the joint, and differentiate them into
chondrocytes,” cartilage cells that secrete the squishy elastic
substance that protects the joints, said Kristen Johnson, a
regenerative medicine researcher at the  Genomics Institute  of
the Novartis Research Foundation in  San Diego . “We’re excited
about the biology because it’s a new way of targeting the stem
cells, but you can’t emphasize enough what an early stage of
drug discovery this is.”  Additional work is needed to understand exactly how
kartogenin works and the basic biology it affects before more
animal studies are done, said Johnson, who is also part of the
Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research. Novartis is based
in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  Pain and Surgery  The only current treatments for  arthritis , which affects 50
percent of 50-year-olds, 60 percent of 60-year-olds and so on,
are pain management and surgery, said Johnson.  Osteoarthritis is called the “wear-and-tear” form of the
disease. It develops when the cartilage that protects the joints
wears away, allowing the bones to rub against each other. Each
year, there are more than 600,000 total knee replacements and
285,000  hip replacements  done in the U.S. because of arthritis
and other injuries, according to the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality.  The mouse studies didn’t turn up side effects from the
treatment, though only small quantities were injected directly
into the joint, Johnson said. Taken together, the laboratory and
animal work suggests that steering adult stem cells into
becoming new cartilage leads to improvements in the damaged
joints when given early in the disease, researchers said.  The  California Institute for Regenerative Medicine  funded
the research. The researchers, including Johnson and colleagues
from The Scripps Research Institute in  La Jolla ,  California  and
 Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston , filed for a patent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  