-- Westwood Leads Masters With First-Round 67 as Woods Trails by 5
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-05T23:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/stenson-kaymer-hold-early-masters-lead-as-woods-starts-round.html
Lee Westwood  has a one-shot
advantage after the opening round of the  Masters Tournament ,
where Henrik Stenson fell out of the lead with a quadruple-bogey
8 on the final hole and  Tiger Woods  is five shots behind after
an even-par 72.  Westwood, who’s ranked third in the world, had seven
birdies and two bogeys in a round of 5-under-par 67 at Augusta
National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia . He’s one shot better
than 2010 British Open champion  Louis Oosthuizen , who birdied
four of the final five holes for a 68, and Peter Hanson.  “I’ve played here enough now,” said Westwood, who matched
his lowest score in 43 career rounds at the Masters. “I’ve
learnt the golf course and feel comfortable on it, so it
eradicates a lot of the tension.”  Stenson led by as many as four shots and was 5 under at the
18th tee before closing his round of 71 with a quadruple bogey.
Stenson, who turned 36 today, had opened the Masters with scores
of 83 and 80 the past two years.  “It was a disappointing finish, but I had fun out there,”
said Stenson, a Swede who matched his best score in 19 rounds at
the Masters. “It’s a new day tomorrow.”  Woods, a four-time Masters champion and the pre-tournament
favorite, was 2-under par before bogeys on the last two holes.  Woods ended a 2 1/2-year U.S. PGA Tour victory drought two
weeks ago and is seeking his first major title since the 2008
 U.S. Open . He has opened the Masters with a round at par or
better in six of the past seven years.  ‘Hung in There’  “I hit some of the worst golf shots I’ve ever hit,” Woods
said in a televised interview. “It’s all right. I hung in there.
I could have shot maybe one or two better, but I got a lot out
of that round.”  Paul Lawrie, Miguel Angel Jimenez,  Francesco Molinari  and
Americans Ben Crane,  Jason Dufner  and Bubba Watson shot rounds
of 3-under 69.  Former Masters champions Zach Johnson and  Vijay Singh  are
among those at 2 under. Defending champion Charl Schwartzel
opened with an even-par 72, three shots worse than his first-
round score a year ago.  World No. 1  Luke Donald  shot a 3-over-par 75, his worst
opening-round score in eight Masters appearances.  Donald’s score was cleared after being reviewed by Masters
organizers, who determined an administrative error resulted in
an incorrect score being entered into the tournament’s scoring
system. Donald could have been disqualified if he had signed for
an incorrect score.  McIlroy’s Day  U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy rebounded from an opening
double bogey to shoot a 1-under 71. McIlroy shot a first-round
65 at the 2011 Masters and led the tournament in the final round
before shooting 7-over par for the final nine holes.  Three-time Masters winner  Phil Mickelson , who went off in
today’s final group, shot a 2-over-par 74. Mickelson had five
birdies, four bogeys and a triple-bogey on the par-4 10th hole,
where he lost a ball after hitting a drive into the woods.  “I made a lot of mistakes and I’m only 2 over,” said
Mickelson, who has finished in the top 10 in 11 of his past 13
Masters appearances. “I’m excited about that. If I can get hot
tomorrow, I’m right back in it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  