-- Stock Act Signed, JPMorgan Settlement, SEC Warns: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-05T12:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/stock-act-signed-jpmorgan-settlement-sec-warnings-compliance.html
President  Barack Obama  signed into
law a bill strengthening the ban on  insider trading  by members
of Congress and other government officials who might profit on
private knowledge they gain from work.  The president had called for passage of the bill, S. 2038,
in his State of the Union message in January. It is called the
 Stock Act , for Stock Trading on Congressional Knowledge.  The law prohibits lawmakers, their staffs and some
executive branch employees from trading stocks, commodities or
futures based on private information they learn on the job. It
would prevent lawmakers from participating in initial public
offerings that aren’t available to the general public.  Under terms of the new law, more than 28,000 senior
government officials who already must file public disclosures,
including the president, the vice president, cabinet members,
lawmakers and their staffs, must publicly report all trades
valued at $1,000 or more within 30 days after they are informed
of the transaction, and in no case any later than 45 days after
the transaction occurred. The rule wouldn’t apply to widely held
investment funds.  The House passed the measure Feb. 9 by a 417-2 vote, and
the Senate followed March 22 by a vote of 96-3.  Bills to tighten insider-trading rules on members of
Congress had languished until late last year, when CBS’s “60
Minutes” program reported that lawmakers could legally trade
stock based on non-public information, giving the legislation
new urgency.  The law also blocks bonuses for  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
executives while the companies remain under government
conservatorship.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Pays $20 Million to End CFTC Segregated-Fund Claim  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank , will pay $20
million to resolve a U.S. regulator’s claims that the firm
mishandled customer funds from  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
from 2006 to 2008.  JPMorgan, serving as Lehman’s main clearing bank, counted
client money as belonging to the firm itself while extending
loans that let Lehman bet on markets, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said yesterday in a statement. When Lehman
filed for bankruptcy in September 2008, JPMorgan refused to
release the money for two weeks until CFTC officials insisted,
the watchdog said.  Collapses of Wall Street firms including  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MF)  have spawned customer claims that their money was frozen or
lost after companies improperly used their holdings. Lehman at
times had more than $1 billion of clients’ funds deposited with
JPMorgan, which improperly counted segregated customer funds in
extending credit over a 22-month period, according to the CFTC.  JPMorgan settled claims that it violated commodities laws
without admitting or denying wrongdoing, according to the CFTC.  The errors were unintentional, and JPMorgan didn’t use
customer funds to meet any of Lehman’s obligations, the bank
said in a statement yesterday. The entire balance of one Lehman
accounts was mistakenly factored into JPMorgan’s daily
calculation of the broker-dealer’s assets in determining how
much credit to extend, according to the statement.  For more, click here.  SEC Warns Exchanges to Protect Markets From Glitches Gone Awry  More than five months before a software error ruined  Bats
Global Markets Inc. (BATS) ’s initial public offering, U.S. regulators
put exchanges on notice that they need to do more to protect
investors from technology gone awry.  The missive came in the form of a prologue to a Securities
and Exchange Commission case against Direct Edge Holdings LLC in
October over claims the exchange operator had weak internal
controls that caused its trading system to fail.  The agency, working to avoid another event like the May 6,
2010, rout that erased $862 billion from equities in 20 minutes,
decided to use the Direct Edge case to create a blueprint for
actions against other exchanges, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the decision. While the SEC didn’t fault
exchanges in the 2010 crash, the event magnified pressure on the
commission to show it can ensure the fragmented marketplace of
high-speed, computer-driven trading is safe for investors.  The 2010 “flash crash,” as it has come to be known,
spawned about 20 separate SEC investigations encompassing a
dozen areas of possible securities law violations, according to
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
probes aren’t public. While some of the investigations involve
possible illegal trading practices, those that focus on
exchanges revolve around whether the venues have the right
compliance structures to address trading disruptions that could
spiral out of control.  Daniel Hawke, chief of the SEC enforcement’s market abuse
unit, said “exchange conduct and compliance is an area of
renewed enforcement interest.”  Direct Edge spokesman Jim Gorman, Bats spokesman Randy
Williams,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  spokesman Robert Madden and  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  spokesman  Richard Adamonis  declined to comment.  For more, click here.  WTO Backs Ruling That U.S. Clove-Cigarette Ban Discriminates  A U.S. ban on clove cigarettes that’s designed to prevent
teenagers from starting to smoke is discriminatory, World Trade
Organization judges said as they upheld an earlier ruling
backing a complaint by Indonesia.  WTO appellate judges agreed with a Sept. 2 decision that
the U.S. tobacco legislation, signed by President Barack Obama
in June 2009, unfairly prohibits cloves and not the mint used to
make menthol cigarettes. Indonesia, the world’s largest producer
of clove cigarettes, or kreteks, made by companies such as  PT
Gudang Garam (GGRM) , accounted for almost all of the $15 million of
clove-cigarette sales in the U.S. before the ban.  Menthol-flavored cigarettes produced by U.S. manufacturers
such as  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) 
were excluded as part of a 2008 compromise by lawmakers that led
Altria to endorse the legislation. Menthol cigarettes, the most
popular flavor, constituted 27 percent of the U.S. market in
2008, the latest Federal Trade Commission  data  show.  The U.S. law “accords imported clove cigarettes less
favorable treatment than that accorded to domestic menthol
cigarettes,” the appellate judges said in their 103-page  report 
on the Geneva-based WTO’s website.  “The  United States  is very disappointed with the outcome
of this dispute,” Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office, said in an e-mailed statement.  Studies show that 17-year-olds are almost  three times  more
likely to use flavored cigarettes than people over 25, according
to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Lori Wallach, director
of the consumer-advocacy organization Public Citizen’s Global
Trade Watch, urged the Obama administration and Congress not to
“bow” to yesterday’s ruling.  Separately, Honduras complained at the WTO about an
Australian law that prohibits the display of tobacco companies’
logos, labels and trademarks, saying the ban violates global
rules on intellectual property.  As of Dec. 1, cigarettes in  Australia  will have to be sold
in dark brown packets, with no symbols or images and the same
font for all brands.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  Imperial
Tobacco Group Plc (IMP) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are challenging the law and will present their
arguments against it in Canberra beginning April 17.  Yesterday’s complaint at the Geneva-based trade arbiter
follows a similar move by Ukraine on March 15.  For more, click here.  Petroplus Gets Exemption From Regulatory Reporting Requirements  Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN)  said the SIX Swiss Exchange approved
its application for an exemption from certain regulatory
reporting and publicity requirements from now until May 11,
being the last day of trading of its shares, according to a
statement issued by the company.  Petroplus Holdings will continue to report information
“regarding management transactions and major changes in
ownership structure,” as well as complying with “the directive
on ad hoc publicity,” it said the statement.  Financial Stability Board Starts Peer Review on Risk Governance  The Financial Stability Board started a review among
regulators of banks’ oversight of potential risks.  “The peer review will take stock of progress in addressing
the weaknesses in risk governance identified during the recent
financial crisis at both national authorities and firms,” the
FSB said on its website yesterday.  Basel Would Have Defeated 20% of EU’s Biggest Banks in 2011  Twenty percent of  Europe ’s biggest banks would have failed
to meet global capital standards, known as Basel III, as of June
2011, the  European Banking Authority  said in an impact
assessment of the planned rules.  About a fifth of the 48 largest banks in the study would
have had a core tier 1 capital ratio below 4.5 percent, the
absolute minimum allowed under Basel III guidelines, the EBA
said in a report published on its website yesterday. Half of
those would have needed to raise a combined 242 billion euros
($318 billion) to reach a 7 percent ratio, the minimum for
internationally active banks, according to the report, based on
June data.  “Given these results, a significant effort by banks to
fulfill the risk-based  capital requirements  is expected,” the
EBA, the region’s top banking regulator, said.  Global regulators at the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision have clashed with banks over the severity of the
overhaul of capital and liquidity rules, known as Basel III,
which was designed to prevent a rerun of the crisis that
cascaded across financial markets after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  For more, click here.  Courts  SFO Refused Trial Delay as It Probes Tchenguiz Arrest Errors  The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office was denied more time to
prepare for a trial over its handling of the 2011 arrests of
real estate investors Vincent and  Robert Tchenguiz .  While the watchdog started an internal review of “errors”
it made, its lawyers said, the probe was complicated by the
departure of key staff involved in the criminal investigation,
including the man who led it, Mick Randall.  Judge John Thomas ruled the trial should be held May 22 as
planned and criticized the SFO for not reporting potential
delays earlier.  The Tchenguiz brothers claim their detentions in March 2011
were unlawful. They were among seven men arrested as part of an
SFO investigation into the collapse of Iceland’s Kaupthing Bank
Hf.  SFO spokesman David Jones didn’t respond to phone calls
requesting comment.  The brothers are seeking millions of pounds in damages,
attorneys for the SFO said. The court granted a request from the
brothers in February for a review of their arrests, which the
men claim were unlawful because the warrants were obtained with
incorrect information.  The case is Robert Tchenguiz v. Director of the Serious
Fraud Office & Anr,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, Administrative Court, CO/4468/2011.  Bouygues Rights Complaints Against France Found Inadmissible  Bouygues SA (EN) ’s complaints against  France  for violations of
its rights were declared “manifestly ill-founded” by the
 European Court  of Human Rights, which said the appeal is
therefore inadmissible.  Bouygues argued its rights to a fair trial and presumption
of innocence were breached by France’s competition regulator in
2005 during regulatory proceedings against its Bouygues Telecom
unit for colluding with other mobile-phone operators, according
to a statement today by the court on its website.  Appellate courts rejected the Paris-based company’s efforts
to overturn the decision in 2006 and 2007. A 2010 decision by
France’s highest appeals court upheld the anti-competitive
findings against Bouygues, the rights court said in summarizing
the dispute.  A spokeswoman for Bouygues declined to immediately comment
on the ruling by the Strasbourg, France-based court.  Interviews/Speeches  Fed’s Lacker Says Volcker Rule May Be ‘Impossible’ to Implement  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said a U.S. law restricting proprietary trading at banks and
scheduled for enactment in July may be “impossible” to
implement.  The so-called Volcker rule, named for its original
champion, former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker, is aimed at reducing
the odds that banks will make risky investments with their own
capital and put depositors’ money at risk. Lacker said bank
trading books were “kind of tangential” to the financial
crisis of 2008-2009, when bank capital was eroded by losses on
risky mortgages, many of them bundled into complex securities.  The Volcker rule is “fairly difficult if not impossible to
implement in a way that is at all reasonable,” Lacker said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Trish
Regan.  The proposal is one of the most contentious provisions of
the 2010 Dodd-Frank act on financial oversight, and Lacker said
it would be “high on the list” of things he would change if he
could.  For more, click here.  SEC’s Paredes Sees Review Prior to New Access Rule, BNA Says  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissioner Troy Paredes
April 2 told a gathering of institutional investors that until
the commission has reviewed the experience of proxy access
through private ordering, he would be “hesitant” for the
agency to tackle another federal access regulation, BNA reported
yesterday.  Paredes made the remarks at the Council of Institutional
Investors’ spring meeting in  Washington , noting that he was
expressing his own opinions, which didn’t necessarily reflect
those of the SEC, the other commissioners, or commission staff.  Paredes remarks about proxy access were made in response to
a question from Jane Hamblen, chief legal counsel of the State
of Wisconsin Investment Board, about what kind of data
institutional investors can provide to the SEC to help another
federal access rule withstand court scrutiny.  In terms of the process, costs and benefits, “data is
always extraordinarily important” Paredes told Hamblen.  In July 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit struck down the SEC’s mandatory proxy access
rule. The regulation would have allowed qualifying shareholders,
for the first time, to have their director nominees included in
corporate proxy solicitation materials. The appellate court
found that the SEC failed to properly evaluate the economic
impact of the rule.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Bank of Japan Nominee Kono Rejected as Lawmakers Seek Easing  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s nominee to the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  board was rejected by the upper house of parliament in a
victory for lawmakers pressing for more monetary easing to spur
growth and end deflation.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  economist Ryutaro Kono was blocked by a vote
of 127 to 111 in the house, where the ruling Democratic Party of
 Japan  is a minority.  Japanese stocks pared losses on the decision, which leaves
the central bank with two vacant seats on a nine-person board
and gives lawmakers a platform for urging Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa to take bolder action. The central bank has pledged
“powerful easing” until a 1 percent inflation goal is in
sight.  Japan has a history of wrangling over central bank
appointments, with the DPJ blocking appointments in 2008 and
2009 when the party was in opposition.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 