-- Strategic Value Said to Plan Offer for Blackstone’s Klockner
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-04-05T16:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/strategic-value-said-to-plan-offer-to-buy-blackstone-s-klockner.html
Strategic Value Partners LLC, a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund, is leading a group of
lenders seeking to purchase plastic-packaging maker Klockner
Pentaplast Group, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Strategic Value and other junior creditors view the
purchase as a way to avoid being wiped out in a debt
restructuring, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the plans aren’t public. Klockner Pentaplast, owned by
U.S. private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , started talks with
lenders at the end of last year to reorganize about 1.25 billion
euros ($1.6 billion) of debt after breaching loan conditions.  Andrew Dowler , an external spokesman for Strategic Value,
and a Blackstone spokeswoman declined to comment. An e-mail to
Oaktree’s media relations department wasn’t returned.  Klockner Pentaplast, founded in 1965 in Montabaur,  Germany ,
owes its junior lenders about 350 million euros, said the
people. These creditors get paid out after senior lenders when a
borrower fails.  Strategic Value is leading the search for new investors to
put together the bid to buy Klockner Pentaplast from  New York- 
based Blackstone, which has owned it since 2007, the people
said.  The junior lenders intend that the acquired plastics
manufacturer would put in place a new debt facility to replace
its existing loans and fully repay senior lenders, which include
Oaktree Capital Management LP, the people said.  Klockner Pentaplast’s term loan B was quoted at a mid-price
of 94.5 cents on the euro, compared with 95 cents last week,
according to  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  