-- Sudanese Police Fire Tear Gas, Arrest 10 During Funeral Protest
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-04-05T12:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/sudanese-police-fire-tear-gas-arrest-10-during-funeral-protest.html
Sudanese police used tear gas,
batons and warning shots near the capital, Khartoum, to disperse
a funeral procession for a student activist allegedly killed by
security agents, a lawyer and witness said.  Police arrested at least 10 people at the procession, which
took place yesterday in city of Omdurman, adjacent to Khartoum.
About 4,000 mostly student protestors participated in the
funeral of Abdel Hakim Abdullah Eissa, who studied engineering
at Omdurman Islamic University and was allegedly killed by
 Sudan ’s National Intelligence Security Service on April 2, his
lawyer, Abdul Moneam Adam, said by phone today.  Marchers chanted slogans against President Umar al-Bashir’s
government, such as “a student killed is a nation killed” and
“Bashir is a killer,” said Najla Sid Ahmed, a video blogger
who attended the rally.  “I was trying to take footage of the police brutally
beating up protestors and arresting young students when two
security men surrounded me and started beating me on my back and
head,” Ahmed said by phone from Khartoum. “They kept on
insulting me and calling me names, saying, ’so you want to bring
down the regime, don’t you?’”  Sudanese police spokesman al-Ser Ahmed didn’t answer phone
calls seeking comment.  Sudan’s human rights record deteriorated in the past year
since  South Sudan  seceded in July, with the eruption of new
armed conflicts and crackdowns on students, rights advocates and
the media, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said on Jan 22.  Eissa’s family received a phone call from an unidentified
person on April 2 telling them their son was in a hospital In
Omdurman, Adam said. Upon arrival, hospital workers said he had
died in a car accident and was in the morgue, he said.  “We believe the NISS assassinated him for his activism,”
Adam said. Eissa was detained several times by the security
service, he said, for being a member of the United Popular
Front, an opposition group linked to a rebel movement in the
western region of Darfur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  