-- Sugar Consumers Urge EU to Authorize Supplies at Zero Duty
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-05T10:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/sugar-consumers-urge-eu-to-authorize-supplies-at-zero-duty-1-.html
The European Union should authorize
zero-duty supplies of sugar after shortages disrupted food
manufacturing, said an industry group representing companies
including Nestle SA.  The bloc may let local producers sell a further 250,000
metric tons of the sweetener in the domestic market at a reduced
duty, according to Karolina Kottova, a spokeswoman for the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm. It also plans to
accelerate import tenders by about a month, she said April 2.
Imports under the tenders also carry a lower duty.  “We are against any kind of tariff or duty, as it creates
inflationary pressure in the market,” Muriel Korter, secretary
general of the Brussels-based Committee of European Sugar Users,
said by phone today.  While sugar fell 15 percent in New York trading over the
past year, prices averaged 683 euros ($892) a ton in  Europe  in
January, according to data on the commission’s website. That was
the highest level since at least July 2006, it showed.  The committee said by e-mail it was “disappointed that the
European Commission intends to apply high levies and tariffs
that will support unjustified inflationary pressure on the
market and penalize sugar users.”  Sugar Shortage  The EU faces a sugar shortage even as global supplies are
set to outpace demand by 7.7 million tons in the 2011-12 season
started in October, according to London-based Czarnikow Group
Ltd., which traded sugar in more than 90 countries last year.  The bloc has sought to reduce sugar production since the
 World Trade Organization  said in 2005 it was disrupting global
markets by exporting subsidized output. The EU has spent about
5.2 billion euros since 2006 to shrink the industry.  EU rules limit the amount of sugar local producers can
supply to the domestic market. Any surplus must be exported or
put to non-food use. Imports from countries that have no
preferential agreements with the bloc usually incur a duty of
339 euros a ton.  The curbs are “creating an artificial shortage and pushing
up prices,” the Association of the German Confectionery
Industry said in a statement in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  