-- Suzlon Repower Unit
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-04-05T21:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/suzlon-said-to-study-sale-or-listing-of-its-repower-unit.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  Asia ’s third-
biggest wind-turbine maker by sales, is studying options for its
German  Repower Systems SE (RPW)  subsidiary, including a sale or
listing a stake, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Suzlon, based in Pune,  India , is seeking at least 1.5
billion euros ($1.96 billion) from a sale, while a listing of
Repower’s international operations or Repower itself are among
options that have been considered, said the people, who declined
to be identified as the discussions are private. A sale may be
preferred to an IPO for now, one of the people said.  Wind turbine makers face narrowing margins after reducing
prices to compete for orders as U.S. and European governments
cut clean-energy incentives to curb budget deficits. Suzlon is
struggling to meet debt repayments, and losses at the company
grew to 2.86 billion rupees ($56 million) in the three months
through December, the most in five quarters. That prompted the
company’s auditors to examine its ability to raise funds to make
debt repayments due this year.  No firm decision on any sale has been made, as
deliberations are at an early stage, the people said. Repower
may return to the stock exchange in May or June, Manager Magazin
reported on March 21.  Spokesmen for Suzlon and Repower in Hamburg declined to
comment.  Debt Payments  Suzlon has held initial talks with potential buyers
including  Alstom SA (ALO) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , the
Wall Street Journal said on March 15. Siemens won’t buy Repower,
Siemens board member Michael Suess told the Journal on March 20.  On March 15, Alstom’s chief executive officer, Patrick Kron, discredited reports about acquisition plans to bulk up in
wind power, saying the articles are speculation and he won’t
sell shares in “unfavorable conditions” to finance a deal.  Suzlon’s ability to repay $700 million of debt may be less
than expected after U.S. customer  Edison International (EIX)  said the
earliest it’ll pay off a contract with the turbine-maker is next
year. Suzlon had hoped to recoup a $206 million payment from
Edison before June, when the first of its foreign-currency
convertible bonds matures. Edison’s latest 10-K filing said the
soonest that could happen is next February.  Suzlon lost its chief financial officer last month when
 Robin Banerjee  quit. Kirti Vagadia, the head of corporate
finance, has assumed his responsibilities.  Areva SA (AREVA) , a Paris-based French nuclear reactor maker, owned
a stake in Repower, but abandoned plans to acquire the rest of
the company in 2007, saying the price was too high. The French
company sold its 30 percent stake in Repower to Suzlon in 2008.  It took Suzlon four years to buy Repower. It began in April
2007 by acquiring a 7.7 percent stake and gradually expanded its
holding. In October, the company bought out minority
shareholders’ remaining 4.8 percent stake. Suzlon’s bid in April
2007 valued Repower at 1.2 billion euros.  Repower, based in Hamburg, was among the pioneers of the
German wind-energy boom spawned by government subsidies a decade
ago. The company employs about 2,700 people and has installed
about 3,600 wind-energy systems to date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  