-- Swiss Franc Showdown Looms as Jordan Defends SNB Ceiling
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/swiss-franc-street-fight-looms-as-jordan-threatens-investors.html
Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  interim Chairman
Thomas Jordan is facing a showdown with investors as his
currency policy endures the biggest credibility test to date.  Within minutes of the franc breaching the 1.20 ceiling
versus the euro yesterday for the first time since the measure
was introduced on Sept. 6, the central bank declared its
determination to fight any further attacks. Jordan, 49, is now
in a face-off with investors probing just how far he will go to
enforce that threat.  “It’s a wake-up call for the SNB,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange strategist at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva. “They’ve been very successful with their
verbal intervention and this is a classic street fight between
central banks and markets. Their credibility is going to be
questioned and they’ll have to respond in some way.”  The franc, which is considered a haven in times of turmoil,
strengthened for a second day after Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said that his nation is confronting “extreme
difficulty.” The euro region’s fourth-largest economy sold 2.59
billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds this week, just covering
the minimum amount targeted.  The Swiss currency traded at 1.20186 versus the euro at
6:01 p.m. yesterday in London after surging as high as 1.19995. 
It has stayed at an average of 1.2069 versus the single currency 
since Jordan took over as interim chairman on Jan. 9.  ‘Risk Aversion’  “ Risk aversion  has increased, people want to avoid the
euro,” said  Claude Maurer , an economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG in Zurich. “The SNB was probably hoping for a more relaxed
Easter break. Jordan’s job won’t get any easier.”  The breach of the ceiling follows an interregnum at the
helm of the central bank that is approaching the end of its
third month. Jordan was appointed interim chairman after Philipp Hildebrand was forced to quit in January over a currency
transaction by his wife, leaving the SNB board with only two
members.  The SNB’s supervisory board will discuss the selection of a
successor to Philipp Hildebrand on April 13, according to a
person with knowledge of the meeting’s agenda. The Bank Council
will consider candidates and then propose one to the Swiss
government, which has the final say, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private.  ‘Very Strong’  Jordan, the frontrunner for the post, described the franc
as still “very, very strong” in his latest public remarks on
March 15, and reiterated that policy makers are ready to take
further measures “if there’s a worsening of the situation.”
The Zurich-based central bank on that day kept the ceiling at
1.20 and maintained its benchmark  interest rate  at zero, saying
it still sees deflation threats.  SNB board member Jean-Pierre Danthine said this week that
the franc remains “overvalued,” according to the Tribune de
Geneve newspaper. While the franc cap helped exporters “avoid
the worst,” annual rates in consumer prices will continue to
decline this year, he said.  The SNB applies a “zero-tolerance principle” on its cap,
Danthine said as recently as March 22. It “ensures day and
night that the minimum  exchange rate  is maintained -- from
Sunday night when the markets open in Sydney until Friday night
when markets close in  New York .”  Inflation Forecasts  The SNB last month lowered its inflation projections
throughout the entire forecast horizon, partly as the franc’s
ascent pushed down costs of imports. It forecast that consumer
prices will fall 0.6 percent this year, before inflation returns
in 2013 with a rate of 0.3 percent, accelerating to 0.6 percent
in 2014. The economy may expand around 1 percent this year, it
said.  Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services
Ltd., said data yesterday showing that Swiss consumer prices
rose 0.6 percent in March from February may also have
“emboldened traders” by throwing “into question the SNB’s
projection that the economy would experience deflation this
year.”  “The SNB is being put to the test, with euro-franc now
very close to the 1.20 ceiling that it has vowed to defend,”
Derks wrote in an e-mailed note from  London . “Suddenly, the old
safe-haven favorites are back on the big stage.”  The central bank introduced the franc ceiling after the
euro area’s fiscal crisis prompted investors to pile into the
currency, pushing it to near parity with the euro. It has
weakened about 7.7 percent against the euro since the cap’s
creation after surging as much as 37 percent in the previous 12
months.  ‘Brief Breach’  While the SNB doesn’t disclose whether it’s intervening in
markets to defend the ceiling, its foreign currency reserves
were at 237.5 billion francs ($258 billion) at the end of March,
up from 227.2 billion francs the previous month, according to a
statement published yesterday. The central bank spent 17.8
billion francs in 2011 to stem what it called the currency’s
“massive overvaluation.”  Melinda Burgess, a currency analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London, said ongoing euro-region tensions
may keep the franc close to the 1.20 ceiling.  “We’ve seen a brief breach and markets may very well want
to test the SNB,” she said in a telephone interview. “The euro
has its own issues at the moment in terms of periphery stress
starting to come back to the fore. But the SNB stance will be to
stand tightly behind the floor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  