-- Syria Violence Persists as Government Says Pullout Began
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-04-05T12:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/syria-clashes-kill-more-than-60-as-cease-fire-deadline-nears.html
Twenty-seven Syrians were killed in
clashes between rebels and the army today as the  United Nations 
said it has been informed by the government that troops are
being withdrawn in line pledges by President Bashar al-Assad.  “The Syrians have informed us that they have pulled back
troops from certain areas,” Ahmad Fawzi, a spokesman for UN
special envoy  Kofi Annan , said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “We are in the process of verifying that
information.”  Western nations and their Arab allies say they have seen
little sign of restraint from Syrian forces since Assad promised
UN envoy Kofi Annan he will initiate a cease-fire on April 10.
 Amnesty International  says it has recorded 232 deaths since
Assad agreed to the plan on March 27. The death toll from the
yearlong conflict is above 9,000, the UN says.  A UN planning team sent to  Syria  to discuss the eventual
deployment of a UN monitoring mission arrived in Damascus today,
Fawzi said.  Clashes took place today in the central cities of Homs and
Hama, the northern governorate of Idlib and the Damascus suburb
of Douma, and among the 27 killed were three children, the Local
Coordination Committees said in an e-mail.  “We are not aware of any signs of military withdrawal till
this moment,” said Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, in a phone interview. “The
shelling and violence is as normal.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  this week warned
Western and Arab nations against arming the Syrian rebels,
saying it would lead to a prolonged conflict. Syria’s opposition
is still counting on foreign involvement, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  