-- U.K. Manufacturing Unexpectedly Drops for Second Month: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-05T11:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/u-k-manufacturing-unexpectedly-declines-for-second-month-1-.html
U.K.  manufacturing output 
unexpectedly declined for a second month in February, indicating
the economy’s return to growth may be uneven.  Factory output fell 1 percent from January, the most since
April last year, the  Office for National Statistics  said today
in London. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey  was for an increase of 0.1 percent. Manufacturing,
which accounts for 10 percent of the economy, was revised to a
0.3 percent decline in January from a 0.1 percent increase.  Reports this week showed expansion in services,
manufacturing and construction accelerated in March, suggesting
the economy probably  returned to growth  in the first quarter.
Still, the British Chambers of Commerce said the recovery
remains “weak.” The  Bank of England  maintained emergency
stimulus for the economy at a meeting today.  “The U.K. recovery is not to be taken for granted,” said
Blerina Uruci, an economist at Barclays in London. “We maintain
our view that the economy will remain fragile during the first
half of the year before gaining strength during the second
half.”  The pound fell more than 0.4 percent against the dollar
after the report. It traded at $1.5836 as of 11:42 a.m. in
London. European stocks fell for a third day, with the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  down 0.7 percent. The euro weakened.  German Output  Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy and one of the U.K.’s
biggest trading partners, said  industrial output  fell more than
economists forecast in February as cold weather kept workers off
construction sites. Production decreased 1.3 percent from
January, when it rose 1.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. Economists forecast a drop of 0.5 percent.  “It was a freezing February, so a drop is a one-off
effect,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group
in Munich. “Overall, the German economy is in good shape and we
expect a gradual strengthening for the rest of the year.”  Germany will post growth of 0.6 percent this year even as
the euro-area economy contracts 0.3 percent, according to the
European Commission. German companies have relied on faster-
growing markets like  Asia  to bolster sales as European
governments from Spain to France cut spending amid the sovereign
debt crisis.  Myanmar, once the world’s largest rice exporter and one of
Asia’s last untapped frontier markets, is set to re-engage with
the global economy in a boost to growth in the region.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday the U.S.
will selectively lift restrictions on investment in Myanmar,
after this month’s elections allowed democracy advocate  Aung San Suu Kyi  to win a seat in parliament.  China Slowdown  Myanmar’s emergence comes as its neighbors grapple with
slowing growth in  China  and the European debt crisis. A Chinese
services industry index showed slower expansion in March.  In the U.S., initial jobless claims probably fell 4,000 in
the week to March 31 to 355,000, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey ahead of a report
today.  Bank of England policy makers maintained their  asset-
purchase target  at 325 billion pounds ($517 billion) and kept
their benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Severfield-Rowen Plc (SFR) , the supplier of structural steelwork
to  Heathrow Airport  and the Shard skyscraper in London, said
March 20 the U.K. has “limited growth prospects.”  U.K. Growth Outlook  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  forecast on
March 21 that the economy will grow 0.8 percent this year and 2
percent in 2013.  Within U.K. manufacturing, nine sub-sectors declined in
February from January, three rose and one was unchanged. The
decline was led by transport equipment, rubber and plastic
products, and textiles. From a year earlier, factory output fell
1.4 percent in February.  Overall  industrial output , which accounts for about 15
percent of gross domestic product, rose 0.4 percent in February
from January, matching economists’ estimates, and was down 2.3
percent from a year earlier. The main risers were mining and
quarrying, oil and gas extraction, and utilities such as
electricity and water.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  