-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 3 (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-04-05T12:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-3-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska: National  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: A warm and fairly dry pattern
continued over the region for this week.  Eastern Pennsylvania,
northern New Jersey, and western Virginia were the main areas to
receive precipitation this last week, in the form of a few rain
showers.  As the drought indicators continue to worsen,
especially over the short term, expansion of D0 and D1 took
place this week.  In  Massachusetts ,  Rhode Island ,  Connecticut 
and portions of eastern  New York , D1 was expanded as it was also
done in Delaware and eastern  Maryland .  Abnormally dry
conditions were also expanded in Maine, New Hampshire, northern
Virginia, western Maryland and into the panhandle of  West
Virginia .  Not only are the short-term drought indicators
looking worse, the river and streamflows in the region are well
below normal for this time of year.  Southeast:  Overall, the showers were not widespread this week
for the southeastern United States.  The main drought areas did
not see any substantial rain that would lead to improvements,
and the drought situation declined for the region.  In  Florida ,
D4 was introduced in the Suwannee basin because of record low
groundwater levels and reduced surface flows.  In west Florida,
D3 was expanded to the east while in northeast Florida, D3 was
pushed to the south. South Florida had D2 shift farther to the
south and east but the consensus was to hold off on any new D3
in that part of the state.  South: With most areas recording record or near record
temperatures for March, the water demand has increased rapidly
over the last several weeks.  Dry conditions have been noted
from middle  Tennessee  up into western Kentucky.  Because of the
dry conditions, D0 was introduced this week and there were
several discussions about pushing this into northern Alabama and
more of eastern Tennessee.  It can be noted that this change was
not made because of the lack of notable impacts at this point,
with many expressing that it will not take much more dryness to
have widespread concerns.  Midwest:  With some good rains over eastern  Iowa , northern
Missouri, southern Wisconsin and into Michigan, this region
picked up some of the most widespread precipitation this week.
The only changes this week include an expansion of D1 out of
southeastern Minnesota and into Wisconsin as they have not
picked up any of the recent rains and conditions are drying out,
especially with the warm temperatures.  The Plains: A dry week for the High Plains and some rains in the
southern Plains warranted both improvements and some new drought
areas.  Up north, the early warm up and dryness that has
persisted for the most part since last fall brought with it some
new drought regions.  In  North Dakota , D1 was introduced in the
western part of the state; in  Nebraska , D1 was shifted out of
northwest Iowa and into northeast Nebraska.  Because of standing
water in agricultural fields, some D0 was eliminated in
southeast North Dakota as there are no apparent moisture issues
right now.  Through much of the High Plains, temperatures well
above normal, high winds and a dry start to spring have started
taking a toll on soil moisture conditions as they continue to
drop.  Producers who are eagerly awaiting planting should have
adequate moisture to start their crops but will need periodic
and consistent precipitation by the end of spring or problems
will arise.  For the southern Plains, good rains through the panhandle of
 Oklahoma  and into the southwestern part of the state allowed for
a categorical improvement to the drought intensity, with D4
being eliminated in the panhandle.  Good rains through west
 Texas  and in and along the southern border also warranted some
improvements, with many areas seeing a reduction in drought
intensity and some D4 being eliminated in west Texas.  Portions
of east Texas also picked up some rains and even heavier rains
and severe weather coming after the end of the current Drought
Monitor period.  These rains continued the improvements in the
region with some D0 being eliminated and D1 improving along the
Gulf Coast.  The West:  The snow totals continue to be below normal for much
of the western  United States , and coupled with temperatures well
above normal, the region is seeing snowpack being reduced much
earlier than normal.  A significant system did impact the
Pacific Northwest, with coastal areas from  Washington  to
northern  California  picking up some much needed precipitation.
In response to this event, some improvements were made in
northern California and southern  Oregon  where the most
significant precipitation was recorded.  For Colorado and Utah,
the conditions were unusual, with the lack of snowfall in the
upper elevations and the early melt.  In response, D2 was
expanded in northwest Colorado and D1 was also expanded in
western Colorado and into eastern Utah.  From eastern Wyoming up
into Montana, D0 was expanded and included regions in western
South Dakota and western Nebraska as this area has been very dry
over the last 6-8 weeks and temperatures are still well above
seasonal normals.  In the northwest portions of  New Mexico , D0
was also introduced as warm and dry conditions are being
experienced there as well.  Northwest Arizona also had D1 and D2
conditions expand while D0 was pushed to the east in portions of
eastern Nevada.  Hawaii, Alaska and Puerto Rico: No changes were made in Hawaii,
Alaska or Puerto Rico this week.  Looking Ahead: Over the next five days (April 4-8) precipitation
chances continue in the Pacific Northwest and northern Rocky
Mountains, where up to an inch of precipitation could be
recorded.  The central Plains to west Texas along with much of
the Southeast look to have a good chance at rains.  The most
rain is anticipated from southern  Alabama  and Mississippi into
South Carolina, where up to 2 inches may be possible.
Temperatures are forecasted to be above normal from the Rocky
Mountains (6-9 degrees Fahrenheit above normal) to the Gulf
Coast (3 degrees Fahrenheit above normal) and cooler over the
west coast with the continuing rain.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (April 9-13) has much of the western
and central United States anticipating temperatures above normal
while the rains lingering along the east and west coasts are
keeping temperatures below normal.  Precipitation chances look
to be best over the Tennessee River valley, Alaska and northern
Pacific Northwest while the best chance for below normal
precipitation is in the Great Lakes region and in the southwest
from Arizona to Texas.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  