-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for March 15 to June 2012 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-04-05T12:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-march-15-to-june-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in Camp Springs, Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The Drought Outlook for April 5-
June 30, 2012 is based on short-, medium-, and long-range
forecasts, initial conditions, and climatology. Since the
release of the previous Drought Outlook issued on March 15,
2012, drought was eradicated in some areas from northern
California into eastern Washington, across parts of the southern
Great Plains, along the central  Gulf Coast , and in northern
 North Carolina . In contrast, warm and dry weather led to drought
development in parts of the Northeast, the northern High Plains,
and a few areas in central sections of the Rockies and eastern
Great Basin. Overall, the current Drought Outlook extending into
early summer is not optimistic. Improvement, or at least some
improvement, is expected in west-central and northwestern parts
of the country, where above-normal precipitation is forecast
through the end of April and the ensuing seasonal dryness of May
and June allows little opportunity for changes in longer-term
precipitation anomalies during those months. Farther east and
south, from central  California , the Great Basin, and the
Southwest through southern sections of the Plains, dry
conditions are favored in various (but in all cases large) parts
of the region for time periods ranging from the next 5 days
through the 3-month outlook valid April - June 2012, keeping
drought intact with some expansion expected in areas of the
central Rockies and southwestern  Arizona  not currently
experiencing drought. For areas in drought across the northern
Plains, upper Midwest, and eastern tier of states, persistence
or only limited improvement is expected. The areas forecast to
experience limited improvement have enhanced chances for above-
normal precipitation into late April and/or are moving into a
climatologically wet time of year (which provides more
opportunity for improvement later in the period). In the
Northeast, relatively short-term drought and no discernible tilt
of the odds toward wet or dry conditions for the next few months
implies that some improvement will be the most likely outcome.  Forecaster: R. Tinker  Next Outlook issued: April 19, 2012 at 8:30 AM EDT  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in  Washington  at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  