-- U.S. and Its Allies Still Wrangling Over Afghan Policies
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-05T17:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/u-s-and-its-allies-still-wrangling-over-afghan-policies.html
More than two years after it
embraced a revised strategy to end the war in  Afghanistan , the
Obama administration is still wrangling with its Afghan and
Pakistani allies over two of the most important elements of the
war plan.  In Kabul, Afghan leaders want suspected insurgents captured
in special operations raids to be handed over to them
immediately. Across the border, the Pakistanis want the right to
approve in advance drone strikes on al-Qaeda, Taliban and other
targets in their country. U.S. officials say that one risks
losing valuable intelligence in Afghanistan and the other could
tip off the enemy in Pakistan to impending attacks.  The negotiations reflect the differences and suspicions
that divide the U.S. from the Afghan and Pakistani governments.
Their support is essential to the NATO-led coalition’s hopes of
withdrawing most of its remaining 128,000 forces from
Afghanistan by the end of 2014, while retaining the leeway to
pursue militants who threaten the U.S. and its allies.  “The U.S. objective in both of these negotiations is to
try to ensure that the U.S. has the ability to protect its
national security interests, especially against transnational
terrorist groups,” said Caroline Wadhams, a senior fellow at
the Center for American Progress policy group in Washington.
“The distrust makes it very difficult to give away any
concessions” on either side.  President  Barack Obama  is under pressure, even from some of
his more supportive Democrats in Congress, to accelerate the
withdrawal from Afghanistan.  ‘Lean Forward’  “It is time to lean forward on transitioning the
responsibility for security to the Afghan National Security
Forces and the Afghan government,” said Representative  Adam Smith , the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee,
at a hearing last month with Marine General John Allen,
commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan. “I believe we
need to look for ways to push this process to go as quickly as
we can safely do it.”  The Obama administration wants to be able to fill the gaps
in the capabilities or willingness of the military in  Pakistan 
or the 352,000 police officers and National Army soldiers in
Afghanistan to act, a U.S. military official said on condition
of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  In Afghanistan, the latest sticking point is how long the
U.S. can hold Afghan prisoners captured in nighttime operations
for interrogation before handing them over to local authorities,
according to a U.S. official and a congressional staff member.
Both spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private
negotiations.  Losing Intelligence  Handing over suspected Taliban and other insurgents
captured in special operations night raids to Afghan custody
immediately could cost the U.S. valuable intelligence because it
often takes days or longer to extract and verify information
from captured militants, said two U.S. intelligence officials.  Worse, said one of the officials, in some cases the Afghans
may be eager to take control of such “night raid” prisoners
before they can reveal the names or plans of collaborators in
the Afghan government or security forces.  Operational security can vary depending on the
professionalism of the Afghan forces involved. U.S. Army Colonel
Chris Toner, who returned in January from a year commanding the
3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division, in eastern
Afghanistan, said he operated under the principle of “trust but
verify” and knew his Afghan counterparts as “men of
character.”  Operational Security  His area covered Paktia and Khost provinces along the
Pakistani border. Khost Province was the site of a December 2009
attack on a U.S. base that killed seven Central Intelligence
Agency operatives and wounded six others. The alleged attacker
was a Jordanian double agent offering supposed information on
al-Qaeda leaders.  “We did watch to see if there were any indicators that our
operational security was being violated,” Toner told an
audience today in  Washington  at the Institute for the Study of
War, whose founder, military historian Kimberly Kagan, has
advised the U.S. military in Afghanistan. “In the 12 months
over there, I had no indications that it was.”  Calls for a continued U.S. military presence in Afghanistan
after 2014 may not settle issues of force size or legal immunity
for prosecution, an issue that was the death knell for an
agreement to keep U.S. forces in  Iraq  beyond 2011.  The Obama administration had hoped for a security agreement
to cover such points last year, said Andrew Exum, a former U.S.
Army Ranger platoon leader in Iraq and Afghanistan. The U.S. is
operating under a 2003 security agreement without an expiration
date that lets either side withdraw at any time.  Stay-Behind Force  “Senior U.S. defense officials have spent a lot of time in
Afghanistan quite recently hammering out what the size,
disposition and composition of a U.S. stay-behind force would
look like,” said Exum, a senior fellow with the Center for a
New American Security, a policy group in Washington.  “It’s in the interests of Afghanistan to strike some kind
of deal,” Exum said.  On the Pakistani side of the border, the U.S. intelligence
officials said requiring prior approval from Pakistan for drone
strikes in the remote frontier areas risks allowing supposed
Pakistani allies to alert the targets in advance. They said no
Pakistani official was informed in advance of the raid that
killed  Osama bin Laden  last May 2.  “The threat picture is not going to get a lot better over
the next couple of years,” said  Seth Jones , a senior political
scientist at the RAND Corporation in Arlington,  Virginia , and a
former special operations adviser to the U.S. military.
“There’s a strong concern that the U.S. keep several of these
groups off-balance, that it can continue to target, in both
Pakistan and Afghanistan, a range of these groups.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  