-- U.S. Seeks Reversal of Lower Court Argentine Bond Rulings
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-04-05T22:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/u-s-seeks-reversal-of-lower-court-argentine-bond-rulings-1-.html
The U.S. has sided with  Argentina 
and asked a federal appeals court to reverse lower-court rulings
stemming from bond holders’ attempts to collect on judgments
against the republic.  The government yesterday urged the U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in New York to reverse rulings directing Argentina to
make payments to Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Fund
before it makes payments to others on bonds the republic issued
in its 2005 and 2010 debt restructurings. U.S. District Judge
Thomas P. Griesa in December and February issued the rulings
that the U.S. now seeks to reverse.  The U.S. government said in a legal brief that Griesa’s
interpretation of a contract clause “could enable a single
creditor to thwart the implementation of an internationally
supported restructuring plan, and thereby undermine the decades
of effort the  United States  has expended to encourage a system
of cooperative resolution of sovereign debt crises.”  The litigation stems from efforts by creditors to collect
on bonds following Argentina’s 2001 default. Since then,
Argentina hasn’t made payments on the bonds and instead
restructured approximately 92 percent of its debt in exchanges
in 2005 and 2010. Litigating creditors have rejected both
offers.  The U.S. says in its friend-of-the-court brief that it
doesn’t “condone or excuse” Argentina’s failure to make the
payments. Still, the orders issued by Judge Griesa are
“impermissibly broad” and harmful to U.S. foreign relations,
the brief says.  The case is NML Capital Ltd, Aurelius Capital Mater Ltd,
12-105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  