-- UN Security Council Presses Syria on April 10 Cease-Fire
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-04-06T10:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/un-council-calls-on-assad-to-adhere-to-april-10-pullback-pledge.html
The situation in  Syria  “continues
to deteriorate” as the government keeps up attacks on cities
and towns ahead of a promised April 10 military pullback, said
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  The UN Security Council urged Syrian President Bashar al- Assad yesterday to stop using heavy weapons against the Syrian
opposition and to “urgently and visibly” withdraw his forces
from cities under an agreement negotiated by special envoy  Kofi Annan . The Council asked all groups to cease armed violence
within 48 hours of implementation of the pullback pledge.  At least 77 people were killed yesterday in the central
cities of Homs and Hama, the northern Idlib region and the
Damascus suburb of Douma, according to the Local Coordination
Committees. Idlib, where 22 people were reported dead, is one of
the areas where the government says it has started withdrawing
forces. The  Associated Press  reported army attacks around Homs
and in the suburbs of Damascus today.  “Despite the Syrian Government’s acceptance of the joint
special envoy’s plan of initial proposals to resolve the crisis,
the violence and assaults in civilian areas have not stopped,”
Ban said, speaking to the UN General Assembly. In addition to
those being killed, one million Syrians need humanitarian aid,
he said.  ‘Alarming’ Casualties  Annan said there are still “alarming levels” of
casualties even as Syrian authorities informed him of troop
withdrawals.  About 2,500 Syrians fled to  Turkey  in the past 24 hours,
the biggest number to date, as the army used helicopters in
operations near the Turkish border, Turkey’s official Anatolia
news agency said, citing Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu , who
invited UN officials to monitor developments from the border.  The UN Security Council called for implementation of
Annan’s six-point proposal “aimed at bringing an immediate end
to all violence and human rights violations, securing
humanitarian access and facilitating a Syrian-led political
transition leading to a democratic, plural political system.”  At least 9,000 people have been killed in the yearlong
conflict, the UN estimates. A group of UN officials, led by a
Norwegian major-general, arrived in Damascus yesterday to begin
preparations for a cease-fire monitoring force if the Syrian
government complies, Annan said.  Russian Call  The rebel Free Syrian Army accepts the UN cease-fire call,
provided Assad’s government stops violence against civilians,
the militia’s deputy leader, Colonel Malek Al Kurdi, told Al
Jazeera television today.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  discussed the
conflict in Syria with Annan in a telephone call yesterday,
urging Syrian opposition groups to “undertake concrete
measures” to contribute to peace efforts, according to a
statement published on the ministry’s website.  Syria says it is fighting foreign terrorists, armed gangs
and Islamists, and blames countries such as  Saudi Arabia , Qatar,
Turkey and the U.S. for aiding the opposition.  Syria’s UN Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari called a press
conference late yesterday to attack General Assembly President
Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, who is from Qatar, for refusing to
allow him to present Syria’s position at the assembly, according
to the Associated Press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  