-- UN Cuts Emerging-Nation Carbon Out of EU, Sindicatum Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-05T12:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/un-cuts-emerging-nation-carbon-out-of-eu-sindicatum-says.html
United Nations regulators are
probably cutting emission projects out of the European market by
failing to reform processes fast enough and by changing existing
rules, said Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Group Ltd.  Regulators in the largest greenhouse gas-offsetting market
probably won’t start a risk-based sampling system to approve
registration of emerging-nation activities this year, according
to a management plan for the Clean Development Mechanism
executive board. On Oct. 20, Martin Hession, chairman of the
board at the time, said the system would start as early as 2012.  “It’s disappointing that it’s not coming in this year,”
Gareth Phillips, chief climate change officer at the Singapore-
based developer of carbon offset credits, said April 3 by phone.
“Hopes for improvement are getting knocked down one after the
other,” he said. Phillips is chairman of the Project Developer
Forum in  London , a lobby group for companies that implement
greenhouse gas-cutting plants and programs from  Brazil  to  China .  UN Certified Emission Reduction credits for 2013 dropped to
a record 3.95 euros ($5.16) yesterday on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. The EU won’t accept credits from projects
registered after 2012, unless they are in least-developed
countries, according to the rules of the bloc’s carbon market.
Most registered by the end of this year can continue to sell
credits to factories, power stations and airlines in the EU
market through at least 2020.  New Documentation Requirements  The UN has approved 41 proposals, or 1 percent, in least-
developed countries, or LDCs, out of a total of more than 3,900
registered to date. New non-LDC projects missing this year’s
registration cut-off won’t be able to access the EU market, the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade compliance system.  Meeting the EU deadline “is what most project developers
are concerned about right now,” Phillips said.  The executive board is requiring new document formats from
activities seeking registration, according to the  management
plan  published on the website of the UN Framework Convention on
 Climate Change . Those new requirements may inadvertently force
developers to miss the deadline and the opportunity to sell
credits, as regulators seek resubmission “because of minor
issues,” Phillips said. There was no evidence the board was
deliberately seeking to limit supply to the EU market, where
allowances this week reached record lows, he said.  The executive board is striving to improve the application
process by implementing the “risk-based” approach, David Abbass, a spokesman for the board, said yesterday.  Risk-Based Approach  The assessment model would mean the executive board could
closely assess a statistically based sample of projects and
credit-supply requests instead of investigating each application
as it currently does, Hession said last year.  A risk-based approach “is not connected with any EU
deadlines,” Abbass said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The approach may be introduced as early as the fourth quarter of
this year for credit-supply requests, the plan indicates.  Information technology solutions for the approach for
submissions for registration is planned for the first quarter of
2013, according to the document. The plan is subject to change,
Abbass said.  The EU market has also banned industrial gas-cutting
projects at some air-conditioning-chemical factories and adipic-
acid manufacturers starting May next year. Those credits have
made up about two-thirds of supply since the CDM began supplying
credits in 2005, according to UN data. Removing them potentially
leaves a gap for new projects.  Discounted Compliance  UN credit supply matters to EU emitters because using them
cuts the cost of compliance by 45 percent, based on today’s
market prices. EU benchmark 2012 prices were at 6.51 euros a ton
today, compared with 3.60 euros for UN Certified Emission
Reduction offsets on ICE as of 1:08 p.m.  The EU program has a shortfall of 2.4 percent through 2020
without UN credits, according to an estimate by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
yesterday. Including the offsets, the market is oversupplied by
3.7 percent, the bank forecast.  The falling prices have hurt the value of developers.  Camco
International Ltd. (CAO)  dropped 2.9 percent today to a record after
plunging 17 percent yesterday. It decreased 0.125 pence to 4.125
pence as of 12:44 p.m. in London, valuing the company at 7.8
million pounds ($12.4 million). It’s fallen 77 percent in the
past year.  New Demand  New demand from airlines and  Australia , as well as a
potential move by EU regulators to temporarily cut supply, may
boost carbon prices during the next three years, Scott McGregor,
Camco chief executive officer, said last month in an interview.
“We’re happy with the progress at the executive board,” and
its effort to streamline processes, McGregor said, citing the
push to risk-based assessment.  “There’s still room” for new projects, he said.  Ultimately, the failure of UN climate-protection talks to
extend or replace the targets in the  Kyoto Protocol  that expire
this year is hurting the offset program, said Mark Owen-Lloyd,
head of carbon trading at CF Partners (U.K.) LLP in London,
which develops greenhouse-gas cutting projects.  “It’s difficult to persuade people to invest when there’s
this much uncertainty about the future shape of the CDM,” Owen-
Lloyd said in an interview last month.  “This is a ruthlessly political market,” where rules will
continue to change, he said. “The CDM is very attractive.
You’ve just got to get it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  