-- Hungary Needs a Tax on Financial Transactions, Matolcsy Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-05T14:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/hungary-needs-a-tax-on-financial-transactions-matolcsy-says-1-.html
Hungary should introduce a
transaction tax for the financial industry, Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  wrote in an article in  Heti Valasz  today.  While the country is shifting the focus of taxation to
consumption, there is no levy on financial transactions,
Matolcsy wrote in the weekly newspaper, after reviewing a book
on taxation in the U.S. Matolcsy would also want to introduce
five separate rates of value-added tax, including a 30 percent
upper rate, above the current top level of 27 percent, if that
were allowed under European Union rules, he said.  Since winning power in 2010, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
government has relied on extraordinary taxes on the energy,
banking, retail and telecommunication industries to plug budget
holes. The Cabinet, which is trying to obtain aid from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the EU, has pledged to end the
levies after this year with the exception of the financial
industry, where it will fall by 50 percent.  “A package of measures based on an increase in VAT and the
introduction of a financial-transactions tax may lead to a
negative reaction on the government bond and forint market,”
Levente Papa, a Budapest-based analyst at OTP Bank Nyrt.,
Hungary’s largest lender, and colleagues wrote in a research
report today.  Highest Yield  The Economy Ministry said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg that it can’t give further information
on when the financial-transaction tax may be introduced or to
whom it would apply because the government hasn’t decided on the
matter.  Hungary  sold bonds today at the highest yield in almost
three months on concern the government will face further delays
in starting talks with the IMF and the EU on a  credit line , more
than four months after requesting the aid.  While the negotiations have been held up by disputes over
legislation that the international lenders say threatens the
independence of the central bank and other institutions, the EU
separately decided to suspend some of Hungary’s development
subsidies because of the lack of “sustainable” steps to cut
its  budget deficit .  A  wealth tax  levied by the central government “isn’t a
good idea” because it wouldn’t affect “invisible” assets,
Matolcsy wrote, adding that the country is instead opting for a
municipality-based real-estate tax.  The government sold 20 billion forint of bonds due in 2017
at an average yield of 8.91 percent today, compared with 8.76
percent at the last sale two weeks ago and the highest since
Jan. 12, according to results from the Debt Management Agency,
known as AKK, on Bloomberg. Yields on notes maturing in 2015 and
2022 also rose. The forint appreciated 0.2 percent to 295.3 per
euro by 3:09 p.m. in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  