-- Hungary’s Fellegi Says Country Stable Enough to Avoid Default
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-05T21:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/hungary-s-fellegi-says-country-stable-enough-to-avoid-default.html
Tamas Fellegi, Hungary’s chief
negotiator with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union, said the country is on the “right track” to resolve the
crisis and can avert a default.  Default is not an option “because the financial situation
is stable enough,” Fellegi told Bloomberg News in an interview
in  Washington  today “The political intention is very clear
that” there is no default. The country “never did default in
our history,” he said.  The government has failed to meet conditions to start talks
on a possible bailout after requesting aid in November as the
forint fell to a record against the euro and the country’s
sovereign credit grade was cut to junk. The EU has blocked talks
because of its objections to laws it says affect the
independence of the central bank, the judiciary and the data-
protection office.  “ Hungary  is not in the situation to be bailed out,” he
said. Fellegi, who met the IMF yesterday, said the “takeaway
message clearly is that there is the mutual willingness to come
to the negotiating table if the preconditions are met.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government sent letters on
the issues to the EU on March 30, the Cabinet said in a
statement that day, adding that the move should allow the start
of talks on a bailout “in the foreseeable future.” The EU on
April 2 said it will assess as fast as possible Hungary’s
response to its concerns.  Formal Step  The European Commission, the EU’s executive, on March 7
took a formal step toward seeking a court order to require
Hungary to redraft laws on the judiciary and data protection
agency and asked for more information on planned changes to a
new central bank law. The commission gave Hungary one month to
reply.  “We can solve the economic governance issues to this
effect,” Fellegi said. The country has agreed to a five-party
expert-level ad hoc working group with the IMF, the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank , the Hungarian national
bank and the Hungarian government, he said.  This group will is “to make sure we can harmonize all
those preconditions concerning central bank independence as
requested by our partners,” Fellegi said. He said he discussed
the formation of the group when he met with ECB President  Mario Draghi  in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  