-- Huntington Risks Losing $194 Million on Navy Carrier Cost
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-05T16:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/huntington-risks-losing-194-million-for-navy-carrier-s-overrun.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) 
stands to loss as much as $194.3 million, more than 40 percent
of its potential fee, under the Navy’s latest estimate of
overruns for the USS Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier.  Construction of the Ford, the Navy’s most expensive
warship, is likely to exceed by $884 million the shipbuilder’s
target contract cost of about $5.2 billion for detailed design
and construction, according to Navy officials and the service’s
Selected Acquisition Report, obtained after it was delivered to
Congress on March 29.  The Ford is intended to be the first in a $40 billion,
three-ship class of carriers. Its rising costs have brought
questions from Republican Senator  John McCain  about the Navy
program and the shipbuilder’s performance. McCain of  Arizona , a
member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has asked the
Government Accountability Office for a review.  Huntington’s performance on costs “has stabilized but has
a long way to go to turn it around,” Sean Stackley, the Navy’s
assistant secretary for acquisition, said in an interview. The
company and Navy aren’t in agreement on what the carrier’s final
construction cost will be, he said.  Under the carrier contract, the Navy would pick up $689.7
million of the overrun that is now projected as “most likely,”
with the remaining $194.3 million subtracted from potential
maximum construction fees of $467 million for Huntington Ingalls
of  Newport News , Virginia. The carrier is about 40 percent
complete.  Complex Work Ahead  Huntington Ingalls shares fell 1.3 percent to $39.79 in  New
York  trading at 12:31 p.m.  “Reduced fees, especially with so much ahead on this ship,
is not a positive for the stock,” Heidi Wood, a Morgan Stanley
defense and aerospace analyst in New York said today in an e-
mailed statement. Further cost increases on the carrier are
likely given the “highly complex integration work yet to be
done,” said Wood, who rates Huntington Ingalls as neutral and
doesn’t own shares.  The company would earn 50 cents of every dollar it shaves
from the $884 million projection, according to Stackley.  If
costs rise still further, “they are at a point in the contract
where they share 50/50,” he said.  Company’s Comment  “We continue to see improvements in our performance on the
carrier,” Huntington Ingalls spokeswoman Beci Brenton said in
an e-mailed statement  “Although this is a ‘first-in-class’ ship with the unique
challenges, we anticipate we will increase efficiencies and
continue to retire risk in the three years that remain until
delivery,” Brenton said.  The Ford’s total projected cost has increased 18 percent in
four years to $12.3 billion from $10.4 billion, according to
Navy budget figures cited by the nonpartisan  Congressional
Research Service . That includes systems that won’t be provided
by Huntington Ingalls, such as the nuclear reactor to power the
ship, a dual-band radar from  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and an electromagnetic
aircraft-launching system from General Atomics of  San Diego .  “There will be some meaningful profit implications for
Huntington as such a vast increase implies both parties are due
for some pain,” said Wood, who called Stackley “very
disciplined” in overseeing costs.  Cost Controls  The Navy already has taken action against the shipbuilder.
Last year it didn’t let the company bill $75 million in fees
because of the overrun projections, and that money has been
forfeited, Stackley said.  Other cost-control initiatives include designating a
Huntington senior vice president and a superintendent to oversee
costs, specifying labor-cost targets and intensely reviewing
specifications for the vessel, according to the Navy.  The latest overrun estimate stems from “material cost
growth, labor inefficiencies” and increases in one-time
engineering costs, according to the Navy document.  The labor “inefficiencies are the result of ‘first of
class’ challenges,” including production issues such as the use
of thin-plate steel and weld distortion, the Navy wrote.  Labor Costs  Huntington Ingalls “has had 10 consecutive months of
improvements in meeting cost targets,” Rear Admiral Tom Moore,
the Navy’s program executive officer for carriers, said in an
interview. “If they continue the trend they are on, I’m
comfortable we will come in under the ’most likely’ $884 million
estimate.” Still, he said the company won’t meet the original
targets.  On labor, the company also is moving closer to the goal of
40 million man-hours on the next carrier, the CVN-79, from an
earlier estimate of 53 million, Moore said. “I need to drive
them down further.” A man-hour is the work one person does in
an hour.  The company would receive the minimum fee allowed, about
$196 million, if its performance deteriorates and the
construction exceeds a worst-case overrun of $1.1 billion by
completion in mid-2015, according to Stackley, who called that
an unlikely outcome.  The minimum covers “a couple percent of profit,” he said.  The Navy disclosed in February that it was adding $811
million to the Ford’s budget through 2017 to cover increases,
including $273 million directly tied to the construction
overrun.  Huntington Ingalls was spun off by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  