-- Turkey Unveils Incentives to Plug Current-Account Deficit
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-04-05T13:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/turkey-unveils-incentives-to-plug-current-account-deficit.html
Turkey’s Cabinet unveiled a series
of tax breaks and other incentives that aim to promote domestic
production and narrow the country’s record  current-account
deficit .  The package includes tax refunds and exemptions, support
for interest payments on loans, land provisions and aid on
social security premiums, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
told reporters in televised remarks today in Ankara.  Turkey is looking to spur investment in industries that
rely on imports to produce their goods to help narrow a current-
account gap of about 10 percent of the $772 billion gross
domestic product, Erdogan said. The government is focusing its
efforts on industries including defense, automotive, rail and
sea transport, pharmaceuticals, education, tourism and mining,
the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mail today.  “With this new system, our foremost goal is to reduce the
current-account deficit by increasing investments in and
production of goods that have a high addiction to imported
intermediate goods and products,” Erdogan said.  A minimum investment of 50 million liras ($28 million) is
required to qualify for government incentives, Erdogan said. The
new incentives went into effect on Jan. 1, he said.  Turkey  will provide tax breaks of as much as 90 percent
once 50 percent of the investment is in place, according to the
ministry’s presentation. Building projects of more than 500
million liras will be eligible for sales-tax refunds and the
government will meet social security payments for seven years,
according to the ministry’s e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  