-- URL Pharma, Facebook, Qualcomm, Teva: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-05T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/url-pharma-facebook-qualcomm-teva-intellectual-property.html
A URL Pharma Inc. unit sued  Par
Pharmaceutical Cos. (PRX)  alleging infringement of 10 patents with its
plans to market a generic version of the Colcrys gout treatment.  AR Holding Inc. contends in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, that Par has wrongly
applied to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for approval to
sell its copies before the patents expire.  The Wilmington-based holding company “will be irreparably
harmed by Par’s infringing activities” unless misuse of the
technology is stopped by a judge, it said in court papers.  AR Holding seeks a ruling that Par, of Woodcliff Lake,  New
Jersey , infringes the patents and asks for unspecified damages
and legal fees.  A spokeswoman for Par, Allison Wey, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is AR Holding Co. v. Par Pharmaceutical, 12-cv-
419, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Facebook Responds to Yahoo Patent Lawsuit With Counterclaims  Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the world’s biggest social-
networking site, accused  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  of infringing 10 patents
through its home page and Flickr photo-sharing service and in
ads displayed throughout its site.  Facebook, which was sued by Yahoo for patent infringement
last month, made the counterclaims in a federal court filing in
 San Francisco  April 3. Facebook denied stealing Yahoo’s
technology, saying its rival’s patents are either invalid or its
claims legally barred and the lawsuit should be dismissed.  “While we are asserting patent claims of our own, we do so
in response to Yahoo’s shortsighted decision to attack one of
its partners and prioritize litigation over innovation,” Ted Ullyot, Facebook’s general counsel, said in an e-mail.  Yahoo, owner of the most popular U.S. Internet portal, has
been struggling to keep pace with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook,
which have lured away users and ad dollars. Facebook filed for
an initial public offering in February that may value the
business at $75 billion to $100 billion, people familiar with
matter have said.  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo alleged in its lawsuit
that Facebook infringes patents covering functions critical to
websites, including Internet advertising, information sharing
and privacy. It’s seeking an order barring Facebook from
infringing 10 patents and for triple damages.  The lawsuit followed Yahoo’s statements in February that
Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , like other Web companies,
must license its technology.  “We have only just received Facebook’s answer and
counterclaims, but on their face we believe they are without
merit and nothing more than a cynical attempt to distract from
the weakness of its defense,” Yahoo said in an e-mailed
statement.  In its counterclaims, Facebook says its patents are
infringed directly by Yahoo’s home page and Flickr and through
advertisements displayed throughout Yahoo’s site on finance,
sports, games and shopping services.  Facebook patents at issue in the counterclaims include
those related to technologies for generating a feed of stories
personalized for social network users, posting headlines and
distributing user profiles over a network. The company is
seeking court orders declaring that it doesn’t infringe Yahoo
patents, blocking Yahoo from using its patents and awarding it
unspecified damages from Yahoo.  The case is  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  Qualcomm, Intel Provide Source Code in Patent Fight, Apple Says  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  have provided U.S. lawyers
with source code that will help prove Apple Inc. isn’t
infringing patents of Samsung Electronics Co., an Australian
lawyer for the maker of iPhones said.  Attorneys in the U.S. have inspected the code and Intel and
Qualcomm have agreed to provide it to lawyers involved in a
patent dispute in  Australia ,  Andrew Fox , Apple’s lawyer, said at
a hearing in Sydney yesterday.  “Further non-infringing arguments can be made from that”
disclosure of the source code, Fox said yesterday.  Apple and Samsung, the largest maker of mobile phones, are
preparing for the start of a trial in which the companies accuse
each other of infringing patents. They have filed at least 30
suits on four continents against each other in the past year
after talks initiated by former Apple founder Steve Jobs to
resolve the disputes broke down.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, successfully delayed
the release of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1
tablet in Australia for four months last year, claiming it
infringed patents over touch screen technology and “slavishly”
copied its designs. Australia’s High Court allowed the Samsung
tablets to go on sale on Dec. 9.  Samsung claims some of Apple’s iPhones and iPads infringe
its patents over wireless transmissions.  Apple is Samsung’s  single biggest customer , responsible for
7.6 percent of the company’s revenue, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The case is: Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Teva Sues Synthon for Patent Infringement Over Copaxone  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  sued Synthon BV for
infringing seven patents in planning to sell a generic version
of the multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone before Teva’s patents
expire.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , said it licensed the
patents from Yeda Research & Development Co., according to the
lawsuit filed April 3 in federal court in  New York .  Copaxone, used to reduce the frequency of relapses in
multiple sclerosis patients, generated sales of $3.9 billion in
2011. Synthon filed an application with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration seeking approval of a generic version of the
drug, according to the complaint.  “Defendants plan to begin manufacturing, marketing,
selling, offering to sell and/or importing Synthon’s generic
glatiramer acetate product soon after FDA approval,” Teva said
in the complaint. “Such conduct will constitute direct
infringement.”  Closely held Synthon, based in Nijmegen, Netherlands, filed
a document with the FDA stating that Teva’s patent claims are
invalid or unenforceable and that Synthon’s drug wouldn’t
infringe them, Teva said.  Fabienne Douven, a Synthon spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the company would fight the suit.  “We are committed to developing a generic alternative to
Copaxone, to make this RRMS treatment, with a current high cost
of around $40,000 per year for U.S. patients, more affordable
and accessible,” she said, referring to relapsing-remitting
multiple sclerosis.  Teva has also sued Sandoz AG and other drug companies over
Copaxone.  Yeda Research, based in Rehovot, Israel, markets and
licenses developments from the laboratories at the Weizman
Institute of Science, according to the complaint.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Synthon
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-2556, U.S  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  A.O. Smith Didn’t Violate Competitor’s Unprotected Trade Secret  A maker of swimming pool pumps that failed to keep its
proprietary information secret was properly denied the right to
sue a competitor for misappropriating its trade secrets, a
federal appeals court ruled.  In 2008 Fail-Safe LLC of Aurora, Colorado, sued Milwaukee-
based  A.O. Smith Corp. (AOS)  for misappropriating the technology it
developed to prevent swimming pool pumps from sucking bathers up
against pool drains and potentially drowning them.  The Colorado company said it developed a load-sensing
swimming pool pump motor that would prevent the entrapment of
bathers against the drain. It entered into discussions with A.O.
Smith regarding a joint project.  Fail-Safe filed suit against A.O. Smith in federal court in
Milwaukee after the Wisconsin company began marketing a pump
that Fail-Safe claimed was based on technology disclosed during
discussions between the two companies.  The trial court found that Fail-Safe hadn’t taken
reasonable steps to protect the proprietary technology.
Voluntarily disclosing the information also defeated Fail-Safe’s
claim that A.O. Smith was unjustly enriched at Fail-Safe’s
detriment.  Fail-Safe then filed an appeal, which was argued in
December 2011.  The appeals court agreed with the trial court, saying that
under Wisconsin law, claims for trade-secret protection must be
based on “efforts to maintain its secrecy that are reasonable
under the circumstances. When Fail-Safe entered into discussions
with A.O. Smith, none of the information it provided was marked
confidential nor did the company “make it known that it
expected this information to remain confidential,” the court
said.  In fact, the court said, Fail-Safe signed a one-way
confidentiality agreement with A.O. Smith, “yet failed to
obtain similar protection despite having protected itself with
similar confidential agreements in the past.”  The appeals court said that Fail-Safe was responsibility by
“failing to take any protective measures. Because A.O. Smith’s
use of Fail-Safe’s proprietary information “did not violate
some independent protection” the company didn’t profit unjustly
from any information Fail-Safe disclosed,  The lower court case is Fail-Safe LLC v. A.O. Smith Corp.,
2:08-cv-00310-JPS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Wisconsin (Milwaukee). The appeal is Fail-Save LLC v. A.O. Smith
Corp., 11-11354, 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ( Chicago ).  Trademark  Coppola Sues California Restaurant Over ‘A Tavola’ Trademark  Francis Ford Coppola sued the owner of Tavola Italian
Kitchen restaurant in Novato, California, claiming the name
infringes the Oscar-winning filmmaker’s “a tavola” trademark
used to market his eateries.  “A tavola,” or “to the table,” is a registered
trademark and Coppola’s favorite way to enjoy a meal, according
to a complaint the filmmaker and his family trust filed April 3
in federal court in San Francisco. The expression means diners
aren’t provided with menus and instead are served family-style
dishes, according to the complaint.  Since 2008, the Francis Ford Coppola Winery and restaurants
in San Francisco and Napa Valley have used the ‘a tavola’
trademark, which the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued
last year, according to the complaint.  “We’re struggling to stay alive, and now we have this, one
of the biggest names in American history step on us?” said
Anthony Pirraglia, the father of the family that owns Tavola
Italian Kitchen.  Coppola’s company claims Tavola Italian Kitchen’s
infringement is “likely to cause confusion” with Coppola’s
trademark, especially because it is located 50 miles (80
kilometers) from Coppola’s winery.  Pirraglia said in a phone interview yesterday that his
family used the word “tavola” because they liked it. The word
is generic and used so widely in the restaurant business, it’s
surprising Coppola was able to register it as a trademark, he
said. The family picked the name nine months ago in an attempt
to revitalize the restaurant, which was losing money under a
different name and menu, he said.  “We’re a small 70-seat restaurant in a shopping center,”
Pirraglia said. It’s “absurd” to claim that someone might
drive by and in confusion think that it’s Francis Ford Coppola’s
estate, he said.  Two Coppola films in the 1970s won Oscars for best picture:
“The Godfather” and “The Godfather: Part II.” Three others
made in that decade were nominated for best picture: “The
Conversation,” “American Graffiti” and “Apocalypse Now.”  The case is Trustees of the Coppola Family Trust v. Torg
Holding Corp., 12-cv-1646, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  Honduras Complains at WTO Over Australian Tobacco-Logo Ban  Honduras complained at the World Trade Organization about
an Australian law that prohibits the display of tobacco
companies’ logos, labels and trademarks, saying the ban violates
global rules on intellectual property.  As of Dec. 1, cigarettes in Australia will have to be sold
in dark brown packets, with no symbols or images and the same
font for all brands.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  Imperial
Tobacco Group Plc (IMP) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are challenging the law and will present their
arguments against it in Canberra beginning April 17.  “Honduras has decided to take this action given that
Australia’s law contravenes several WTO obligations on
intellectual-property rights and technical barriers to trade,
and given the serious economic consequences that this measure
would have on Honduran tobacco exports,” the country’s WTO
ambassador, Dacio Castillo, said in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday’s complaint at the Geneva-based trade arbiter
follows a similar move by Ukraine on March 15. The two
governments say the scientific evidence on which Australia’s law
is based is insufficient and that the plain-packaging rules will
unnecessarily restrict trade because Australia’s public-health
goal can be met by other means.  The tobacco industry employs several hundred thousand
people directly and indirectly in Honduras, Castillo said,
adding that “this translates into tens of millions of dollars
for the economy.”  The Honduran complaint will probably be joined with
 Ukraine’s . The request for consultations is the first step in
the case and means the governments must now hold talks for at
least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute. After that,
WTO judges can be asked to rule. Rulings are typically made
within six months, after which either side can appeal.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  YouTube Forges Deal With Paramount to Offer More Movie Rentals  Google Inc.’s YouTube announced a deal to offer online
movie rentals from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures, adding a
fifth major studio partner to the video-sharing site’s lineup.  Paramount will begin providing almost 500 titles to YouTube
and Google Play, which delivers content to Android devices,
YouTube said yesterday in a blog post. The new movies will be
available in the next few weeks in the U.S. and  Canada .  The move may represent a thawing of relations between
YouTube and Viacom, which sued the site in 2007 for copyright
infringement. Since then, YouTube has expanded beyond free
upload-it-yourself videos into rentals of professional content.
Google is counting on richer programming to compete with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , Amazon.com Inc. and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , three of the top
providers of digital entertainment.  “It’s still early days for us,” Malik Ducard, director of
content partnerships at YouTube, said in the post. “We’ll
continue adding new titles and expanding our service to more
countries this year.”  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 