-- Vale’s Ore Ships Stayed in Philippines Up to a Month
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-04-12T18:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/vale-s-biggest-ships-orders-idled-as-asian-iron-ore-trade-slows.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to show ships were
unloading to transshipment vessel; adds company response in
second and third paragraphs of story first published April 5.)  Vale SA (VALE3) , the biggest producer of
iron ore, kept two of the world’s largest carriers of the
commodity for as long as a month in a bay in the  Philippines  as
they unloaded or waited to discharge their cargoes.  Vale  China  and Vale Brasil, both able to carry 400,000
metric tons, were in Subic Bay, according to vessel tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg. It took 22 days for the Vale Brasil
to unload into a Capesize vessel and a floating transfer
station, the company said in an e-mailed statement April 12. The
Vale China waited before discharging over 14 days into two
Capesizes via the floating transfer station, the company said.  “Our floating transfer station, (FTS), which allows
partial or total transfer of  iron ore  cargoes from ship-to-ship,
is ramping up and not operating at full capacity yet,” Vale
said in the April 12 statement.  Vale China arrived at Subic Bay on Feb. 27 and next
signaled about 23 miles away on March 31, by which time it was
sailing for  Singapore , the data show. The vessel was 8.4 meters
(27.6 feet) higher in the water once it departed, indicating
cargo was unloaded. Vale Brasil arrived at Subic Bay on Feb. 11
and signaled from the same place on March 3. Its next signal was
on March 8 about 200 miles from Singapore.  Freight Costs  Vale, which controls about 26 percent of seaborne iron ore
trade, is spending more than $8 billion on the so-called Valemax
ships to lower freight costs to  Asia  from  Brazil  and allow it to
compete with Australian exporters. Eight of the 35 ships being
built for Vale were delivered in the past 11 months, according
to the spokeswoman and company statements as of April 5.  The Valemaxes have so far been excluded from China, the
company’s biggest customer. Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s head of
ferrous and strategy, told journalists in London on Dec. 7 that
the company was seeking permits for the vessels to call at
Chinese ports.  Zhang Shouguo, vice executive chairman of the China
Shipowners Association, said in December that the carriers
“arouse safety and environment risks” because Vale lacks
experience in shipping, according to a transcript of his remarks
on the group’s website.  Daily operating costs for the Valemax fleet are $33,956 to
$39,691, including fuel and loan repayments, according to
estimates from DVB Bank SE. The estimates are based on fuel
costs at $500 a metric ton and a contract price of $130 million
a ship.  Chinese Shipbuilder  The delivery of two more Valemaxes ordered by Vale from
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. had been
delayed, a spokesman for the Chinese shipbuilder said April 5 by
phone from  Hong Kong , declining to be identified in line with
company policy.  Vale, which placed an order for 12 ships worth $1.6 billion
in 2008, requested delays last year because of technical issues
relating to port operations, the spokesman said. The second
ship, Vale Dongjiakou, will be delivered to Vale soon, he said,
declining to elaborate. A Vale spokeswoman declined to comment
in e-mails.  Brazil’s first-quarter ore exports plunged 27 percent from
the previous three months to the lowest level since June 2009 as
rains and flooding in January delayed production, trade ministry
data show. About 45 percent of Vale’s ore sales are to China,
and shipments take 45 days to reach there, the company says.  Vale shipped 26 percent of the world’s seaborne ore trade
in 2010 of 995 million tons, the latest figures from the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development show.  Iron ore at the Chinese port of Tianjin slumped 15 percent
to $147 per ton in the past year, according to data from Steel
Business Briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  