-- Viktor Bout Gets Minimum Prison Term of 25 Years for Weapon Plot
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/viktor-bout-sentenced-to-25-years-in-prison-for-weapon-plot-1-.html
Viktor Bout , the international arms
dealer convicted of conspiracy for plotting to sell weapons to a
Colombian terrorist group, was sentenced to 25 years in prison,
the minimum term he faced.  A former officer in the  Soviet Union , Bout, 45, was also
sentenced yesterday to five years’ probation and ordered to
forfeit $15 million by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in
 Manhattan .  He was arrested in Bangkok in March 2008 in a sting
operation set up by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and
brought to New York for trial. Jurors found him guilty of trying
to set up a deal to sell arms, including surface-to-air
missiles, with two men posing as members of the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of  Colombia , known as  FARC .  Scheindlin rejected prosecutors’ arguments that Bout be
jailed for life, saying he responded to the deal presented in
the sting operation and otherwise wouldn’t have sought out an
opportunity to sell weapons to be used against Americans.  “Your honor, I am innocent,” Bout, 45, told Scheindlin
before he was sentenced. “I never intended to kill anyone and I
never intended to sell arms to anyone.”  Violent Regimes  Scheindlin said that while Bout “has sold weapons to some
of the most vicious and violent regimes in the world,” it was
unfair to impose an increased sentence applicable to terrorists.
The judge said she would recommend that Bout serve his sentence
near his lawyers in  New York . She also said she would ask the
Bureau of Prisons not to put Bout in solitary confinement.  Bout’s lawyer, Albert Y. Dayan, had urged the judge in a
letter to refuse to punish Bout and not to become “an unwilling
party in his wrongful prosecution.” In the hearing yesterday,
he asked Scheindlin to give his client the minimum 25-year term.  Federal sentencing guidelines, which are not binding,
called for a life sentence, prosecutors said.  FARC is classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S.
and European Union. Prosecutors claim Bout knew the weapons were
to be used by the group to kill Americans in Columbia.  At Bout’s trial, Andrew Smulian, an associate who pleaded
guilty and cooperated with the government, and two undercover
agents testified that Bout offered to sell them millions of
dollars in weapons, including surface-to-air missiles, armor-
piercing rocket launchers and AK-47 rifles.  Prosecutors said Bout, who also worked as an arms dealer in
 East Africa  in the 1990s, controlled a fleet of as many as 50
cargo planes capable of transporting weapons and military
equipment to  Africa ,  South America  and the  Middle East .  During his address to the judge, which was translated by an
interpreter, Bout thanked his lawyers and court officers who had
shown him respect. He pointed to government agents in the
courtroom and said, “Let God forgive you, and you will answer
to him, not to me.”  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0365, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 