-- Violin Memory Is Said to Pick From Among Four Banks to Lead IPO
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-05T22:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/violin-memory-is-said-to-pick-from-among-four-banks-to-lead-ipo.html
Violin Memory Inc., the maker of
flash memory for data centers, is close to picking banks for its
initial public offering and will choose from amid  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
for the lead spot, a person familiar with the matter said.  The Mountain View, California-based company will probably
file its IPO prospectus soon, and start trading in the third
quarter, said the person, who declined to be named because the
discussions are private.  Violin Memory raised $50 million in a private funding round
last week at a valuation of more than $800 million, almost
double its value in a June financing. The company said in an
April 2 statement that some of the world’s largest businesses
are adopting Violin’s type of memory, which retains data even
when it’s away from a power supply.  Barbara Bates, a spokeswoman for Violin, said the company
isn’t commenting on rumors about bankers. Liz Seymour, a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan, John Yiannacopoulos, a spokesman for
Bank of America, and Mark Lane, a spokesman for Barclays,
declined to comment. A representative of Deutsche Bank didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Violin Chief Executive Officer Don Basile joined the
company three years ago from  Fusion-io (FIO)  Inc., another maker of
flash-memory technology. Fusion-io went public in June and has
since gained 40 percent for a stock market value of $2.4
billion.  SAP AG’s venture arm led Violin’s most recent financing and
was joined by strategic investors  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  as well as venture firm Highland Capital Partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  