-- Why Does U.S. Build Roads If It Can’t Pay to Fix Them?
-- B y   A l e x   M a r s h a l l
-- 2012-04-05T23:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/why-does-u-s-build-roads-if-it-can-t-pay-to-fix-them-.html
A number of years ago in  Cambridge ,
 Massachusetts , a young friend from  Germany  turned to me and
commented on the potholed and patched streets that surrounded
us, as well as the uneven sidewalks and assorted other rough
edges.  “It looks like a Third World country here,” he said.
“Apparently no one cares.” To him, it was amazing that the
wealthy and well-educated residents of Cambridge would tolerate
such a poor public environment.  Yet in the U.S. this is more the rule than the exception.
Many cities, of course, are in much worse shape than Cambridge.  Last week,  Congress approved  an emergency stopgap
transportation-spending bill, which will give the House and
Senate  more time to argue  over the shape and size of a long-term
transportation bill. Although these debates are important, they
distract from the reality on the ground, which is that much of
our common infrastructure is falling apart from lack of basic
maintenance.  Occasional disasters focus attention on the problem -- the
near liquidation of  New Orleans  because of inadequate and poorly
maintained levees, or the collapse of a freeway  bridge in
Minneapolis  -- but, in general, the state of disrepair is so
common that we simply accept it.  Low Grades  Even getting a handle on the problem is difficult. The
 American Society of Civil Engineers  in its well-known  Report
Card for America’s Infrastructure  gives the U.S. an overall
grade of D and says there is a $2.2 trillion deficit -- the
amount of money it would take in five years to bring the
country’s public works up to acceptable levels. Much of this
estimate is for simple maintenance.  Now, asking a bunch of civil engineers about public-works
spending is like asking the barber if you need a haircut. Still,
the organization’s work is impressive. It attempts a
comprehensive assessment of needs in  10 categories , from
 aviation  to wastewater.  You don’t need an engineering degree to see that many U.S.
roads, train lines, bridges, sewers and water systems are less
spiffy than in other advanced countries. Some national systems,
like the interstates, look pretty good. Local streets, bridges,
sidewalks, train stations, water tunnels and the like seem to be
in the worst shape.  To some extent, these cracks in our infrastructure -- or
public works, to use the meatier and older term --  reflect the
cracks  in our government. Under the American system, which is
based on the English model, authority is separated among not
only federal, state and local, but among independent public
authorities, as well as private  utility companies .  City Hall may be nominally in charge of Main Street, but
private companies for phone, gas, electric, cable and Internet
service are the ones tearing up the street. These companies
often don’t make good street repairs their highest priority.
Infrastructure authorities with huge responsibilities can end up
as political orphans through accidents of history.  North Carolina  is unusual. It has some of the best-looking
roads in the country because the  state transportation department 
owns almost all of them. This is a legacy of the Great
Depression, when the state took over local roads from bankrupt
counties and cities that could no longer afford to maintain
them.  Building, Not Maintaining  A challenge generally is that states and localities, unlike
the federal government, make a firm distinction between
operating and capital expenditures. You can borrow money to
build a road, but not to maintain it. This leads to a subtle --
make that not so subtle -- bias against maintenance spending.  “See those lights,” a transit manager in a major American
city told me during a tour of an open-air train station,
pointing to some bulbs in rusting metal frames hanging over the
platform. “It would only cost about $1,000 a year to maintain
those well. We can’t get that. So instead, we will wait until
they rust out and fail completely. Then we will replace them, at
a cost of perhaps $100,000.”  This is poor governance and economics. “Every dollar spent
in keeping a good road good precludes spending $6 to $14 to
rebuild one that has deteriorated,” says William Reinhardt,
editor of the newsletter  Public Works Financing . “Maintenance
budgets are one of the first places mayors and governors look
for money to fill budget shortfalls.”  Then there is the American anti-government predilection. We
look at government as something outside ourselves, rather than a
reflection of us. So a fancy new  City Hall  building can become a
symbol of waste, rather than something everyone can be proud of.
Politicians pick this up, and while they like their names on
public works, some have become loath to spend any of their
constituents’ money on anything that makes a structure look
good. Architects and civil engineers have told me of something
being cut out of a public project because it “looks expensive.”
Sometimes one of these features might even save money, but that
doesn’t matter.  There are assorted remedies to this problem, although none
are magic bullets.  Tom Downs , a former president of  Amtrak  and
New Jersey transportation commissioner, and now a senior
official with  Veolia Transportation , said that one start would
be to have a “depreciation account,” as many businesses do. That
way, government would see what needed to be funded. Another way
is to have annual reports on the status of highways, streets,
utilities, schools, fire stations and so forth.  Head-Count Obsession  “We have let the issue disappear from view,” Downs said.
“It is our own fault if things are falling apart, because we do
not measure it.”  Al Appleton, a  former commissioner  of environmental
protection and director of water and sewer systems in  New York ,
said politicians and the press focus inordinately on the “head
count” in government, without seeing the savings and better
efficiency that are gained through adequate staffing levels.
When he was commissioner in the early 1990s, he said he won
increased staffing for the department’s “dewatering” process for
sludge, which is essentially squeezing more water out of waste
matter. The added resources saved $20 million annually in
shipping charges, he said, far more than the cost of the extra
workers.  “You can’t fight a war without an army,” Appleton said. “To
do maintenance right, you need people.”  Much of this is contrary to the public discussion of
infrastructure. We see highway crews loafing, and instantly jump
to assumptions that all government is overstaffed. And our
obsession with spotting and eliminating “pork” can get in the
way of making sure that what we build is built right, and kept
that way.  Beyond all these things, rising standards would help. We
should expect our streets to shine, and if they don’t, we should
hold the politicians responsible.  (Alex Marshall is a senior fellow at the  Regional Plan
Association  in New York and author of the forthcoming,  “The
Surprising Design of Market Economies.”  The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on the  latest job numbers  and
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed’s trial ;  Jonathan Alter  on the  auto
bailout ;  Michael Kinsley  on saving the  dollar bill ;  Luigi
Zingales  on  Fed nominees ;  Amity Shlaes  on  tax policy  and  “The
Hunger Games.”   To contact the writer of this article:
Alex Marshall at  alex@rpa.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 