-- Mylan Sues FDA to Overturn Teva Exclusivity for Provigil
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-05T21:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/mylan-sues-fda-to-overturn-teva-s-exclusivity-for-provigil-1-.html
Mylan Inc. sued the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  to overturn a decision that gives Teva
Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. 180-day exclusivity to market
the generic version of the sleep-disorder drug Provigil.  Mylan also sued the secretary of health and human services
and the commissioner of food and drugs, according to a filing in
federal court in Washington. Mylan applied to the FDA for
approval of its own Provigil generic and planned to start
marketing it tomorrow.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, acquired rights to
Provigil through its acquisition of Cephalon Inc. Provigil, used
to improve daytime wakefulness in people suffering from
narcolepsy and sleep apnea, had U.S.  sales  of about $1.1 billion
last year, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan said today in a
statement, citing data from IMS Health.  The FDA’s decision blocks other companies from introducing
generic versions of the drug. Mylan said in its complaint that
Teva can’t be granted exclusivity because it didn’t maintain
valid certifications when it purchased Cephalon. Federal law
encourages generic-drug companies to challenge patents held by a
branded-drug company, Mylan said.  “Upon acquiring such control of Cephalon, Teva no longer
had standing to challenge the validity, unenforceability or
infringement of patents that it indirectly owns,” Mylan said in
the lawsuit.  Teva Spokeswoman  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, declined to comment
on the suit.  Mylan wants the court to order the FDA to grant “immediate
approval” of its application to market the generic drug.  Kathleen Sebelius  is the secretary of health and human
services, and  Margaret Hamburg  is the food and drug
commissioner.  Mylan lost 57 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $22.59 at 4:30 p.m.
 New York  time in  Nasdaq Stock Market trading . Teva fell 17 cents
to $45.06.  The case is Mylan Pharmaceuticals v. Sebelius, 12-00524,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  