-- YPF to Lose Three Oil Licenses Representing 11% of Output
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a t t h e w   C r a z e
-- 2012-04-05T19:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/ypf-to-lose-three-oil-licenses-representing-11-of-output.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil
producer, may lose three more licenses for fields where it
extracts 11 percent of its crude as provincial governments step
up pressure on the company to boost investments.  Santa Cruz province is considering revoking the permits
because YPF is unlikely to invest enough to reverse a decline in
output, the provincial government  said  on its website, citing
Governor Daniel Peralta. The province, which removed three
concessions from YPF last month, hasn’t decided whether to
revoke the other three or reject their renewal in 2015.  Santa Cruz and five other provinces have already withdrawn
12 of YPF’s 104 concessions since last month and threatened to
revoke at least five more, echoing demands from the national
government for increased output to curb fuel imports. The
company has lost about 5 percent of its crude output because of
removed permits, according to estimates by Banco Itau BBA.  “Should the government set a precedent with YPF, investors
are likely to be fearful of where this cycle may end,”  Michael Henderson , a London-based economist for  Capital Economics , said
in a research note today.  Neuquen province in southwest Argentina yesterday revoked
an oil concession belonging to  Brazil ’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4) 
The province also withdrew a license owned by Tecpetrol SA, a
unit of Techint Group.  Revised Outlook  Standard & Poor’s (SPY)  revised its outlook for Madrid-based
 Repsol YPF SA (REP) , which owns 57.4 percent of YPF, to negative from
positive in a note today.  “The country’s operating environment has worsened,”
Stockholm-based credit analyst Per Karlsson said in the report.
The ratings agency may downgrade Repsol by one level “if the
Argentine operating environment worsens,” he said.  S&P assigns a BBB long-term credit rating to Repsol.  YPF’s American depositary receipts fell 2.4 percent to
$22.48 at 3:10 p.m. in  New York . They have slumped 35 percent so
far this year.  YPF would need to invest $1 billion to reverse declining
production in the Canadon Vasco, Los Perales-Las Mesetas and
Pico Truncado-El Cordón concessions that  Santa Cruz  may remove,
Peralta said.  Output in the three areas, which currently produce 25,000
barrels of oil a day, has dropped since 2006, according to the
statement.  Main Field  The Manantiales Behr field, which produced about 10 percent
of YPF’s oil last year, is among four licenses the Patagonian
province of Chubut plans to revoke.  Argentine oil output has declined to 35.3 million cubic
meters in 2010 from 45.4 million in 2001, according to the most
recent data published by the Buenos Aires-based Argentina Oil
and Gas Institute.  Production has stagnated because the government caps export
prices at $42 a barrel, Henderson said.  “The official version of events hides some inconvenient
truths,” he said. “A difficult operating environment has
restricted investment and productivity growth.”  Chubut has been the only province so far to withdraw
concessions with significant production. On March 14, it removed
the Escalante-El Trebol and Campamento Central-Canadon Perdido
concessions, where YPF produced about 5 percent of its oil in
2011. The other provinces have revoked licenses in areas with
marginal or no production.  Argentina  plans to nationalize YPF or take over management
through the purchase of a controlling stake, Newspaper Pagina/12
reported March 31, citing officials it didn’t identify.  Planning Minister Julio de Vido denied a report by Buenos
Aires newspaper Clarin that the government is working on a plan
to use state-controlled pensions to buy a stake in YPF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  