-- YRC Chief Welch Says Trucker Can Service Debt as Swaps Rise
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-04-05T20:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/yrc-chief-welch-says-trucker-can-service-debt-as-swaps-rise-1-.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW) , the trucker
whose credit-default swaps surged as bondholders guard against
losses, said it can service its debt as long as business
continues improving.  “Our customers are telling us a different side of the
story versus what some of the analysts may say, or some of these
CDS folks,” Chief Executive Officer James Welch said in an
interview. “Our business is growing. We’ve had double-digit
growth.”  YRC has won some new customers after losing market share
during a 2009 restructuring that helped prevent bankruptcy,
Welch said in an interview with  Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn
on “The Hays Advantage.” Revenue climbed 12 percent last year
after falling every year  since 2006  as the money-losing trucker
struggled to integrate companies it purchased in 2003 and 2005.  Credit-default swaps tied to the  Overland Park , Kansas-
based company surged to the highest since October 2009 this week
before paring some of the gains. Yesterday’s price implies a 91
percent chance of default, according to data provider CMA.  The 10 percent notes due March 2015 dropped to 34.5 cents
on the dollar as of March 26 from 72 cents in September,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Chief Financial Officer Jamie Pierson said last month that
YRC expects to reset debt agreements so it can pay lenders,
after the company projected in its annual regulatory filing that
it wouldn’t be able to satisfy requirements beginning this
quarter. Pierson said that forecast was from the company’s
previous management team.  YRC tumbled 11 percent to $5.11 at the close in  New York 
today.  The company can service its debt “provided that we get the
businesses to operate better than they have been,” Welch said.
“And we are certainly doing that. The regional carriers are
definitely operating better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  