-- Tyson Is Among Meat Companies Exploring Ground-Beef Labeling
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-05T21:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-05/tyson-is-among-meat-companies-exploring-ground-beef-labeling-1-.html
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  said it’s among
companies exploring the possibility of labeling ground meat that
contains lean, finely textured beef, a product also known as
“pink slime.”  The company submitted a labeling request to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for
Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson, said today in an e-mail. The
company, the largest U.S. meat processor, doesn’t make the beef
product, and instead buys it from external suppliers, he said.  Beef Products Inc. treats trimmings with ammonia hydroxide
to kill pathogens and make the meat product. The company
suspended operations at three plants last month, because of
consumer concerns about the product, which the USDA has
repeatedly called safe. Several fast-food restaurant chains,
including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , have stopped using the product.  “The number of customers requesting non-LFTB product
increased substantially following the media’s inaccurate
portrayal of LFTB, but we have recently seen an increased
interest in purchasing ground beef containing LFTB as customers
and consumers gain access to more accurate information,”
Mickelson said.  “Several companies have chosen to voluntarily pursue a new
claim on their product labels that will allow them to clarify
the use of” the meat product, Dirk Fillpot, a USDA Food Safety
and Inspection Service spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The “USDA has received this type of application for
the first time through the normal label approval process and the
department has determined that such requests will be approved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  