-- 
‘Rio’ Opens as Top Film With $39.2 Million in Ticket Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-18T23:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/-rio-opens-as-no-1-movie-with-40-million-in-ticket-sales.html
The animated comedy “Rio” was the
top film in U.S. and Canadian theaters this past weekend, taking
in $39.2 million in ticket sales for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox studio.  The horror sequel “Scream 4” opened in second place with
$18.7 million, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in
an e-mailed statement.  The first-place debut for “Rio” marks the third straight
weekend in which a PG-rated children’s film has been Hollywood’s
top moneymaker. “Hop,” an animated tale about a bunny who must
save the Easter holiday, was first the previous two weeks.  “In the summer, and especially over the holiday months,
family films do very well,” said  Jeff Bock , a box-office
analyst for Exhibitor Relations Co. “But to have this many of
those films do that well in the spring is quite uncommon. Even
more uncommon is to really not have any huge hits from outside
that family demographic.”  “Rio,” featuring the voices of  Anne Hathaway  and  Jesse Eisenberg , had taken in $50.8 million in overseas markets before
opening in the U.S. and  Canada , according to Hollywood.com. In
the film, a domesticated macaw travels from  Minnesota  to  Rio de
Janeiro  to find a mate.  In “Scream 4,” from Weinstein Co.’s Dimension Films,
heroine Sidney Prescott returns to the town of Woodsboro only to
be pursued once again by serial killer Ghostface. The first of
the “Scream” films was released in 1996. The first three
movies generated $507 million in worldwide ticket sales,
according to Box Office Mojo.  ‘Soul Surfer’  “To take an 11-year break and still gross almost $20
million is still decent for horror,” Bock said.  Third place’s “Hop” had sales of $10.7 million. The PG-
rated film combining animation and live action was the first
film from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  to lead the box
office this year. It has had sales of $82.2 million in three
weeks of release.  “Hanna,” an action thriller from Universal’s Focus
Features, fell to fourth place with $7.3 million. The movie
features Saoirse Ronan as a teenager who’s trained to be a
killer by her father, a former CIA agent, and sent on a mission.
Eric Bana and Cate Blanchett co-star.  “Soul Surfer,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s picture about a Hawaiian
teenager, generated $7.3 million to take fourth place in its
second weekend. The movie is based on the real-life story of
Bethany Hamilton, who lost her arm in a shark attack in 2003 and
returned to competitive surfing three months later.  ‘Madea’s Big Happy Family’  Receipts rose this past weekend from the year-ago period,
making it the first “up” week after seven consecutive down
weekends.  “That’s a good sign going into next week,” Bock said.
“Tyler Perry’s film is going to be huge, and then things look
up from there, so it’s starting to feel a lot like summer right
now.”  “Tyler Perry’s Madea’s Big Happy Family,” “African
Cats” and “Water for Elephants” open in wide release this
coming weekend.  Revenue for the top 12 films this past weekend gained 4.6
percent to $117 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 19 percent to
$2.65 billion. Attendance is down 21 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 15-17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  