-- 
ABB, Kuehne + Nagel, Roche, Synthes, UBS: Swiss Equity Preview

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-18T06:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/abb-kuehne-nagel-roche-synthes-ubs-swiss-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of
companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in Zurich.
Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share
prices are from the last close.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies gained 0.7 percent to 6,400.26 on April 15. The
broader Swiss Performance Index climbed 0.6 percent.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  : The world’s biggest power-grid supplier
and five other companies may bid to develop a power plant in
western Iraq, Deputy Electricity Minister Salam Qazaz said. The
shares increased 1.1 percent to 21.78 Swiss francs.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  : The Allschwil, Switzerland-based
company will get support from Swiss investment fund BB Biotech
AG in a dispute with Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd., which wants to
replace much of Actelion’s board, the Financial Times reported.
Actelion’s stock dropped 1.1 percent to 51.15 francs.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  : OAO Sberbank and
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank plan to create a $1 billion
private-equity fund for investments in  Russia , according to the
chief executive officer of Sberbank. Shares in Credit Suisse
fell 0.8 percent to 39.05 francs.  Kaba Holding AG (KABN)  : The security systems maker said
class action lawsuits have been filed against several of its
U.S. entities over a lock that can potentially be compromised
with an industrial magnet, and said its earnings outlook remains
unchanged. The shares declined 0.2 percent to 384.75 francs.  Kuehne + Nagel International AG (KNIN VX): The Swiss
freight forwarder’s first-quarter net income rose 18 percent to
155.4 million francs ($174 million), the company reported. The
shares fell 0.7 percent to 128 francs.  Nestle SA (NESN)  : The maker of KitKats and Wonka
chocolate said it signed an agreement to take a 60 percent stake
in Chinese food company Yinlu Foods Group. Shares in Nestle
gained 2.4 percent.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  : The world’s largest maker of
cancer drugs won U.S. approval to expand the use of the
arthritis drug Actemra, the Food and Drug Administration said.
The shares added 0.5 percent to 133.50 francs.  Sulzer AG (SUN)  : The Swiss engineering company bought
 Brazil ’s C. L. Engenharia Ltda. Shares in Sulzer lost 0.9
percent.  Synthes Inc. (SYST)  : The biggest maker of devices to
treat bone fractures and trauma confirmed it’s holding talks
about a possible merger with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , with no
certainty about any outcome or conditions of a deal, West
Chester, Pennsylvania-based Synthes said in a statement today.
The shares surged 6.2 percent to 138.70 francs.  UBS AG (UBSN)  : Switzerland’s largest bank said two of
its top investment bankers to metals and mining companies,
Dieter Hoeppli and Daniel Chu, plan to leave the company. The
shares lost 0.9 percent to 16.52 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  