-- 
Mack the Knife’s Whores, Crooks Roil Comedie-Francaise: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-04-17T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/mack-the-knife-s-whores-crooks-roil-comedie-francaise-review.html
“What is robbing a bank compared
to founding a bank?”  Amid the current turmoil on the financial markets, many
people may agree that Mack the Knife, the hero of “The
Threepenny Opera,” has a point.  No wonder the  Comedie-Francaise  uses the quip as a motto
for its new production. It’s the first production of this work
in the company’s 330-year history, though not its first
staging of a Brecht play.  Brecht has been a cult figure in France for years -- not
least because of the Communist sympathies of the Paris
intelligentsia. The first performance of the “Opera de
Quat’Sous” in Paris took place in 1930, only two years after
the Berlin premiere.  In 1931, the play was made into a movie in German and
French versions, both directed by G.W. Pabst.  After the Berlin premiere, the Red Flag, the mouthpiece
of the German Communist Party, condemned the production as
“culinary theater, totally lacking in concrete social
awareness.”  The party watchdogs must have been appalled by Kurt Weill’s witty score, mixing Baroque elements, folk ballads and
fashionable dances of the day. Thanks to Louis Armstrong, Ella Fitzgerald and others, Weill’s catchy tunes have become
popular standards.  Whether those who innocently hum along are aware of the
fact that the Ballad of Mack the Knife glorifies a rapist,
child molester and serial killer is another question.  Musical Obscenity  The challenge for any new production is to find the right
balance between Weill’s musical demands and Brecht’s social
satire and cheerful obscenity. The Comedie-Francaise is only
partially successful.  The most convincing contribution comes from the pit.
Bruno Fontaine conducts his 13 musicians with admirable
clarity and rhythmic zest.  Laurent Pelly, the director, has won plaudits for his
productions of Offenbach operettas. Brecht had updated his
model, John Gay’s 1728 “The Beggar’s Opera” to the Roaring
Twenties. Pelly updates it again to present-day Britain.  Chantal Thomas’s half-abstract sets only indicate what we
should imagine -- the office of Peachum, the beggar king; the
garage in which Polly, Peachum’s daughter, and Mack get
married; the brothel in Tunbridge, Mack’s favorite hangout;
the Old Bailey.  So far, so good.  Cabaret Style  The problems start with the actors. As you can hear on
old recordings, Weill had performers with operetta or cabaret
experience in mind, personified by his wife, Lotte Lenya, who
later repeated her success as Jenny, the whore, in  New York .  Some of the Comediens Francais, as they are called, do
have vocal talent. In most cases, though, their singing is
closer to shouting.  More crucially, what’s lacking is the nonchalance and, in
the case of Mack (Thierry Hancisse), the roguish charisma that
makes the lurid story so hilarious.  If you’re curious to find out how the old warhorse sounds
in French, go see it by all means. If you want to know what
the real thing looks like, watch Pabst’s movie, one of the
masterpieces of  Germany ’s Weimar cinema.  Rating: **1/2.  “L’Opera de Quat’Sous” is in repertory through July 19.
Information:  http://www.comedie-francaise.fr  or (from  France 
only) 08-2510-1680. The production is supported by  Societe
Generale (GLE)  Private Banking, the Fondation Jacques Toja Pour le
Theatre and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Fondation Orange.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 