-- 
AIA Shares Rise as New Business Value Gains in First Quarter

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-04-18T09:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/aia-group-value-of-new-business-rises-21-in-first-quarter-1-.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market value, surged to a record in  Hong
Kong  trading after saying its value of new business rose 21
percent in the first quarter as it sold more-profitable
policies.  AIA climbed 2.6 percent to HK$25.70, the highest level
since trading of its shares began on Oct. 29. The measure of
after-tax profitability of new policies sold after statutory
capital reserves increased to $182 million in the three months
to Feb. 28, from $151 million a year ago, the Hong Kong-based
insurer said in a statement to the city’s stock exchange today.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker, 53, has been trying to
revive agent productivity and new policy sales since taking over
in July the leadership of the largest Asia-wide insurer by the
15 markets it operates in. AIA’s business was hurt by troubles
at its bailed-out parent  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  since
2008 and uncertainties during the attempted takeover by
 Prudential Plc (PRU)  last year.  “We think the two sets of stronger-than-expected results
of 2010 and first quarter 2011 demonstrate the reversion to
growth and reform measures of the new management team,” said
Darwin Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Citigroup estimated AIA’s full-year value of new business
growth at 16 percent. Barclays Plc analyst Hong Kong-based
analysts Mark Kellock and Thomas Wang had estimated 10 percent
full-year expansion, they said in a note today.  New Business Growth  The first-quarter year-on-year value of new business growth
was the highest in the past year, said the Barclays report.  AIA’s premium growth and margin were also better than
Citigroup estimates, Lam said.  The margin of value of new business expanded 130 basis
points to 35 percent in the first quarter, the highest since the
beginning of 2009, according to both banks. Annualized new
premiums, a measure of new business sales, rose 17 percent to
$512 million in the quarter from a year earlier, AIA said.  “The numbers indicate positive sales momentum in AIA’s
agency business” after the management implemented a new
strategy to improve agent productivity and sales quality,
Kellock and Wang said.  Asian Currencies  AIA, with one of the largest pools of existing policies
among regional insurers, had seen new policy sales lagging
behind market growth, eroding its lead over rivals such as
Prudential and bank-backed insurers in some markets.  The new AIA management has been focusing on value of new
business growth in the short to medium term, Morgan Stanley
analysts Ben Lin and Christy He said in a report dated April 8.
At the end of last year, the measure stood 31 percent below the
2008 level of $1 billion, they said.  First-quarter value of new business for the insurer, which
reports earnings in dollars, should also have benefited from the
appreciation in Asian currencies, the Morgan Stanley analysts
said.  Total weighted premium income, a better indication of the
company’s long-term business volume as it includes renewal
premiums, expanded 12 percent to $3.3 billion.  Tucker built the Asian operations of Prudential over 15
years followed by a four-year stint as group CEO of the London-
based insurer through 2009, before joining AIA.  AIA’s 2010 profit rose 54 percent to $2.7 billion, beating
analyst estimates and its own forecast.  AIA’s Hong Kong-traded shares have gained 18 percent this
year, outperforming the 3 percent advance of the  Hang Seng
Finance Index (HSF)  tracking 11 companies.  -- With assistance from Marco Lui. Editor: Malcolm Scott, Linus Chua  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  