-- 
America’s Banker May Tell Geithner to Go Away: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-04-17T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/america-s-banker-may-tell-geithner-to-go-away-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Timothy Geithner  says borrowing
more from China to finance tax cuts for the most affluent
Americans would be irresponsible.  The Treasury secretary has it backward. The real question
is whether Beijing is willing to double down on a nation whose
balance sheet makes  Italy  look good. Holding $1.2 trillion of
U.S. debt is a fast-growing risk to China.  Traders have a theory about why the euro is reasonably
stable amid a broadening debt crisis: Asian central banks are
converting proceeds from recent intervention moves into other
currencies. “Asian central banks” has become a euphemism for
China, whose reserves now exceed $3 trillion.  China is making deals with nations such as  Brazil  to
conduct trade in yuan. It’s also making noises about the  Federal
Reserve ’s zero interest-rate policies and Congress playing games
with the debt limit. If you were managing China’s reserves, how
many more dollars would you really want in this environment?  Heck, China is even loading up on Spanish debt these days.
“China’s open admission of continual purchases of European debt
shows it doesn’t consider the U.S. any safer,” says Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment strategy for South Asia at LGT
Group in  Singapore .  America’s Sugar Daddy  The risk that America’s sugar daddy is getting fed up
hasn’t escaped U.S. officials. It’s probably no coincidence that
Fed officials are talking about dismantling their quantitative-
easing program, while  Washington  is homing in on the deficit.  This enough-is-enough dynamic was on display last week as
the leaders of Brazil,  Russia ,  India , China and  South Africa ,
the BRICS economies, met in the Chinese resort city of Sanya.
Chinese President Hu Jintao called for reform of our
international monetary and financial systems. A commentary by
Zheng Xinli may offer a clearer view of what Hu meant.  Zheng, an executive vice president of the China Center for
International Economic Exchanges,  wrote  in China Daily that the
“root cause” of the financial crisis was U.S. “long-term
abuse” of sovereign credit. He called for the Group of 20
Nations to devise a multicurrency system.  The U.S. takes its AAA credit for granted, knowing that
neither Moody’s Investors Service nor  Standard & Poor’s  has the
bravado to downgrade it. Yet we may now be observing the
flipside of the 1971 musing by Nixon-era Treasury Secretary John Connally that the dollar is our currency, but your problem. The
dollar may soon be Washington’s problem.  Crash Threat  The path was set by Geithner’s predecessor,  Henry Paulson ,
who visited China last week. On Paulson’s watch, the U.S.
morphed into a huge debt-issuing machine. It has remained in
overdrive since, and  Asia  is getting antsy. What if Moody’s or
S&P grew a backbone and took away America’s top rating? What if
the dollar crashed?  In recent years, the answer to both questions was Asia; it
would always be there come auction time. Until now, this faith
made sense. Asia’s reserve arms race since 1997 was about
keeping exchange rates competitive and avoiding the humiliation
of going to the  International Monetary Fund  for handouts. The
trouble is, it’s a Faustian bargain.  The reference here is to Johann Wolfgang von Goethe’s novel
“Faust,” in which an alchemist makes a deal with the devil. He
compromises principles for fleeting gains. That, in a nutshell,
is where Asia finds itself as the U.S. re-inflates its economy.
Asia is kind of trapped.  Ponzi Scheme  The trillions of dollars stuffed in  U.S. debt  could fund
infrastructure, education and health care back home. Asia can’t
easily withdraw its savings because that would cause a run on
U.S. assets, which might put the world’s biggest economy back in
crisis. Not knowing what else to do, Asia buys more and more
dollars. Ponzi scheme, anyone?  Asia must now decide to continue gambling on U.S. debt or
cuts its losses. The $886 billion  Japan  parked in U.S. debt
would come in handy to rebuild its earthquake-devastated
northeast. Any sign Japan is drawing down its pot would send
shockwaves through markets. Ditto for oil-exporting nations
facing people-power revolts.  China, too, is worried about Middle East-style protests,
and heading off inflation is vital to taming the masses.
Billionaire  George Soros  last week called Chinese inflation
“somewhat out of control.” In March, inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace since 2008.  China ’s Call  Accumulating dollars exacerbates the problem as it pumps up
China’s money supply. Buying fewer would help boost the yuan and
give policy makers more control over the economy.  It’s China’s call, though, and that’s a big risk for the
U.S. It should worry officials in Washington that speculation
Friday about Chinese rate increases had investors rushing into
the safety not of dollars, but yen. For some, the risks of quake
aftershocks and radiation leaks in Japan seem more manageable
than folks playing politics with America’s debt-borrowing
ceiling.  As Geithner worries about paying for stimulus, he should
remember that it’s not really Washington’s call. The decision
will be made by America’s banker 7,000 miles away, and he may be
having doubts.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  