-- 
Lewis Hamilton Ends Vettel's Run of Wins With Formula One Victory in China

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-04-17T16:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/hamilton-wins-china-grand-prix-ahead-of-series-leader-vettel-webber-third.html
Lewis Hamilton  ended Sebastian Vettel’s run of Formula One wins by chasing down the
championship leader to win the Chinese Grand Prix.  McLaren driver Hamilton, who used a three-stop strategy to
Vettel’s two, capitalized on his fresher tires to finish 5.1
seconds ahead of the defending world champion yesterday in
Shanghai. Vettel’s Red Bull teammate  Mark Webber  was third after
starting in 18th place.  Hamilton, the 2008 series winner, took the lead with four
laps remaining to secure his first victory for nine races and
prevent Vettel from getting a fifth straight win. The German
driver finished last season with back-to-back triumphs and
opened his title defense in similar fashion.  “This race is in my top three of race wins,” Hamilton
said in a news conference. “I exist and I live and I breathe to
win. I love winning and I just couldn’t be happier.”  Vettel tops the standings with 68 points through three of
as many as 20 races. Hamilton is 21 points back as the series
pauses for two weekends before resuming May 8 for the Turkish
Grand Prix.  Vettel said his two-stop strategy had been the wrong one as
he ran the final 25 laps on Pirelli & C. SpA’s faster-wearing
tires, which are designed to force two to three pit stops per
race to help promote different strategies.  ‘Didn’t Work’  “We tried too hard staying on two stops,” Vettel said.
“We can learn a lot from today. With two stops, you have to be
patient and look after your tires, but it didn’t work.”  Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner said it was a
gamble that “nearly paid off” for Vettel.  “We got within four laps of making it work but,
ultimately, he just didn’t have enough grip to defend that
place,” Horner said in a team statement.  McLaren’s  Jenson Button , the 2009 world champion, finished
in fourth after Webber completed his comeback from near the back
of the starting grid to take third place and the final spot on
the podium. Button is third in the championship with 38 points,
one ahead of Webber.  Mercedes’s  Nico Rosberg  was fifth ahead of Ferrari duo
 Felipe Massa  and  Fernando Alonso . Seven-time world champion
 Michael Schumacher  of Mercedes, Lotus Renault’s Vitaly Petrov
and Kamui Kobayashi in a Sauber rounded out the top 10.  Hamilton’s 15th career win came after his team raced to get
his car to the grid on time following a fuel-flooding issue that
prevented his engine from starting. Hamilton said he tried to
remain relaxed to help the mechanics focus.  Stress Relief  “I didn’t question what was going on, I just wanted to
stay calm and not add to everyone’s stress,” Hamilton said.
“When I finally left the garage, I drove down the pit lane
watching the light and hoped it wouldn’t turn red, and it
didn’t. It’s never been that close before.”  The garage crew managed to fix the issue and reassemble
Hamilton’s car with about 60 seconds remaining, according to
McLaren Team Principal Martin Whitmarsh.  “The mechanics did an absolutely superlative job to
identify the problem and rectify it within a very stressful
timeframe,” Whitmarsh said in a team statement. “Lewis
responded magnificently to the pressure to record one of his
most finely judged and aggressive race wins.”  Hamilton’s first victory since the 2010 Belgian Grand Prix
in August made him the first two-time winner at a  Shanghai 
International Circuit that had seen a different driver take the
checkered flag in seven previous editions.  Vettel, starting from the 18th pole position of his career,
started slowly and was overtaken by the two McLarens to come out
of the first turn in third place.  Lead Changes  Six different drivers led the 56-lap race and Hamilton took
the lead for good when he passed Vettel, who had lost
communication with the Red Bull garage because of a problem with
his car radio, on the inside of a left-hand turn.  After bowing to the crowd as he stepped out of his car,
Hamilton flung himself into the arms of his mechanics.  “We’ve still got some way to go to close the gap to the
Red Bulls, but we had the better strategy and were able to
execute it,” Hamilton said. “The team will keep on pushing as
hard as ever as we head into the European season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  