-- 
Arsenal Is Tied 1-1 by Last-Kick Liverpool Penalty as Title Dreams Fade

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-04-17T18:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/arsenal-held-to-1-1-tie-by-late-liverpool-penalty-hitting-title-chances.html
Arsenal and Liverpool each scored
injury-time penalties in a 1-1 tie today that damaged the
Gunners’ chances of winning English soccer’s Premier League for
the first time in seven years.  Arsenal appeared set for a win as Robin  van Persie  scored
in stoppage time at the Emirates Stadium, but Liverpool was then
also awarded a spotkick. Dirk Kuyt fired into the net with the
final kick of the game.  “I feel we’re hard done by in the end as time was over by
about three minutes,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told Sky
Sports. “But you have to take it and continue to fight.”  The second-placed Gunners move to 63 points from 32 of 38
matches, six behind first-place Manchester United. Liverpool,
which remains in sixth spot, has 49 points.  In total there were 11 minutes of injury time today, mostly
because of a long delay during the second half when Liverpool’s
 Jamie Carragher  had to be carried off the field on a stretcher
following a clash of heads with teammate  John Flanagan .  Deep into injury time, Cesc Fabregas fell in the penalty
area after a challenge by Jay Spearing to give the Gunners a
chance for a late victory. Van Persie struck the ball low into
the corner as goalkeeper  Jose Reina  dived the wrong way.  Liverpool pressed forward in a last-gasp effort to tie the
game and had an opportunity from a free kick just outside the
area.  Luis Suarez ’s effort deflected off the Arsenal wall and
broke to Lucas, who was then pushed over by Emmanuel Eboue. Kuyt
fired past Wojciech Szczesny to deny Arsenal the win.  ‘Remained Committed’  “I think what we did at the end epitomized the
performance,” Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  told  Sky Sports .
“We remained committed to getting something out of the game and
we had to play on.”  Both teams had chances from open play during the match,
with Reina making several saves to deny the Gunners. Theo Walcott tested him with a long-range effort after 12 minutes,
then Laurent Koscielny headed against the bar four minutes
later.  Liverpool was disrupted by three injuries. Fabio Aurelio
had to be replaced by 17-year-old Jack Robinson on 21 minutes,
while Carragher and Andy Carroll both came off in the second
half. Carragher initially appeared to be unconscious following
an accidental collision with Flanagan.  Reina quickly closed down Van Persie to block an effort
from the striker with five minutes of normal time remaining, and
Szczesny stopped a shot from Suarez at the other end.  Heated Words  Then there were the two late penalties, prompting Wenger
and Dalglish to exchange heated words after the final whistle.  “I‘d rather not repeat what was said,” Dalglish said.  Yesterday, third-place Chelsea moved to 61 points following
a 3-1 victory at West Bromwich Albion. Wigan won 3-1 at
Blackpool, Birmingham beat Sunderland 2-0, Everton defeated
Blackburn 2-0, while Aston Villa won 2-1 at West Ham.  Manchester City beat  Manchester United  in the semifinals of
the F.A. Cup. In the final, City will play Stoke, a 5-0 winner
today against Bolton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 