-- 
AstraZeneca, Barclays, Aviva: U.K., Irish Equity Market Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 
2011-04-18T06:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/astrazeneca-lloyds-paragon-u-k-irish-equity-market-preview.html
The following is a list of
companies that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and
Irish markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are
from the last market close.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 32.21, or 0.5 percent,
to 5,996.01. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  advanced 0.6 percent,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.4 percent.  3i Group Plc (III)  : The U.K. private equity investor
plans to sell Shearings Group, a U.K. company that operates
coaches and resort hotels, in an auction for about 40 million
pounds ($65 million), the Sunday Telegraph reported, without
saying where it got the information. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
will conduct the sale, the newspaper said. The stock climbed 1.5
percent to 268 pence.  Alliance Trust Plc (ATST)  : Chief Executive Officer
Katherine Garrett-Cox will meet activist investors Laxey
Partners Ltd. and Elliott International as she seeks support for
her business plan, the Sunday Telegraph said. The stock gained
0.8 percent to 376.6 pence.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  : AstraZeneca Plc’s sales of its
Astra Tech business, a Swedish unit that makes dental implants
and medical devices, has attracted bids from more than 10
companies, the Mail on Sunday reported, without saying where it
got the information. The shares rose 1.1 percent to 3,015.5
pence.        Aveva Group Plc (AVV)  : The  software company  predicted
that its full-year results will match its previous forecast. The
shares dropped 0.3 percent to 1,593 pence.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  : Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC may bid for
Aviva’s RAC roadside recovery service, the Sunday Times
reported, without saying how it got the information. The shares
dropped 0.3 percent to 434.9 pence.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  : A group of Barclays investors,
which together hold more than 10 percent of its equity, have
told the board they would prefer the British bank to be
domiciled outside the U.K., the Sunday Telegraph reported.  Separately, the Financial Times reported that Barclays will
name Naguib Kheraj as vice chairman next week, four years after
the executive left the bank. The stock fell 0.1 percent to 301.7
pence.  BP Plc (BP/)  : The oil producer’s 10 biggest investors
want the company to sell as much as half of its assets,
expanding an existing $30 billion asset-sale program, the Sunday
Times reported, citing an unidentified shareholder in the group.
The shares dropped 0.9 percent to 455.8 pence.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  (BT/A LN): Britain’s largest phone company
will expand in  Germany  as the country’s demand for video
conferencing and computing power has increased, Karsten Lereuth,
chief executive officer of the company’s German operations, said
in an interview with Euro am Sonntag. The shares rose 2 percent
to 192 pence.  C&C Group Plc (GCC)  : The Irish maker of Magners cider
will drop its sponsorship of rugby union’s Celtic League, the
Sunday Times said, citing an unidentified spokesman. The stock
climbed 0.5 percent to 3.33 euros.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC LN): The mining
company held an emergency board meeting amid a split between
directors, The  Daily Telegraph  reported, without citing anyone.
The shares rose 0.6 percent to 914 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  