-- 
Atlanta Braves Hand Mets Seventh Straight Loss; Yankees Beat Texas Rangers

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-17T05:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/atlanta-braves-hand-mets-seventh-straight-loss-yankees-beat-texas-rangers.html
The  New York Mets  took their
seventh straight loss, a 4-0 shutout, at the hands of the
 Atlanta Braves  who swept yesterday’s Major League Baseball
double-header.  The  New York Yankees , powered by home runs from Mark Teixeira and Robinson Cano, defeated the  Texas Rangers  5-2.  At Turner Field in Atlanta, Dan Uggla, Chipper Jones, Eric Hinske and David Ross each hit run-scoring singles to give the
Braves (7-8) the win in the nightcap.  Jair Jurrjens (1-0) pitched seven innings, holding the Mets
(4-11) to two hits and no runs. Mike Pelfrey (0-2) allowed 11
hits and four runs in five innings for New York.  In the earlier game, Alex Gonzalez hit two solo home runs,
and Jones and Freddie Freeman each hit one, to give the Braves a
4-2 win.  The Mets’ runs came on  Jose Reyes ’s fielder’s choice
grounder to second in the fifth inning and a Willie Harris
double in the sixth.  Derek Lowe (2-2) gave up five hits and two runs in six
innings for the win. D.J. Carrasco (0-1) surrendered four hits
and three runs in 3 2/3 innings for the Mets.  Teixeira Homers  At Yankee Stadium, Teixeira hit a two-run homer in the
first, scoring Nick Swisher, then sent home Derek Jeter in the
third on a sacrifice fly to give the Yankees (8-5) a 3-0 lead.
Teixeira also scored on Cano’s eighth-inning homer.  Elvis Andrus  and Michael Young had run-scoring singles in
the eighth for the Rangers.  Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez left the game in the
top of the seventh inning with lower back stiffness.  Freddy Garcia (1-0) went six innings, giving up two hits
and no runs for the win. Derek Holland (2-1) pitches 7 2/3
innings, allowing eight hits and five runs for  Texas .  The Rangers fell to 10-4, tied with the  Cleveland Indians 
and Kansas City Royals for the best record in the American
League. The Colorado Rockies have MLB’s best record at 11-3.  In other American League games, it was Cleveland 8,
Baltimore 3; Boston 4, Toronto 1; Kansas City 7, Seattle 0;
Tampa Bay 4, Minnesota 3; the Los Angeles Angels 7, the Chicago
White Sox 2; and Oakland 6, Detroit 2.  In the National League, it was Cincinnati 11, Pittsburgh 2;
Houston 5, San Diego 3; San Francisco 5, Arizona 3; the Chicago
Cubs 8, Colorado 3; and St. Louis 9, the Los Angeles Dodgers 2.  Rain pelted Philadelphia and  Washington , forcing the
Marlins-Phillies game to be rescheduled to June 15 as a double-
header, and the Brewers-National contest to be played in a
double-header today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  