-- 
Australia's Swan Says Carbon Tax Needed for Prosperity as Unions Rebel

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-17T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/australia-needs-carbon-tax-to-protect-nation-s-prosperity-jobs-swan-says.html
Australia’s economy needs to
introduce a price on carbon to protect its prosperity, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said as labor unions threatened to oppose the
government’s plan over concerns it will cost jobs.  “These big reforms are always hard fought, they’re always
difficult and they’re always contested,” Swan said in an
interview with Sky Television yesterday. The government must
prepare the country “to make the transition for that future, to
drive the investment in energy particularly, but also in
renewable energy, to make sure we do protect the prosperity and
the jobs of the future.”  Steelmakers should be exempt from a carbon tax and the
aluminum, cement and glass industries compensated, Paul Howes,
the national secretary for the  Australian Workers Union , said on
April 15, according to the Sydney Morning Herald. The Australian
Manufacturing Workers Union supported the AWU, the country’s
biggest union, the newspaper said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s  Labor party  wants to set a
price on  carbon emissions  from July 2012 in preparation for a
trading system that could begin as early as 2015. Companies
including  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Rio Tinto Group and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  have called for changes to the plan and warned of
job losses.  “I’m not surprised by the vigor that we’ve seen in the
debate at the moment,” Swan said yesterday. “There’s no doubt
that trade-exposed industries do deserve assistance and we’re
engaged with that sector in discussions.”  Companies Liable  About 50 companies will be liable for almost two-thirds of
the emissions covered under the plan, Swan said in his weekly
economic note yesterday, citing a speech by Minister for Climate
Change and Energy  Greg Combet .  The annual impact on households of an A$30 ($31.70) per
metric ton carbon price, excluding petrol price concessions,
would be A$863.20, according to preliminary Treasury estimates
released on April 1 under an Australian Freedom of Information
Act request. At A$20 a ton the cost would be A$577.20.  Fifty-one percent of 1,016 people polled on March 23-27
opposed Gillard’s plan and 34 percent support it, according to
an  Essential Media  survey. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus three percentage points.  Gillard’s  Labor Party  lost its majority at the August 2010
national election, the closest ballot in 70 years, and relies on
the support of four non-party lawmakers to pass legislation.  Greenhouse Emissions  Her government wants to reduce greenhouse emissions at
least 5 percent in 2020 in Australia, the world’s biggest coal
exporter. It has also set a target of generating 20 percent of
the nation’s energy from renewable sources like wind and solar
by 2020.  Bob Brown , whose Greens party blocked an initial carbon
reduction plan in 2009 partly because compensation was too
generous, called the AWU’s Howes an “economic illiterate,” the
Australian reported on April 16. The Greens will control the
upper house Senate from July.  Australia ’s economy is “fundamentally strong” in a still-
fragile global economy recovering from the financial crisis,
Swan said during the interview with Sky, speaking from a meeting
of the Group of 20 nations in  Washington .  While parts of the Australian economy such as the retail
and tourism industries are struggling with the strong Australian
dollar, the government remains “determined” to return to a
 budget surplus  by 2013-14, helped by firm commodity prices and a
robust investment pipeline, Swan said.  Australia’s dollar reached $1.0584 on April 8, the
strongest since it was freely floated in 1983.  Growth will be reduced as a result of record flooding in
Queensland this year as well as the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan , Swan said.  The economy may lose as much as much as 0.75 percent of
growth during the current 2010-11 financial year, he told CNBC
on April 14.  Flooding and cyclones in Australia’s northeastern state
will cost an estimated A$9 billion, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  