-- 
Bernanke Briefings May Offset Fed Hawks With Words as New Tool

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-17T22:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/bernanke-speaking-freely-in-briefings-poised-to-offset-talk-from-fed-hawks.html
When Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  convenes his first press conference next week, he
may emphasize a point the markets seem to have forgotten: He’s
serious about keeping interest rates low for an "extended
period."  Futures markets in Chicago see a 29 percent chance of a
rate increase by December, and Eurodollar contracts on interbank
lending predict rates of 0.5 percent by year-end -- an imminent
tightening encouraged by an inflationary uptick and suggestions
from some regional Fed presidents that rates should rise soon.  “Yet again the market is running way ahead of the Fed,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas SA in New York and a former Fed economist. “Bernanke’s
press conferences will help mitigate the influence of some of
the FOMC members who are further away from consensus and yet
very, very vocal.”  The briefings -- after the Fed’s two-day meetings in April,
June and November this year -- may allow Bernanke, like his
colleagues in Europe and Japan, to steer or even correct market
expectations by making him the first official to explain any
central bank actions. Regional presidents who don’t necessarily
represent the Fed’s consensus, including Kansas City Fed
President  Thomas Hoenig , often have spoken first.  Bernanke and his chief deputies on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  -- Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and New York Fed
President William C. Dudley -- have used speeches in recent
weeks to knock back investor perceptions, based on remarks by
Hoenig and several other FOMC members, that the central bank may
raise rates before year-end. They have countered that the
committee’s leadership believes the threat from accelerating
prices will prove “transitory.”  ‘Much Confusion’  “There has been so much confusion in markets as some of
these more peripheral members of the FOMC freely air their
views,” Coronado said. A Bernanke press conference “keeps the
markets focused on the core message.”  He will speak at 2:15 p.m. after the April meeting, and the
statement will be released at 12:30 p.m. Statements after one-
day meetings will continue to be released at 2:15 p.m.  The importance of the briefings likely will grow with time,
said John Canally, an economist and investment strategist at
Boston-based LPL Financial Corp., which oversees $315.6 billion
in assets.  "The April 27 presser might be a trial run to work out the
kinks and how he handles the questions,’’ said Canally, who
added that FOMC meetings with news conferences “will take on
more importance,” and eventually the Fed “will do what the ECB
does and have one at every meeting. I also think, at the margin,
it lessens the importance of the minutes and the daily and
weekly parades of Fed speakers.”  Profit Financially  Investors have two routes to profit financially from
Bernanke’s determination to keep the federal funds rate near
zero for an extended period, said  Chris Low , chief economist for
FTN Financial in  New York .  “Those who think the Fed is making a mistake are tending
toward the inflation trade: They’re favoring commodities,
favoring TIPS,” Low said. “Those who believe the Fed is right
are going for conventional fixed-income and extending in
duration.”  Lowe agrees with investors who think the Fed is correct.  “If you’re confident that yields are not going to rise,
the return on a five-year note at 2.12 percent is so much higher
than the 0.69 percent yield on the two-year,” so extending
maturity “can pick up a lot of income,” he said.  Prepared Speeches  While Bernanke’s move marks a break with his predecessor,
Alan Greenspan -- who communicated primarily through prepared
speeches and congressional testimony, rarely speaking to the
press -- it follows the precedent of other chief policy makers.
The  European Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan  hold monthly press
conferences, and the Bank of  Canada  and  Bank of England  have
quarterly sessions.  Both Wim Duisenberg and Jean-Claude Trichet, the first and
second presidents of the ECB, have used their briefings to
stress -- sometimes explicitly -- that they alone spoke for the
Governing Council and investors should look to them for
guidance.  At his February 2006 press conference, Trichet said Lorenzo Bini Smaghi “does not speak on behalf of" ECB policy makers
after the Executive Board member was reported to have said that
he favored higher interest rates. Asked last August about
comments on the rate outlook by Slovakia’s Jozef Makuch, Trichet
noted that his colleagues ‘‘do not speak on behalf of the
Governing Council. I am the porte-parole.’’  Guide Perceptions  Bernanke’s counterparts also have used their press
conferences to guide market expectations. In March, Trichet
indicated the ECB would raise its benchmark interest rate in
April, far faster than investors had anticipated, prompting a
jump in the euro.  When the Bank of  Japan  lowered interest rates to almost
zero in February 1999, it didn’t announce the decision in its
policy statement, explicitly because it wanted to avoid making
money-market rates too volatile, according to then-Governor
Masaru Hayami. The statement said only that the bank would
‘‘initially aim around 0.15 percent” and “subsequently induce
further decline.”  Speaking at his monthly news conference four days later,
Hayami said a “zero rate would be O.K.,” prompting investors
to bid down interbank overnight rates to almost zero.  Investor misperceptions in the U.S. have lead to equally
swift market moves. Yields on 10-year Treasuries jumped 4 basis
points on March 25 in the minutes after Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said -- in a speech titled “EXIT” --
that the improving economy should prompt policy makers to detail
a plan for withdrawing record monetary stimulus.  Contrasting Scenario  He suggested the Fed sell $125 billion of assets for every
quarter-percentage point rise in the benchmark rate and
normalize its balance sheet in 12 to 18 months. Yellen has
presented a contrasting scenario with a five-year time line for
unwinding the central bank’s unconventional asset holdings.  “Investors are often left with the impression, which we
believe is incorrect, that the hawkish side is more influential
than it actually is,” said Roberto Perli, a former senior staff
economist in the Fed’s division of monetary affairs.  “This might be one of the reasons why federal funds
futures have systematically and incorrectly predicted an early
policy tightening in recent years,” said Perli, now a managing
director at International Strategy & Investment Group in
 Washington .  Rising Yield  The yield on the two-year note rose 0.07 percentage point
to 0.89 percent on April 1, the highest level since May 2010,
after the Labor Department reported the economy added a better-
than-expected 216,000 jobs in March and St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  said the Fed should consider shrinking its $600
billion asset-purchase program.  Dudley, in  San Juan , Puerto Rico, spoke shortly after the
jobs report, saying the recovery is “still far from the mark”
of the central bank’s goals of  price stability  and full
employment. The 2-year yield dropped 0.09 percentage point,
wiping out the earlier gains.  Dudley continued to clarify his point, saying in a Tokyo
forum April 11 that “we’re probably going to have excess slack
in the U.S. labor market at least through the end of 2012, and
that’s one reason that colored my view that we shouldn’t be
overly enthusiastic about tightening monetary policy too
early.”  Dudley’s remarks and similar comments from Yellen the
following week were an attempt from the Fed’s leaders to better
manage the market’s belief about the central bank’s policy
plans, said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial
Inc. in  Chicago , which oversees more than $40 billion in assets.  ‘Adjust Expectations’  “It is to adjust expectations and say ‘listen, there are
voices of dissent but this is where the central Fed is,’” Swonk
said.  Yellen heads a subcommittee the Fed formed at its Nov. 2-3
meeting to review the central bank’s communications strategy.
Several participants in a discussion at the Jan. 25-26 meeting
said “increased clarity” is “a key objective,” and some
“referred to the central role of communications in the
monetary-policy transmission process,” according to the
minutes.  Yellen outlined in a Feb. 25 New York speech the importance
of clarifying the Fed’s intentions, saying the central bank
could use communications to make policy more accommodative,
lower unemployment and raise the rate of inflation if financial
markets expected a tightening of policy before the Fed intended.  Shared View  If policy makers believe their likeliest course of action
is to hold the Fed’s target rate lower for longer “and market
participants came to share that view, then financial conditions
would become significantly more accommodative, even in the
absence of any change in the current level of the funds rate,”
Yellen said. At its March 15 meeting, the FOMC agreed that
Bernanke will hold regular press conferences after the two-day
sessions.  Plosser, a recurrent skeptic of Fed easing who has said
interest-rate increases are “on the table” this year, told
reporters after an April 1 speech that he welcomes the press
conferences.  “I think it’s a good thing; I am a strong believer in
transparency and effective communication, so I support the
effort,” he said. “Will it change what I say? Ha! I’ll still
do what I do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  