-- 
BMW, Mercedes Outpace Rivals as China Clamps Down on ‘Hedonism’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-17T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/bmw-mercedes-outpace-rivals-as-china-clamps-down-on-hedonism-.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 Daimler AG (DAI)  are increasing their sales growth in China at more
than nine times the pace of the wider industry, defying the 
nation’s attempts to unclog its roads and discourage “lavish
lifestyles.”  The world’s two biggest luxury-car brands sold a combined
102,497 vehicles during the first quarter in the world’s largest
auto market, an increase of 76 percent from a year earlier.
Industrywide growth slowed to 8.1 percent, the weakest
performance since the first quarter of 2009.  Sales of models including BMW’s 296,000-yuan ($45,300), 3-
series sedan surged even after China ended tax breaks and
subsidies that supported car-buying, and Shanghai and Beijing
restricted vehicle licenses to ease congestion. Beijing banned
outdoor advertisements promoting “hedonism, lavishness and the
worship of foreign things” starting April 15.  “We see an emerging wealthy and upper middle-class
population,” said Ray Tsang, a Shanghai-based analyst at
consultant Bain & Co. “They are optimistic about their future,
willing to spend more on buying such cars.”  Luxury-car sales in  China  will rise 20 percent this year
after surging 48 percent to 459,000 vehicles last year,
according to industry researcher  J.D. Power & Associates . Growth
in the overall passenger-vehicle market may slow to about 12
percent from 37 percent, it estimates. Automakers are set to
showcase their models at the Shanghai auto show, which opens to
the media tomorrow.  Demand Outstrips Supply  “Demand outstrips supply for our vehicles,” said Klaus Maier, president and chief executive officer at Daimler’s
Mercedes-Benz business in China. “With our factories at full
swing in  Germany , we are increasing production capacity here.”  The rising numbers of wealthy Chinese are helping high-end
automakers boost sales even as overall vehicle deliveries may
miss an initial target of 10 to 15 percent growth, compared with
a 32 percent increase in 2010, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said April 10.  The nation’s economy grew 10.3 percent in 2010, the fastest
pace in three years, as rising exports and consumption helped it
outstrip growth in other big car markets such as the U.S. and
 Japan .  China’s economy  is expected to grow 9.6 percent this
year, the  Asian Development Bank  said on April 6.  China’s Gini coefficient, a measure of  income distribution ,
has climbed to almost 0.5 from less than 0.3 a quarter century
ago, indicating the nation’s wealth gap is widening, according
to Li Shi, a professor at the School of Economics and Business
at Beijing Normal University.  ’Too Powerful’  “Driving a Benz reflects a buyer’s personal success and
taste,” said Wang Jun, a 42-year-old Beijing-based businessman,
who drives a Mercedes Benz S-Class 320 sedan. “The brand is too
powerful to resist.”  Mercedes sales surged 86 percent in the first quarter to
43,991 vehicles, the company said. The Stuttgart, Germany-based
automaker will unveil its A-Class concept model at the Shanghai
auto show, which opens to the public on April 21.  Munich-based BMW increased vehicle sales in China 71
percent to 58,506 during the same period.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi,
the biggest premium brand in China, delivered 64,122 cars, an
increase of 25 percent, according to the company.  The three German brands may beat forecasts for 2011. Audi
has said it expects sales to rise 11 percent to 280,000 in China
this year, while Mercedes projects growth of 15 percent. BMW
predicts a “double-digit” increase in 2011.  China will start curbing vehicle ownership in cities with
more than 10 million people from 2011 to 2015 to ease
congestion, China’s Economic Observer reported March 31. The
government has also passed a new law requiring vehicles with
larger engines to pay more taxes, starting next year.  ‘Aristocratic Lifestyles’  Beijing’s government said Dec. 23 it would set a monthly
quota of 20,000 new vehicle licenses in the Chinese capital.  The city’s ban on advertisements such as posters for
automakers or LVMH Moet Hennessy  Louis Vuitton  SA handbags won’t
slow growth, said Yale Zhang, managing director at AutoForesight
( Shanghai ) Co., an automotive consultant.  Beijing’s Administration for Industry and Commerce said in
a  statement  on its website in March that the ban would also
cover ads that are in “poor taste,” advocate “aristocratic
lifestyles” or contain vulgar language.  “Advertising helps competitors eat into each other’s
market share, but it doesn’t hurt the overall market demand,”
Zhang said. “Car demand depends on people’s needs and wants.”  Higher inflation and the end of subsidies for smaller
models in January are having a greater impact on the  auto
industry  as a whole than measures designed to slow sales of more
expensive vehicles, Zhang said.  Wealth Gap  “If the economy keeps growing, China will soon overtake
the U.S. as the world’s largest luxury car market,” Zhang said.  Sales of luxury items in China may more than double in five
years to 180 billion yuan in 2015 as demand increases for brands
including Louis Vuitton, Hermes and Prada, McKinsey & Co. wrote
in a March report.  Among cheaper brands, sales at Chinese automakers that
benefited the most from government subsidies are falling.
Deliveries at BYD Co., the Shenzhen-based automaker backed by
 Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., fell 28 percent
through March. Its 56,800 yuan F3 sedan was the best-selling
passenger car in China last year.  Deliveries of Geely cars climbed 14 percent in the first
quarter to 117,698, Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. said on
April 12.  General Motors, Toyota  General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest foreign automaker in China,
raised sales in the nation 10 percent in the first quarter. GM
is aiming for growth of 10 to 15 percent this year,  Kevin Wale ,
head of the Detroit-based company’s Chinese business, has said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker, sold
207,800 vehicles in the first quarter, an increase of 16
percent.  Audi, which will introduce the new Q3 compact sport-utility
vehicle at Shanghai show that runs until next week, is “very 
confident” it will maintain its market leadership in China, Dietmar
Voggenreiter, president at the carmaker’s China venture, said in
an e-mail this month. The Ingolstadt, Germany-based brand’s
early entry into the mainland and its status as the choice sedan
for government officials helped it gain the biggest share of the
local luxury-car market.  BMW will unveil a China-made plug-in hybrid version of its
5-series sedan and a new 2-door sports car at the Shanghai show,
it said.  Kobe Bryant   To maintain their sales growth in China, the German luxury-
car brands are also introducing smaller new models aimed at
luring younger buyers.  Daimler hired National Basketball Association star Kobe Bryant in February to promote its Smart brand small cars. While
the typical Mercedes buyer in China is about 40 years old, its
smaller A-, B- and C-class sedans that tend to be bought by
younger drivers accounted for more than a third of its sales
last year, the company said.  BMW introduced its smallest 1-series to the company’s
lineup in China last year, and Toyota’s Lexus marque is
targeting younger drivers with its CT200h hybrid, which it will
add in China later this year.  “The luxury portion of the China car market is steadily
growing and we’ve invested a lot in promoting the brand and
improving after sales service in the past years,” Wu Xiao,
chairman of Brilliance Automotive Holdings Ltd., BMW’s Chinese
partner, said in  Hong Kong  last month. “I expect our growth to
far exceed our competitors.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  