-- 
BRICS ‘Wary’ of IMF Rules on Capital Controls, South Africa's Davies Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-04-17T14:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/brics-wary-of-imf-rules-on-capital-controls-south-africa-s-davies-says.html
Brazil , Russia, India,  China  and
South Africa are “wary” about rules proposed by the
 International Monetary Fund  on when controls can be used to curb
short-term foreign-capital inflows, South African Trade Minister
Rob Davies said.  While the IMF has agreed that limited use of controls may
be appropriate, members of the so-called BRICS group, which met
in China last week, are concerned that any restrictions may be
to their “disadvantage,” Davies told reporters today in
Pretoria.  Interest rates close to zero in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan
have fuelled demand for high-yielding assets in emerging
markets, boosting the currencies of Brazil and South Africa,
while undermining their exports.  Brazil has imposed taxes on foreign-capital inflows to curb
the real, which strengthened 5 percent against the dollar last
year.  South Africa  has stuck to a policy of increasing foreign-
currency reserves to curb the rand, which surged 11 percent
against the dollar in the same period.  ‘Wariness’  “There was a lot of wariness within the BRIC countries on
how these rules will be structured and whether it will be
structured to the disadvantage to any of them,” Davies said.  Capital controls were also the subject of the IMF’s semi-
annual meeting in  Washington  this weekend. By keeping interest
rates low, countries such as the U.S. are providing the
“primary trigger of many of today’s economic woes,” Brazil’s
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said yesterday. He defended the
use of capital controls as legitimate “measures of self
defense.”  While South Africa hasn’t imposed taxes to curb portfolio
inflows, the government’s economic plan, called the New Growth
Path, makes provision for these kinds of measures should it
become necessary, Davies said.  “They have been mooted in the New Growth Path that the
package on the table could be added to, as and when
circumstances warranted it,” Davies said. “But we haven’t used
any of these measures at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 