-- 
Brzezinski Says Obama Gets China, Flunks on Israel: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-04-17T15:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/brzezinski-says-obama-gets-china-flunks-israel-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
Zbigniew Brzezinski is a fan of
President Barack Obama’s foreign policy, with important caveats.  He supports most of the policies of the past three months
in the turbulent Middle East, thinks the president has improved
relations with the Europeans and the Russians, and believes the
summit meeting in January between Obama and President  Hu Jintao 
of China was a success.  At the same time, he faults the administration for dragging
its feet on the Israeli-Palestinian issue. And he says while
Obama has been “eloquent and intelligent” in his
pronouncements on the unrest and clamor for democracy in the
Middle East, there needs to be a more “overarching and pointed
sense of direction coming out of the presidency.”  Brzezinski, who was national security adviser to President
Jimmy Carter more than three decades ago, is one of a handful of
octogenarian wise men with a strategic worldview; others include
former Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger , 87, and the former
prime minister of  Singapore , Lee Kuan Yew, also 87.  Brzezinski, 83, has been attacked by the right and the left
in a career that began when he led a foreign-policy advisory
team for  John F. Kennedy  in the 1960 election. When he left
government in 1981, as Americans were held hostage in Iran and
the  Soviet Union  was occupying  Afghanistan , he and the Carter
administration were seen as feckless and ineffective.  Obama Supporter  In subsequent years, his reputation has soared in foreign
policy and Democratic political circles. He provided an
important early endorsement to Obama, though objections from
pro-Israeli advocates sidetracked him from any role in the
administration.  He has praise for the current top policy makers. The Obama
team is of “really top-notch quality,” he says. Defense
Secretary Robert Gates, who worked for Brzezinski in the Carter
administration, is “superb.” Although he was very negative
about  Hillary Clinton  when she ran for the Democratic
presidential nomination, he said she has “proven to be
surprisingly good” as secretary of state.  The chatter about Gates’ departure possibly as early as
this summer, along with the retirement in October of Admiral
Michael Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and
speculation about Clinton moving on, too -- all in the midst of
foreign-policy crises -- seems “unsettling” to Brzezinski.  ‘Agonizing Process’  “I don’t understand why they’re making it into such an
agonizing process,” he says. “If somebody leaves, they leave,
and someone else gets appointed. But this kind of protracted
shuffling of chairs inevitably creates some degree of
uncertainty.”  He approves of the basic Obama policy on  Libya , though
thinks America should be more assertive in getting rid of
 Muammar Qaddafi .  “I’m glad the British and French are taking the lead, but
time is of the essence, and requires a more decisive input than
the French and British are capable of generating on their own,”
he says, adding that he “assumes we’re doing more than we’re
saying, but we should be doing even more.”  He’s cautiously optimistic on  Egypt , though he says the
unseating of  Hosni Mubarak  means that country inevitably will be
less of an automatic U.S. ally. In five years,  Iran , Brzezinski
says, will probably look “more like it is than less like it
is,” though he thinks Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is likely to be
pushed out, as even internally he’s viewed as “kind of a nut
who’s done a lot of damage.” The Iranian ayatollahs “are
losing steam, but they’re not yet totally discredited.”  Israeli-Palestinian Conflict  Whatever transpires elsewhere, without some resolution of
the Israeli-Palestinian issue, Brzezinski says, America’s
“influence almost certainly will be further diminished” in the
region. The centrality of this conflict in the Muslim world
shows up not just in polls, but also in its use as a rallying
cry for bad guys like Osama Bin Laden, he adds. “Most of his
speeches give his reason for enmity to Americans: the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict.”  He praises Obama’s memorable address in Cairo two years ago.
Though the administration “has not done anything” since then.
“We started on speeches, and then we sort of quit,” he says.  Without U.S. involvement, he believes the Israelis are
“too strong” to make concessions, and the Palestinians “too
weak.”  A critical test will occur later this year when the  United
Nations General Assembly  takes up a resolution declaring an
independent Palestinian state.  UN Vote  “We were historically correct in voting for  Israel ’s
independence in the UN in 1948. It was a courageous and proper
action,” Brzezinski says. “Are we going to vote against
Palestinian independence?” That probably is what the U.S. will
do, policy makers say.  With the prospect of declining American influence, he
expects  China  will look to play a bigger role in the Middle East.  “If there’s a vacuum, they will just move in,” Brzezinski
says. “Historically, they’ve had a lot of contacts in the
Middle East centuries ago, before America even existed.”  Without playing down tensions in the most important
bilateral relationship in the world, or China’s expansionary
designs, he gives the Obama administration high marks; he was
particularly pleased with the January summit.  “What emerged was a communiqué outlining eight major,
shared, common objectives for cooperative partnerships,” he
says, noting that the press largely ignored the substance of
this achievement.  Republican Critics  Whatever criticisms he offers of other Obama policies, he
sees a vast improvement from those of President of  George W. Bush . He’s dismissive of Republicans such as Senator  John McCain 
of  Arizona  and presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who accuse
the president of denying America’s exceptionalism.  “That is a high-school debating trick,” Brzezinski says,
“a ridiculous argument, really.”  “America is exceptional, and there is this special aura,”
says one of the foremost geopolitical experts, who came to the
U.S. at age 22. “But at the same time, America is also a state
with national interests, armies, economic investments.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 