-- 
Cameron Says Coalition Will Survive Split Over Alternative Voting System

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 
2011-04-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/cameron-says-coalition-will-survive-split-over-alternative-voting-system.html
Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  and a senior Liberal Democrat said their coalition won’t
be damaged by next month’s referendum on Britain’s voting
system, in which the parties are fighting on opposing sides.  The  Conservatives  are campaigning to retain the first-past-
the-post system for electing House of Commons lawmakers in the
May 5 plebiscite. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s  Liberal
Democrats  are urging the adoption of the Australian-style
alternative vote. They made the holding of a referendum a
condition of joining Cameron’s coalition last year.  “We agreed that we’d accept the result, whatever it is,”
Cameron told Sky News television yesterday. “This is a five-
year government. Nick and I are absolutely committed to taking
the government and its program forward.”  Former Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown told Sky “we
would get on with the job” in the event of a referendum defeat.
“We’ll be pretty disappointed and upset, of course, because we
think this is good for our country, but we’re not about to throw
our toys out of the pram for this.”  Relations between the two coalition parties have become
strained in other policy areas. In the latest clash last week,
Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable attacked a
speech Cameron made advocating further curbs on immigration,
describing the premier’s remarks as “very unwise” and saying
they “risked inflaming extremism.”  ‘Nothing Surprising’  Clegg defended Cable yesterday, saying in a BBC television
interview that “there is nothing surprising about politicians
of different parties talking about things in different language
but nonetheless working together.”  The parties also face local elections across much of
 England  on May 5, as well as voting for the Scottish Parliament
and Welsh Assembly. The Liberal Democrats are seeking to recover
ground after their support fell by half since they joined the
coalition after last year’s general election.  A poll in the Sunday Mirror and Independent on Sunday
newspapers yesterday put the “No” campaign, against the
introduction of AV, ahead by 43 percent to 37 percent.  ComRes
Ltd.  interviewed 2,003 adults online for the poll from April 13
to April 15. It didn’t give a margin of error.  “Whoever is on the losing side, as it were, will just have
to pick themselves up and say, it was a fair argument, a fair
fight, a fair referendum, the country has decided and now we’ve
got to get on with all the things that matter,” Cameron said.  Under the alternative-vote system, electors’ second and
further preferences for candidates are taken into account to
ensure lawmakers have the support of half the electorate in each
district. Under first-past-the-post, the candidate with a
plurality of votes is elected after a single count.  ‘Much More Complicated’  “We’ve got a system that’s efficient, that’s simple,
that’s fair, that works, that’s used by half the world, and we
shouldn’t swap it for a system that’s unfair and used by just a
handful of countries and that is much more complicated,”
Cameron said. The prime minister repeatedly lists  Australia ,
Fiji and  Papua New Guinea  as the only countries using AV.  Ashdown, now an upper-house lawmaker, dismissed Cameron’s
arguments.  “It was used to elect him, it was used to elect the leader
of the  Conservative Party ,” he told Sky, referring to the
balloting that chose Cameron to head the Tories in 2005. “My
question for Mr. Cameron is: if it’s good enough for you, why
isn’t it good enough for the electorate?”  ‘Scare Tactics’  In an article for the Observer newspaper yesterday, Ashdown
accused Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
of using scare tactics against AV.  “Their strategy is clear: throw as much mud as you can,
don’t let the issue be discussed openly and frighten the public
over the next three weeks into voting to preserve the power the
present first-past-the-post system gives them,” Ashdown wrote.  A study by the  Electoral Reform Society  suggested the
Liberal Democrats would have won 22 more seats and the
Conservatives 26 fewer in the 650-member House of Commons under
AV in last May’s elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 