-- 
Chernobyl, Still Leaking, Forces Ukraine to Seek $1 Billion

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-04-18T13:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/chernobyl-leak-forces-ukraine-to-seek-1-billion-after-25-years.html
Ukraine is seeking $1 billion to
seal  Chernobyl , the site of the world’s worst nuclear disaster,
and concern is mounting the accident at Fukushima in  Japan  and a
growing debt crisis may make it harder to raise the money.  Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  will host a
conference starting tomorrow in Kiev to get funding for a new
containment shelter 25 years after Chernobyl’s No. 4 reactor
exploded. European Commission President  Jose Barroso , who
arrived today, urged states to contribute as a venture involving
 France ’s  Vinci SA (DG)  and  Bouygues SA (EN)  works on the foundations.  “I am confident that those events tomorrow will bring
about the desirable results, notably to secure the necessary
funds to complete the safety work at the Chernobyl site,”
Barroso said at a press conference in the Ukrainian capital.  Japan’s battle to contain four damaged reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant has reignited the debate about
Chernobyl, whose makeshift shelter has five years left in its
lifespan and still leaks radiation. The Ukrainian government
warned aid may fall short as governments cut spending and balk
at a fund-raising effort that has been going on since 1997.  “The Fukushima disaster definitely gives a renewed sense
of urgency for fixing Chernobyl,” said  Mark Hibbs , a senior
nuclear analyst at the  Carnegie Endowment  in Berlin. “Everybody
said that Chernobyl could never happen again.”  Anniversary  The conference is part of a week of commemorations
centering on the April 26, 1986, meltdown that killed at least
31 plant workers and firefighters in three months and forced the
evacuation of a quarter of a million people. The U.S. delegation
is being led by Zbigniew Brzezinski, the former national
security adviser to President  Jimmy Carter .  The meeting, planned before the Japanese  earthquake  and
tsunami damaged the 40-year-old Fukushima plant, has been given
new significance, Yanukovych said. Japan on April 12 raised the
severity rating at the stricken Fukushima plant to seven, the
same as Chernobyl as radiation leaks continue, and Yanukovych
said that solving Chernobyl is an international responsibility.  “To overcome a tragedy of such a large scale cannot be
done by one country,” Yanukovych said today at the Kiev
briefing with Barroso. “Events in Japan showed that such
catastrophes are a challenge for all of mankind.”  He said on April 16 that the government expected to raise
enough money to build the new Chernobyl shelter.  Nuclear Debate  The outcome of the conference will be a measure of the
global willingness to improve nuclear safety and keep the
accidents in Ukraine and Japan under control, said Vince Novak,
the director of nuclear safety at the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development , which is acting as the broker
for the fund-raising effort.  “We want to send a message that we are dealing with
Chernobyl successfully and that the international community is
ready to deal with Fukushima,” said Novak.  The London-based bank, set up in 1991 to finance projects
in former communist  Europe , has  collected  990 million euros
($1.43 billion) for the new Chernobyl confinement with the
European Union and U.S. the two biggest donors.  Another 740 million euros now is needed to complete the
structure and add spent-fuel storage facilities for the four
reactors, said Ukraine Emergency Minister Viktor Baloga.  Arched Roof  The project involves a 105-meter high arched roof that,
once assembled on a field next to the damaged reactor, will be
rolled into place and sealed for 100 years. After that, workers
will be able to dismantle the old structure from inside the
protective cowl. Novarka, a joint venture of units of
engineering companies Vinci and Bouygues, has already begun work
on pouring the concrete base.  The new shelter can proceed because it won’t be completed
until 2015 and the Ukrainian government has three years to find
the remainder of the financing, Novak said.  The current concrete-and-steel cover was built in a rush as
emergency personnel scrambled to clean up deadly radioactive
debris that killed the adjacent forest and forced dozens of
villages in the area to be abandoned forever. The western wall
started collapsing, requiring Chernobyl workers to erect two
scaffolding towers in 2008 to prop the unstable structure.  Radiation levels near the reactor are currently about 300
times more than normal in the center of  Kiev , the Ukrainian
capital 150 kilometers (93 miles) away, according to the  site ’s
chief engineer, Andrii Savin.  Different Accidents  While Tokyo Electric Power Co. said the fight to stabilize
the Japanese plant will last through June, the two accidents are
not comparable, according to Denis Flory, the deputy director
general at the Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency .  “They are very different,” he said at a press conference
on April 12. Unlike Fukushima, “Chernobyl was a huge explosion
and you have a huge graphite fire for a number of days. It had
the power to move all this radiation in the atmosphere and
spread it around the world.”  The EU has donated 250 million euros to secure Chernobyl.
The European Commission will give another 110 million euros from
its budget, Barroso said today.  The U.S. is the second-biggest donor, with 182.8 million
euros, while Ukraine, which has been relying on an international
bailout since the global financial crisis, has given 45 million
euros to the fund. Baloga, the emergency minister, said April 8
that the consequences of Chernobyl cost Ukraine $12 billion
since independence in 1991.  Russia  is 11th on the current donor
list, at 15.3 million euros.  “The U.S. has been a substantial supporter of Chernobyl,”
Norman Eisen, U.S. Ambassador to the  Czech Republic  and a former
special counsel to President  Barack Obama , said in  Prague  on
April 14. “There’s always been concern” about falling short of
the target, “but folks are working very hard on this.”  To contact the reporters on this story
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at   htromm@bloomberg.net  