-- 
China Raises Reserve Ratio to Curb Inflation as Zhou Pledges More to Come

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-18T03:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/china-raises-reserve-ratio-to-curb-inflation-as-zhou-pledges-more-to-come.html
China  increased banks’ reserve
requirements to lock up cash and cool inflation, and central
bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary tightening will
continue for “some time.”  Reserve ratios will rise a half point from April 21, the
People’s Bank of China said on its  website  yesterday, pushing
the requirement to a record 20.5 percent for the biggest lenders.
The move came less than two weeks after an interest-rate
increase. Zhou sees no “absolute” limit on how high reserve
requirements can go, he said April 16.  The nation’s fifth interest-rate increase since the
financial crisis may come as soon as next month after inflation
accelerated in March to the fastest pace since 2008, Societe
Generale SA said. Chinese policy makers may also consider
allowing faster appreciation in the yuan, described by the U.S.
as “substantially” undervalued, to reduce the cost of imported
commodities such as oil.  Higher  reserve requirements  “will help tighten monetary
conditions and prevent banks from lending aggressively in the
coming month,” said Liu Li-Gang, an Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group economist in Hong Kong who formerly worked for the
 World Bank . Policy makers may also increasingly rely on the yuan
to contain “imported inflation,” Liu added.  Geithner’s Case  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent as of 11:09
a.m. local time. Non-deliverable yuan forwards were little
changed, indicating expectations for the currency to rise about
2.3 percent in the next 12 months from 6.5293 per dollar.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  says a stronger
Chinese currency would both counter inflation within the Asian
nation and aid efforts to reduce economic imbalances that
contributed to the global financial crisis.  The yuan has gained about 4.5 percent against the dollar
since June last year, when China scrapped a crisis policy of
keeping the currency unchanged against the greenback. Analysts’
median forecast is for the currency to climb to 6.3 per dollar
by year end.  Speaking in  Washington  yesterday, PBOC Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said the yuan is close to being freely usable, which would
allow it to be included in the International Monetary Fund’s
Special Drawing Rights basket. He said April 15 that a gradual
appreciation of the currency would help his country overcome
inflation.  Extra Liquidity  The IMF should consider adding the currencies of  Brazil ,
 Russia ,  India , China and  South Africa  into its SDR basket, which
is a synthetic currency based on the dollar, euro, yen and pound,
Yi told reporters. Group of 20 officials said after an April 15
meeting that they would study broadening the composition of the
SDR and also currency misalignments.  A jump in the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves to $3
trillion in March highlighted an excess of cash in the economy.
Extra liquidity from central bank bills maturing this month may
have encouraged the fourth increase in reserve requirements this
year. The move may drain 350 billion yuan ($54 billion) from the
financial system, Bank of America Merrill Lynch says.  Shanghai’s stock index has climbed about 9 percent this
year, compared with a 1.1 percent decline in the MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Index, as investors bet that the government can tame
prices without choking off the fastest growth of any major
economy. In the first quarter, gross domestic product expanded a
more-than-estimated 9.7 percent from a year earlier, a report
showed last week.  ‘Prudent’ Policy  “Our monetary policy will continue to move from moderately
loose to prudent,” Zhou said at a briefing in the southern
Chinese province of  Hainan , where he attended the Boao Forum for
Asia. “The trend will continue for some time.” He said that
the government will “remove the monetary factors that are
related to inflation,” echoing comments made by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  The People’s Bank of China will raise  interest rates  twice
more in the next 12 months, according to the cost to fix
borrowing costs in the swap market. The most recent rate
increase, effective April 6, took key one-year borrowing costs
to 6.31 percent and the deposit rate to 3.25 percent.  While higher rates can attract “hot money,” or
speculative capital, the size of the Chinese economy means that
such inflows are not always a problem, according to Zhou.  Overheating Pressures  The pace of China’s tightening highlights the divide with
developed economies still struggling with sovereign-debt woes
and elevated unemployment. The  European Central Bank  raised
rates this month for the first time since the financial crisis,
while  Japan  and the U.S. both have their benchmarks near zero.  The IMF said last week that Asian economies risk boom-bust
cycles if officials fail to tighten quickly enough to curb
“nascent overheating pressures.”  In China, inflation accelerated to a 5.4 percent annual
pace in March, largely driven by food costs, a statistics bureau
report showed three days ago.  The gain in consumer prices is “definitely” a problem,
China International Capital Corp. Chief Executive Officer Levin Zhu told reporters at the Boao Forum. “Money supply and
inflation problems are quite worrying. The government can weaken
inflation by controlling money supply.”  Officials are grappling with the aftermath of a record
17.5 trillion yuan of lending over 2009 and 2010 that drove up
property prices, leading to official concern at the risk of
social discontent.  Top Priority  Taming inflation is the government’s top and “urgent”
priority, China’s cabinet said after meeting in Beijing to
review the performance of the world’s second-biggest economy
ahead of the release of the quarterly GDP numbers.  Wen aims to hold consumer-price gains at 4 percent for the
full year. While rising commodity costs are adding to price
pressures, tightening measures and comparisons with higher year-
earlier bases are likely to slow price gains in the second half
of the year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Beijing did not take long to respond to the strong
inflation number on Friday,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . The
move “suggests that another increase in interest rates is on
the way soon.” He predicts two more rate moves this year,
calling Zhou’s tone “hawkish.”  Tao Dong, a Hong Kong-based economist for Credit Suisse
Group AG, said yesterday that he had doubts about how much
further the central bank could raise the reserve ratio.  --Zheng Lifei, William Bi, Eva Woo, Feifei Shen, Belinda Cao,
Winnie Zhu and Jin Jing. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Andrew Blackman.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  