-- 
China Raises Bank Reserve Ratio for Fourth Time in 2011 to Curb Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-17T09:28:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/china-raises-bank-reserve-ratio-for-fourth-time-in-2011-to-curb-inflation.html
China  raised banks’  reserve
requirements  to lock up cash and limit inflation after
economic growth exceeded forecasts and consumer prices rose
by the most since 2008.  Reserve ratios will increase a half point from April 21,
the People’s Bank of China said on its  website  today. The
move, taking the requirement to 20.5 percent for the nation’s
biggest lenders, came less than two weeks after the central
bank boosted benchmark  interest rates .  “Tightening will continue until there are signs that
inflation has been effectively brought under control,” Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd., said before today’s announcement.  A surge in foreign-exchange reserves to $3 trillion last
month and rebounding lending and money-supply growth have
highlighted overheating risks in the fastest-growing major
economy. Gross domestic product rose 9.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and inflation accelerated to 5.4
percent, the most since July 2008, the statistics bureau said
April 15.  Inflation has exceeded the government’s 2011 target of 4
percent each month so far this year. The increase in reserve
requirements was the fourth this year.  ‘Great Pressure’  China is under “great pressure” from price increases,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said April 9. The government will remove
monetary causes of inflation, he said, indicating the tools
will include reserve requirements, interest rates, the
 exchange rate , and bill sales to soak up cash.  Increasing the ratio reduces the amount of money banks
have available to lend by forcing them to keep more of their
deposits at the central bank.  New lending rebounded to 679 billion yuan ($104 billion)
in March and money-supply growth accelerated, central bank
data showed. Extra liquidity from maturing bills may also
have encouraged officials to move today.  “China is by no means near the end of the current
tightening cycle,” Dong Tao, a Hong Kong-based economist
with Credit Suisse Group AG, said before today’s announcement.  A stronger yuan could help to ease inflation pressures
by countering higher prices for imports.  --Zheng Lifei, Sophie Leung, Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  