-- 
China Tells Banks to Boost Reserves as Prices Surge

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-17T11:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/china-orders-banks-to-set-aside-more-cash-as-prices-surge-1-.html
China  increased banks’ reserve
requirements to lock up cash and limit inflation after
economic growth exceeded forecasts and consumer prices rose
by the most since 2008.  Reserve ratios will rise a half point from April 21, the
People’s Bank of China said in a one-sentence statement on
its  website  today. The move, taking the requirement to 20.5
percent for the nation’s biggest lenders, came less than two
weeks after the central bank boosted benchmark  interest rates .  Inflation accelerated to 5.4 percent in March and gross
domestic product expanded 9.7 percent in the first quarter, a
statistics bureau report showed two days ago. Central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said yesterday that monetary
tightening will continue for “some time” and he sees no
“absolute” limit on how high  reserve requirements  can go.  “Beijing did not take long to respond to the strong
inflation number on Friday,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong .
“Today’s move suggests that another increase in interest
rates is on the way soon.” He predicts two more rate moves
this year, calling Zhou’s tone “hawkish.”  Extra liquidity from central bank bills maturing this
month may have encouraged the fourth increase in reserve
requirements this year. Today’s move may drain about 350
billion yuan ($54 billion) from the financial system,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  ‘Overheating Pressures’  Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to cool inflation without
choking off growth in the world's second-biggest economy.
The  International Monetary Fund  says Asian economies risk
boom-bust cycles if officials fail to tighten quickly enough
to curb “nascent overheating pressures.”  China is grappling with the aftermath of a record 17.5
trillion yuan of lending over 2009 and 2010 that drove up
property prices, leading to official concern at the risk of
social discontent. Taming inflation is the government’s top
and “urgent” priority, China’s cabinet said after meeting in
Beijing to review the performance of the world’s second-
biggest economy ahead of the release of gross domestic
product numbers.  Wen aims to hold inflation at 4 percent for the full
year. While rising commodity costs are adding to price
pressures, tightening measures and comparisons with higher
year-earlier bases are likely to slow price gains in the
second half of the year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘Prudent’ Policy  “Our monetary policy will continue to move from
moderately loose to prudent,” Zhou said at a briefing in the
southern Chinese province of  Hainan , where he attended the
Boao Forum for Asia. He said that the government will
“remove the monetary factors that are related to
inflation,” echoing comments made by Wen.  Tao Dong, a Hong Kong-based economist for Credit Suisse
Group AG, said today that he had doubts about how much
further the central bank could raise the reserve ratio.  U.S. officials may hope that China instead increasingly
relies on currency appreciation. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  calls the yuan “substantially undervalued” and
says that a stronger currency would both counter inflation
pressures in China and aid efforts to reduce global economic
imbalances.  Currency Gains  The yuan has gained about 4.5 percent against the dollar
since June last year, when China scrapped a crisis policy of
keeping the currency unchanged against the greenback. The
yuan closed at 6.5325 per dollar in  Shanghai  on April 15.  Inflation is “definitely” a problem, China International
Capital Corp. Chief Executive Officer Levin Zhu told
reporters at the Boao Forum. “Money supply and inflation
problems are quite worrying. The government can weaken
inflation by controlling money supply.”  The most recent rate increase, effective April 6, took
key one-year borrowing costs to 6.31 percent and the deposit
rate to 3.25 percent. While higher rates can attract “hot
money,” or speculative capital, the size of the Chinese
economy means that such inflows are not always a problem,
according to Zhou.  China’s four interest-rate increases since the global
financial crisis compare with the  European Central Bank 
moving for the first time this month. Benchmark rates remain
near zero in the U.S. and  Japan , highlighting  Asia ’s role in
leading the economic recovery.  A surge in foreign-exchange reserves to $3 trillion last
month and rebounding lending and money-supply growth
highlighted overheating risks. At the same time, government
controls have pulled credit growth back from the record
levels of 2009.  --Zheng Lifei, William Bi, Eva Woo, Feifei Shen, Winnie Zhu,
and Jin Jing. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  Richard Dobson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  