-- 
German Stocks Fall; Deutsche Bank, Allianz, ThyssenKrupp Drop

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-18T16:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/deutsche-telekom-rwe-and-siemens-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks dropped as  Standard &
Poor’s  Ratings Services revised its outlook for the long-term
sovereign credit rating of the U.S. to negative from stable and
concern mounted that Greece needs to restructure its debt.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Commerzbank AG followed European
banking shares lower, while  Allianz SE (ALV)  dropped the most in
almost a year.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  retreated as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded both steelmakers.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 2.1 percent to 7,026.85 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, the biggest decline in a month.
The measure lost 0.5 percent last week as  Japan  said its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant may release more
radiation than Chernobyl,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  began the U.S. earnings
season with sales that missed analysts’ estimates and concern
returned that  Europe ’s weakest economies may have to reschedule
their debt repayments. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  slipped 2.1
percent today.  “I expect a breather in the second half of April, with the
DAX falling to 6,960 points,” said Ansgar Krekeler, a
Dusseldorf-based sales analyst at WGZ Bank AG. “The risk of
contagion of the sovereign-debt crisis is a question that must
be raised again if restructuring issues are confirmed and keep
affecting credit spreads.”  Greece’s Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said the
country has no plans for debt restructuring even as German
officials openly discussed the possibility and investors charged
a record amount to insure the country’s obligations.  The Wall Street Journal cited three unidentified people
familiar with the situation as saying that the  International
Monetary Fund  regards  Greece ’s debt as unsustainable and that
the country’s government should consider a restructuring as
early as next year. Greek two- and 10-year  government bonds 
slumped, driving yields to the highest since before the
introduction of the euro.  U.S. Rating Outlook  German stocks extended declines after Standard & Poor’s
said that more than two years after the beginning of the recent
crisis, U.S. policy makers have yet to agree on a strategy to
reverse recent fiscal deterioration or address longer-term
fiscal pressures.  European Central Bank Governing Council members signaled
that they will further tighten monetary policy this year as the
euro area’s economy strengthens and inflation accelerates at its
fastest pace since 2008.  Investor expectations of an increase in the benchmark
interest rate by another 50 basis points in 2011 are “well-
founded,” Austria’s Ewald Nowotny told Bloomberg News in
 Washington  on April 16. Luc Coene of  Belgium  said in an
interview on the same day that monetary “conditions are too
accommodative.”  Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank  Deutsche Bank fell 2.6 percent to 40 euros.  Germany ’s
biggest bank ended exclusive talks with Liechtenstein’s LGT
Group to sell BHF-Bank AG and said it won’t pursue a divestiture
of the unit.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, slid 5.1
percent to 4.19 euros, its lowest price in two years. The bank’s
mandatory exchangeable notes fell on their first day of trading
on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange today. Banks posted one of the
worst performances of the 19 industry groups in the benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, sliding 2.2 percent.  Allianz, Europe’s biggest insurer, tumbled 4.8 percent to
98.37 euros as insurance companies performed worse than any
other industry.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, sank
2.3 percent to 112.55 euros.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, plunged 3.9
percent to 28.55 euros, its lowest price this month, as Goldman
Sachs cut its recommendation on the stock to “neutral” from
“buy.” Salzgitter, the country’s second-biggest steelmaker,
slumped 5.1 percent to 50.80 euros after Goldman Sachs
downgraded the shares to “sell” from “neutral,” its eighth
day of declines for the longest falling streak in eight months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  