-- 
Dubai Stocks Offer Value as Index in Bull Market, Templeton's Mobius Says

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-18T10:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/dubai-stocks-offer-value-as-index-in-bull-market-templeton-s-mobius-says.html
Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s
 Mark Mobius  said Dubai banking, property and services shares
offer buying opportunities as the emirate’s benchmark index
enters a  bull market , after rebounding more than 20 percent from
a six-year low.  The Dubai Financial Market General Index rose 1.6 percent
yesterday to close at 1,648.44, bringing the surge from the low
on March 3 to 22 percent. That surpassed a 20 percent threshold
some investors consider the beginning of a bull market. The
gauge, up 0.3 percent at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai, is still 6.9
percent below its year-ago level, leaving it valued at about 0.7
times net assets, or book value, while the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index is valued at 2 times net assets.  “It’s possible that we are entering another up phase,”
Mobius, who said he oversees about $54 billion, told a
roundtable meeting in Dubai yesterday. “In some ways Dubai and
 Abu Dhabi  could be the beneficiary of what’s happening in the
rest of the region.”  Dubai’s benchmark index tumbled as much as 17 percent in
the first quarter as uprisings in the Middle East and North
Africa ousted leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  and reached countries
including Bahrain and Oman in the  Persian Gulf . Since then, the
emirate and neighboring oil-rich Abu Dhabi have emerged as the
closest thing to a safe haven in the region. Their benchmark
stock measures have also gained on optimism they will secure an
upgrade to emerging market status at index provider MSCI Inc.
Abu Dhabi’s gauge has gained 3.9 percent this month.  ‘Stable’ Situation  Crude oil has surged 19 percent so far this year to $108.61
a barrel amid an armed conflict in  Libya . Families from the
conflict areas are moving to the more politically stable Dubai,
attracted by its liberal lifestyle, schools and housing, now
cheaper after the credit crisis cut prices by more than half.  Shares are rising “thanks to the emirate’s stable
political situation relative to some other places in the
region,” said  Paul Cooper , Dubai-based managing director at
Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd., which oversees more than $500
million in the Middle East.  Confidence in Dubai is also improving as government-related
companies complete debt restructuring and economic growth
accelerates. Dubai World, the state-owned holding company,
signed a final accord last month altering the terms on about $25
billion of debt and easing concern the emirate may default. The
yield on Dubai’s 6.7 percent five-year bond due October 2015
dropped to an all time low of 5.65 percent on April 13. The rate
retreated 90 basis points, or 0.9 percentage point, since the
agreement was signed March 23 to 5.71 percent.  DP World, Emaar  Moody’s Investors Service raised the rating on  DP World
Ltd. (DPW) , the Dubai government-controlled ports operator, to
investment grade on April 11. The shares have climbed 11 percent
this month.  Mobius said yesterday he owns shares of DP World and the
Middle East’s largest courier company,  Aramex Co. (ARMX)  He is
“hanging on” to shares of  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder
of the world’s tallest tower.  Emaar closed unchanged today at 3.43 dirhams, or 33 percent
below the company’s reported book value of 5.10 dirhams a share,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Emirates NBD, the country’s
biggest bank by assets, may report an 89 percent surge in first-
quarter profit to 2.1 billion dirhams ($572 million), according
to an EFG-Hermes Holding SAE estimate on Bloomberg.  Shoes to Drop  “All the bad news about Dubai is now really old news; the
real-estate market cracked in late 2008, the debt problems hit
the headline in 2009, and at present there don’t appear to be
any shoes left to drop,” according to Ibrahim Masood, who helps
manage about $400 million at Mashreqbank PSC.  House prices  in the U.A.E. may drop an additional 25
percent to 30 percent as population growth stagnates and more
properties are put onto the market, Dubai investment bank
Rasmala said in a report last month. Dubai home price slumped 62
percent from their peak in mid-2008 after the global credit
crisis caused mortgage lending to dry up and speculative demand
waned, Deutsche Bank AG said on Feb. 14.  “While we think banks will likely see good earnings growth
this year due to declining bad debt provisions, the real estate
sector is still saddled with oversupply which isn’t likely to be
resolved in the short term,” said Yong Wei Lee, who helps
oversee about $1.2 billion as a senior  fund manager  at Emirates
NBD Asset Management in Dubai. Clarity that the sector is
recovering is necessary for a sustained rally, Lee said.  MSCI Upgrade  The U.A.E. is seeking to secure an upgrade from frontier
markets status at MSCI, which will revalue its assessment in
June, according to its website. The U.A.E.’s market regulator
last week said it will implement a so-called delivery- versus-
payment system, an MSCI requirement for emerging market status,
on April 28.  U.A.E. stocks may attract $1.5 billion of funds if the
nation secures the upgrade, according to Sebastien Henin, who
helps oversee $110 million at The National Investor in Abu
Dhabi. “We could have more hot money coming in the market in
the coming weeks in anticipation of the inclusions, and even
more after, if the U.A.E. is included.”  MSCI indexes are tracked by investors with an estimated
$5.2 trillion in assets, according to a May report by Shinhan
Investment Corp. Though the U.A.E. and Qatar have good chances
of getting an MSCI Inc. upgrade, it won’t have a big impact,
Mobius said yesterday.  “The impact of moving from a frontier to emerging market
is not going to be that great frankly,” he said. “The
weighting of these countries will be relatively small so in some
ways it’s better for them to be in the frontier category.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  