-- 
Dubai DFM Index Rises 22% From March Low, Enters Bull Market, Led By Emaar

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-17T14:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/dubai-dfm-index-rises-21-from-march-low-enters-bull-market-led-by-emaar.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index rose
to the highest since January, entering a so-called bull market,
as investors bet first-quarter earnings will beat estimates. In
North Africa,  Egypt ’s shares fell the most this month.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, increased 2.1 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  rose
for a fourth day. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 1.6 percent to
1,648.44, the highest since Jan. 10, at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai. The measure has gained 22 percent from a low of 1,352.24
on March 3, surpassing the 20 percent threshold some consider
the beginning of a bull market. Egypt’s EGX 30 fell 3.4 percent
in Cairo after a claim filed with the public prosecutor alleged
Citadel Capital SAE bought a cement maker from the government at
a low price, a charge the company denies.  “Investors are more optimistic about corporate earnings in
the first quarter,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-
based Al Fajer Securities. “The market sentiment turned
positive after the announcement that United Arab Emirates
exchanges will begin implementing delivery-versus-payment on
April 28, raising probabilities that the U.A.E. will be upgraded
to the MSCI Inc. emerging market index.”  Dubai Islamic, the biggest lender complying with Shariah
banking rules in the U.A.E. with the second-heaviest weighting
on Dubai’s index, may report a 55 percent increase in first-
quarter net income to 310 million dirhams ($84 million),
according to an EFG-Hermes Holding SAE analyst estimate on
Bloomberg. The shares gained 1.4 percent to 2.21 dirhams, the
highest since April 6.  MSCI Upgrade        Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, may
report an 89 percent surge in first-quarter profit to 2.1
billion dirhams, an estimate from EFG-Hermes shows, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares fell 1.4 percent today to
3.65 dirhams. Emaar shares rose to 3.43 dirhams, the highest
since Jan. 24.  Dubai’s index declined 4.6 percent in the first quarter
after uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa that ousted
Egypt and Tunisia’s leaders reached the Persian Gulf states of
 Oman ,  Saudi Arabia  and Bahrain. The gauge has advanced 5.9
percent this month on investor optimism Dubai’s market will be
raised at index provider MSCI.  The U.A.E. and Qatar are seeking to secure an upgrade from
frontier markets status at MSCI, which will revalue its
assessment in June, according to its website. The so-called DvP
system, an MSCI requirement for emerging market status, will
start later this month in the U.A.E. after Qatar introduced the
system last week.  Oil Rises  Oil for May delivery climbed 1.4 percent to $109.66 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on April 15. The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including the U.A.E.
and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.7 percent and Oman’s
 MSM30 Index (MSM30)  increased 0.2 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
retreated 0.6 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  dropped
0.7 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  fell 0.6 percent and Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slipped 1.1 percent.  Egypt’s benchmark index fell the most since March 24 to
5,118.31. Citadel Capital, an Egyptian private equity firm,
closed at the lowest on record, losing 9.8 percent to 4.69
Egyptian pounds. The government banned Citadel’s Chairman Ahmed Heikal from travel pending an investigation, said Adel El Saeed,
a spokesman for the public prosecutor’s office.  “Investors don’t know how many more businessmen will be
arrested,” said Tamer Nigm, head of sales and trading at Cairo-
based Watheeqa Securities Brokerage.” Uncertainty is the key.
It’s not only a political risk, the business risk has also
become enormous.”  Kuwait ’s measure dropped 0.7 percent, the most since March
16, led by phone operator Mobile Telecommunications Co. Nasser al Kharafi, chairman of Kuwait’s Kharafi Group, died of a heart
attack in Cairo yesterday, Al-Rai reported. The Kharafi Group is
the second-largest shareholder in the company known as Zain.  In  Israel , the TA-25 Index increased 0.6 percent in Tel
Aviv. The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due
January 2020 was unchanged at 5.26 percent.  Delivery versus payment is a securities industry procedure
in which payment for a security must be made when the security
is delivered. Usually, the payment is made to a bank, which in
turn pays for the security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  