-- 
Team Sarkozy Strategizes Over 3-Star Feasts: A. Craig Copetas

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-04-17T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/team-sarkozy-strategizes-over-3-star-feasts-a-craig-copetas.html
Finally, a restaurant where
people understand the political importance of a whipped veal-
tongue lollipop dipped in seaweed butter.  Call it campaign cuisine. That’s the amuse-bouche chef
Eric Frechon serves up on a stick to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and guests in the dining room at  Hotel Le Bristol
Paris , owned by closely held  Dr. August Oetker KG  of
Bielefeld,  Germany . In 2008, at a ceremony at the Elysee, the
president awarded Frechon the title of Chevalier de la Legion
d’Honneur after he won a third Michelin star.  The Bristol is a restaurant Sarkozy often frequents and
is nutritional headquarters in his battle to remain in the
nearby Elysee Palace after the April 2012 presidential
elections. The menu of 95 euro ($137) lobsters and 80 euro
codfish as well as the Yorkshire terrier in a Hermes jacket
barking under a table have a gastropolitical story to tell.  “It’s all about French power and money,” says Hall
Gardner, chairman of the  American University of Paris 
Department of International and Comparative Politics. “This
is certainly the best 95 euro cup of asparagus with black
truffle dust that I’ve ever tasted and it’s designed for
Sarkozy to send a message.”  Gardner pauses to glance at a series of 35 euro desserts
that involve Nigerian chocolate, Madagascar vanilla and a
Vietnamese pineapple souffle. “An interesting foreign policy,
but look at the prices,” says the 50-year-old political
analyst, who also has tasted the vittles on offer at the
French Senate and the House of Lords in  London . “This place
will likely outrage economically strapped French voters in
2012. You know, let them eat cake.”  Chocolate Cake  For Sarkozy, a waiter whispers, that would be a half-
baked chocolate cake, the president’s preferred dessert in
this luxury hotel with carved oak walls, crystal cups filled
with fresh rose buds and the only known poison-gas fallout
shelter in Paris. Says an editorial in the French magazine
L’Express: “It’s under the chandeliers of the Bristol dining
room where Sarkozy’s enemies polish their weapons and perfect
their treachery.”  The intrigue Sarkozy now brings to the table began in
1715, when members of the doomed French royal family emigrated
from Versailles, drained the swamps along the Faubourg Saint-
Honore and started to erect stately homes. Then the richest
man in  France , Nicolas Beaujon, in 1773 acquired the Elysee
Palace. French revolutionaries turned part of it into a rough-
and-tumble casino.  In 1829, Jules de Castellane bought a vacant lot across
the street and built the Hotel Vogue. Roaring Twenties
developer Hippolyte Jammet rechristened the hotel Bristol and
invited Coco Chanel, Josephine Baker and  Pablo Picasso  over to
help launch the legend.  Rita and Charlie  The plot thickened along with the sauces in 1940. Nazi
occupation forces balked at requisitioning the Bristol and it
became the official residence for Americans in Paris. War-
time guest Anne Morgan, daughter of financier J.P. Morgan,
engineered the posh prison’s underground railroad to smuggle
Jews out of Paris. Rita Hayworth and  Charlie Chaplin  showed up
in the 1950s.  Sarkozy’s earliest recorded visits to the Bristol’s oval
dining room were during his first tenure as interior minister
in 2002-2004. Over a lunch that the staff declines to reveal,
Sarkozy and his “premier circle of advisers” began laying
the groundwork for his successful 2007 presidential campaign.  Team Sarkozy has since made the 15-second stroll from the
Elysee Palace with his songstress wife Carla Bruni, U.K. Prime
Minister  Tony Blair , Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar
and the recently deposed Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  Elite Dining  “The Bristol’s history is all about political intrigue
and fantastic food and wine,” Gardner says. “Sarkozy must
eat here because he needs to be seen rubbing shoulders with
the French elite. He’s the only modern French president not to
graduate from an exclusive Grande Ecole and that’s left him
with a huge chip on his shoulder.”  There’s no guest book to sign in the Bristol dining room.
Anonymity, along with a 14-vintage selection of  Chateau
Margaux  that ranges from 700 euros to 3,600 euros a bottle,
ensures the restaurant’s standing as the ultimate in Paris
power lunching.  “The Bristol is a calculated political decision on
Sarkozy’s part,” Gardner says over a reasonably priced 160
euro bottle of 2004 Meursault “En la Barre” Domaine Jobard.
“How a politician picks his favorite restaurant depends on
what exposure they want publicly. The Bristol is a no bling-
bling theater of wealth and influence. Sarkozy uses this as a
stage to create and transmit his public image.”  Gardner has his own way of pinpointing exactly how
Sarkozy became the restaurant’s leading character. He reckons
the president’s false reading of French realpolitik forced him
to re-embrace the Bristol after celebrating his May 6, 2007,
election victory at  Le Fouquet’s , a glitzy restaurant on the
Champs-Elysees popular among luxury tourists, French
rock’n’roll stars and bejeweled Arab potentates.  Le Bling-Bling  “Sarkozy walked into Fouquet’s that evening as the
President of the Republic and he walked out tagged President
Bling-Bling,” Gardner says. “Sarkozy celebrated with the
wrong elite and showed himself to the public as a wannabe.”  Lumbered with the moniker Bling-Bling, Sarkozy rushed
back to the Bristol for a costume change. Although the hotel’s
dining room was originally a theater, Gardner says it was too
late for Sarkozy to recast his role in the political drama.  “The French have historically accepted their presidents
as members of the elite class,” says Gardner. “Sarkozy
flopped because he wanted to create a JFK-Marilyn Monroe style
administration at Fouquet’s. French voters didn’t like that,
and he’s stuck with it.”  As the 2012 election campaign approaches, Gardner says
Sarkozy’s dining habits won’t fare well with a public now
annoyed with the French elite. “Lunching at the Bristol will
come back to haunt him,” is Gardner’s prediction.  Free Luxury  Sarkozy says he likes the Bristol’s dining room because
it’s centrally located, according to French press reports.
The French president has yet to tell anyone why he prefers
lunches that hover around 300 euros a person when he can eat
for free at the Elysee Palace.  The palace boasts probably the world’s finest government-
run kitchen, where a recent taxpayer-funded meal by chef
Bernard Vaussion included ravioles d’ecrevisses; bouillon
corse a la coriandre, tournedos de veau picque a la carotte
fondante; fricassee de betterave rouge and pears dipped in
chestnut cream.  “How much Sarkozy spends on lunch is a clear reflection
of his political values,” Gardner says over an 85 euro plate
of pinky-sized macaroni plugged with mushed-up artichokes,
black truffles and foie gras. “The Bristol dining room is his
vision of the society he has been elected to manage.”  Still, teetotaler Sarkozy does save money on wine when
dining at the Bristol. The 1996 Romanee-Conti is 12,000 euros
a bottle. The sommelier will uncork the preferred 1990 vintage
for 13,800 euros. Pay no attention to the wine critics: Both
vintages of  Domaine de la Romanee-Conti ’s Grand Cru red
Burgundy go well with crawdaddys wrapped in a filet of sole.  “American politicians have more populist food tastes,”
Gardner says. “It doesn’t work that way in France. Obama
likes to take visitors to his favorite burger-and-chili place
in  Washington . The Bristol is Sarkozy’s version. Obama wants
to show what Americans are all about. Sarkozy wants to show
what the best of France is about and that he’s a part of it.”  Information: Le Bristol, 112 Rue du Faubourg Saint-
Honore, 75008 Paris. See  http://www.lebristolparis.com  or call
+33-1-5343-4300.  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 