-- 
Earthquake Rocks Queensland, Aftershock Hits N.Z.’s Christchurch

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-17T01:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/earthquake-rocks-queensland-aftershock-hits-n-z-s-christchurch.html
Australia ’s Queensland state, hit
by floods and a cyclone in recent months, was struck by a
magnitude 5.2 earthquake as an aftershock rattled Christchurch
in  New Zealand , the scene of two temblors since September.  The quake in Queensland, Australia’s biggest coal exporting
region, was the strongest since 1935, according to the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. It struck about 10 kilometers (6.2
miles) deep and had its epicenter near the town of Bowen, about
960 kilometers northwest of the state’s capital, Brisbane,
according to  Geoscience  Australia’s website.  There were no police reports of any damage after the
temblor struck yesterday at 3:31 p.m. local time.  New Zealand’s southern city of Christchurch, hit by a 6.3
magnitude temblor on Feb. 22 that killed at least 170 people,
endured a 5.2-magnitude aftershock yesterday. The city suffered
a magnitude-7 earthquake in September.  Yesterday’s aftershock occurred at 5:49 p.m. local time
about 16 kilometers southeast from the city at a depth of 4.4
kilometers, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said on its  website .  Power was temporarily knocked out to about 20,000 homes
across the city, electricity supplier Orion New Zealand Ltd.
said on its website.  The Christchurch quake that wrecked homes, roads and
central-city offices, is contributing to New Zealand facing a
record budget deficit because of costs associated with the
clean-up as well as slow growth. The government estimates it
cost NZ$8.5 billion ($6.8 billion).  Disaster Costs  Flooding and cyclones in Australia’s northeastern state
will cost an estimated A$9 billion ($9.5 billion), Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said earlier this month.  Queensland’s Bowen Basin is the world’s biggest exporting
region of black coal and is home to operations owned by  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar- and
banana-producing areas, following two months of flooding in
Queensland that killed 36 people, shut mines and wiped out
crops. The state produces 80 percent of the coking coal exports
from Australia and grows more than 30 percent of the nation’s
fruit and vegetables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  