-- 
ECB Officials Signal More Rate Increases This Year as Economy Strengthens

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-18T06:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/ecb-officials-signal-further-interest-rate-increases-this-year.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council members signaled they will keep tightening monetary
policy this year to curb inflation as the economy strengthens.  Investor expectations that the benchmark interest rate will
be increased by another 50 basis points in 2011 are “well-
founded,” Austria’s Ewald Nowotny told Bloomberg News in
Washington on April 16. Luc Coene of  Belgium  said in an
interview yesterday that monetary “conditions are too
accommodative.”  The suggestion that the ECB will soon raise its key rate
again was echoed by other policy makers at the weekend meeting
of the  International Monetary Fund , even after President Jean- Claude Trichet said this month’s quarter-point boost to 1.25
percent wasn’t necessarily the start of a series. Higher euro-
area borrowing costs at a time when the U.S. Federal Reserve is
signaling no imminent move in its near-zero policy rate may
support the euro after it fell last week on concern Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis isn’t over.  “Apparently there’s consensus in the Governing Council to
push interest rates higher,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-
area economist at Citigroup Inc. by telephone from  London .
“It’s not only about containing inflation but also to underline
the bank’s credibility.”  Balancing Needs  The euro, which has climbed 7 percent against the dollar
this year, eased to $1.4373 at 9 a.m. in  Frankfurt  from as high
as $1.4482 overnight.  The ECB is balancing the need for tighter policy in
countries like Germany, whose economy is booming, against the
risk that it could exacerbate the debt crisis afflicting Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal . This month’s rate shift from a record low
was the first increase since July 2008 and came as data showed
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in March, the fastest since
October 2008 and breaching the bank’s 2 percent limit for a
fourth month.  “We see a significant increase in inflationary pressure,”
 Axel Weber  of  Germany  said as he attended his final IMF talks
before stepping down this month as Bundesbank president. Current
policy is “supportive of the economy and expansive.”  Traders expect the ECB to raise its rate to 1.75 percent by
the end of the year, Eonia forward contracts show. Economists
project the same result, according to the median of 24 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey this month.  Revise Inflation Forecast  “It’s obvious that we have to take price movements very
seriously,” Nowotny said. The central bank “will of course”
revise its inflation forecast after estimating in March that it
would average about 2.3 percent this year, he said.  “It’s not clear” whether the current price trend “is
temporary as we might wish it to be,”  Athanasios Orphanides  of
Cyprus said in an April 14 interview with Bloomberg Radio’s  Tom Keene  in  New York . “We cannot ignore what’s happening to food
and energy prices going forward.”  The IMF last week increased its growth prediction for the
euro region to 1.6 percent in 2011 and 1.8 percent in 2012.
Euro-area exports rose 1.6 percent in February from the previous
month and German factory orders jumped almost five times as much
as economists forecast, indicating  Europe ’s largest economy
remains robust after its strongest expansion in two decades last
year.  “Economic growth is now self-sustained and risks are
balanced,” Trichet said April 15 in Washington. Luxembourg’s
Yves Mersch said in an interview yesterday that “the growth
dynamic is carrying on and is firming” and that policy remains
“very accommodative.”  Liquidity Support  Investors may also face a further withdrawal of the
emergency liquidity support that was introduced during the
financial crisis and maintained when Europe’s debt strains
threatened to break the euro a year ago. The ECB this month kept
its programs to provide unlimited liquidity to banks and
purchase the bonds of debt-strapped governments.  “It’s quite obvious that both our interest-rate regime and
our liquidity regime have been in crisis mode for quite a long
period of time,” Nowotny said. For the euro region as a whole,
“we’re not any longer in a crisis situation” and “this
development will be reflected in the ECB’s policy.”  At the same time,  Greece ’s government is struggling to
convince investors that it won’t have to renege on its debts
after receiving a 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout last
year from the European Union and the IMF.  Greek Yields  Yields on Greece’s 10-year bonds surged to a euro-era
record last week and the euro fell from a 15-month high versus
the dollar on concern that the country may default.  Nowtony said he sees “no need” for a restructuring of
Greek debt and echoed his colleagues in expressing confidence
that the crisis won’t spread to a fourth nation after Portugal
and Ireland also sought assistance.  “It is very likely” that Portugal will be the last
country to require help, ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
said in an interview on April 15. “That’s what we hope markets
will appreciate, that Europe has created the mechanisms to deal
with the problem and that some more vulnerable situations were
dealt with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Washington  at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  