-- 
Nowotny Says Investor Rate Expectations for ECB ‘Well Founded’

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-04-17T16:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/ecb-interest-rate-increase-expectations-are-well-founded-nowotny-says.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Ewald Nowotny  endorsed investors’ expectations of
a further tightening of monetary policy this year after
inflation climbed to its highest since 2008.  “The expectation is well founded,” Nowotny said in an
interview in Washington yesterday when asked about forecasts
that the ECB will raise its benchmark interest rate another 0.50
percentage point this year. “I don’t want to comment on
specific numbers, but the tendency is well understood. The exact
timing is a matter to be decided according to the economic
situation.”  Nowotny’s comments indicate the Frankfurt-based ECB will
add to this month’s quarter-point increase even after President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said it wasn’t necessarily the start of a
series. Higher euro-area rates may help extend the euro’s 8
percent gain against the dollar this year as the U.S. Federal
Reserve signals no imminent plan to raise its key rate from
close to zero.  “It’s obvious that we have to take price movements very
seriously,” Nowotny said. “We will of course have a revision
of our forecast” on inflation, he said.  Rate Expectations  The ECB raised its main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent on
April 7 to quell accelerating cost pressures, ending almost two
years at a record low of 1 percent. Traders expect the ECB to
raise the rate to 1.75 percent by the end of the year, Eonia
forward contracts show. Economists are projecting the same
result, based on the median forecast of 24 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey this month.  “Nowotny is certainly right to underline continuing upward
pressures on inflation,” said  Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-area
economist at  Societe Generale  in  London . “You can read this
possibly that risks for interest rates might be even on the
upside,” said Baader, who expects the benchmark rate to reach 2
percent by year-end.  Nowotny, 66, is one of 23 ECB council members and has
headed  Austria ’s central bank since September 2008. He was chief
executive officer of Bawag PSK Bank from 2006 to 2007 and a
member of the Austrian parliament from 1979 to 1999.  Forecast Revision  The ECB on March 3 lifted its forecast for inflation to
about 2.3 percent this year from the 1.8 percent predicted in
December. European inflation quickened to 2.7 percent in March,
the fastest since October 2008, and has breached the ECB’s 2
percent limit since December after crude  oil prices  gained 35
percent in the past six months.  “It’s quite obvious that both our interest-rate regime and
our liquidity regime have been in crisis mode for a quite long
period of time,” Nowotny said. For the euro region as a whole,
“we’re not any longer in a crisis situation, fortunately” and
“this development will be reflected in the ECB’s policy,” he
said.  Nowotny said the economic outlook for the euro region
remains “rather mixed” with “very strong perspectives” for
Germany, Austria and Nordic countries and weak growth prospects
in peripheral member states. While the region as a whole has
overcome the crisis, “very substantial differences within the
region” are “an element of potential uncertainty,” he added.  The ECB expects gross domestic product growth to average
about 1.7 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012. “For the
time being I would stick to the growth perspective as we have
published it in our latest ECB forecast,” Nowotny said.  Debt Woes  Debt woes in  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland won’t trigger
contagion risks for other currency-bloc member states, Nowotny
said. Last week, yields on Greek and Portuguese 10-year bonds
surged to euro-era records.  “There’s a clear distinction in the markets between the
countries which are under certain programs like Greece, Portugal
and Ireland, whereas other countries are in a very different
situation,” Nowotny said. “I don’t see the danger of a
contagion.”  Investors are concerned a 110 billion-euro ($159 billion)
bailout for Greece may fail to prevent the first default by a
euro country. German Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said
on April 15 a Greek restructuring “would not be a disaster.”  Nowotny said he sees “no need” for a restructuring of
Greek debt. Such a step “would be very harmful and not
efficient” as it could have “negative side-effects on the
banking system both in the country concerned and in other
countries,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Washington  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  