-- 
Einstein, Mussolini, Nijinsky Jostle in London Exhibit: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-04-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/einstein-jostles-mussolini-nijinski-in-london-photo-show-martin-gayford.html
The history of photography is hard
to disentangle from the cult of celebrity.  That’s illustrated by the career of  E.O. Hoppe , for many
years one of the most famous photographers in the world and the
subject of an exhibition at the  National Portrait Gallery  in
London, “Society, Studio & Street” (through May 30).  Emil Otto Hoppe (1878-1972), the son of a Munich banker,
settled in London where he became renowned for taking pictures
of the celebrated. He was the  Annie Leibovitz  of his era. Cecil Beaton, another noted snapper of prominent people, called him
“the master.” Hoppe took a huge number of shots: His
autobiography was entitled “Hundred Thousand Exposures.”  Many of his sitters from the first half of the 20th century
are still pretty big names in 2011: Arthur Conan Doyle,
Einstein, Mussolini, Henry James. But in those days, the mix of
occupations of A List celebs was slightly different from
today’s.  Hoppe’s subjects included more writers and fewer film stars
than now would be the case. Rock music, of course, had yet to be
invented, though to an extent singers such as Paul Robeson and
the dancers of Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes fill that gap.
Nijinsky, back stage in 1914, looked glamorously out of it in
what became the fashionable rock manner.  Hoppe’s social photography was atmospheric. He had an eye
for quirky personality among the non-famous too, and for odd
occupations such as a skeleton importer in 1930s  London  or a zoo
keeper posing with a hippo named Joan. He was better on literary
lions: Thomas Hardy looking lined and melancholy, Ezra Pound
wild and wacky, with a hair style like a miniature guardsman’s
busby perched on his head.  Global Beauties  Beautiful women also were a specialty. In 1922, Hoppe
published an anthology of portrait shots of the female sitters
from around the world he considered most attractive. It was a
tacky, though catchy, idea -- and ahead of its time in that
Hoppe selected his models from diverse cultures and ethnic
groups. This created a great deal of comment in the
international press, which generated useful publicity for the
photographer.  If the world of Hoppe seems familiar, perhaps it’s because
of the market for which he worked. Hoppe supplied early
illustrated magazines, some of which, such as the  Tatler , are
still around. The combination of glamour, performing arts and
big names from the arts is still the staple material of many
magazines and newspapers. The difference is that Hoppe was
working at the beginning of that epoch, and now perhaps -- as
mass media shift and morph -- we’re coming to the end of it.  Literary Faces  Hoppe’s retirement overlapped with the career of Ida Kar,
whose work is the focus of a related exhibition also at the NPG,
“Bohemian Photographer” (until June 19). Kar (1908-74), was
another expatriate in London. Armenian in origin, she lived and
worked in  Egypt  before coming to Britain in 1945.  Her scope was narrower than Hoppe’s, and her active career
shorter. As the title of the show suggests, Kar’s essential
subject was the artistic and literary world of the 1950s and
early 1960s. It was an austere era and Kar caught it well: Iris Murdoch writing a novel on a drab bedroom floor, various
sculptors and abstract painters in stark-looking studios.  She shared a few sitters with Hoppe, among them the author
Somerset Maugham. A boring middle-aged figure when he posed for
the latter in 1912, Maugham had improved a lot, visually, by
1958. Wrinkles suit some people.  Information: www.npg.org.uk/.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 