-- 
Templeton’s Mobius Comments on China, Arab Stock Markets

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-17T16:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/templeton-s-mobius-comments-on-china-arab-stock-markets.html
Mark Mobius , who oversees $54
billion as executive chairman of Templeton’s Emerging Markets
Group, comments on  China ’s efforts to curb inflation while
maintaining strong economic growth, the Brazilian economy and
the unrest in the Middle East.  He spoke at a media roundtable in Dubai, the  United Arab
Emirates .  On China:  “China has now almost $3 trillion in reserves. They could
probably buy 20 of the biggest companies in America with $3
trillion. Whatever they need to buy they can buy. They have got
the reserves and the banking system is controlled by the
government so it’s not a matter of independent banks getting in
trouble.  “They are able to direct economic activity at a provincial
level by ordering certain provinces to do this or that.  “If anybody is able to solve an overheating problem it’s
China.”  On his favorite emerging markets:  “ Brazil  has the characteristics of a well-rounded economy.
They have the cheapest source of alcohol from sugarcane.  “The second would be China and the third would probably
end up as Russia and  India  and then  Thailand .”  On  oil prices :  “Our general view is that the trend for oil will continue
upward.”  On the possible inclusion of the United Arab Emirates and Qatar
stock markets in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index:  “It’s not too material for us. We consider them frontier
markets and we will continue to do so.  “The impact of moving from a frontier to emerging market
is not going to be that great frankly. The people who are here
already will be here. You may attract some more because there
are some many index players out there who follow the index and
need to be exposed, but then the weighting of these countries
will be relatively small so in some ways it’s better for them to
be in the frontier category.”  On the impact of the Middle East revolts on Arab economies and
financial markets:  “One of the benefits of the events happening at this time
in history is that there is a lot of liquidity in the global
economic system. The U.S. has been printing money, China has
been printing money,  Europe  has been printing money. Everybody
is pumping money into the system and this money needs a home.
It’s looking for a home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  