-- 
Euro Holds Losses on Concern About Debt Crisis, China Monetary Tightening

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-17T23:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/euro-holds-losses-on-concern-about-debt-crisis-china-monetary-tightening.html
The euro maintained two days of
declines against the yen on speculation  Greece  may be unable to
avoid a default even as the nation’s officials said debt
restructuring is not being discussed.  Europe’s common currency was poised for a sixth day of
declines against the Swiss franc before a report forecast to
show European  consumer confidence  weakened in April. New
Zealand’s dollar slid against all its major peers on concern
monetary tightening will slow growth in China and after consumer
prices in the South Pacific nation rose less than some
economists forecast.  “We are seeing signs the debt crisis in Europe is
resurfacing,” said Misato Nakashima, a currency analyst at
Himawari Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “The euro is poised to
weaken as people have been cautious about its rapid advance
recently.”  The euro traded at 119.91 yen as of 8:23 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
119.96 on April 15 in New York, when it completed its biggest
weekly decrease since the five days ended Nov. 26. The euro
fetched $1.4415 from $1.4430 last week. The dollar bought 83.19
yen from 83.13 yen.  The cost of insuring Greek government debt rose to a record
on April 15 with the contracts indicating investors see a more
than 60 percent chance the nation will default within five
years.  The euro fell to 1.2866 francs from 1.2877 on April
15, when it fell for a fifth straight day.  Greece Restructuring  “Restructuring is not an issue we’re discussing,” Greek
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an April 16
interview in  Washington .  Greece found support from International Monetary Fund
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn and French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  was quoted as saying “further measures may
have to be taken” if Greece fails a June audit. German Deputy
Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer told Bloomberg News last week that
restructuring “would not be a disaster.”  An index of household sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
fell to minus 11 in April, the Brussels-based European
Commission is forecast to say today.  China Policy  The Australian and New Zealand dollars fell on concern
rising  interest rates  in China will slow growth there and reduce
demand for commodities, which are a majority of exports for both
South Pacific nations.  China increased banks’ reserve requirements yesterday to
cool inflation, and central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
monetary tightening will continue for “some time.”  “Investors are starting to get more cautious about risk
exposures with fears of increasing Chinese policy tightening and
difficulties with regard to a Greek debt restructuring,” said
Mike Jones, a currency strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. in
Wellington. “Some near-term pullback in the Aussie and kiwi is
long overdue.”  The kiwi dollar also slid after New Zealand’s consumer
prices rose 0.8 percent in the first quarter from three months
earlier,  Statistics New Zealand  said today, compared with the
median forecast for a 1 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  The currency fell 0.6 percent to 79.48 U.S. cents and 0.5
percent to 66.14 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 