-- 
Mexico Will Keep Buying Dollars as Weak Yuan Pressures Peso, Carstens Says

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-18T14:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/mexico-to-keep-buying-dollars-as-weak-yuan-leaves-carstens-uncomfortable.html
Mexican  central bank  Governor
Agustin Carstens said the country’s policy makers will keep
buying dollars in the market as China’s refusal to let the yuan
strengthen limits their ability to allow the peso to move more
freely.  Policy makers have no plans to make any changes to their
monthly auctions of $600 million in options, Carstens said in an
April 16 interview in Washington. The peso has strengthened 5
percent this year, the second-best performance among major Latin
American currencies, and last week reached its strongest level
since October 2008.  “Certainly if the yuan were more appreciated, we would
feel more comfortable allowing the peso to go wherever it needs
to go,” Carstens, 52, said while attending a meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund , where he served as deputy managing
director from 2003 to 2006. “Even though we have a pretty
flexible exchange rate regime, we still have been intervening in
the markets. So needless to say, it’s an issue we need to take
into account.”  Carstens’ comments signal that by continuing to buy dollars
in the market, Mexico may be anticipating that continued capital
inflows could further pressure the peso and damp economic
growth, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist for JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Mexico City.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  on April 16
said that the world’s major economies need greater flexibility
in exchange rates to avoid putting pressure on countries with
market-driven exchange rates.  ‘Flexibility’  Geithner’s comments, while not identifying  China , are part
of the U.S.’s efforts to get the country to allow the yuan to
rise further.  “It certainly would be very important to have more
flexibility, especially in some Asian currencies,” Carstens
said.  Mexico auctions $600 million in dollar options per month, a
system that aims to bolster foreign reserves. The policy, along
with a $73 billion flexible  credit line  from the IMF, aims to
protect Mexico in case of rapid capital outflows. It can also
act to stem a strengthening peso by taking dollars out of the
market.  Any decision to change the amount of options that Mexico
auctions would be months away, Carstens said. Mexico’s
“currency commission,” a body comprised of Central Bank and
Finance Ministry officials, oversees the options program.  Trade Competition  Carstens’s “comments are directed at the trade competition
that has existed between Mexico and China over the last several
years,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “If China appreciates
their currency, Mexico would obviously gain some new producers
from the U.S. seeking a cheaper cost base for their factory
output.”  China’s capital controls, weak currency and high inflation
are limiting global economic growth, which encourages lax
monetary policy in developed nations, Casillas said. That is
fueling rapid capital inflows and strengthening currencies in
emerging markets, he said.  “Carstens is saying that maybe in the future we could have
more problems, more volatility,” Casillas said. “China’s
exchange rate policy is causing difficult monetary policy
management around the world, and Mexico isn’t an exception.”  The peso fell 0.8 percent to 11.7514 per  U.S. dollar . Among
Latin America’s seven major currencies, only the Colombian peso
-- which is up 6 percent against the dollar in 2011 -- has
outgained  Mexico ’s peso this year.  Commodities Prices  Carstens also said rising global commodities prices have
caused uncertainty for the inflation outlook in Mexico and have
complicated the bank’s monetary policy process.  “What I think has introduced some noise to the process is
the fact that commodity prices have been very volatile,”
Carstens said. “There is always some more uncertainty about
what the final outcome on inflation will be.”  Among the major Latin American countries that target
inflation, only Mexico has yet to raise  interest rates  in the
past year as consumer prices increase at the third-slowest pace
in the region after Chile and  Peru .  The central bank’s board on April 15 extended its longest-
ever pause and kept the benchmark rate at 4.5 percent for an
18th straight meeting.  Inflation in Mexico slowed to 3.04 percent in the 12 months
through March, the lowest level since May 2006. The rate is half
the 6.3 percent recorded in  Brazil , the region’s largest
economy. Consumer prices in the U.S., which bought the bulk of a
record $298 billion in exports last year, rose 2.1 percent in
February from a year earlier.  Mexico’s central bank won’t change borrowing costs until
January 2012, according to the median forecast in a survey of
economists by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. JPMorgan Chase &
Co., UBS AG and Banamex are among banks that forecast an
increase in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in  Washington  at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  