-- 
Ferrari Should Be Valued at $7.3 Billion in IPO, Marchionne Tells Bankers

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-18T16:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/ferrari-should-be-valued-at-7-2-billion-in-ipo-marchionne-tells-bankers.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said he’s told bankers pushing him to pursue
an initial public offering of Ferrari that the division may be
worth more than 5 billion euros ($7.3 billion).  “I’ve always viewed Ferrari as a sacred brand, and sacred
brands are peculiar,” Marchionne said in an interview at Fiat’s
headquarters in Turin,  Italy . “I know I can float Ferrari any
time, but there’s nothing on my desk.”  Ferrari, which will next month start delivering its first
family car, the $359,000 four-seat FF, is Fiat’s most profitable
unit. The sports-car maker’s earnings before interest and taxes
rose 23 percent last year to 302 million euros on revenue of
1.92 billion euros.  Marchionne’s valuation of Ferrari is 2 billion euros more
than that of analysts and 63 percent of Fiat’s entire market
value of 8 billion euros. In addition to Fiat brand cars, the
company owns a 30 percent stake in Chrysler Group LLC, as well
as the Maserati, Alfa Romeo and Lancia brands.  Bankers are pitching Marchionne, who says he’s ordered a
white FF, to list the unit to reduce debt and improve Fiat’s
credit rating.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its rating on the
Italian carmaker to BB from the already junk ranking of BB+ in
February, after Fiat spun off the industrial operations from the
car business.  Standard & Poor’s said at the time it may downgrade Fiat
again if it buys a majority stake in Chrysler in 2011.
Marchionne, who also runs the American carmaker, said he has no
immediate plan to list Ferrari because Fiat has enough cash to
increase its Chrysler holding.  Sacred Brands  “It’s difficult to give a valuation of sacred brands like
Ferrari,” Marchionne said in the April 4 interview, where he
chain-smoked Muratti cigarettes and sipped diet raspberry iced
tea. “There are days when I think more than 5 billion euros.”  Fiat reversed early gains to close 2.6 percent lower at
6.175 euros in Milan trading. The Italian carmaker has dropped
7.8 percent this year, valuing the company 7.65 billion euros.  Marchionne raised the possibility of a Ferrari IPO last
November when he said he may sell assets, including a stake in
the sports-car maker, if he needs cash ahead of a full Chrysler
merger. Fiat had 12.2 billion euros in cash and cash equivalents
at the end of 2010, and net industrial debt of 542 million
euros.  Ferrari Valuation  Fiat almost halved its debt last year before the spinoff of
its industrial businesses. Fiat assumed about 500 million of a
total of 2.4 billion euros in debt, with the truck and tractor
unit taking on the remaining 1.9 billion euros. Debt will likely
rise to between 1.5 billion euros and 1.8 billion euros at end
of this year as  capital expenditures  “are expected to increase
substantially” to as much as 4.5 billion euros, Fiat said in
January.  Ferrari may be worth 3 billion euros, or about 10 times
operating profit, according to the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Ferrari is a trophy asset inside Fiat,” said Jochen Gehrke, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst who is ranked No. 1 among
Fiat analysts tracked by Bloomberg. “Given the profitability it
generates, an IPO would attract huge attention.”  Luxury Brands  Luxury-goods company  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
trades at an enterprise value of 10.8 times operating profit,
while Cie. Financiere Richemont SA has an enterprise value of 13
times earnings before interest and taxes, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. At 5 billion euros, Ferrari would trade at about
17 times Ebit, compared with a European luxury industry average
of 12.7 times, the data show.  Ferrari, which employs 2,700 workers, increased deliveries
6 percent last year to 6,573 cars. Lamborghini SpA, its main
competitor, built 1,302 vehicles last year and posted revenue of
271 million euros. Lamborghini, which is owned by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
has said it narrowed its loss in 2010 without providing figures.  “Rarity value and a compelling equity story could push
Ferrari’s valuation,” said Massimo Vecchio, an analyst at
Mediobanca SpA in Milan who estimates Ferrari could raise as
much as 2 billion euros for a 45 percent stake of the unit.  While Marchionne said he sees no urgent need to list the
Italian sport-car maker, he reiterated his commitment to a
Chrysler share sale to raise money for the United Auto Workers
union’s retiree health-care trust, which owns 59.2 percent of
the American carmaker.  Chrysler Stake  Fiat agreed with the U.S. government after Chrysler emerged
from bankruptcy in 2009 to share technology and management in
exchange for an initial 20 percent stake and performance goals
to increase to 35 percent without paying any cash. Fiat raised
its holding last week to 30 percent after reaching targets that
included opening Fiat’s dealerships in  Brazil  to the  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based automaker’s products.  Fiat expects to gain an additional 5 percent in the fourth
quarter after meeting a requirement for Chrysler to assemble a
Fiat-derived car in the U.S. that gets 40 miles-per-gallon,
Marchionne said, adding that he aims for a Chrysler initial
public offering still in 2011.  “If the market is there this year, then I would take the
opportunity,” Marchionne said. “Fiat is not going to monetize
its position. It has no interest in exiting. If anything at all,
it’s going to put money into Chrysler to exercise its call.”  Debt Refinancing  Fiat has an option to boost its holding to 51 percent after
Chrysler repays U.S. and Canadian government loans. The face
value of Chrysler’s debt to the U.S. and Canadian governments is
$7.53 billion, according to a Feb. 25 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Marchionne said he’s working
to refinance Chrysler loans by the end of June.  The Italian carmaker may pay $1.14 billion to exercise its
 call option  in 2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
Ranjit Unnithan, who has an “underweight” rating on the stock.
The cost is linked to Chrysler’s earnings.  Marchionne, 58, said he plans to give more attention to
Fiat’s European operations which he acknowledges have suffered
while the Chrysler integration has consumed so much time.  “The fact that we have engaged in the Chrysler story
defocused us from  Europe ” Marchionne said. “It had to be done
because we had to make sure we established all the connections
between Fiat and Chrysler.”  Fiat’s market share in the first two months of 2011 sank to
7.5 percent from 9.2 percent a year earlier because of an aging
product line and its dependence on sales in debt-stricken
southern Europe. Volkswagen’s share climbed to 22.2 percent from
20.7 percent.  “To improve their credit profile, they have to generate
profits in Europe,” Gehrke said. “Marchionne hasn’t fixed
Fiat’s home market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 