-- 
Four Unlikely Companies Show Insider Stock Buys: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-04-17T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/four-unlikely-companies-show-insider-stock-buys-john-dorfman.html
How much would you pay for some
inside information?  No, this isn’t an exercise in entrapment. The insider
knowledge I’m referring to is legal. Corporate officers,
directors and major shareholders must report their trades in
their company’s stock to the Securities and Exchange Commission
within two business days.  The figures are available to anyone who wants to study
them. Many people don’t bother, and as a money manager, I try to
take advantage of the prevailing neglect. This legal insider
trading data is one of the signals I use to decide whether to
buy a stock.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , once a market darling, is largely ignored by
investors now. Dell stock, which traded for more than $58 when
technology stocks peaked in March 2000, fetches about $15 today.  Against this gloomy backdrop,  Michael Dell , chairman and
chief executive officer, purchased more than 10 million shares
in March. This brought his total holding in the company he
founded to about 273 million shares. He owns 14 percent of the
 Round Rock , Texas-based company, a stake worth about $4.1
billion.  Dell doesn’t actively trade shares in his own company,
trying to time the stock’s gyrations. He is more of a patient
accumulator.  Under Investors’ Radar  I think his latest judgment is sound. While the stock
languishes, the company has reported two consecutive quarters
with the highest quarterly earnings per share in its history.
Investors seem not to have noticed.  For the fiscal year that ended in January, Dell reported a
39 percent return on stockholders’ equity. Apple Inc.’s
comparable figure is 35 percent. Yet Dell sells for only 11
times earnings, a moderate multiple.  At  AOL Inc. (AOL) , the large but struggling Internet portal site
that was spun off from Time Warner Inc., insiders also bought
shares last quarter. The biggest transaction was the purchase of
477,000 shares by Timothy Armstrong, chairman and chief
executive.  New York-based AOL’s revenue fell in five of the past seven
quarters. As they become more Internet-savvy, many people no
longer feel a need for a portal. Search engines are easy to use.
For those who want a portal, AOL faces competition from Yahoo
Inc. and Microsoft Corp.’s MSN service.  Vote of Confidence  Armstrong’s purchase, amounting to about $10 million,
suggests that he thinks these problems can be solved.  AOL stock looks cheap by some measures: 0.9 times book
value (corporate net worth per share) and 0.9 times revenue. It
is not cheap on earnings, however, with a price/earnings ratio
of 26. The balance sheet looks strong, with debt less than 4
percent of equity.  The company suffered a loss of $7.34 a share in 2010. This
year, analysts expect it to bounce back and show a profit of
about $1 a share.  Transactions by top executives such as Dell and Armstrong
are my favorite form of insider intelligence. I believe that
trades by chief executive officers and chief financial officers
are the ones that best predict future stock movements.  Several other types of insiders must also file reports with
the SEC. Corporate officers, directors, and owners of 5 percent
or more of a corporation’s stock all must disclose their trades.  I view trades by these other insiders are predictive, but
not to the same degree as C-level executives.  Verizon’s Buyback  In some cases, a company itself qualifies as an insider.
That happened this month with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which
was buying back a chunk of its own stock.  Verizon, based in  New York , is the second-largest U.S.
telecommunications company by market value, after AT&T Inc. On
April 7, the company bought more than 17 million of its shares.  The buyback, executed when the U.S. stock market was down
slightly as aftershocks rocked  Tokyo , is part of a larger plan.
In February, Verizon’s board authorized the company to buy back
as many as 100 million shares, about 3.6 percent of all
outstanding shares, by early 2014.  Such buybacks are usually a good sign for shareholders.
They signal that a company’s board thinks its stock is
undervalued, and that management thinks the present moment is an
opportune time to buy.  To me, the best thing about Verizon shares is the dividend
yield, currently more than 5 percent. Shares fetch 14 times
earnings, which is not too pricey.  Real Estate Play  On the negative side, the company’s debt exceeds
 shareholders’ equity .  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , a Chicago-based real estate
investment trust that owns shopping centers, emerged five months
ago from the largest real-estate bankruptcy in U.S. history.
Before going through bankruptcy, it owed $27 billion.  General Growth Properties’ malls are home to about 24,000
stores. The REIT is struggling to regain profitability. In 2010,
it lost $1.4 billion, the year before, $1.3 billion. Yet this
REIT knows how to make money: It turned a profit for 17 years in
a row before its recent rough patch.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) , a publicly traded company
that invests mainly in real estate, acquired 233 million shares
in January, almost doubling its stake. It now owns almost 24
percent of the company. I regard Brookfield’s executives as
smart people. The fact that they are interested in General
Growth makes me interested.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this week’s column, for clients or
personally.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  