-- 
G-20 Targets ‘Too Big to Ignore’ Economies as Growth Will Outweigh Shocks

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-17T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/g-20-names-too-big-to-ignore-economies-as-it-downplays-shocks.html
The U.S.,  China  and five other
large economies will face deeper scrutiny from their peers to
ensure their policies don’t derail a global expansion that
finance chiefs bet is strong enough to absorb recent shocks.  The seven countries have a gross domestic product greater
than 5 percent of the Group of 20 nations’ economy, and so carry
“the greater potential for spillover effects,” G-20 central
bankers and finance ministers said during weekend talks in
Washington.  Drawing up the list is part of a plan to spot imbalances in
individual economies such as large trade gaps, and prescribe
policies to fix them before they harm global growth. For now,
the recovery is “broadening and becoming more self-sustained”
even as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, as well as
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami, raise “uncertainty” about the
outlook, policy makers said.  The economies named are “too big to ignore,” said Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. The G-20 is “approaching a situation where there are
common principles for them all and that those who deviate from
them will be called to the dock.”  The push to rebalance the world economy so its growth
relies less on drivers such as U.S. demand and Chinese exports
will likely encourage appreciation of emerging market exchange
rates against those of developed economies, New York-based
Englander said. He predicts the Chinese yuan will rise to 6.18
per dollar over the next 12 months after it touched 6.5290 last
week, the strongest since 1993.  Expansion Strength  Policy makers were in Washington for the semi-annual talks
of the 187-member  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  as
investors query the strength of expansion. In addition to the
Japanese disasters, the price of oil is above $100 a barrel,
monetary policy is tightening in China, and European nations
from  Greece  to  Portugal  continue to struggle to finance their
debts. World Bank President Robert Zoellick said the world is
“one shock away” from a food crisis.  Even as it noted “downside risks still remain,” the G-20
nevertheless sounded more optimistic than in February when it
complained of uneven growth and high unemployment in rich
nations. At the end of a week in which German carmaker
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  posted record first-quarter sales and French
retailer  Carrefour SA (CA)  said its first-quarter sales rose 3.9
percent, policy makers noted “increasingly robust” private
demand growth and enough spare capacity to meet energy needs.  Stocks Fell  U.S. stocks fell last week, giving the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index its second straight weekly decline as companies from
 Alcoa Inc. (AA)  to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  reported quarterly results that missed
estimates.  Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in
 London , predicts the  S&P 500  will rise to at least 1,400 by the
end of the year from 1,319.68 last week as the recovery endures.
Hiring and household balance sheets in the U.S. have also
improved.  The focus of the discussions was the G-20’s new
surveillance system for the world economy, of which it
represents 85 percent. The goal is to foster balanced
international growth after skewed trade and investment flows --
reflected in China’s $3 trillion foreign reserves and U.S. trade
deficits -- helped trigger financial turmoil.  Have Guidelines  Having agreed two months ago to monitor indicators
including budget deficits, private debt and external trade
balances for signs of excess, policy makers now have guidelines
against which to test them. They are based on historical
performance and circumstances of the individual country and
comparisons with other economies.  The U.S., Japan,  Germany , France, U.K., India and China
will be probed the most thoroughly because of their importance
to the world economy.  The next step is for officials to work with the IMF to
study the countries’ policies before telling leaders which ones
are aggravating imbalances, and what measures can be taken to
correct them, at a November summit in Cannes, France. The IMF’s
policy committee said separately that the Fund will study how
the financial policies of one country impact others.  “The net is a little bit tighter for those countries that
are considered of systemic importance,” French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  told reporters.  China Satisfied  After a contentious summit in Paris two months ago, where
China won omission of currency reserves from the list of
indicators, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said he was
“satisfied with the result” of the  Washington  meeting.  His country still faced pressure from officials including
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Mexican central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens to let the yuan appreciate faster
after gaining just 4.5 percent since 2009. The G-20 agreed to
look more closely at currency misalignments.  Challenges to the G-20 process include its reliance on peer
pressure to spur needed changes and the suspicion of emerging
markets that it will be used by developed economies to ramp up
pressure to increase currency flexibility, said Sophia Drossos,
currency fund manager at Morgan Stanley Investment Management in
 New York .  In a sign of these challenges, finance officials argued
over the causes of, and cures for, capital flows surging into
developing nations. The U.S. blamed China’s currency policy,
while  Brazil  pointed the finger at low  interest rates  in rich
nations.  “Emerging markets are going to be concerned about how these
rules will be implemented,” said Drossos. “There are also
questions about how adequately any of the rules can be
enforced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  