-- 
Gasoline Prices Slow U.S. Recovery ‘Modestly,’ Geithner Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-17T14:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/gasoline-prices-slow-u-s-recovery-modestly-geithner-says-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said high gasoline prices will hamper the U.S. economy
as the recovery continues.  Geithner acknowledged that gas prices have risen “quite a
lot,” partly in response to tensions in the Middle East and
North Africa. He also cited concerns that  Japan ’s nuclear
disaster is calling the future of nuclear power into question.  As fuel prices continue to rise, “there’s a measurable
impact on the economy,” Geithner said in an interview with
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program broadcast today. He said the
higher prices slow the recovery “modestly” and that “it’s an
impact we can withstand, we can absorb, because the economy
itself is still gradually getting stronger.”  Gasoline rose to a 33-month high as East Coast refinery
shutdowns curtailed production and a jump in  consumer confidence 
indicated fuel demand may increase. Gasoline for May delivery
rose 5.45 cents, or 1.7 percent, to settle at $3.2892 a gallon
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on April 15.  The Obama administration has stressed the importance of
maintaining confidence in the U.S. economy, while Democrats and
Republicans battle over the budget, the deficit and the $14.29
trillion debt limit. As both parties argue about the best way to
cut the deficit over time, the administration is pressing
Congress to raise the limit before financial markets begin to
penalize U.S. borrowing.  “Those people up there who are telling people that you can
take this to the brink, because it gives us some leverage,
they’re going to own the responsibility for the risk that
creates for the American economy,” Geithner said in the
interview.  Debt Showdown  Speaking on ABC’s “This Week With Christiane Amanpour”
program, Geithner reiterated his view that failing to raise the
U.S. debt limit “would make the last crisis look like a tame,
modest crisis” and would “tip the  U.S. economy  and the world
economy back into recession, depression.”  Congress will raise the debt limit “because there’s no
alternative, and they recognize that,” he said.  When asked on NBC whether the debt ceiling showdown raises
a new risk of government shutdown, Geithner responded “I don’t
think so.” He has previously said the limit will be reached by
May 16 and that the Treasury’s toolkit of emergency measures
will be exhausted by about July 8.  Loopholes ‘Unfair’  Geithner was asked to respond to a Bloomberg Businessweek
article describing how some companies, including  General
Electric Co. (GE) , pay few taxes because of a range of legal
loopholes.  The current tax system is “unfair,” Geithner said.
“Companies are not paying taxes on the basis of the strength of
their business. They’re paying taxes on the basis of you know,
how good their lobbyist was.”  President  Barack Obama  called for a rewrite of business tax
rules in his State of the Union address on Jan. 25 and in his
fiscal 2012 budget proposal released Feb. 14. Geithner has urged
lawmakers to take up the issue and work with the administration
to develop a plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  