-- 
Greece Says No Restructuring Plan in Place as Traders Raise Default Bets

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-18T09:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/greece-denies-restructuring-plan-as-traders-raise-default-bet.html
Greece  said it has no plans for a
debt restructuring even as German officials openly discuss the
possibility and investors charge a record amount to insure the
country’s obligations.  “Restructuring is not an issue we’re discussing,” Greek
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an April 16
interview in Washington. “The pain and the cost” of doing so
would be greater than repaying lenders, he told reporters the
same day.  Greece found support from International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  was quoted as saying “further measures may
have to be taken” if Greece fails a June audit. German Deputy
Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said in an April 15 interview that
restructuring “would not be a disaster.”  Traders are betting on a default. The cost of insuring
Greek sovereign debt jumped 56 basis points today to a record
1,211 points, according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.
That indicates there’s a 64.5 percent probability of default
within five years.  ‘Rightly Nervous’  Restructuring would “create realized losses across the
global banking system -- but mainly in  Europe ,” said David Zervos, head of global fixed-income strategy at Jefferies & Co.
in  New York . “Markets are rightly nervous.”  Greece’s aid program was designed on the assumption that
the country would repay debt rather than restructure, and
“nothing has changed,” Strauss-Kahn said as he hosted the
IMF’s semi-annual meetings in the U.S. capital. Lagarde said
April 14 at the same talks that “there is no discussion about
debt restructuring, none whatsoever.”  Greek 10-year bonds rose for the first time in five days,
reversing earlier declines. The yield on the bond due June 2020
dropped one basis point to 13.82 percent as of 8:16 a.m. in
 London . The debt had earlier yielded as much as 13.93 percent,
the most since the euro was introduced in 1999. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  “The issue of Greece is not whether there will be debt
restructuring, but when it will be done, and whether it will be
an orderly market-oriented debt exchange or disorderly like in
Argentina,”  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted the
global financial crisis, said at a conference in Kazakhstan on
April 15.  Euro Partners  Greece has asked euro-area partners to consider
rescheduling all of its debt, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing people familiar with the matter who weren’t identified.  Greek newspaper Eleftherotypia reported today that
Papaconstantinou brought a request to extend the maturities of
all the country’s debt to a meeting of European Union finance
ministers in Hungary on April 8-9 and to representatives of the
EU,  European Central Bank  and IMF who visited  Athens  in April. A
Finance Ministry press officer in Athens, who declined to be
identified citing government policy, denied the reports.  Lucas Papademos , an adviser to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  and a former vice president of the European Central
Bank, suggested April 9 that extending maturities would be one
option to consider after implementing measures attached to a 110
billion-euro loan package from the EU and IMF.  ‘Doing Harm’  “The extension of the maturities of the EU and IMF loans
are one thing and the private sector is a completely different
thing,” Papaconstantinou told reporters in  Washington 
yesterday. “In the private sector, we are not discussing
anything at the moment and the whole discussion on
restructuring, unfortunately, the public discussion being held
in Greece is doing harm to the country.”  Former socialist Prime Minister Costas Simitis believes
Greece should restructure its debt, To Vima newspaper reported
yesterday, citing an interview.  European Central Bank governing council member Ewald Nowotny said he sees “no need” for a restructuring by Greece.
Such a step “would be very harmful and not efficient,” he said
in an April 16 interview with Bloomberg News in Washington.  Asked today whether Greece needs to restructure its debt,
Lagarde said “no, and I’m very firm on that,” according to an
interview with the LCI television channel.  “We have a deal with Greece --financial support in
exchange for recovery in public finances,” Lagarde said.
“Greece is running its own program and is sticking to it.”  Questions over Greek finances are mounting while the
country steps up efforts to reduce its  budget deficit . Greece
last week outlined 26 billion euros in cuts and 50 billion euros
in asset sales.  The Wall Street Journal reported that IMF officials believe
Greece’s debt burden is unsustainable and should be
restructured. William Murray, an IMF spokesman, said yesterday
that “there is absolutely no truth” to the report. German
Finance Ministry spokesman  Bertrand Benoit  declined to comment
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Washington at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 Kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  