-- 
Greenspan Says U.S. Should Let Bush-Era Tax Cuts Expire

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-04-17T16:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/greenspan-says-bush-era-tax-cuts-should-be-allowed-to-expire.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Alan Greenspan  said tax cuts put in place by former U.S.
President George W. Bush should be allowed to expire and the
U.S. should return to tax rates that were in effect under former
President  Bill Clinton  to help address the  budget deficit .  We should “allow the Bush tax cuts to expire,” Greenspan
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today, calling the economic
crisis “imminent and dire.” We should “put the rates back to
where they were during the Clinton administration,” he said.  Greenspan said it will be hard to rein in the budget
deficit because data show that if a disproportionate amount of
the change come from tax increases “it won’t work,” while the
impact of cutting back on spending is “almost insignificant.”  “This issue requires a major cut in entitlement spending
in order to resolve,” said Greenspan, who served as chairman of
the  Federal Reserve  from 1987 to 2006. “It’s the issue that’s
got to be confronted. We’ve got to deal with it realistically; I
hope sooner rather than later.”  President Barack Obama has proposed cutting $4 trillion in
cumulative deficits over 12 years through a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases. The administration is resisting
Republican calls for swifter cuts, while also pushing for a set
of rules to enforce spending reductions over time.  The Republican-controlled House voted Friday to approve a
budget that would cut spending by more than $6 trillion over a
decade and privatize Medicare.  The proposal from House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, relies exclusively on spending
cuts to reduce the deficit, slicing $6.2 trillion over 10 years
from Medicare and scores of other programs including Medicaid,
 food stamps , farm subsidies and Pell college tuition grants.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said yesterday that the
administration wants to limit spending without threatening the
economic recovery. He said the U.S. economic outlook has
“improved substantially” since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  