-- 
Libyan Rebels Seek Heavy Weapons as Forces Loyal to Qaddafi Pound Misrata

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-17T15:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/libyan-rebels-seek-heavy-weapons-as-forces-loyal-to-qaddafi-pound-misrata.html
Libyan rebels said they expected to
receive heavy weapons in their battle to overthrow Muammar Qaddafi as forces loyal to him shelled the coastal city of
Misrata.  Rebels have struggled for weeks to take and hold cities in
central  Libya , which have been the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in February. Opposition forces
yesterday advanced once again on the oil town of Brega after
four days of airstrikes by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, al-Jazeera television reported.  The attacks on Zintan and Misrata, the main rebel-held city
in the west, have made Libya’s third-largest city a symbol of
the limitations of NATO’s air campaign to protect civilians.
Qaddafi’s forces have fired ground-to-ground Grad rockets and
cluster bombs, a type of anti-personnel munition that scatters
small bomblets over a wide area, into residential areas, the New
York Times and  Human Rights Watch  reported.  “God willing, heavy weapons will be received soon and we
will take you to see them,” a spokesman for the rebels’
National Transitional Council, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, said
yesterday, declining to name any source of supply.  Ali al-Tarhouni, head of economic and oil affairs for the
Libyan rebels’ National Transitional Council, said his country
will be rid of  Muammar Qaddafi  “in a matter of weeks.”  Al-Tarhouni said in an interview in Doha that he is in Qatar
seeking funding and that the rebels’ council is in preliminary
talks with various unidentified parties.  Misrata Shelling  Ghoga, speaking in an interview in Benghazi last night,
urged Nato forced to “concentrate its strikes on the forces
besieging Zintan.”  Rebels in the eastern stronghold of Benghazi are shipping
food, medical supplies and weapons, including anti-tank rounds
seized from Libyan army depots, to their fellow fighters in
Misrata, McClatchy Newspapers reported from Benghazi.  The Obama administration is seeking a place of exile for
Qaddafi, possibly in an African state that hasn’t signed a
treaty that might allow Qaddafi to be turned over to the
 International Criminal Court  in the Hague, the New York Times
 reported  yesterday, citing three administration officials who
weren’t identified by name.  Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the U.S. National Security
Council, said in an e-mail that he didn’t “anticipate any
comment” on the report.  ‘Defenseless’  “After 40 years in power, I am not sure Qaddafi’s ready to
live the life of an exile,” said Andrew Terrill, a Middle East
specialist at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army
War College in Carlisle,  Pennsylvania . “Any country he goes to
may be subject to Western pressure, and probably he assumes that
once he got to that African country he’d be defenseless.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his government would
adhere to the terms of the United Nations Security Council
resolution authorizing action against the Libyan regime.  “We’re not occupying, we’re not invading,” Cameron told
Sky News television today when questioned about whether the U.K.
needed to do more to protect civilians in Misrata and elsewhere
in Libya from attack by Qaddafi’s forces.  Former Central Intelligence Agency Director Michael Hayden,
a retired Air Force general, said the NATO mission may not oust
Qaddafi.  “The means we have seem to be short of the objective,”
Hayden said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program, citing a
“mismatch” between the goal of ousting Qaddafi and the
military mission of protecting civilians.  To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in new York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net  