-- 
Libyan Rebels' ‘Win or Die’ Battle Draws on Qaddafi's Grassroot Committees

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-17T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/libya-rebels-draw-on-benghazi-committees-for-win-or-die-fight.html
Ahmed Algallal, an importer of  Kone
OYJ (KNEBV)  lifts in Libya, spent 14 years in the U.K. because his
father preferred exile to life under  Muammar Qaddafi . “There
won’t be another exile for me,” he said. “We win or die.”  Algallal, 42, is part of the patchwork for a new civil
society taking shape in Benghazi. While he uses his contacts to
secure food and medicine supplies for the front lines, students
clean the streets, and teachers and longshoremen organize
themselves in tents outside the old courthouse.  The rebels are drawing on the very system of grassroots
bodies that Qaddafi outlined in his Green Book, a 1975  manifesto 
of his revolutionary philosophy. This time, instead of being a
means to suppress political parties and keep tabs on local
residents, the groups are delegating responsibility and
solidifying their grip.  “Qaddafi’s efforts to mobilize citizens to govern
themselves, while confined to rhetoric under his rule, has
become a reality as the society mobilizes itself against him,”
said Ann Marlowe, a visiting fellow at the  Hudson Institute .  Libyan rebels have launched the brunt of their attacks on
Qaddafi’s forces from their stronghold of Benghazi, a city of 1
million people, and the efforts by the residents are helping to
sustain the uprising against Qaddafi’s 42-year rule in the
nation that holds Africa’s largest oil reserves.  ‘Mechanism in Place’  Oil prices  have climbed 29 percent since mid-February, when
the Libyan uprising began, closing at $109.66 a barrel on April
15 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The Libyan revolt, now in its third month, is the deadliest
of the dozen pro-democracy protest movements that shook the Arab
world since mid-December, toppling the regimes in neighboring
Tunisia and  Egypt , and threatening those of Bahrain, Yemen and
 Syria .  At least 12,000 people have been killed and 30,000 others
injured, according to the National Transitional Council, the
governing body for the rebels. The group is led by Mustafa Abd-
Al-Jalil, a 58 year-old judge who was serving as justice
minister when he defected in the early days.  “There was a social welfare net that already existed
before the revolt started,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and  Gulf
Analysis . “Even though in Benghazi they are now setting up this
transitional government, the mechanism was already in place.”  Amid the violence, billboard signs in Benghazi appeal to
civic mindedness, calling on the population to respect private
and public property, refrain from firing weapons in the city and
re-open bakeries and pharmacies.  No Failures  “Given everything, they are doing better than expected,”
Marlowe said of the rebels’ National Transitional Council. “We
haven’t seen a major failure.”  The 31-member council has pledged to guarantee the freedom
of expression and to hold free and fair elections once Qaddafi
is removed. Those would be the first ever in  Libya .  Schools and universities in Benghazi are closed as
thousands of families are displaced and because the rebels
depend on volunteers to fight Qaddafi’s forces, which are
locally referred to as the “Kata’ib,” meaning battalions.  “We may lose a school year, but God willing we will win our
freedom and our future,” said Faten Belhoul, 15, who along with
her younger sister is helping to clean Benghazi’s streets.  Front Line  As shops and banks re-open, posters of the dead or missing
remind residents of the front line, which now lies about 200
kilometers to the south of Benghazi, as do the occasional bursts
of machine guns fired in training or by fighters celebrating an
advance.  Capturing the oil terminals and refineries that lie further
along the coast, in Brega and Ras Lanuf, would allow the rebel
government to resume oil exports and process crude into fuel
products, said the council’s spokesman Abdul Hafiz Ghoga. In the
meantime, the council is asking allies including Qatar to secure
$2 billion in loans to pay for imports and salaries.  Oil exports from the rebel-held region stopped on April. 6,
when Qaddafi’s troops attacked producing fields. International
sanctions effectively prevent him from selling crude from the
areas under his control in the center and the west, or accessing
tens of billions of dollars held in accounts abroad.  Qaddafi’s portraits, present everywhere in the capital
Tripoli, are nowhere in Benghazi. “Qaddafi, King of  Africa ’s
Monkeys,” says a slogan mocking his official title of “King of
Africa’s Kings.”  Cluster Bombs  The red-black-green flag of the revolt is flown on public
buildings and squares, often in the company of the flags of NATO
nations enforcing the no-fly zone that protects the rebel-held
territory in the east as well as the marine route to supply the
western enclave of Misrata, where Qaddafi is using banned
cluster bombs, according to  Human Rights Watch .  At Benghazi’s naval base, ammunition crates were piled up
on April 17 on a pier waiting to be loaded on a tugboat destined
for Misrata -- a 36 hour trip. “It’s our right to defend
ourselves,” said the port commander, Colonel Almahdi Mohammed.  “Our focus is now the army, getting weapons, training
volunteers,” said Salwa Bugaighis, an attorney and a member of
the union of lawyers that led the revolt in its early days from
the old courthouse of Benghazi. “We are doing fine on the
economy and humanitarian fronts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 