-- 
Libya's Opposition in Ajdabiya Beats Back Attack by Qaddafi’s Forces

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-18T10:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/libya-fighting-rages-as-western-leaders-decline-to-send-troops.html
Libya ’s rebels, fighting mainly
from  pickup trucks  mounted with machine guns, repelled an attack
from Muammar Qaddafi’s forces on the city of Ajdabiya.  Qaddafi loyalists had earlier shelled Ajdabiya, about 160
kilometers (100 miles) south of the rebel stronghold of
Benghazi, Mustafa Gheriani, spokesman for the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said in an interview.  Rebels have struggled for weeks to take and hold cities in
central Libya, which have been the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in February, calling for deliveries of
heavy weaponry and for the coalition led by the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization to increase attacks.  “The rebels don’t have the logistics or organization to
move forward with major objectives at this time,” said Andrew
Terrill, a Middle East specialist at the Strategic Studies
Institute of the  U.S. Army War College  in Carlisle,
 Pennsylvania . “Unless we see large scale surrender from Qaddafi
loyalists, I don’t see too many cities changing hands.”  Qaddafi’s bombing of Misrata, the main rebel-held city in
the west and Libya’s third-largest city, killed 17 people
yesterday, Al Jazeera television reported. About 300,000
civilians are trapped in Misrata.  Civilians Killed  One attack, possibly from a ground-to-ground rocket, killed
at least eight civilians waiting in line for bread, while
another injured four at a medical clinic, New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Libyan government forces have repeatedly fired mortars
and Grad rockets into residential neighborhoods in Misrata,
causing civilian casualties,” said Peter Bouckaert, emergencies
director at Human Rights Watch. “The Soviet-made Grad in
particular is one of the world’s most inaccurate rocket systems
and should never be fired in areas with civilians.”  Oil declined for the first time in four days in  New York 
after  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest exporter, said the
global market has adequate crude supplies. Crude oil for May
delivery slid as much as $1.19 to $108.47 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract was at
$108.66 at 10:55 a.m. London time.  Damaged Oil Fields  The Libyan rebels’ oil chief was quoted by the  Associated
Press  as saying the opposition forces won’t sell any more oil
until production resumes, possibly in a few weeks. Wahid
Bughaigis was cited by the AP as saying that rebels are still
assessing the damage to oil fields they control after attacks by
Qaddafi loyalists.  The fighting has nearly halted oil exports from Libya,
which holds  Africa ’s largest oil reserves.  Rebels are advancing on the oil city of Brega and six
rebels were killed and 20 injured in fighting around the city,
the London-based Al-Hayat newspaper said.  With NATO air attacks on Qaddafi’s troops and supplies
slowly crippling his war machine, “time is much more on the
rebels’ side,” said the U.S. Army War College’s Terrill. “The
rebels are getting stronger and Qaddafi is getting weaker; I
don’t see the urgency of mounting an offensive.”  Qaddafi Under Pressure  Even without the allies putting troops on the ground,
Qaddafi can be forced out, French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said in an interview with the  Parisien  newspaper.  “Coalition aircraft can destroy Qaddafi’s supply chain as
they move east in the open, but in urban combat I have to
concede that while air power can avoid a tragedy, it can’t solve
the problem.”  He said Qaddafi’s forces number no more than 10,000 men.  Allied aircraft enforcing the United Nations-mandated no-
fly zone and sanctions on Libya carried out 42 strike sorties
yesterday, the NATO said in a statement from its operational
headquarters in Naples,  Italy .  Near the Qaddafi-held capital, Tripoli, aircraft under NATO
command destroyed two ammunition bunkers and an anti-aircraft
missile site, the alliance said. Two tanks, an armored personnel
carrier and a number of other pieces of equipment and ammunition
dumps were knocked out by NATO planes. None of the reported
strikes were near Ajdabiya.  Aid to Tripoli  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the UN has reached an
agreement with the Libyan government to provide humanitarian aid
to Tripoli. Ban, speaking in Budapest, said the UN already has a
humanitarian presence in the rebels’ stronghold of Benghazi.
“We will try to expand our humanitarian activities,” he said.  U.K. International Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell 
will travel to the UN today for talks on aid requirements in
Libya, his ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  “The humanitarian situation in Misrata is of great
concern. The international community should be ready to
respond,” Mitchell said in the statement. “It is vital that we
continue to get help, such as food, water or medical supplies,
through to people. Humanitarian agencies must be given free and
unfettered access to Misrata and other areas affected by
fighting.”  In other news from the region, Yemen’s opposition coalition
rejected a plan by six Gulf states to end unrest, saying that
the swift departure of Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh
isn’t negotiable.  Police in Yemen used live ammunition, tear gas and water
cannon to disperse tens of thousands of protesters marching in
the capital, Sana’a, injuring at least 100, according to
Abdulmalik al-Yusufi, a doctor at a field clinic along the
protest route.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 