-- 
India Marxists Face Kolkata Rout in Vote Revolt That Sends Signal to Singh

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-04-18T04:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/indian-communists-face-kolkata-rout-in-voter-revolt-over-jobs.html
For the first time, Rajesh Babani
won’t vote for West Bengal’s communists, joining a revolt that
may end the 34-year rule of the world’s longest-serving elected
Marxist government. The reason: his two sons can’t find jobs.  “Almost everyone around here is searching for work,” said
Babani, 43, as he leaned against the wall of a teashop painted
with the  Left Front’s  red hammer-and-sickle motifs in a slum in
Kolkata, the state capital. Babani, who can earn 100 rupees ($2)
a day sweeping streets, will vote in elections that started
today and that polls say will be won by the All  India  Trinamool
Congress party.  Elections in West Bengal and four other regions this month
and next may evict three governments, sending a message to Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  that voters are angry about unemployment,
rising food prices and corruption. With 130 million people set
to join India’s workforce in the next decade, the nation must
boost labor-intensive manufacturing in states like West Bengal
to avoid social unrest.  “A volatile mass of young people out of work, sitting
around doing nothing, will pose major problems for social
stability,” said Jahangir Aziz, an economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in Mumbai. “It doesn’t require much to see a scenario
where India’s advantage of having a young population very
quickly turns into a major hindrance.”  Manufacturing products including cars, televisions and
clothing contributed  16 percent  of India’s gross domestic
product in 2009 compared with 42 percent in  China , United
Nations data shows.  Taxes, Debt  India,  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy after
China, is trying to sustain 9 percent expansion and cool
inflation running at the same level. Eight interest rate
increases since March last year have helped send the stock
market down 5 percent in 2011.  West Bengal, India’s fourth largest state with 91 million
people, has its lowest tax collections, spent 34 percent more
than revenues last year, and at a third of all income had the
highest debt payments,  Reserve Bank of India  data show. It has
the country’s third-largest number of people living in poverty,
according to a University of Oxford  study in 2010 .  The  Trinamool Congress , Singh’s biggest ally, is seeking to
wrest control of the state with a pledge to create industrial
jobs.  Trinamool ‘Win’  Trinamool and its partners will win 182 of the 294 seats in
the assembly, according to a March 31  poll  by Headlines Today
television and ORG. Such a swing in an election ending May 10
would leave the communists with 102 seats, a drop of 131, the
survey of 3,000 people found. It gave no margin of error.
Results are due May 13.  Singh’s Congress party, whose ally may lose control of
Tamil Nadu state, has been assailed by corruption allegations
linked to the sale of telecommunications licenses and food price
inflation that averaged 16 percent last fiscal year.  “Because food prices keep escalating it has become
impossible to make ends meet,” said Sabita, a domestic helper
in south Kolkata who only gave one name. “As it is, we don’t
have any employment opportunities.”  After taking power in 1977, West Bengal’s communists
adopted the doctrines of Vladimir Lenin,  Karl Marx  and Friedrich
Engels, whose statues stand in the main park in Kolkata. They
parceled out land to 1.5 million farmers and imposed government
controls on industry.  A decade ago, as states like Haryana and  Andhra Pradesh 
grew their economies at about twice the pace of West Bengal, the
communists made an about turn. After 20 years of championing
agriculture, they announced tax breaks to lure companies to new
trade zones.  Turf Wars  The communists acquired farmland for industry using a law
drafted by British colonial officials that farmers, often
organized by Trinamool, said failed to adequately compensate
them.  The move sparked turf wars that killed 14 people as the
communists were accused by rivals of sending gangs to disperse
protesting farmers. After the violence, foreign investment
slumped 91 percent in 2009 from a year earlier.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,
owner of Jaguar Land Rover, scrapped plans to make the world’s
cheapest car in the state.  “There’s no economic planning whatsoever,” said Partha Chatterjee, second in command of the Trinamool Congress. “The
communists are leaving a mess.”  Jobless Youth  West Bengal’s urban youth unemployment of 13 percent is
about double that of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka
states,  government figures  show.  In the communists’ Kolkata headquarters, where portraits of
 Josef Stalin  and Vietnamese revolutionary Ho Chi Minh hang,
State Secretary Biman Bose bats away opposition claims that the
party abandoned farmers in favor of big companies.  “We are both pro-business and pro-poor,” Bose says. “We
want to create agricultural-based industries and factories. We
are trying to bring youth unemployment down.”  History, said JPMorgan’s Aziz, will judge communist rule in
the state “as a massive missed opportunity. This government had
the chance to show that Marxism has a place in a democracy, that
they can provide governance and prosperity. They completely blew
it,” he said.  A century ago Kolkata, was home to the government of
British-ruled India and was the subcontinent’s center of
commerce. Earlier still, the 19th century “Bengal Renaissance”
saw the emergence of philosophers, social reformers and artists.  “It used to be said that what Bengal thinks today, India
thinks tomorrow,” said Laveesh Bhandari, a director of Indicus
Analytics, an economics research firm based in  New Delhi . “It
is unlikely that anyone will say this today.”  Voters like Rajesh Babani have more basic concerns. “All I
want is the opportunity to work,” he said as he idled away time
smoking a cigarette. “I will do anything to have that chance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Pradipta Mukherjee in Mumbai at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  