-- 
Indonesia Cirebon Suicide Bomber May Have Been Local Resident, Police Say

-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-04-17T08:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/indonesia-cirebon-suicide-bomber-may-have-been-local-resident-police-say.html
The suicide bomber who blew himself
up and wounded 30 other people at a mosque inside a Cirebon,
West Java police compound two days ago may have been a local
resident, Indonesian authorities said.  Cirebon residents identified Muhammad Syarif from a photo
of the bomber’s face that was distributed after the attack,
National Police Spokesman Anton Bachrul Alam told reporters at a
briefing in Jakarta today. Authorities are conducting DNA tests
on the remains and have taken comparative samples from Syarif’s
mother and father, Alam said. Police haven’t determined a motive
for the bombing, he added.  The Cirebon incident was the first such attack in the
country since July 2009, when two  suicide bombers  killed nine
people including themselves at Jakarta’s JW Marriott and Ritz-
Carlton hotels. While Indonesia, a secular state with the
world’s biggest population of Muslims, has stepped up raids
against terrorist suspects since then, the root causes of
radicalism must be addressed, according to an  International
Crisis Group  adviser.  “Every time a bomber is caught or killed, there’s a
tendency here to say, ‘whew, now it’s over,’” Sidney Jones, a
Jakarta-based senior adviser with Crisis Group, said in an e-
mail today. “But the ideology that produces these attacks is
alive and well, and until the country begins to address the
radical ideas that produce terrorism, we are going to have more
killings.”  On Feb. 10, three members of the Jamaah Ahmadiyah, a
minority Muslim sect, died when villagers attacked the home of
an Ahmadiyah member in Cikeusik district in  Indonesia ’s Banten
province, Detik.com news website reported at the time.  Islamic Defenders Front  The government banned the group in 2008 from spreading
interpretations that deviate from the teachings of Islam, the
Indonesian Ministry of Religious Affairs said on its website.  A group called the Islamic Defenders Front has demanded
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono outlaw the group, and
threatened to overthrow the government if he doesn’t comply.  On March 15, four people were sent bombs concealed in books,
one of which exploded, wounding five including an officer who
lost his hand.  Bombs were sent to Ulil Absar Abdhala, founder of the
Liberal Islam Network; Gories Mere, a former head of Indonesia’s
Densus-88 anti-terrorism unit; Yapto S. Soeryosoemarno, chairman
of the Pancasila Youth organization; and Ahmad Dhani, an
Indonesian musician.  Addressing Radicalism  “Stopping extremist dakwah is not a police job, nor can it
just be tossed to the BNPT,” Jones said, referring to extremist
preaching, and Indonesia’s counter-terrorism unit. “It requires
the involvement of community leaders, and it also requires a
recognition that there is a direct link between religious
intolerance that encourages hatred and violence against minority
communities and this kind of extremist violence.”  Indonesian authorities have blamed Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-
Qaeda-linked group, for bomb attacks at hotels, nightclubs and
embassies that claimed more than 200 lives in the past decade.  Pakistan  notified Indonesian officials last month that it
arrested a man who may be Umar Patek, Pakistani  Foreign Ministry 
spokeswoman Tehmina Janjua told reporters in Islamabad on March
31. Patek is accused of helping carry out the October 2002
nightclub bombings in the resort island of Bali that killed 202
people.  The arrest may shed light on terrorist networks in the
region, Crisis Group’s Jones said in an e-mail April 1.  Understanding Networks  Patek’s arrest “does not mean an end to terrorist attacks,
only that his information may lead to better understanding of
networks and therefore more scope for preventive programs,”
Jones said.  Patek “will have information that everyone wants on the
nature of terrorist links between Pakistan and  Southeast Asia ,
between Indonesia and Mindanao, and perhaps between Mindanao and
the Middle East,” Jones wrote in the e-mail. Mindanao is an
island of the  Philippines  where Islamist insurgents have waged a
war for independence.  On Feb. 10, Indonesian cleric Abu Bakar Bashir went to
trial in Jakarta on terrorism charges that could bring the death
penalty four years after his acquittal for links to the Bali
nightclub bombings.  No Terrorism Conviction  While Bashir has served two jail terms since 2003,
authorities have never convicted him of terrorism as part of a
crackdown on militants under Yudhoyono.  Police arrested Bashir, 72, last year and accused him of
contributing funds to a terrorist training camp in Aceh province.
The charges could result in a sentence ranging from three years
in prison to death, Bashir’s lawyer, Achmad Michdan, said in an
interview in February.  Bashir’s arrest last year followed a  February raid  on a
training camp in Aceh that produced a list of more than 100
terrorism suspects, according to the government.  Indonesia allowed Aceh to impose Islamic Shariah law in
2001 in a bid to win over the population during the central
government’s war with separatists there. More than 98 percent of
Acehnese are Muslims who mostly adhere to a stricter
interpretation of Islam than others in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  