-- 
Iran Aims to Finish Drilling First Caspian Oil Well in March

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-04-17T11:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/iran-aims-to-finish-drilling-first-caspian-oil-well-next-march.html
Iran  expects by next March to
finish drilling its first exploration well for oil in the
Caspian Sea, where it hopes to catch up with neighboring
countries that are already developing major crude deposits.  Iran spent more than $500 million to build and install a
semi-floating drilling platform and put supply boats into place,
Mahmoud Mohaddes,  National Iranian Oil Co. ’s director for
exploration, said in an interview in Tehran. The well is
partially drilled, and the company aims to complete it by the
end of the first quarter of 2012, he said.  “The Caspian Sea is a site that’s of high importance to
us,” Mohaddes said yesterday. “Due to geopolitical reasons and
given’s the site’s potential, oil and gas exploration there is
among NIOC’s priorities.”  Iran is the second-largest crude producer in OPEC after
 Saudi Arabia , and its reserves rank fourth in the world.
Hampered by international sanctions over its nuclear power
program, Iran has been slower to explore for energy in the
Caspian and doesn’t produce any oil there.  Kazakhstan plans to begin producing as early as next year
in the northern Caspian at Kashagan, the world’s fifth-largest
oil field, where the partners include  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA. (FP)  In neighboring
Azerbaijan,  BP Plc (BP/)  leads a group pumping oil at the Azeri-
Chirag-Guneshli project, the largest field under development in
Azerbaijan’s sector of the Caspian basin, according to BP’s
website.  Biggest Caspian Loser  “Iran has had challenges attracting investment and is the
Caspian nation that has lost the most on that front,” Abbas
Maleki, director general of the International Institute for
Caspian Studies, said today in a telephone interview in Tehran.
The institute is a non-governmental research organization based
in the Iranian capital, according to its website. Maleki is a
former deputy foreign minister.  The five littoral nations -- Iran,  Azerbaijan , Russia,
Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan -- have disagreed over how to share
the sea and its resources ever since the collapse of the  Soviet
Union  in 1991, when Iran found itself with four Caspian
neighbors instead of one. Iran wants the landlocked sea split
into five equal parts, while the other four countries seek
sectors matching the length of their respective shorelines, an
arrangement that would limit Iran’s share to less than 15
percent.  Awaiting ‘Favorable Climate’  “Given Iran’s vast oil and gas resources, in particular
in the  Persian Gulf , the country is still better off waiting for
a time when it is grappling with fewer issues on the
international scene and a more favorable climate for reaching an
agreement,” Maleki said.  Iran was unable to ship a semi-floating platform to the
Caspian from outside the region because the sea is landlocked.
Since Iran lacks experience building this type of drilling rig
itself, it turned to a “foreign” contractor, Mohaddes said. He
declined to name the company or its country of origin due to the
sensitivity of the matter.  The  Caspian Sea  could hold 17 billion to 33 billion barrels
of oil, compared with North Sea reserves of 17 billion barrels,
the Iranian oil ministry news website, Shana, said in 2009. The
sea may also hold as much as 8,000 billion cubic meters of gas,
Shana said.  Mohaddes did not give a more recent estimate for the
Caspian’s oil and gas deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  