-- 
Italy’s Last Reactor Town Goes Solar in Fight Against Nuclear

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-04-17T22:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/italy-s-last-reactor-town-goes-solar-in-fight-against-nuclear-power-plants.html
Montalto di Castro, the town where
 Italy ’s last nuclear plant was built before a two-decade ban, is
fighting against a return to atomic power and staking its future
on solar energy by hosting  Europe’s largest photovoltaic park .  “We’ve come up with a better idea,” Mayor Salvatore Carai
said in an interview in his  Town Hall  office, which has views of
the old reactor between the sea and acres of farmland. “The
solar panels keep us self-sufficient. We haven’t used a single
kilowatt of ‘dirty energy’ since December 2009.”  Italy, the only Group of Eight nation without nuclear
plants, passed legislation in 2008 to return to generation and
the country planned to build its first new reactors by 2020.
That was before the accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
prompted the government to set a one-year moratorium.  As Italy debates whether to return to nuclear generation,
Montalto’s mayor is organizing protests and supporting a
national  referendum  to stop the construction of new plants,
saying they would hurt agriculture and tourism.  “There’s concern people will abandon the land for fear of
leaks,” Carai said. “No compensation they can offer could make
up for that.”  The Montalto reactor, which never went into service, was
dismantled after Italians voted in a 1987 referendum to end
nuclear generation in the wake of the  Chernobyl accident . The
empty shell of the facility now sits next to a thermoelectric
plant run by  Enel SpA (ENEL) , Italy’s biggest electricity producer.  Residents of Montalto are concerned that their town is a
prime candidate to host new generators once the moratorium ends.  ‘Top of List’  “We’re at the top of the list,” said Stefano Sebastiani,
a spokesman for Montalto’s anti-nuclear committee. The Japanese
accident has raised awareness on safety issues and made
residents nervous about the prospect of new plants, he said.
“Nuclear is like a pressure cooker and sooner or later the
steam comes out and people pay the price.”  Experts agree that if plant construction goes ahead, the
town of 9,000 between the sea and the hills of the central
region of Lazio would offer an ideal location.  “Montalto is one of the places where it makes sense to
restart nuclear,” said  Giovanbattista Zorzoli , a nuclear
engineer and professor at Milan’s polytechnic university. “It
has the right conditions and a network already set up for
distribution of the energy.” There’s also a canal connecting
the area to the sea to allow for cooling, he said.  Montalto has already moved on, said Raffaello Giacchetti,
regional manager for  SunRay Renewable Energy , a European solar
power-plant developer and operator of the town’s main 45
megawatt photovoltaic field. Producing enough electricity to
power 15,000 homes, it’s the largest field in  Europe .  Economic Advantages  “Montalto and other towns in the area have understood that
they’re not just getting economic advantages from the fields,”
Giacchetti said. “They’re are also creating an alternative to
nuclear power.” The town’s solar fields combine to provide 85
MW of power, which should rise to 120 MW by the end of this
year, according to Mayor Carai.  Solar panel prices will likely fall to $1.50 per watt in
the second half of 2011 compared with around $1.80 in 2010,
Jenny Chase, a solar analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
said March 29.  Demand for solar may be supported by a backlash against
atomic generators after the Fukushima accident. The WilderHill
New Energy Index has gained about 8 percent since the March 11
accident as governments around the world review their nuclear
plans.  Electricity Prices  Some Montalto residents remain skeptical about whether
solar power can have enough of an impact. “We pay too much for
electricity,” said Quinto Del Papa, a retired farmer who
supports nuclear power. “I think nuclear would help.”  Italian households pay 21 euro cents per kilowatt hour of
electricity compared with 13 cents in  France  and 14 cents in the
U.K., while Italian businesses pay 13 cents, compared with 7
cents in France and 11 cents in the U.K., according to Brussels-
based research firm  Europe’s Energy Portal .  Environment Minister Stefania Prestigiacomo said last year
that nuclear power will help balance Italy’s energy mix, reduce
electricity prices and cut dependence on imported energy.  Del Papa, who remembers Montalto as a boomtown that nearly
doubled in population as the old plant was built, said new
reactors “would also give us jobs.” As for the dangers of
having a reactor in the neighborhood, he shrugged. “I’d live
near it,” he said. “Those accidents are rare.”  Zorzoli, the Milan-based nuclear engineer, said he’s more
skeptical about atomic energy since the Fukushima accident.
“One should not be alarmist” about the country’s power
requirements, he said. “Italy’s existing capacity and renewable
development will allow us to face our needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 frotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  