-- 
Japan's Bonds Rise, Send Yields to Two-Week Low, Amid Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-18T06:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/japan-s-government-bonds-may-gain-following-treasuries-on-inflation-data.html
Japanese bonds rose, pushing
benchmark yields to the lowest this month, as concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will hinder growth spurred demand for the
relative safety of debt.  Ten-year futures gained for a fourth day after costs to
protect Greece’s bonds from nonpayment surged to a record last
week and ahead of data that may show European  consumer
confidence  worsened this month. Japan’s government today
repealed a planned  tax cut  on gasoline to help pay for
rebuilding from the nation’s biggest earthquake, easing concern
the costs would be financed with new debt issuances.  “There’s persistent demand for Japanese bonds,” said
 Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest lender for farmers and
fishermen. “The world’s economy is undoubtedly coming to a
fairly challenging situation with a chance that higher  oil
prices  will damp growth.”  The yield on the 10-year bond fell 3.5 basis points to 1.25
percent as of 3:29 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due March 2021 added 0.309 yen to 100.440 yen. The
yield is at the lowest since March 31.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery gained 0.26 to
139.36 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Europe Concern  The cost of insuring Greek government debt reached an all-
time high on April 15, with the contracts indicating investors
see a greater than 60 percent chance the nation will default
within five years.  Greece  received a bailout from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  last year, and was
followed by Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking aid.  “Demand for bonds is resilient because of weakening
expectations globally for economic recovery and Europe’s debt
problem,” said  Satoshi Yamada , who helps oversee about $12
billion as manager of fixed-income trading at Okasan Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo.  An index of household sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
dropped to a three-month low of minus 11 in April, according to
a Bloomberg survey of economists before today’s European
Commission data.  Treasury 10-year yields slid nine basis points on April 15
after the Labor Department said the consumer-price index
excluding food and energy rose 0.1 percent in March, less than
the 0.2 percent increase forecast by economists.  ‘Countless Factors’  Japanese bonds also gained on speculation the economy will
struggle to recover from the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami
on March 11. Sixty-nine percent of people in  Japan  would accept
a tax increase to finance the post-quake reconstruction efforts,
the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing a survey taken between
April 15 and 17.  “There are countless factors for the economy to worsen,”
 Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., wrote in a note to clients today. “I recommend
bargain hunting with 10-year yields at a range of between 1.3
percent and 1.35 percent.”  Finance chief Yoshihiko Noda agreed with members of his tax
panel this morning to “temporarily freeze” a measure that
would cut levies if gasoline exceeds 160 yen ($1.93) per liter
for three straight months, Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko
Igarashi told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is seeking ways to pay for damages
from the disaster that his government estimates may swell to 25
trillion yen without blowing out the world’s largest public debt
burden.  Flattening Curve  Ten-year yields will drop to 1.2 percent by the end of
September, according to analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year debt
instead of two-year notes shrank to 1.05 percentage points from
an 11-month high of 1.13 percentage points on April 12, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The flattening of the so-called yield curve “indicates
longer-maturity bonds were undervalued,” Norinchukin’s Minami
said. A yield curve is a graph which charts the rates of bonds
of a similar type with different maturities. It flattens when
yields on shorter-dated debt rise, those on longer-dated bonds
fall, or when both occur at the same time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 