-- 
Mutai Wins London Marathon in Course Record; Keitany Adds to Kenya Success

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-04-17T19:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/kenyan-duo-emmanuel-mutai-mary-keitany-win-london-marathon-events.html
Emmanuel Mutai won the  London 
Marathon today in a course-record time as Kenyans filled the top
three places. His compatriot Mary Keitany won the women’s event.  Mutai’s mark for the 26.2 miles (42.2 kilometers) was 2
hours, 4 minutes, 40 seconds, the fifth-fastest marathon time
ever. Three-time champion Martin Lel beat Patrick Makau in a
sprint finish for second place in the Mall, near  Buckingham
Palace .  “Since I came to run in London I was fourth twice and
second once, and now my dream has come true,” Mutai told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “I tried in  New York  last year and I
came second but the best has come for me today. My aim was just
to win the race, I wasn’t focusing on the time. It’s a fantastic
achievement for me personally.”  The 26-year-old Mutai, second in London in 2010,
accelerated away from the field after 20 miles and finished more
than a minute ahead of his nearest opponents.  Keitany, 29, finished ahead of Liliya Shobukhova of  Russia ,
last year’s winner, in second and Edna Kiplagat of  Kenya .
Keitany surged away from the field about halfway and was never
in danger of relinquishing the lead, clocking 2:19:19 -- the
fourth fastest-ever women’s marathon.  The previous men’s London Marathon record was 2:05.10, by
Sammy Wanjiru of Kenya in 2009. The world record of 2:03:59 was
set by Haile Gebrselassie of  Ethiopia  in Berlin in 2008.  Britain’s David Weir won the men’s wheelchair event for a
fifth time. Amanda McGrory of the U.S., a winner in Paris
earlier this month, took the women’s event.  Today’s was the 31st running of the London Marathon, which
started in 1981. This year’s event attracted about 37,000
participants, many of them fun-runners taking part to raise
money for charitable causes. The race started in dry, overcast
conditions, amid temperatures of about 10 degrees Celsius (50
Fahrenheit), with sun coming out later.  Among today’s celebrity participants were model Nell
McAndrew, Olympic rowing champions James Cracknell and Matthew Pinsent, and comedian Joe Pasquale.  The city is the site of next year’s summer  Olympic Games .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  