-- 
Norway Oil Fund Not Keen on More Property Investments After Regent Street

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   S t a n l e y   R e e d
-- 
2011-04-17T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/norway-s-sovereign-wealth-fund-not-enthusiastic-on-property-investments.html
Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund is
in no hurry to spend the $25 billion it has earmarked for real
estate after buying 25 percent of London’s Regent Street this
year as it anticipates better deals after 2013.  “This will take some years depending on the market, but of
course, implicitly if we say that, we’re not enthusiastic,”
 Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer at Norges Bank
Investment Management, which oversees the fund, said in a April
15 interview in Oslo. “There will be better buying
opportunities after 2013.”  The $570 billion Government Pension Fund Global last year
got approval to put 5 percent of its capital in real estate,
diversifying from stocks and bonds, to spread risk and boost
returns to safeguard Norway’s oil and gas wealth. This year it
completed its first property purchase, agreeing to pay 452
million pounds ($694 million) for a stake in the  London  shopping
district and also plans deals in France and Germany in 2011.  The  European Central Bank  this month raised its benchmark
rate from a record low to damp inflation, increasing borrowing
costs across the continent and potentially cooling the  property
market . At the same, the sovereign-debt crisis gripping Greece,
Portugal and Ireland, and austerity measures from countries such
as the U.K. are weighing on an economic revival.  Slowing Gains  Gains in U.K. commercial property prices slowed in March as
a shrinking economy and public spending cuts sapped demand for
leasing space, Investment Property Databank Ltd. said. The
average value of stores, offices and warehouses increased 3.5
percent from a year earlier, the London-based researcher said
last week, down from a 4.8 percent gain in February.  “It is not the best moment ever, you should have bought a
year ago, but it is still okay,”  Harm Meijer , an analyst at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said by phone from London last week. “We
still see upside for London and further upside for Paris.”  U.K. commercial real estate sales rose 44 percent last year
as pension funds, insurers and investors targeted office
buildings in London and retail properties, according to Property
Data.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , a U.K. fund manager,
expects returns on prime property in  Europe  to fall to 6 percent
this year from 9 percent last year before they recover in 2012,
according to a January report on its website.  ‘Some Luck’  There’s no “urgency” in building real estate up to 5
percent, Slyngstad said. “We’re first of all looking at the
three major European markets, U.K., France and Germany and with
some luck and with the right assets we may have invested in all
of these three countries by the end of the year.”  Norway, a nation of 4.9 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
the country’s largest energy company.  The fund is mandated to hold 60 percent in equities, 35
percent in fixed-income and 5 percent in real estate. It has
been taking on more risk since its initial capital infusion in
1996, adding stocks in 1998, emerging markets in 2000 and this
year real estate.  Only  Abu Dhabi  has a larger wealth fund, according to the
Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute in  California . A sovereign
wealth fund is a state-owned fund with assets such as stocks,
bonds and real estate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley Reed in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  