-- 
Nowotny, Coene Signal Investors Right to Expect Higher ECB Rates This Year

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-17T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/nowotny-coene-signal-investors-right-to-expect-higher-ecb-rates-this-year.html
European monetary policy is too
stimulative given the economic outlook for the region, and
 Greece  doesn’t need to restructure its debt, European Central
Bank Governing Council member Luc Coene said.  Speaking in an interview with Bloomberg News yesterday,
Coene said the ECB’s policy interest rate has to be adjusted
from its level during the global recession, given signs of
growth in the region.  “The  interest rates  we had were maybe appropriate when we
were in the depth of the crisis but probably are not appropriate
anymore,” Coene said in  Washington  where he attended meetings
of the Group of 20 nations and the  International Monetary Fund .
“We have to adjust them.”  The ECB is balancing the need for tighter policy in
countries like  Germany , where the economy is booming, against
the risk that higher rates could exacerbate the sovereign debt
crisis afflicting peripheral euro-area nations. Investors
anticipate the ECB will raise its benchmark rate to 1.75 percent
by the end of the year, Eonia forward contracts show.  Asked if those expectations are realistic, Coene said the
central bank will “look month after month at the data and see
how far we can go further in this process. It is difficult “to
give an indication of an end point because the situation is so
uncertain,” he said.  Ewald Nowotny, another ECB council member, in a separate
interview April 16 said investors’ expectations of a further
tightening of monetary policy this year are “well founded” and
that the “exact timing” will depend on the economy.  ‘Too Accommodative’  Coene joined the central bank’s policy-making body April 1,
replacing  Guy Quaden , who retired. Coene said he and his
colleagues will “evaluate the situation and we will see whether
there is a need to continue the process” of raising interest
rates. “Conditions are still too accommodative,” Coene added,
echoing an April 7 statement by ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet .  While the euro region’s economic outlook remains
“positive,” Coene said the ECB “will have to watch how things
develop in the future because we’ve seen in Germany the last
indicator was not that positive anymore.”  German investor confidence fell this month more than
economists forecast after the ECB’s rate increase, the ZEW
Center for European Economic Research said April 12.  Regarding the region’s sovereign debt crisis, Coene said
financial market indicators give an “impression that this is
the end of the contagion” because other countries have taken
steps to insulate themselves. “I think this is indeed the end
of the story,” he said.  As for Greece, the first step is for it to correct the
“imbalances” in its economy, said Coene, 64, who as deputy
central bank governor spearheaded  Belgium ’s response to the
banking crisis. “What is important is first having all these
imbalances in these countries corrected and then you can talk
about other things,” he said.  Asked whether Greece needs to restructure its debt, Coene
said, “no, certainly not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  