-- 
Crude Market Is ‘Oversupplied,' Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Al-Naimi Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-04-17T17:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/oil-market-is-oversupplied-with-crude-saudi-minister-ali-al-naimi-says.html
Saudi Arabia ’s Oil Minister Ali al- Naimi said the global “market is oversupplied” with crude even
as the world’s largest oil producer cut output last month by
more than 800,000 barrels a day.  “Our production in February was 9,125,100 barrels a day,”
al-Naimi said, as he arrived in  Kuwait  for a conference. “In
March, it was 8,292,100 barrels. It will probably go a little
higher in April. The reason I mention these numbers is to show
you the market is oversupplied.”  Saudi Arabia’s spare production capacity is about 3.5
million barrels a day, and its total capacity is 12.5 million
barrels a day, he said today.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil exporter, has said it will
make up for any crude production lost as a result of the Libyan
conflict, which erupted in mid-February. The March decline in
Saudi output coincides with a decrease in demand from  Japan , the
world’s third-largest crude user, after the March 11 earthquake
that shuttered 29 percent of the Asian nation’s refinery
capacity.  “Japan imports 4.2 million barrels a day of oil,” Vice
Minister of International Affairs Hideichi Okada said in Kuwait.
“The Japanese economic growth rate will decrease to some
extent, and that means our demand will slow down. Our demand
will slow for a certain period, then our demand will go up
again.”  New Blends Sold  Saudi Arabia sold 2 million barrels of new blends of oil it
has developed to help replace Libyan barrels withheld from the
market, “and there is plenty left,” al-Naimi said.  The kingdom pumped 9.02 million barrels of crude oil a day
in February, up 5.9 percent from the previous month, according
to official data posted today on the government’s Joint
Organization Data Initiative  website . The increase of 506,000
barrels a day over January raised Saudi monthly production to
its highest level since October 2008, when the country produced
9.52 million barrels a day, the data showed.  “This means that Saudi Arabia did take the necessary
measures to cushion the global oil market against any Libyan oil
losses,” John Sfakianakis, the chief economist at Riyadh-based
Banque Saudi Fransi, said today by telephone.  The new Saudi blends have seen a “lukewarm response” from
European refiners, Amrita Sen, an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote
in an April 14 investor note.  Crude oil for May delivery climbed $1.55 to settle at
$109.66 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on April
15. Al-Naimi declined to comment on U.S. futures prices, which
are up 28 percent from a year ago.  Saudi Arabia agreed to a production quota of 8.051 million
barrels a day as part of its membership in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at   adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  