-- 
Oil, Gas Companies Injected Toxic Chemicals Into Ground, U.S. Report Shows

-- B y   R y a n   W o o
-- 
2011-04-17T02:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/oil-gas-companies-injected-toxic-chemicals-into-ground-u-s-report-shows.html
Fourteen oil and gas companies used
780 million gallons of hydraulic-fracturing products from 2005
and 2009, including toxic substances like benzene and lead, to
extract gas from shale rock, according to a report by Democrats
in the  U.S. Congress .  More than 2,500 products containing 750 chemicals and other
components were used, Representatives Henry Waxman,  Edward Markey  and Diana DeGette wrote in the  report .  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a technique that
involves injecting a mix of water, sand and chemicals into the
ground to extract oil or gas. From 2005 and 2009, the 14
companies used fracking products containing 29 chemicals that
are known or possible human carcinogens, regulated under the
Safe Drinking Water Act for their risks to human health or
listed as hazardous air pollutants, according to the report.  “In many instances, the oil and gas service companies were
unable to identify these proprietary chemicals, suggesting that
the companies are injecting fluids containing chemicals that
they themselves cannot identify,” Democrats on the Energy and
Commerce Committee said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The most widely used chemical in fracking during this
period was methanol, a hazardous air pollutant, the report shows.
The Democratic study was reported earlier by the New York Times.  “Hydraulic fracturing has opened access to vast domestic
reserves of natural gas that could provide an important stepping
stone to a clean energy future,” according to the report. “Yet
questions about the safety of hydraulic fracturing persist,
which are compounded by the secrecy surrounding the chemicals
used in hydraulic fracturing fluids.”  Shale-Gas Output  Shale-gas output in the U.S.  rose  more than eightfold in
the last decade as operators started fields in  Pennsylvania ,
Arkansas,  Louisiana , Montana and  North Dakota . Increased
supplies could help reduce the amount of energy the U.S. imports,
the Energy Information Administration said in December.  President  Barack Obama  said last month the U.S. should tap
its shale-gas deposits as part of a long-term plan to guarantee
 energy security . Shale gas may account for 45 percent of total
U.S. gas output by 2035 compared with 14 percent in 2009, EIA
data  show .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Woo in Singapore at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 