-- 
Robots Find High Radiation as Tokyo Electric Lays Out Plan to End Crisis

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-19T09:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/tokyo-electric-expects-to-end-fukushima-nuclear-crisis-as-early-as-october.html
Robots sent into three buildings at
 Japan ’s crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station detected
radiation too toxic for humans after the plant operator set out
a plan to end the crisis in six to nine months.  Measurements show one hour inside the No. 3 reactor
building would expose humans to more than one-fifth of the
radiation Japan has said is the most workers can endure in a
year, the atomic safety agency said yesterday. The buildings
were damaged by explosions in the days after a magnitude-9 quake
and tsunami on March 11 knocked out cooling equipment, sparking
the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  A sustained drop in radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station may be achieved within three months,  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co. said in a  statement  laying out its plans. Following
that, a cold shutdown, where core reactor temperatures fall
below 100 degrees Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit), may be
achieved within six months, it said.  “Tepco needs to be faster than it has outlined on two
particular areas: circulating the radioactive water back into
the pressure vessels and covering the reactor buildings to
prevent radiation releases,” Tadashi Narabayashi, a professor
of nuclear engineering at Hokkaido University said today.  Shares of Tepco, as the company is called, fell 4.3 percent
to 447 yen today in Tokyo. The stock is down about 80 percent
since the quake and tsunami, which left almost 28,000 people
dead or missing.  Robot Readings  Two  iRobot Corp. (IRBT)  robots sent into reactor buildings on
April 17 to check whether humans can reenter them found
radiation levels as high as 49 millisieverts per hour inside the
No. 1 unit, and up to 57 millisieverts in the No. 3 unit, the
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said.  The cumulative maximum level for nuclear workers was raised
to 250 millisieverts from 100 millisieverts by Japan’s health
ministry on March 15. Exposure totaling 100 millisieverts over a
year is the lowest level at which any increase in cancer is
evident, according to the  World Nuclear Association  in  London .  Another robot was sent into the reactor No. 2 building
yesterday and recorded levels of 4.1 millisieverts per hour,
spokesman Tetsuya Terasawa told reporters today. That level
wouldn’t prevent workers going into the building, another
spokesman said.  Exposure Limits  “We judge the radiation limit by the amount, importance
and hours of the work, as well as accumulated exposure of each
worker,” spokesman Shogo Fukuda said. “We wouldn’t hesitate to
send workers in at a level of 4.1 millisieverts per hour.”  Fuel pellets in the No. 1, 2 and 3 reactors may have melted
at the plant, the nuclear safety agency said today, in the first
official confirmation of damage to the cores.  “It is believed that the fuel pellets in the reactors have
melted,” the agency said in a report. “The extent of the
melting cannot be confirmed until the fuel rods have been
removed.”  In the next three months, Tepco plans to fill the reactor
containment vessels at the No. 1 and No. 3 units with water, the
company said in its statement on April 17. The utility will seal
the vessel of the No. 2 reactor, which is likely damaged, before
flooding it.  “If we flood the damaged vessel, the leak of contaminated
water will increase,” Tepco Vice President Sakae Muto told
reporters the same day. “We will continue injecting water with
care and monitor the volume of water leaked.”  Leaking Water  The water pumped so far has overflowed into basements and
trenches, with some of it leaking into the ocean.  Tepco started draining highly radioactive water from
trenches around the No. 2 reactor at about 10 a.m. today,
spokesman Osamu Yokokura said.  The power utility plans to move 10 million liters (2.6
million gallons) of the contaminated water to a waste treatment
unit and expects to complete the transfer in 26 days, Junichi Matsumoto, an official at  Tokyo Electric , told reporters earlier
today.  “Once Tepco completes draining the radioactive water from
the building of the No. 2 reactor, engineers may find the
damaged area of containment vessel and seal it,” said Kazuya
Idemitsu, a professor of nuclear engineering at Kyushu
University.  Three to six months after the initial phase of its plan,
Tepco will attempt a cold shutdown of reactors No. 1, 2 and 3,
the company said. Reactors 4, 5 and 6 were shut at the time of
the disaster.  The utility will also cover the No. 1, 3 and 4 reactor
buildings as a temporary measure to reduce radiation emissions
after the structures were damaged by hydrogen blasts last month,
according to the statement.  “Tepco should cover buildings as soon as possible, at
least before Japan’s typhoon season, because strong wind and
rain may cause spillage of radioactive water from spent fuel
pools," Narabayashi at  Hokkaido University  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/19/ :56 GMT 