-- 
Gains in U.S. Home Sales, Starts Probably Failed to Make Up Lost Ground

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-17T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/home-sale-increases-starts-in-u-s-probably-failed-to-make-up-lost-ground.html
March increases in home sales and
construction probably failed to make up for the ground lost the
prior month, showing the U.S. residential real estate market
continues to struggle almost two years into the economic
recovery, economists said before reports this week.  Purchases of existing homes rose 2.5 percent to a 5 million
annual rate after dropping 9.6 percent in February, according to
the median forecast of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Another report may show builders began work last month on 8.6
percent more houses following a 23 percent plunge.  “We’re unlikely to see any significant, fundamental
rebound in housing in the near term,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Housing, which pushed the economy into the recession,
remains the weak link in the recovery and continues to weigh on
 consumer spending  as  home prices  fall. Manufacturing, which has
been at the forefront of the expansion, may cool in coming
months as producers face supply shortages caused by last month’s
earthquake and the nuclear crisis in  Japan .  “As we head into the second quarter, there is a tremendous
amount of uncertainty about where things are headed,” said
Stanley.  The National Association of Realtors’ report on sales of
previously owned homes is due April 20. The drop in purchases in
February sent the median price of existing houses to the lowest
level since 2002.  Distressed Properties  Distressed properties accounted for 39 percent of sales,
and the share of all cash transactions was 33 percent, the
highest since at least August 2008, when the agents’ group began
tracking the monthly figure.  CoreLogic Inc. last month estimated about 1.8 million homes
were delinquent or in foreclosure, a so-called “shadow
inventory” set to add to the 3.5 million existing homes already
on the market.  A glut of unsold properties may cause prices to keep
falling, leaving little incentive for homebuilders to begin
construction of new homes.  A report from the Commerce Department on April 19 will show
builders began work last month on 520,000 houses at an annual
rate, up from 479,000 in February, according to economists’
forecasts. February’s total was the second-lowest in data going
back to 1959, behind April 2009’s 477,000 rate.  Building permits rose 1.1 percent to a 540,000 annual pace
last month from 534,000 in February, according to the survey.
Permits reached a record low 522,000 pace in March 2009.  Builder Pessimism  Builders remain pessimistic. The  National Association of
Home Builders ’ confidence index held at 17 this month, according
to the median forecasts of economists surveyed before the April
18 report. A reading under 50 means a majority of builders view
conditions as poor.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, this month reported a bigger-than-expected
loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “We do not anticipate a net profit for 2011,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call
with analysts on April 5. “The economy is continuing to
improve. Even so, this recovery has yet to include significant
job growth and has not spilled over into housing.”  Homebuilders have underperformed the broader stock market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has
gained 0.8 percent so far this year, compared with a 4.9 percent
increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Leading Index  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators, due April
21, may show the recovery will slow. The index rose 0.3 percent
in March, compared with a 0.8 percent gain in February,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the Conference Board report.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index, due the same day, may show manufacturing in the region
moderated this month after expanding in March at the fastest
pace in 27 years. The gauge fell to 36 from 43.4 in March,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed.
Readings greater than zero signal growth.  Also on April 21, the Labor Department may report that
initial claims for jobless benefits fell to 393,000 last week
from 412,000 the prior week, a sign of improving labor market
conditions.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  