-- 
London Property Asking Prices Rise to Record, Rightmove Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-18T08:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/london-property-asking-prices-increase-to-record-rightmove-says.html
London  home sellers raised asking
prices to a record in April as prospective cash-rich buyers met
a shortage of homes available for sale.  Average asking prices in the capital rose 1.6 percent from
the previous month to 431,013 pounds ($701,000), Rightmove Plc,
the operator of the U.K.’s biggest property website, said in an
e-mailed statement today. From a year earlier, prices are up 2.2
percent, against a 0.1 percent increase in  England  and Wales.  “London is a stable market that behaves differently from
the rest of the country,” said Justin Knight, a real-estate
agent at Bective Leslie Marsh in west London. “There’s a real
imbalance in supply and demand.”  Bank of England  policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said April 14
that unaffordable homes and a squeeze on lending may mean the
revival in the  property market  lags an economic recovery driven
by global demand. The exception is London and the South East of
England, where property has a stronger link to the performance
of the financial industry and global markets, he said.  Nationally,  house prices  rose 1.7 percent in April from
March, according to Rightmove, which said the increase “looks
misplaced” as supply is outstripping demand. The average number
of properties real-estate agents have available for sale rose to
74 from 70, the biggest jump since May 2007.  The pound fell 0.4 percent against the dollar today and
traded at $1.6267 as of 9:35 a.m. in London.  Cash Buyers  In London, more buyers are paying cash as they shift assets
from financial products into property, Knight said. While the
number of prospective buyers at his firm has doubled from a year
earlier to about 1,200, people are reluctant to sell.  A six-bedroom house he’s offered in Brook Green in London
will probably go to an all-cash buyer paying “significantly”
above the 2.3 million-pound asking price, he said.  Rightmove said the gain in London asking prices was led by
a 5.5 percent increase in Greenwich, where the Cutty Sark
clipper ship is docked and the world’s prime meridian line is
located. Nationally, eight of 10 regions showed increases, led
by a 3.3 percent jump in the South West of England.  U.K. banks approved 46,967  mortgages  in February, little
changed from a year earlier and less than half the level at the
start of 2007, the peak of the housing-market boom, Bank of
England data show.  Interest Rates  The central bank left its  key interest rate  at a record low
of 0.5 percent this month to steer the economy through the
biggest public spending squeeze since World War II. Policy
makers split four ways on policy last month, with three members
voting for an increase to tame prices.  The prospect of higher borrowing costs may dent the
property market at a time when buyers are already feeling a
pinch from a credit squeeze and should lead sellers to consider
cutting asking prices, Rightmove said.  Buyers are “still struggling to raise the necessary
finance,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove,
said in the report. “With government cuts starting to bite and
interest-rate rises still expected in the second half of the
year, those who are serious about selling should look to price
more keenly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  