-- 
Hong Kong Canary Singing Commodities Boom Peaking in Aussie Mine: Real M&A

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-04-18T10:54:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/hong-kong-canary-singing-commodities-boom-peaking-in-aussie-mine-real-m-a.html
The little-known takeover bid for a
money-losing Australian mining company by a Hong Kong limousine
operator shows all the signs of a peaking commodities boom.  Brockman Resources Ltd. (BRM) , which controls an iron-ore project
in  Australia ’s Pilbara region, is trading 8.8 percent below the
all-stock offer from luxury-taxi provider  Wah Nam International
Holdings Ltd. (159) , the biggest gap for any deal in  Asia  greater than
$500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wah Nam’s
simultaneous bid for  Ferraus Ltd. (FRS)  has speculators more convinced
than ever that the industry’s highest premium in the past year
won’t be enough to close the deal, the data show.  Wah Nam, which like Brockman hasn’t made a profit since the
2006 fiscal year, is bidding for access to mines in Australia’s
biggest iron-ore producing region as it seeks to transform
itself into a raw-material supplier to China. While  iron-ore 
demand in China is projected by  Rio Tinto  Group to double by
2020, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last week that the current
risks of investing in commodities outweigh potential gains.  “There’s a bit of froth that’s definitely found its way
into the commodities space,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps
oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.
Wah Nam’s bids are “symptomatic of the fact that it’s gotten a
little overheated. It’s not even somebody that would really
benefit from controlling their source of input,” he said.  All-Stock Deals  Carmen Ng, Wah Nam’s corporate affairs manager, declined to
comment, citing legal obligations. Kate Bell, an outside
spokeswoman for Brockman, said Managing Director Wayne Richards
was not available for comment. Mitchell Hume, an outside
spokesman for Ferraus, said he was unable to reach company
executives for comment.  Shares of Wah Nam slipped 2.9 percent to HK$1.67 today in
 Hong Kong . Brockman advanced 0.4 percent to A$5.57 in Sydney,
while Ferraus gained 0.7 percent to 71 cents.  Wah Nam, incorporated in  Bermuda , made a A$626.8 million
($630 million) offer, including net debt, in November for the 77
percent of Brockman it didn’t already own. The all-stock deal
represented a 57 percent premium to Brockman’s 20-day trading
average prior to the bid, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The takeover is now worth about A$6.11 a share, a 9.7
percent premium to Brockman’s current stock price. That’s the
widest gap of any pending acquisition larger than $500 million
in the Asia-Pacific region’s developed markets, indicating
traders believe the deal is the least likely to be completed,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Low Probability’  “The market is pricing in a low probability of success,”
said Gregory Lafitte, head of Asian merger arbitrage at Louis
Capital Markets in Hong Kong. “Wah Nam has very limited
experience in mining.”  On the same day the Brockman bid was announced, Wah Nam
also offered A$182.3 million including net debt for South Perth-
based Ferraus, in which it already had a 20 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The announced premium of 66 percent was the highest in the
diversified-minerals industry in the past 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It increased to 78 percent last week,
the biggest gap since the bid was announced. Both offers were
extended to May 16, Wah Nam said on April 7.  There have been 232 diversified mineral deals announced in
the past year at an average premium of 14 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The $8 billion worth of takeovers in
the industry in the first quarter was the most since the same
period in 2001, the data show.  Toll Road Operator  Wah Nam is trying to convert itself into a mining company
after previous incarnations as a plastic and electrical
manufacturer, brokerage, and toll-road operator. The company has
focused primarily on transportation since buying Perryville
Group Ltd., a limousine rental and airport-shuttle services
company, in 2007 for HK$170 million ($21.9 million).  The acquisition of its first mining asset, the Damajianshan
copper mine in  China ’s Yunnan province, for HK$650 million in
2008 signified that Wah Nam had refocused itself as a “mining
resources company,” according to its website.  “Everybody and their brother seems to be running to try to
get that kind of diversification,” said Richard Weiss,  Mountain
View , California-based senior portfolio manager at American
Century Investments, which manages more than $100 billion. Still,
“why would they diversify into something they arguably have
little or no expertise in?” he said.  A leap from one business into another is not unusual in
Hong Kong, and many smaller companies use the move to drum up
more investor interest, according to Castor Pang, a research
director with Cinda International Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong.  ‘For Real’  Demand for raw materials will likely continue to outpace
supply, fueled by growth in emerging markets, said  Keith Wirtz ,
who helps manage $18 billion as chief investment officer for
Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. Iron-ore consumption
in China will double by 2020 from 2008 levels, according to
London-based Rio Tinto.  Wah Nam has “enough confidence that this is for real --
it’s not temporary,” said Wirtz. “Emerging market growth and
consumption of real resources has been pronounced.”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  of New York this month raised its 2014 iron-
ore price forecast by 15 percent to $115 a metric ton and the
2015 estimate by 38 percent to $110 a ton.  This year’s 18 percent advance in the S&P GSCI Index of 24
commodities through last week also helped fuel inflation,
spurring central banks to consider higher  interest rates  that
may curb growth.  Bank of China   The People’s Bank of China yesterday said it would raise
banks’ reserve requirements after inflation accelerated at the
fastest pace since 2008 last month, adding to pressure to slow
the economy.  Higher energy costs mean “near-term headwinds” for metals
such as copper, according to Goldman Sachs. The New York-based
firm last week dropped its recommendation to buy a basket of raw
materials that included a 20 percent weighting in copper. Prices
of the metal have slid for five days on the Comex in  New York .  “This environment is the absolute peak of an industry,”
said Dennison Hambling, chief investment officer of Melbourne-
based First Samuel Ltd., which holds Ferraus shares. “You look
at the cost of developing iron ore now, and the cycle has pushed
the cost up so much to crazy levels, that for a single site to
develop by themselves they’d have to be bloody good.”  Wah Nam has posted combined losses of HK$591.5 million in
the past four years, and 87 percent of its HK$132 million in
revenue last year came from limousine rentals and airport
shuttles, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The mining operations
had an operating loss of HK$161 million in 2010 as copper output
was “relatively low” in the last two years, the company said.  ‘A Long Shot’  Brockman’s Marillana project in the Pilbara region is
scheduled to  start output  in 2014, according to its website.
Combining the operations of Brockman and Ferraus, which explores
for iron ore in the region, would reduce costs, Wah Nam has said.  “Occasionally you hear stories of companies successfully
changing direction, but it’s more the exception than the rule by
a long shot,” said  Ben Potter , a market analyst at IG Markets
in  Melbourne . “If you started to see a lot of these things
happening, like people in China who had no experience whatsoever
in mining stocks and were just looking to buy miners, then it
sounds a bit like a tech boom.”  Overall, there have been 7,150 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $707.4 billion, a 30 percent increase from
the $545.8 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 