-- 
Toyota Plans to Invest More in Miyagi Even After Earthquake

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-04-18T10:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/toyota-plans-more-investments-in-miyagi-even-after-earthquake.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the automaker
most affected by Japan’s record earthquake, plans to build an
engine plant in the nation’s devastated  Miyagi prefecture  and
will move a subsidiary’s production operations to the region.  Toyota Motor Tohoku Corp. , a wholly owned subsidiary of the
automaker, will start building the new engine plant within a few
years in Miyagi prefecture as car production ramps up at auto
plants owned by the carmaker in Ohira, Miyagi and nearby Iwate
prefecture, said Managing Director Kozo Sakurai.  “This kind of disaster occurs only once in a thousand
years,” Sakurai said in an interview last week at Toyota
Tohoku’s plant in Taiwa, Miyagi, which makes anti-lock brake
systems, axles and suspensions. “Earthquake risk is now higher
for regions that haven’t yet been hit, so this is actually a
chance for the Miyagi region.”  Toyota unit Central Motor Co. began production of the Yaris
compact at a new plant in Ohira in January as part of a plan to
make the northern Tohoku region, which includes Miyagi and
Iwate, a small-car production hub. Even after the magnitude-9
quake, which left more than  28,000 dead or missing, destroyed
almost 60,000 homes  and triggered power shortages, the plan
remains largely unchanged, said Makoto Moriya, in charge of
Central Motor’s production operations.  Toyota Tohoku already secured 324,000 square meters (3.5
million square feet) of land in April 2008 adjacent to the Taiwa
plant to build 200,000 engines for compact cars a year,
according to Sakurai and  Miyagi prefecture .  Toyota fell 0.5 percent to 3,225 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo. The stock has declined 12 percent since March
10, the day before the temblor.  Ractis Compacts  Toyota Tohoku and Central Motor, both wholly owned by
Toyota Motor, suffered limited damage from the earthquake
because of stable land foundations and because their inland
locations shielded them from the subsequent tsunami, Sakurai
said.  Toyota compacts such as the Ractis and ist are built at
 Kanto Auto Works Ltd. ’s plant in Iwate prefecture, just north of
Miyagi.  Toyota Tohoku’s equipment that weren’t bolted to the floor
moved laterally up to 30 centimeters (12 inches), he said. The
quake’s impact on Central Motor’s facilities was similarly
minor, Moriya said.  Transferring Workers  Central Motor will begin transferring a factory from
Kanagawa prefecture near  Tokyo , which will be shut, to Ohira by
the end of April, a month later than originally planned, Moriya
said. About 400 workers in Kanagawa will join 900 employees
already in Ohira. Plans to add Corolla production at the plant
are unchanged, he said.  Electricity outages and a shortage of parts led all
Japanese carmakers to shut down production in Japan, with Toyota
losing production of 260,000 units from March 14 to April 8. The
world’s biggest carmaker is resuming output at all domestic
plants today at half capacity.  As well as monitoring the supply of parts, logistics also
need to be reconsidered, Moriya said. With substantial damage
from the tsunami to Sendai Port, lead-times for parts deliveries
may need to be lengthened or other ports may have to be
explored, he said.  Year of the Rabbit  Ohira is home to a variety of factories, including those of
family restaurant chain Skylark Co., zipper maker YKK Corp. and
Oki Electric Industry Co., which makes personal computers and
ATM machines. None faced any significant damage, said Masahiro
Atobe, mayor of the village.  “With Central Motor opening its new factory and this being
the year of the rabbit, we had great expectations that things
would be hopping this year,” he said in an interview at a
kindergarten ceremony for new students on April 12. “But with
the earthquake, things hopped in a different direction.”  Toyota suppliers have also built new factories in and
around Ohira. Affiliate Toyota Boshoku Corp. began production of
seats at a plant across the street from Central Motor last
quarter. Primearth EV Energy Co., a joint venture between Toyota
and Panasonic Corp., started producing batteries for hybrid cars
at a new plant in Taiwa in January 2010.  Toyota, which began diversifying its production base in
Aichi prefecture in central  Japan  in the late 1980s to Kyushu in
the south and Hokkaido in the north, wants to increase sourcing
from more suppliers in the Tohoku region to ease logistics
issues, Sakurai said.  ‘Grateful’  With the abundance of jobs, Ohira’s population of 5,500
swells 40 percent during the day, Mayor Atobe said.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of Miyagi’s
economy, according to Governor Yoshihiro Murai. He had aimed to
increase that ratio to 20 percent as a declining population and
e-commerce undercut service industries, which account for 80
percent of the economy, he said in an interview in February.  “I am very grateful that none of the companies here in
Miyagi or those that were planning to move to Miyagi have pulled
out since the earthquake,” Murai said in an interview at his
office in Sendai on April 12.  Before March 11, Miyagi had been in talks with five other
auto parts suppliers considering setting up factories in the
prefecture. While those talks have been put on hold they are
likely to resume in a few months, Murai said.  To help the region back on its feet, Japan needs to help
small- and mid-size companies with financing options such as low
 interest rates  and long repayment periods, he said.  “The Tohoku region has a very high-quality  labor force ,”
Sakurai said. “We definitely want to forge more ties with the
local supply base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net . 