-- 
Philadelphia Orchestra Files for Bankruptcy After 111 Years

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-04-17T05:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/philadelphia-orchestra-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
The Philadelphia Orchestra filed
for  bankruptcy protection  after 111 years of operation to
restructure leases, contracts and agreements.  The company listed both assets and debt of as much as $50
million in a Chapter 11 petition filed yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Philadelphia.  “Revenues and going concern value have steadily declined
over the past several years, like countless other performing
arts enterprises,” attorneys for the orchestra said in court
papers.  The orchestra, founded in 1900, said its board voted to
seek bankruptcy. Affiliates including the Academy of Music and
Encore Series, also sought protection.  The orchestra operates at a loss because of declining
ticket revenues, decreased donations, eroding endowment income,
pension obligations, contractual agreements, and increased
operational costs, it said in a press release. Last night’s
performance of Mahler’s Symphony No. 4 went on as scheduled,
and no performances have been canceled.  “This decision was based upon several critical financial
challenges currently facing the organization, specifically its
rapidly dwindling operating funds and a structural deficit of
$14.5 million,” it said in the release, sent by Katherine
Blodgett, vice president of public relations and
communications.  The orchestra’s conductors since 1912 include Leopold
Stokowski, Eugene Ormandy and Ricardo Muti. Philadelphia, along
with the orchestras of  Cleveland ,  Chicago  and Boston and the
 New York Philharmonic , comprise the traditional Big Five of
American symphony orchestras.  The Philadelphia Orchestra is a non-profit organization
whose revenues are generated through charitable contributions
as well as ticket and subscription sales, court papers show.  Companies use Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code to
reorganize, cut debt and continue operating.  The case is In Re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  