-- 
Rangers Beat Capitals for First Win in NHL Playoffs; Canucks Take 3-0 Lead

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-04-18T04:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/rangers-beat-capitals-3-2-in-new-york-for-first-win-in-nhl-playoff-series.html
Brandon Dubinsky’s goal with 1:39
remaining gave the  New York  Rangers a 3-2 win over the
Washington Capitals that prevented a 3-0 deficit in their
National Hockey League playoff series.  The defending Stanley Cup-champion Chicago Blackhawks are
within one loss of postseason elimination following last night’s
3-2 loss at home to the  Vancouver Canucks .  The Rangers trail Eastern Conference top seed Washington by
two games to one in their best-of-seven first round series after
yesterday’s win at Madison Square Garden. They’ll host Game 4 in
New York in two days.  “It’s a series now,” New York defenseman Marc Staal told
reporters in the Rangers’ locker room. “We come in the next
game in our building and we try to do it again.”  The Blackhawks will look to avoid a four-game sweep
tomorrow when they host Vancouver, the top seed in the Western
Conference. The Nashville Predators beat the Anaheim Ducks 4-3
in yesterday’s other playoff matchup for a 2-1 lead in their
Western Conference series.  The  Philadelphia Flyers  visit the  Buffalo Sabres  in one of
today’s four games -- three of them in the Eastern Conference.
The Montreal Canadiens host the  Boston Bruins  seeking a 3-0
series lead and the Pittsburgh Penguins visit the Tampa Bay
Lightning tied at one game apiece.  In the West, the  Phoenix Coyotes  are home against the
 Detroit Red Wings  after losing the first two games on the road.  Dubinsky’s Goal  Dubinsky got the second winning playoff goal of his career
when his shot caught Capitals defenseman Karl Alzner in the
shoulder and went over goaltender Michal Nuevirth. The Rangers
are the eighth seed in the East.  “We have to make sure we don’t get too excited about
this,” Dubinsky said. “We’re still down in the series.”  Erik Christensen and Vaclav Prospal also scored for the
Rangers, who had a goal overturned after a replay review
determined it hadn’t crossed the goal line as time expired in
the second period. New York goaltender Henrik Lundqvist made 23
saves for his first win of the postseason.  Alex Ovechkin  and Mike Knuble got goals for the Capitals,
who lost their previous two playoff series after leading two
games to none.  Washington  had outscored the Rangers 4-1 in winning the
first two games at home.  The Canucks topped the Blackhawks in Chicago yesterday as
Mikael Samuelsson’s goal with 13:21 remaining snapped a 2-2 tie.
The Predators got the better of the Ducks in Nashville as Mike Fisher scored the go-ahead goal with 9:39 left.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 