-- 
Russian Companies Seek to Follow Rusal With Hong Kong IPOs, Medvedev Says

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-17T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/russian-companies-seek-to-follow-rusal-with-hong-kong-ipos-medvedev-says.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  said
 Russia  wants to boost investment and trade with  Hong Kong  to
give Russian companies more presence in the area and use it as a
gateway to mainland China.  “We expect that by working with your stock exchange and
Hong Kong we will get additional opportunities for working with
China and a platform for cooperation with the Asia Pacific
region,” Medvedev said yesterday as he visited the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange. “Russia is part of the Asia Pacific, and it is
very important for us to position ourselves in the right way.”  Medvedev, who has made efforts to diversify Russia’s
economy from dependency on oil and gas the core of his
presidential program, is seeking to broaden trade and investment
with  China .  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, became
Russia’s top trading partner last year, with trade jumping 50
percent to $59 billion, according to the Russian Economy
Ministry. Energy accounted for more than 55 percent of exports
to China.  Russian companies are seeking share sales in Hong Kong
following last year’s listing by Oleg Deripaska’s United Co.
Rusal, including the Russian billionaire’s other company
EuroSibEnergo, Medvedev said.  Power generator EuroSibEnergo Plc, which supplies
electricity to Rusal, may hold an initial public offering next
year, Deripaska said yesterday.  “Hong Kong is a unique platform for moving to the Asian
market, not just China” but also Korea,  Taiwan  and  Japan ,
Deripaska said.  Medvedev aide  Arkady Dvorkovich  said four or five companies
are in talks with the Hong Kong exchange about possible
listings, without elaborating.  Russian energy and commodities companies will seek to raise
“billions of dollars” this year by selling stock in Hong Kong to
take advantage of a market “characterized by high liquidity,”
VTB Capital Plc President Yuri Solovyov told reporters
yesterday.  Russian companies including Otkritie Financial Corp.,
billionaire Viktor Vekselberg’s Renova Group and renewable
energy producer OAO RusHydro are considering Hong Kong IPOs,
said an official in the Russian delegation who spoke on
condition of anonymity as he was not authorized to speak for the
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  