-- 
Ryan Rejects White House Push for ‘Clean’ Bill on Debt Limit

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-17T18:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/ryan-rejects-white-house-push-for-clean-bill-on-debt-limit.html
House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  said Republicans won’t vote for an increase in the
nation’s debt limit unless it is packaged with additional
spending cuts.  The Wisconsin Republican, who won House approval last week
of his plan to cut more than $6 trillion in spending over a
decade, denied a claim made by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  that congressional leaders have pledged to raise the
debt ceiling.  “We won’t raise, just simply raise, the debt limit,” Ryan
said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “We will vote to
have spending cuts and controls in conjunction with the debt
limit increase.”  As the federal government approaches its borrowing limit of
$14.3 trillion, Republican and Democratic leaders spent the
weekend jockeying for political advantage over what conditions
should be attached, if any, to a debt-limit increase.  The Treasury projects the national debt will reach that
limit on May 16, though it could use emergency measures to avoid
default until about July 8.  Geithner, appearing on ABC’s “This Week” program, said
congressional leaders pledged to increase the debt limit at a
meeting with President  Barack Obama  at the White House on April
13. “There’s no alternative, and they recognize that,”
Geithner said.  No Linkage  The Obama administration still wants Congress to pass a
“clean bill” that raises the debt limit without additional
spending curbs, White House Budget Director  Jacob Lew  said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  “Let’s not link them,” Lew said.  Ryan rejected that approach today, saying Republicans can’t
support greater borrowing without taking additional steps to
reduce the federal deficit at the same time.  “Nobody is saying we want to see default,” Ryan said.
“We want to get cuts in controls and on spending going forward,
and that is what we’ve been telling the White House.”  Republican senators are considering a plan to tie an
increase in the debt ceiling to a cap on federal spending at
20.6 percent of gross domestic product within 10 years.  The debt issue resonates loudly among ‘tea party’
Republican lawmakers who won office last fall pledging to slash
 government spending .  Shaking Things Up  “The people of  Kentucky  elected me to shake things up,”
said freshman Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican who won
his seat with Tea Party backing. “They didn’t elect me to raise
the debt ceiling,” he said today on CNN’s “State of the
Union.”  Paul said he would support an increase in the debt limit
only if it is tied to passage of a balanced-budget amendment to
the Constitution.  “I would vote to raise the debt ceiling if we passed a
balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution and say from here
on out, this is the last time we’re doing it,” he said.  Representative Anthony Weiner, a New York Democrat, said
Democrats may be open to a debt-limit package that includes some
spending curbs, up to a point.  “I know debt limits frequently have things attached,”
Weiner said on CNN. “I understand that. But I have to tell you,
if they wind up holding up things like Medicare, Social
Security, these bedrock programs that help people in need and
help form the safety net in our country, it is a non-starter.
Democrats won’t vote for it.”  Scaring Market  Senator  Mark Warner , a former Virginia governor who is part
of a so-called “Gang of Six” senators seeking a bipartisan
budget compromise, said he was troubled by the political
brinkmanship as the government nears the debt-limit deadline.  “You get close to that debt limit and you could actually
scare the bond market,” Warner said on CBS. “They could end up
raising  interest rates , which would dramatically cut back on the
recovery.”  Warner said the Gang of Six, made up of three Democrats and
three Republicans, is considering a combination of spending cuts
and tax increases. He said the plan would call for $3 in
spending cuts for every dollar in new  tax revenue . The
additional tax revenue, he said, would come from lower tax rates
combined with eliminating tax deductions and loopholes.  “We’re going to make everybody mad with our approach --
Democrats, Republicans, Independents -- because we’re touching
every part of the problem, all the entitlement programs, looking
at how you make Social Security more sustainable,” Warner said.  Inadequate Plan  Warner criticized Ryan’s budget plan as inadequate because
it tries to solve the deficit problem only with spending cuts.  While the government now spends close to 25 percent of
gross domestic product, Warner said, “our revenues are at an
all-time low at about 15 percent.”  Ryan said he favors lowering tax rates in exchange for
eliminating deductions and loopholes -- a formula similar to
what Warner described.  “We don’t have a tax problem,” Ryan said. “Our revenues
are going back to where they have been historically.”  Alan Greenspan , a former Federal Reserve chairman, said
today he favors letting all the Bush-era tax cuts expire for all
income levels to help reduce the deficit.  “I think this crisis is so imminent and so difficult that
I think we have to allow the so-called Bush tax cuts all to
expire,” Greenspan said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Bond Market   For all the debate about the deficit in  Washington , bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 6.92 percent since 1980, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  The Republican-controlled House on April 15 passed a budget
blueprint that relies exclusively on spending cuts to reduce the
deficit, slicing $6.2 trillion over 10 years from Medicare and
scores of other programs including Medicaid,  food stamps ,  farm
subsidies  and Pell college tuition grants.  It calls for replacing the traditional Medicare health-care
system for the elderly with subsidies to buy private insurance,
starting with people who turn 65 in 2022. It also would cut the
top corporate and individual tax rates from 35 percent to 25
percent. The plan wouldn’t balance the government’s books until
2040.  The measure is certain to die in the Democratic-controlled
Senate, where leaders have endorsed Obama’s competing call for
using a combination of spending cuts and tax increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 