-- 
Ryan, Geithner Offer Different Views of Agreement to Increase Debt Ceiling

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/ryan-geithner-offer-different-views-of-agreement-to-increase-debt-ceiling.html
House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  said Republican leaders haven’t pledged to raise the
nation’s debt limit yet, even as Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said they know it’s necessary.  The Wisconsin Republican congressman, who won House
approval last week of his plan to cut more than $6 trillion in
spending over a decade, said Republicans will continue to demand
that any debt-limit increase be accompanied by additional
spending cuts.  “We won’t raise, just simply raise, the debt limit,” Ryan
said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “We will
vote to have spending cuts and controls in conjunction with the
debt limit increase.”  As the federal government approaches its borrowing limit of
$14.3 trillion, Republican and Democratic leaders spent the
weekend jockeying for political advantage over what conditions
should be attached, if any, to a debt-limit increase. Geithner
said the administration remains confident that a deal will come
together to avoid unsettling financial markets.  The Treasury projects the national debt will reach that
limit by May 16, though it could use emergency measures to avoid
default until about July 8. Geithner has warned that not raising
the limit could trigger another financial and economic crisis
worse than the one the country has just survived.  Geithner, appearing on ABC’s “This Week” program, said
congressional leaders again pledged to increase the debt limit
at a meeting with President  Barack Obama  at the White House on
April 13.  No Alternative  “There’s no alternative, and they recognize that,”
Geithner said. “I sat there with them, and they said, we
recognize we have to do this. And we’re not going to play around
with it. Because we know -- we know that the risk would be
catastrophic.”  Ryan disputed that account, saying, “We want cuts in
spending accompanying a raising of the debt ceiling. And that is
what I believe they’ve told the president.”  The Obama administration still wants Congress to pass a
“clean bill” that raises the debt limit without additional
spending curbs. Ryan rejected that approach yesterday, saying
Republicans can’t support greater borrowing without taking
additional steps to reduce the federal deficit at the same time.  “Nobody is saying we want to see default,” Ryan said.
“We want to get cuts in controls and on spending going forward,
and that is what we’ve been telling the White House.”  Republican senators are considering a plan to tie an
increase in the debt ceiling to a cap on federal spending at
20.6 percent of gross domestic product within 10 years.  The debt issue resonates among ‘tea party’ Republican
lawmakers who won office last fall pledging to slash  government
spending .  Shaking Things Up  “The people of  Kentucky  elected me to shake things up,”
said freshman Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican who won
his seat with Tea Party backing. “They didn’t elect me to raise
the debt ceiling,” he said yesterday on CNN’s “State of the
Union.”  Paul said he would support an increase in the debt limit
only if it is tied to passage of a balanced-budget amendment to
the Constitution.  “I would vote to raise the debt ceiling if we passed a
balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution and say from here
on out, this is the last time we’re doing it,” he said.  Representative Anthony Weiner, a New York Democrat, said
Democrats may be open to a debt-limit package that includes some
spending curbs, up to a point.  “I know debt limits frequently have things attached,”
Weiner said on  CNN . “I understand that. But I have to tell you,
if they wind up holding up things like Medicare, Social
Security, these bedrock programs that help people in need and
help form the safety net in our country, it is a non-starter.
Democrats won’t vote for it.”  Scaring Market  Senator  Mark Warner , a former Virginia governor who is part
of a so-called “Gang of Six” senators seeking a bipartisan
budget compromise, said he was troubled by the political
brinkmanship as the government nears the debt-limit deadline.  “You get close to that debt limit and you could actually
scare the bond market,” Warner said on CBS. “They could end up
raising  interest rates , which would dramatically cut back on the
recovery.”  Warner said the Gang of Six, made up of three Democrats and
three Republicans, is considering a combination of spending cuts
and tax increases. He said the plan would call for $3 in
spending cuts for every dollar in new  tax revenue . The
additional tax revenue, he said, would come from lower tax rates
combined with eliminating tax deductions and loopholes.  Inadequate Plan  Warner criticized Ryan’s budget plan as inadequate because
it tries to solve the deficit problem only with spending cuts.  While the government now spends close to 25 percent of
gross domestic product, Warner said, “our revenues are at an
all-time low at about 15 percent.”  Ryan said he favors lowering tax rates in exchange for
eliminating deductions and loopholes -- a formula similar to
what Warner described.  “We don’t have a tax problem,” Ryan said. “Our revenues
are going back to where they have been historically.”  Alan Greenspan , a former Federal Reserve chairman, said
yesterday he favors letting all the Bush-era tax cuts expire for
all income levels to help reduce the deficit.  “I think this crisis is so imminent and so difficult that
I think we have to allow the so-called Bush tax cuts all to
expire,” Greenspan said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Bond Market   For all the debate about the deficit in  Washington , bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 6.92 percent since 1980, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  The Republican-controlled House on April 15 passed a budget
blueprint that relies exclusively on spending cuts to reduce the
deficit, slicing $6.2 trillion over 10 years from Medicare and
scores of other programs including Medicaid,  food stamps ,  farm
subsidies  and Pell college tuition grants.  It calls for replacing the traditional Medicare health-care
system for the elderly with subsidies to buy private insurance,
starting with people who turn 65 in 2022. It also would cut the
top corporate and individual tax rates from 35 percent to 25
percent. The plan wouldn’t balance the government’s books until
2040.  The measure is certain to die in the Democratic-controlled
Senate, where leaders have endorsed Obama’s competing call for
using a combination of spending cuts and tax increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 