-- 
Sberbank Joins Credit Suisse to Set Up $1 Billion Investment Russia Fund

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-04-18T10:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/sberbank-and-credit-suisse-to-set-up-1-billion-investment-fund-for-russia.html
OAO Sberbank and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  plan to create a $1 billion private-equity fund for
investments in Russia, according to the chief executive officer
of Sberbank, the country’s biggest bank.  State-owned Sberbank, based in Moscow, and Zurich-based
Credit Suisse will each contribute about $100 million to the
fund, which will be started before the end of the year,  German Gref  said in an interview. He said the fund won’t focus on any
particular industries.  “This is an important way of attracting direct investment
into Russia,” Gref, 47, said in the interview at Sberbank’s
headquarters on April 15. This will be the bank’s first
significant private-equity venture, he said.  The Russian government is setting up a $10 billion fund, to
be managed by state development bank VEB, aimed at attracting
foreign funds to enable the country’s private-equity industry to
catch up with other emerging markets. Leveraged buyout firms
have led transactions valued at $1.5 billion in  Russia  this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with $2.9 billion in  China .  Russia private equity firms raised $1.4 billion since 2008,
while China got $28.6 billion during the same period,  India 
received $15 billion and  Brazil  $5 billion as institutional
investors are pouring money into expanding economies, according
to data compiled by the Emerging Markets Private Equity
Association.  Sberbank and Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest
bank after UBS AG, will try to create a fund with the “maximum
diversification,” Gref said. Sberbank will be responsible for
identifying investment opportunities and Credit Suisse will
focus on raising money and managing investment risks.  Gref didn’t say which other companies are likely to
contribute to the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 