-- 
Palm Oil Advancing 23% Hurting Unilever as Stockpiles Decline to 1974 Low

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m ,   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-18T13:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/snickers-to-noodles-surge-drives-cooking-oil-supplies-to-three-decade-low.html
At a time when consumers are
focused on food costs that are within about 3 percent of a
record, stockpiles of edible oils needed to make everything from
noodles to fish sticks are dropping to a three-decade low.  The combined stocks of nine oils will plunge 25 percent to
9.39 million metric tons this year, or about 23 days of demand,
the fewest since 1974, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates.  Palm oil  prices will climb as much as 23 percent to
4,000 ringgit ($1,324) a ton by Dec. 31, based on the median in
a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts and traders.  As the global population expanded 85 percent in the past
four decades, demand for edible oils rose almost ninefold. While
that’s raising costs for Unilever, the second-largest consumer
goods company, it will also help Sime Darby Bhd., the biggest
publicly traded palm-oil producer, report a fourfold gain in
earnings this year, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
show. The forecast price rally, which may quicken should
flooding return to plantations, will stoke inflation that caused
central banks from Brazil to China to raise  interest rates .  “The world cannot afford any crop problem this year,
anywhere,” said Steve Nicholson, a commodity procurement
specialist at International Food Products Corp., a distributor
and adviser on food ingredients in Fenton,  Missouri . “Without a
cushion of inventories, any production hiccup in the northern
hemisphere this year will be catastrophic and leave today’s
prices looking cheap.”  Food Costs  Vegetable oils have been left behind in this year’s surge
in food costs, which the United Nations says rose to a record in
February. Palm oil, the most-used, fell 14 percent to 3,260
ringgit this year on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange and
 soybean oil , the second most-consumed, declined 1.5 percent to
57.49 cents a pound on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Corn jumped
19 percent, hogs 27 percent and milk 27 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 17 percent.  Even after this year’s drop, palm oil is 67 percent higher
than its 10-year average, helping explain why  Kuala Lumpur
Kepong Bhd. (KLK) , which managed about 446,000 acres of plantations
last year, will report a 35 percent increase in profit this year,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Unilever, based in  London  and Rotterdam, said in February
that edible oils were one of the main contributors to higher
commodity costs in 2010. The trend will accelerate this year,
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said in a Feb. 3
conference call.  Procter & Gamble Co ., based in Cincinnati, is
the world’s largest consumer goods company.  Global Stockpiles  Stockpiles of the oils extracted from palm fruit, palm
kernel, soy, rapeseed, sunflowers, coconuts, cotton, olives and
peanuts are slumping as demand climbs 6.1 percent to a record
146.4 million tons this year, outpacing a 4.2 percent gain in
production, according to USDA estimates. Vegetable oils are used
in everything from Hellmann’s mayonnaise to Snickers candy bars,
as well as soaps, cosmetics and fuels.  Consumption in  China , the biggest user, more than doubled
to 29.4 million tons in a decade as urban incomes tripled,
spurring demand for processed foods.  Global retail sales of packaged food will reach $2.18
trillion this year, from $1.65 trillion in 2005, according to
London-based Euromonitor International Ltd., a consumer research
company. Shoppers will also spend about $500 billion on chilled,
dried or frozen processed foods, Euromonitor estimates.  Supply failed to meet demand as flooding in  Indonesia  and
Malaysia, the top producers, curbed palm harvesting this year,
while floods or drought in  Canada ,  Europe ,  Russia  and in Ukraine
in 2010 cut the supply of rapeseed and sunflower seed. Malaysian
palm-oil output fell 14 percent to 1.06 million tons in January,
the lowest since 2007, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.  Economic Growth  Demand may weaken should prices advance or economic growth
slow.  Brazil ’s inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent in March,
its fastest pace in 28 months. The central bank has a goal of
4.5 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Consumer prices in China increased 5.4 percent in March,
the most since 2008, after Premier Wen Jiabao set this year’s
target at no more than 4 percent. The country increased banks’
reserve requirements from April 21, and will continue to tighten
monetary policy for “some time,” according to central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.  The U.S. will grow 2.8 percent this year, down from a
January forecast of 3 percent, the  International Monetary Fund 
said April 11.  Malaysian Report  Signs that supply may exceed current forecasts may also
mean lower prices. Palm oil fell 4.8 percent last week after the
Malaysian Palm Oil Board reported a 29 percent rebound in March
output. Figures for the previous two months were the smallest in
about four years. Palm oil may drop as low as 2,884 ringgit,
according to the median of estimates in the Bloomberg survey of
10 analysts and traders, taken after the Malaysian report.  Indonesian output may climb about 11 percent to 25 million
tons this year, more than the 7.3 percent anticipated by the
USDA, according to Dorab Mistry, a director at Godrej
International Ltd. who has traded edible oils for three decades.
He expects prices to drop below 3,000 ringgit before rebounding
to 4,000 ringgit as the highest crude prices since 2008 spur
demand for biodiesel from soybean oil.  Global biodiesel output, mostly made from vegetable oils,
may climb to about 18 million tons this year from 17 million in
2010, or five times the 3.5 million tons produced in 2005,
according to Claus Keller, a senior commodity analyst at F.O.
Licht in Ratzeburg,  Germany .  Fuel Producers  That anticipated demand for soybeans by fuel producers may
not be met by U.S. farmers, who told the government last month
they intend to cut acres planted with the oilseed by 1 percent
this year, the USDA said March 31. Chinese growers may plant 11
percent fewer acres, seeking greater profit from cotton and corn,
the agriculture ministry said in a report March 16. Prices for
both crops more than doubled in the past year.  Soybean plantings in the U.S. may be as many as 2 million
acres below the USDA’s estimate because other crop prices kept
surging since the survey, according to Douglas Carper, the
principal of Omaha, Nebraska-based DEC Capital Inc., a commodity
trading adviser and hedge-fund consultant. The USDA has
overestimated soy plantings in five of the past seven years.  Soybean oil will gain 13 percent to 65 cents a pound by the
end of the year, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of seven analysts. Hedge funds increased their bets on
higher prices in soybean-oil futures by 25 percent in the week
to April 5, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Food Index  This year’s drop in palm contributed to a 7 percent decline
for oils included in the UN’s World Food Index last month, with
the overall gauge retreating about 3 percent from the record
reached in February. World Bank President Robert Zoellick says
the global economy is “one shock away” from a crisis in food
supplies and estimates that 44 million people have fallen into
poverty because of rising food prices in the past year.  While higher prices may be hurting food companies and
consumers, they’re bolstering income for growers.  Sime Darby will report earnings per share of 55 sen (18
cents) in its fiscal year ending in June, compared with 12 sen a
year earlier, according to the mean of 26 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Plantations accounted for 33 percent of
the Kuala Lumpur-based company’s revenue last year.  Kuala Lumpur 
Kepong, based in Perak, Malaysia, will make 1.28 ringgit a share,
from 95 sen, the estimates show. The company got 47 percent of
its revenue from plantations in the last financial year.  Costlier vegetable oil will also improve the lives of
farmers in Indonesia, where 38 percent of the workforce depends
on agriculture, according to the CIA World Factbook.  “We’ve seen major improvements in farmers’ lives as they
build homes and buy new cars and motorcycles,” said Asmar
Arsjad, secretary general of the Indonesia Palm Oil Farmers
Association, in Jakarta. Farmers “are not only building houses
for themselves but for their sisters, brothers and parents.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpaskiam@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 