-- 
Pimco Is ‘Open to Adding’ in Asia as Gross Shuns Treasuries

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-18T05:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/south-korean-chinese-currencies-are-undervalued-pimco-says.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
is bullish on  Asia  while  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at the company, bets against U.S. Treasuries.  Singapore ’s dollar should strengthen as central banks in
the region use currency appreciation to fight inflation,
according to a  report  by Chia Liang Lian, a portfolio manager
for Pimco. The South Korean won and  Chinese yuan  are
“undervalued,” the report said.  “The resilience of emerging Asian countries leads us to be
open to adding exposure as attractive opportunities arise,”
Singapore-based Lian wrote in the report on the company’s
website.  Gross, who manages the record $236 billion Total Return
Fund, set a bet against U.S. government and related debt in
March, after reducing the position to zero in February, the
 Newport Beach , California-based company said on its website
earlier this month. South Korean and India quasi-sovereign bonds
are attractive and Indonesia may achieve investment grade within
a year, Lian wrote in his report.  Singapore’s dollar strengthened to a record S$1.2421
against the U.S. currency today after the city-state’s central
bank said April 14 that it would allow further appreciation to
combat inflation. The Korean won has risen 3.3 percent in the
past month and the Chinese yuan advanced 0.6 percent.  ‘Remain Intact’  “The gradual appreciation trend in the  Singapore dollar 
should remain intact,” Lian wrote. “Despite recent gains, we
believe the South Korean won and Chinese yuan remain
fundamentally undervalued.”  Pimco is also seeking opportunities to buy credit-default
swaps, according to the report.  “We look to add, during periods of generalized market
weakness, exposure to high quality sovereigns with strong credit
metrics,” Lian wrote.  Traders use credit-default swaps to speculate on  credit
quality . A drop in price signals improved perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
contracts pay the buyer if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  Pimco’s Emerging Asia Bond Fund, which Lian manages, has
returned 6.5 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The performance beat 97 percent of the fund’s
competitors, the figures show.  Gross’s Total Return Fund handed investors a 2.1 percent
gain in 2011, outperforming 80 percent of its peers, Bloomberg
data show.  The fund holds no Treasuries, Mohamed A. El-Erian, the
company’s chief executive officer, said on CNBC on April 14. The
securities may lose value because of the threats of inflation
and  currency devaluation , Gross wrote in his April investment
 outlook .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 