-- 
Syrians Answer Assad With Demonstrations, Causing Clashes With Security

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-17T15:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/syrians-answer-assad-with-protests-baton-wielding-police-injure-several.html
Syrian demonstrators took to the
streets in several cities and clashed with security forces, a
day after President Bashar al-Assad ordered the government to
prepare to lift the state of emergency, a key demand of
protesters.  Dozens of demonstrators were injured in the southern city
of Suweida, including two who were hospitalized, Damascus-based
human rights activist Razan Zaitouneh said on her Facebook page.
Another three people were injured in the nearby town of Quraya,
she said. The  Associated Press , citing witnesses, said several
people were injured in Suweida when police beat demonstrators
with batons. Several hundred people protested in the Damascus
suburb of Douma and in the southern city of Daraa, Al Arabiya
television reported.  Assad told the newly appointment Cabinet yesterday that
plans to lift the 48-year old state of emergency, which suspends
many constitutional protections, must be completed next week at
the latest. New York-based  Human Rights Watch  says at least 130
people have been killed as Assad’s regime cracks down on
demonstrators, who have posed the most serious challenge to his
rule since he inherited power from his father in 2000. Assad’s
regime is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring
Lebanon, where it supports the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement.  “When this package of laws is passed, there will no longer
be a need to organize demonstrations in  Syria ,” Assad told the
cabinet. He said the Interior Ministry should not “tolerate any
act of sabotage” after the law is changed.  Assad has accused foreign-led conspirators of taking
advantage of the unrest to undermine Syria, mostly due to its
support for anti-Israel groups. Assad’s Baath Party has been in
power since 1963.  Assad issued a decree on April 15 approving a new
government after protests inspired by the popular uprisings that
toppled the rulers of Egypt and  Tunisia  intensified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 