-- 
Syria to End 48-Year State of Emergency Within a Week, Assad Tells Cabinet

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-17T07:43:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/syria-to-end-48-year-state-of-emergency-within-a-week-assad-tells-cabinet.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
told his newly appointed cabinet that plans to lift the 48-year-
old state of emergency, which suspends most constitutional
protections, must be completed next week at the latest.  “We have to meet the daily needs of our people within our
capabilities,” Assad said in remarks broadcast by state
television yesterday during the first meeting of the cabinet.
Syrians need to be protected from government actions against
them, he said.  Lifting the emergency law has been a key demand during
protests that spread across Syria after popular uprisings
toppled the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia . New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  says at least 130 people have been killed as
Assad’s regime has cracked down on demonstrators, who have posed
the most serious challenge to his rule since he inherited power
from his father in 2000. The government has blamed unrest on
foreign-led conspirators who it says have exploited protests.  The government needs to do more to tackle corruption and
reduce unemployment, which is Syria’s “biggest problem,” Assad
said in his televised address to the cabinet, which is headed by
former agriculture minister Adel Safar.  Success Unlikely  “This is something Middle East autocrats do, appoint
somebody to be a lightning rod for things that go wrong,” said
Andrew Terrill, a Middle East specialist at the Strategic
Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College, referring to the
new cabinet. “The problem for Assad is that those kinds of
tricks might have worked a year ago but the demonstrators won’t
fall for them now.”  Assad’s attempt at reform is unlikely to succeed, said
 Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington , because it is trying to
keep the Assad regime in power and pay lip-service to popular
grievances.  “Is any of this convincing, does it offer a path to long-
term reform or a path to long-term benefits for the Syrian
people,” Cordesman said. “The answer in all three cases is
’no.’”  More than 10,000 demonstrators took to the streets
yesterday for the funeral of 40-year-old Osama al-
Sheikha, a protester killed as security forces cracked down on
dissent in  Banias  last week, the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said in a statement on its website.  Assad became  Syria ’s president at the death of his father
Hafez al-Assad, who had ruled the country for three decades.  Assad issued a decree on April 15 approving a new
government after protests intensified. Besides Safar, it retains
Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem and Energy Minister Sufian Alao in their positions. The Syrian president had promised to
remove the state of emergency and end restrictions on political
and media freedoms.  “My final advice to the government is to be humble with
the people,” said Assad. “The value of an official is measured
by the satisfaction of citizens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 