-- 
Air Controllers' Rest Time Will Rise, LaHood Says After Miami Suspension

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/u-s-to-increase-required-rest-for-air-controllers-lahood-says.html
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
said yesterday the U.S. will increase the required rest time to
nine hours for air traffic controllers after a string of reports
involving controllers falling asleep on the job.  “I’m really mad about it,” LaHood said in an interview on
“Fox News Sunday.” “We’re going to make sure that controllers
are well rested. We are doing everything we can 24-7 to correct
the problem. We cannot allow controllers to fall asleep.”  LaHood said  schedules  of controllers will be changed to
make sure that they aren’t coming to work tired. Schedule swaps
must leave a minimum of nine hours rest between shifts while
managers’ shifts will be changed to increase supervision, he
added. A second air traffic controller will be added to midnight
shifts around the country, the  Federal Aviation Administration 
announced April 16.  FAA Administrator  Randy Babbitt  and National Air Traffic
Controllers Union President Paul Rinaldi will begin today to
hold meetings at air traffic facilities around the country as
part of a nationwide push to boost air traffic control safety
and professionalism.  Hank Krakowski, Chief Operating Officer of the Federal
Aviation Administration, which regulates safety in the world’s
busiest airspace, resigned April 14 as reports of controllers
caught sleeping on the job mounted.  In the latest reported incident, the FAA suspended an air
traffic controller April 16 “for falling asleep while on duty
during the midnight shift” at the Miami Air Route Traffic
Control Center. “The controller did not miss any calls from
aircraft and there was no operational impact,” the FAA said.  No Tight Shifts  New scheduling rules have been put in place and will be
fully in effect by the end of the week, according to a  statement 
posted on the FAA website yesterday. Air traffic controllers
will no longer be allowed to work tightly scheduled shifts in
order to take three-day weekends under the new minimum rest
period rules.  “Controllers need to take personal responsibility for the
very important safety jobs that they have,” LaHood said in the
Fox interview. “They are guiding planes in and out of airports
and they have to be well rested. They have to take some personal
responsibility for this.”  Problems with worker fatigue aren’t new for the FAA, which
must address decades-old concerns about controllers by examining
staffing, procedures and tiredness management programs, Darryl
Jenkins, chairman of the American Aviation Institute, a
 Washington  group that does commercial-aviation research, told
Bloomberg News April 15.  The FAA is an “enormous, painfully slow” bureaucracy,
Jenkins said. “Something has to happen and be publicized on
nationwide TV for weeks before it will be addressed. We never
deal with anything until there is a crisis.”  The  National Transportation Safety Board  asked the FAA four
years ago to work with the controllers’ union to develop a
fatigue awareness program and revise schedules and practices.  Sixty-one percent of controllers worked schedules that
opposed normal sleep-wake patterns, the NTSB found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  