-- 
Humala Victory Won’t Derail Colombia-Peru Exchanges Merger, Echeverry Says

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-17T16:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/humala-victory-won-t-derail-colombia-peru-exchanges-merger-echeverry-says.html
A victory by Peruvian presidential
candidate Ollanta Humala is unlikely to threaten Colombian
assets or a planned merger of the two nations’ stock exchanges,
Colombia’s Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said.  Both nations’ stock indexes fell last week after Humala, a
one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , beat market-
friendly rivals to qualify for a June 5 runoff. Humala has
pledged to seek a new constitution and to redistribute wealth,
stoking speculation he will expand state control over  Peru ’s
economy.  Bolsa de Valores de Colombia (BVC)  SA, which in January said
it was acquiring 64 percent of its Peruvian stock exchange
counterpart, fell 7.2 percent last week, the biggest such
decline since October, 2008.  Humala could “prove the markets wrong” as former
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  did in  Brazil , Echeverry
said yesterday in an interview in  Washington , where he’s
attending a meeting of the  International Monetary Fund . Peru’s
next president will work to preserve gains made by the country’s
companies and economy over the past decade, he said.  “We believe that this is an achievement that will be
guarded by any government, and of course we would like to hear
that from any government,” said Echeverry.  Lima’s benchmark General Index fell 8.9 percent and
 Colombia ’s IGBC Index fell 3.1 percent last week on concern a
Humala presidency would jeopardize $50 billion of mining, energy
and infrastructure investment that Peru expects to fuel 6.5
percent growth over the next five years. Peru, the world’s
second-largest producer of copper, saw its economy expand 8.8
percent last year.  Exchanges Merger  Bogota-based BVC said in January it was acquiring 64
percent of the Bolsa de Valores de Lima, or BVL, for an
undisclosed amount. The combination will create the fourth-
biggest market in Latin America after Brazil, Mexico and Chile
with the total value of stocks listed at $293 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The merged exchange, which will also integrate trading with
 Chile , aims to boost liquidity, enable portfolio diversification
and allow the addition of new financial instruments. Joint
trading at the integrated three-nation Andean exchange, known by
its Spanish acronym MILA, begins May 30, and Echeverry said the
“dream” is to attract 300 mostly medium-sized companies to
list from Colombia by 2014.  “We have confidence in the merger, we have confidence in
the future of capital markets between Chile, Peru and
Colombia,” said the 48-year-old Echeverry, who has a doctorate
in economics from  New York University . “The most important
thing is that whoever wins in Peru shows a commitment to sound
macro and micro economic management.”  Peru Vote  Humala, after winning 32 percent in the first round of
balloting April 10, said he would consider a proposal drafted by
former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, who placed third,
which urges respect for the constitution and the free-market
system. Humala will face in the runoff Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, daughter of jailed former President  Alberto Fujimori ,
who trailed behind Humala with 24 percent of the vote.  Humala, who in 2000 led soldiers that seized and occupied
for a week a mine owned by Phoenix-based Southern Cooper Corp.,
also has pledged to renegotiate a free-trade agreement with the
U.S. signed by President  Alan Garcia .  Bond Swap  Echeverry ruled out a swap of peso-denominated bonds that
come due in May. Colombia has about 10 trillion pesos ($5.5
billion) worth of securities known as TES coming due next month.  Echeverry said he would prefer to avoid controls on capital
inflows, though refused to rule them out. Colombia risks
attracting new speculative capital as near-zero  interest rates 
in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan coupled with Colombia’s new
investment grade rating from  Standard & Poor’s  lure inflows.  “We don’t close any doors because, as I said before, if
you reach your pain threshold, you react,” said Echeverry.
“But so far we have been below our pain threshold.”  Currency Measures  Colombia has stepped up efforts to curb a rally by the
peso, which has gained almost 32 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
over the past two years. The government last year eliminated
most tax exemptions on foreign borrowing and delayed
repatriating $1.5 billion held overseas, most of it dividends
from state oil company Ecopetrol SA.  The measures, imposed Oct. 29, helped weaken the peso 1.7
percent through the end of March, the biggest decline among the
region’s currencies after Argentina’s peso. Since then, the peso
has gained 4 percent, the biggest gainer during that period
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas, in a note to clients last week, said the peso
remains “significantly undervalued” and is set to outperform
its peers. The currency, which strengthened beyond the 1,800
pesos per U.S. dollar threshold last week for the first time
since October, could climb to as high as 1,760 per U.S. dollar,
BNP said.  The  central bank  has been buying at least $20 million daily
in the  spot market  since Sept. 15.  Echeverry said he’s confident the  U.S. Congress  will
approve a free trade agreement this year after Colombia agreed
to strengthen labor provisions that President Barack Obama
requested to move the long-stalled agreement forward. If it
isn’t, then Colombia will stop pushing for the deal, he said.  In the meantime, Colombia is broadening its trade agenda,
he said. The government is engaged in talks to deepen economic
cooperation with  Mexico , Chile and Peru -- all of which sit on
the Pacific Rim, share Colombia’s investment grade rating and
are negotiating or already have free trade agreements amongst
themselves and with the U.S.  Brazil, the region’s biggest economy, is more difficult to
penetrate because it has higher tariffs. Echeverry said he has
asked Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to “open up
their markets so that the role they play in Latin American
becomes tangible for all of us.”  “We have to trade more sell more and buy more from
Brazil,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Washington at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Washington at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  