-- 
Turkey’s Incoming Central Bank Head Says Loan Growth Slowing

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-17T08:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/turkey-s-incoming-central-bank-head-says-loan-growth-slowing-1-.html
Turkey ’s incoming central bank
governor said the monetary policy mix of low rates and higher
 reserve requirements  is starting to slow loan growth and help
narrow the current-account deficit.  Total loan growth is slowing to approach the average rate
over the last five years, Erdem Basci said in a presentation
delivered in  Washington  and posted on the Ankara-based bank’s
website. The lira has weakened while other emerging market
currencies have strengthened and leading indicators suggest
exports will grow faster, it said.  Basci, 44, who takes over at the bank from Durmus Yilmaz on
April 19, is trying to arrest a boom in lending without
increases in the benchmark interest rate, which the central bank
has held steady since cutting it to a record low of 6.25 percent
in January. The economy last year grew at more than three times
the rate in the  euro zone . Bank lending is fueling demand for
imports, which may push the current-account deficit to 8 percent
of economic output this year, according to an International
Monetary Fund estimate.  The monetary easing by western central banks has posed a
problem for emerging markets, Basci said in his presentation.
Turkey has opted for a second approach, avoiding the  capital
controls  put in place by countries such as  Brazil  and  South
Korea , he said. The aim is to “restrict domestic credit and
domestic demand while keeping the short-term interest rate
differentials as low as possible.”  The new governor should change course because “in a highly
competitive sector none of the banks will choose to slow their
loan growth,” HSBC analyst Tamer Sengun said April 15, lowering
the ratings of lenders  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS to
“neutral” from “positive” and reducing price estimates for
most of the Turkish banks he covers. The central bank should
treat each bank individually according to “how much they
expanded their loans,” he said.  The Turkish central bank has increased the reserve
requirements banks must set aside against their liabilities from
6 percent to as much as 15 percent for short-term deposits. It
has also stopped paying interest on the reserves to banks.  Basci is a school friend of Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan , the country’s top economic policy maker. His
appointment was forecast by 14 of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg last month.  The cumulative current-account gap for the 12 months
through February was $54.8 billion, or about 7 percent of
estimated gross domestic product, the bank said April 11. It was
the largest 12-month deficit on record. The government’s
economic program forecasts a gap of $42.2 billion, or 5.4
percent of GDP, this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 