-- 
Yemen Opposition Turns Down Gulf Plan to End Unrest, Demands Saleh Ouster

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-18T13:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/yemen-opposition-turns-down-gulf-plan-to-end-unrest-demands-saleh-ouster.html
Yemen ’s opposition coalition
rejected a Gulf Cooperation Council plan to end unrest in the
country, telling the group’s foreign ministers that the swift
departure of President Ali Abdullah Saleh isn’t negotiable.  Before the talks began in Riyadh yesterday, police in Yemen
used live ammunition, teargas and water cannons to disperse tens
of thousands of protesters marching in the capital, Sana’a,
injuring at least 100, according to Abdulmalik al-Yusufi, a
doctor at a field clinic along the protest route. Thirty
protesters were hurt when they were attacked by government
supporters in the city of Thamad, according to the online
opposition publication al-Masdar.  “We are sticking to our position,” Mohammed Salem
Basendwah, head of the opposition Preparatory Committee for
National Dialogue, told reporters in the Saudi capital after the
meeting. Yemen’s six-party opposition coalition, the Joint
Meetings Party, wants Saleh to step down immediately.  Protests in Yemen calling for an end to Saleh’s rule are
entering their third month. The GCC, which comprises the  United
Arab Emirates ,  Bahrain ,  Saudi Arabia , Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait ,
wants the opposition to accept the handover of power from Saleh
to his Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi. The Arab group
hasn’t announced when a handover should take place.  Working on Handover  “The president has repeatedly said that he’s prepared to
transfer power,” Yemeni Foreign Minister Abu Bakr Al-Qirbi said
in an interview in Dubai today. “We have to agree on how to
transfer it, the timeframe, the process; so this is what we’re
working on now.”  An April 3 plan by the GCC called for Saleh to step down
immediately. The council on April 10 scaled back its demands,
asking Saleh to cede power to Hadi, a plan rejected by the
opposition.  “The dialogue was brotherly and constructive, reflecting
both parties’ wish to bring their points of view closer together
and continue working and exert greater effort to preserve the
republic of Yemen’s safety, stability and unity,” the council
said in a statement distributed after the  Riyadh  meeting ended
early today.  Asked later whether the opposition will seek to put Saleh
on trial, Sultan Al Atwani, secretary-general of the opposition
Nasserite Unionist People’s Organization, said: “We are not
aggressive. We are not who will try him. If he wishes to stay,
he can stay. If he feels he is not safe, he can stay in another
country.”  Women March  Yemeni men and women marched side by side in Sana’a and
cities across the country yesterday to protest Saleh’s March 15
comment that mixed-gender demonstrations violate Islamic law.
The women chanted, “Hey, Yemeni woman, revolt. Ali is a
dictator.”  Saleh said his comment about mixed protests was prompted by
“worry for our daughters, sisters and mothers from the mob and
anarchists,” state-run Saba news agency reported.  Protesters were stuck inside al-Rahman mosque in Sana’a’s
diplomatic zone yesterday, cleric Mohammed al-Hazmi said in a
telephone interview. About 30 protesters suffered teargas
inhalation while troops surrounded the mosque, he said. More
than a dozen people were injured in clashes today between
demonstrators and police in the port city of Hodiedah,
Abdulhafiz Mujjab, an organizer of the rally, said by phone.  Saleh has been a U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaeda.
The most serious terrorism threat to the U.S. comes from members
of a Yemen-based offshoot of al-Qaeda, Mark F. Giuliano, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s assistant director for
counterterrorism, said April 14.  “Al-Qaeda, where there is a political crisis or political
conflict, it takes advantage of it,” Al-Qirbi said today.
“They’ll take advantage of it for sure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 