-- 
Yemenis Clash With Police as Women Defy Saleh by Openly Calling for Revolt

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-17T17:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-17/yemenis-clash-with-police-as-women-defy-saleh-by-openly-calling-for-revolt.html
Yemeni police used live fire, tear
gas and water cannons to disperse tens of thousands of
protesters marching in the capital, Sana’a.  At least 100 people suffered from tear-gas inhalation and
many were injured by stones and bullets, according to Dr.
Abdulmalik al-Yusufi, a doctor at one of the field clinics along
the protest route. Thirty protesters in the city of Thamar were
wounded today by live fire and attacks by armed government
supporters, the online opposition publication al-Masdar
reported.  Protests in Yemen calling for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s rule are entering their third month amid a
stalemate between his regime and the opposition. Foreign
ministers of the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council met in
 Saudi Arabia  today to discuss Yemen’s political crisis. The GCC,
which includes Saudi Arabia, the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar,
is seeking to persuade the opposition to accept a proposal
allowing Saleh to hand power over to his Vice President
Abduraboo Mansur Hadi.  Yemeni men and women marched side by side in Sana’a and
cities across the country to protest comments by Saleh, who said
on March 15 that mixed-gender demonstrations violated Islamic
law. Women chanted, “Hey, Yemeni woman revolt, Ali is a
dictator.”  Saleh said today that his comment about mixed protests was
prompted by “worry for our daughters, sisters and mothers from
the mob and anarchists,” state-run Saba news agency reported.  Protesters were stuck inside al-Rahman mosque in Sana’a’s
diplomatic zone, Mohammed al-Hazmi, the cleric, said in a
telephone interview. About 30 protesters were inside and
suffered from tear-gas inhalation while troops surrounded the
mosque, al-Hazmi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 