-- 
$52 Steaks on Menu as AT&T Feted Lawmakers During T-Mobile Push

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-09-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/-52-steaks-on-menu-as-at-t-feted-lawmakers-during-t-mobile-push.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  feted lawmakers at
Washington restaurants offering $52 steaks and a $15
 “Lobbyist’s Libation”  made of gin and cucumber puree as the
company sought U.S. approval to buy T-Mobile USA Inc.  The parties, carrying $1,000 admission charges and aimed at
replenishing congressional campaign coffers, were held as the
largest U.S. phone company sought regulators’ blessing for the
$39 billion deal. On Aug. 31, the  Justice Department  sued to
block the transaction, saying it would harm competition.  The litigation marks a rare setback for AT&T, long a
leading Washington power. The Dallas-based company boosted
lobbying spending by 30 percent to $11.7 million in the first
six months of 2011 compared with a year earlier, Senate records
show. AT&T’s political action committee gave $805,500 to federal
candidates, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a
 Washington  research group.  “The one thing you can say about their losing is that it
wasn’t for a lack of lobbyists,”  Bill Allison , editorial
director of the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based
nonprofit that promotes government transparency, said in an
interview. “They left no stone unturned.”  AT&T supplemented its own in-house lobbyists with 18
outside firms pushing for the merger, Senate records show. The
firm of former U.S. senators John Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat,
and Trent Lott, a Mississippi Republican, received $240,000. A
company headed by former U.S. Representative J.C. Watts, an
Oklahoma Republican, got $100,000.  K Street  Former House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Billy
Tauzin’s firm was paid $50,000, while  Wiley Rein LLP , a  law firm 
on Washington’s K Street co-founded by former Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Richard Wiley , received
$160,000.  Clyburn Consulting LLC , where the principal is William
Clyburn Jr., a cousin to Representative  James Clyburn , a South
Carolina Democrat, received $60,000. James Clyburn is father of
Mignon Clyburn, one of three Democrats on the FCC. The agency is
continuing its review of the merger.  William Clyburn hasn’t contacted the commissioner about the
AT&T merger, Dave Grimaldi, Mignon Clyburn’s chief of staff,
said in an interview. William Clyburn didn’t return a telephone
call seeking comment.  PAC Donations  AT&T’s political action committee, which funnels employees’
contributions to lawmakers’ campaigns, was the most generous
corporate PAC this year, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, which tracks money in politics. Congress doesn’t play
a direct role in merger approval. Lawmakers may seek to
influence the regulatory agencies.  House Speaker  John Boehner , Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ,
and Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee with jurisdiction
over telecommunications policy, each received $5,000 from AT&T’s
PAC.  The head of AT&T’s Washington office, Senior Executive Vice
President  Jim Cicconi , last year donated $1,500 to Boehner,
$2,000 to the  National Republican Senatorial Committee  and
$1,000 to the  National Republican Congressional Committee ,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Giving by AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson
since 2009 has included $2,000 to Boehner, $6,000 to the
Republican senatorial committee and $4,000 to the Republican
congressional committee, the center’s records show.  AT&T’s contributions this year have split 64 percent to
Republicans and 36 percent to Democrats, compared with a
breakdown of 55 percent Republican and 45 percent Democratic in
the previous election cycle of 2009-2010.  Lobbyist’s Libation  AT&T hosted at least nine fundraising receptions and
dinners since the deal was announced on March 20, according to
invitations collected by the Sunlight Foundation and  posted  on
its website.  The Lobbyist’s Libation cocktail is available at Charlie
Palmer Steak, at the foot of  Capitol Hill , where AT&T and one of
its outside firms, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, shared
hosting duties for a June 14 fundraising dinner for
Representative Henry Waxman, of  California , the top Democrat on
the Energy and Commerce Committee.  AT&T’s PAC has given Waxman $4,000 so far this year, and
Akin Gump’s PAC gave him $1,200. Akin Gump received $240,000
this year to lobby on behalf of the merger and other issues.  BLT Steak, which touts its location in the same
neighborhood as the White House, offers a  $52 New York strip
steak , oysters at $34 a dozen, and for $10 a dessert of lavender
ice cream. It was the scene of a June 21 fundraising dinner
hosted by AT&T for Representative Peter Roskam, an Illinois
Republican who sits on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
Roskam received $3,500 from AT&T’s PAC.  “Whenever you have an interest that’s hiring a lot of
lobbyists and pushing a public policy position, you’re going to
see them hosting a lot of fundraisers,” said Allison, of the
Sunlight Foundation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  