-- 
Madoff Trustee Defends $19 Billion Suit Against JPMorgan

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-02T11:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/madoff-trustee-defends-19-billion-lawsuit-against-jpmorgan.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm defended a $19 billion lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase &
Co., saying he was empowered by law to sue the bank on behalf of
innocent creditors of the Ponzi scheme operator.  The second-biggest U.S. bank asked a judge last month to
dismiss trustee  Irving Picard ’s suit, citing U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff’s July ruling that he can’t sue on behalf of Madoff
customers, using common-law claims against parties who failed to
detect the fraud. Picard, who appealed the ruling, said
bankruptcy law gives him the powers necessary to bring his suit.  “The  bankruptcy code  allows the trustee to stand in the
shoes of a judgment creditor and assert common-law claims
against JPMC,” he said in a court filing yesterday. JPMorgan,
as Madoff’s primary banker, was central to the fraud and
“complicit” in it, he said.  Picard, in his fight with Rakoff and JPMorgan, is defending
his right to demand most of the $100 billion he is seeking from
banks and Madoff investors. Rakoff tossed almost $9 billion in
damages Picard sought from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds,
leaving $2 billion in bankruptcy claims. If forced to give up
common-law claims against JPMorgan, Picard would lose his right
to seek $19 billion and be left to pursue $1 billion in
bankruptcy and other claims.  ‘Back Door’ Suit  JPMorgan, which accuses the trustee of mounting a “back
door” class-action suit on behalf of Madoff clients, said last
month that Picard’s suit never shows how JPMorgan was complicit
in Madoff’s crimes.  “The trustee never alleges facts showing that anyone at
JPMorgan had actual knowledge of Madoff’s crimes,” it said,
asking Judge  Colleen McMahon , who is handling the case, to toss
it out.  In yesterday’s filing, Picard said bankruptcy law gives him
power to bring a case similar to a class, or group, action.
Standing in the “shoes” of an innocent creditor, he can
“allege harm to all creditors,” he said. “The trustee is the
proper person to assert the claim.”  The case is Picard v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  