-- 
Madoff Trustee Can’t Use U.S. Law Abroad, Funds, Banks Argue

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-02T16:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/madoff-trustee-can-t-use-u-s-law-abroad-funds-banks-argue.html
Foreign companies sued for billions
of dollars by the liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm are
asking judges to dismiss the cases, saying trustee Irving H. Picard is breaking U.S. law in trying to apply it abroad.  Tensyr Ltd., a Channel Islands company that invested
$450 million in a so-called feeder fund to the confidence man,
said yesterday in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  New York 
that Picard ignored a ruling by the U.S.  Supreme Court  when he
demanded return of $30 million redeemed from the feeder,
Fairfield Sentry Ltd.  Italy’s UniCredit SpA asked the New York court to dismiss a
racketeering suit seeking $59 billion from it and defendants
including Bank Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn.  “The trustee’s extreme positions are irreconcilable with
recent decisions of the United States Supreme Court,” Tensyr
said. “The Supreme Court recently overruled prior case law and
held that United States statutes do not apply
extraterritorially.”  The tack taken by Picard’s foreign targets is another
challenge to the trustee, who is fighting a July ruling by U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  that tossed out almost $9
billion of the trustee’s common law claims against  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds.  Rakoff said Picard can’t sue parties that allegedly had a
duty to detect Madoff’s fraud.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Picard’s Position  Picard this week defended his UniCredit suit, saying it
wasn’t “extraterritorial” because of communications between
the bank and Kohn in New York.  The “illegal scheme ” to funnel money to Madoff
originated in New York, he said in a filing. It “gravely
injured a New York victim,” the Madoff estate, he said.  In the Tensyr case, Picard defended the use of U.S. law
outside the country by saying the fund’s contract with Fairfield
Sentry specified New York law should apply to certain disputes,
Tensyr said in the filing.  Courts have “roundly” rejected such arguments as
“insufficient to establish jurisdiction,” said Tensyr, which
Picard says was set up by  Walter Noel ’s Fairfield Greenwich
Group.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA asked a judge this week
to dismiss a $45 million suit by Picard, saying U.S. bankruptcy
law doesn’t empower him to take back money withdrawn from the
 Ponzi scheme  in other countries.  “The statute is silent as to its extraterritorial
application and cannot be used by the trustee to recover
transfers made” outside the U.S., the bank said in a U.S.
Bankruptcy Court filing.  The Tensyr case is Picard v. Natixis, 10-05353, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 