-- 
Madonna Resurrects Wallis, Polanski’s Comeback: Venice Reviews

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-02T00:44:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/madonna-resurrects-wallis-simpson-polanski-s-comeback-venice-film-review.html
Madonna has more in common with
Wallis Simpson than you might think: She too was an American
divorcee who married an Englishman and had trouble adjusting.  Not surprisingly then, Madonna has made a movie about the
woman for whom Edward VIII surrendered the throne. “W.E.”
premiered yesterday at the  Venice Film Festival , out of the
official competition.  Looking Wallis-like in red lipstick and a white-collared
black dress, the 53-year-old singer grudgingly took questions,
scolding reporters who had more than one. Asked if she’d give up
her pop-queen throne for a man or woman, she replied, “I think
I can have both. Or all three.”  Madonna’s second stab at filmmaking (after the 2008 “Filth
and Wisdom”) is stylish but sophomoric. From a purely emotional
standpoint, it’s barely more engaging than a fashion shoot, or a
music video. Feelings -- love, fear, betrayal, solitude -- are
expressed in their most elementary form. Actors get little
direction.  Madonna has crafted a modern plot to run alongside the
Wallis-and-Edward (“W.E.”) legend. She shows a  Manhattan  wife
named Wally (Abbie Cornish) getting roughed up by her British
therapist husband, and developing an obsession with Mrs. Simpson.
Wally makes daily visits to view the Simpson baubles on display
at Sotheby’s, where she befriends a Russian security guard
called Evgeni (Oscar Isaac).  Revealing Seduction  A more seasoned writer would have put together a better
companion plot; Madonna’s is gloomy and forced. Parallels
between Wallis and Wally -- besides a shared quest for true love
-- are hard to see. At one point, the contemporary courtship
even descends into farce: Evgeni dons a Scottish military
uniform to seduce Wally after hours, and as he lifts his kilt to
sit at the piano, reveals a bare bottom.  The film’s stronger half, by far, is the royal romance,
helped by Andrea Riseborough’s solid performance as Wallis. The
impossibly chic couple swan from one Riviera resort to another,
playing out their love affair, though, there again, the camera
cuts away too quickly.  Madonna has proven her acting talents repeatedly -- in
“Desperately Seeking Susan,” for instance, or “Dick Tracy.”
Her effort to show Wallis Simpson’s human side is unconvincing.
It makes you wish the chronic performer had stood in front of
the camera, not behind it. Rating: **.  Polanski’s ‘Carnage’  Roman Polanski  is making headlines again -- and for the
right reasons this time.  The Polish-born director was freed from house arrest last
year after  Switzerland  refused to extradite him to  California  in
a case involving unlawful sexual conduct. Absent from the Venice
Film Festival, he sent a movie that may have a shot at the final
prize: “Carnage,” based on a play by Yasmina Reza.  Two New York couples meet after their pre-adolescent sons
get in a punch-up, one boy leaving the other with a couple of
broken incisors. The parental encounter, civilized at first,
quickly turns into full-scale warfare.  The victim’s parents, Penelope and Michael Longstreet, host
the meeting in their coffee-toned living room, lined with
African textiles and art books. Penelope ( Jodie Foster ) is a
liberal sophisticate who campaigns for Darfur, and Michael (John C. Reilly), a houseware supplier.  The guilty boy’s parents are much more corporate: Alan
Cowan (Christoph Waltz, the Nazi colonel in “Inglourious
Basterds”) is an attorney working for a pharmaceutical firm,
and Nancy ( Kate Winslet ), a pencil-skirted investment broker.  One Room  Unbelievably, the film takes place exclusively in the
Longstreet living room, and often to hilarious effect. Battle
lines keep getting redrawn, as the men take sides against the
women, and vicious marital disputes erupt.  The characters all end up making fools of themselves. Alan
is wedded to his cellphone (“You can’t recall a drug because
three guys can’t walk a straight line!” he howls down it).
Penelope is an incorrigible Europhile (“My Kokoschka!” she
squeals, as Nancy pukes all over an out-of-print art catalog).  Polanski miraculously makes his single-location production
feel like a full-fledged movie -- not a play, and not a TV movie.
As Reilly noted in  Venice , “Roman went to great pains to have
variety.”  In the process, “Carnage” is way better than the
underlying work, which in its original Paris staging managed to
be quite dull. By transposing it to Manhattan, Polanski makes
the political correctness all the more comical. His skill -- and
that of his actors, Foster and Reilly in particular -- could
well bring a Venice nod.  Rating: ***1/2.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Farah Nayeri in Venice on 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 