-- 
Obama Should Be `Bold' in Jobs Speech to Congress, AFL-CIO's Trumka Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/afl-cio-s-trumka-urges-obama-to-be-very-bold-in-jobs-address-next-week.html
AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka 
said he wants President  Barack Obama  to propose a multitrillion-
dollar job-creation program in his speech to Congress next week
and that the president needs “another course” to boost his
skills in negotiating with Republicans.  “I’m hoping that he’ll be very bold,” Trumka said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend. “He’ll stand up for the American worker
and say, ‘This is what needs to be done to fix the problem, and
I’m going to fight for it.’”  Trumka, head of the largest U.S. union federation, has
warned of waning enthusiasm for Obama from the  labor movement , a
critical part of his political base, ahead of next year’s re-
election bid. Labor unions are disappointed in Obama’s tax-
reduction agreement with Republicans last December that extended
Bush-era cuts for even the richest Americans, and in continuing
efforts to cut federal spending by $2.4 trillion amid the
nation’s 9.1 percent unemployment rate.  “I’d say he needs to take another course in bargaining to
help out,” Trumka said in the interview.  Obama is to present his job creation plan in a Sept. 8
address to a joint meeting of Congress. The White House is
considering more infrastructure spending, tax incentives to spur
hiring, a cut in the employer portion of the  payroll tax  credit
and changes to  unemployment insurance  to subsidize worker
retraining, a person familiar with the discussions said earlier
this week.  Payroll Tax  Obama has spent much of the year pressing a familiar set of
proposals: renewal of a cut in the employee-paid portion of the
payroll tax and extended  unemployment benefits , both expiring
Dec. 31, and ratification of free-trade deals.  Trumka said today he doesn’t think tax credits -- an idea
favored by Republicans -- are enough to make a difference.  “American workers, whether they’re union or not union, are
looking for leadership,” he said. “They don’t want excuses.
They don’t want bipartisan crap.”  Labor wants aggressive spending on new infrastructure
projects, Trumka said. “If you’re looking at $400 billion over
a year for a number of years, that gets us in the ballpark,” he
said.  The U.S. unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent in August,
and the Office of Management and Budget said the jobless rate
will average 9 percent next year.  ‘Super PAC’  Labor enthusiasm is critical to Obama’s re-election bid,
and Trumka said today that “some of the things he’s done have
caused a dampening the spirit of the base.” Still, that might
be offset by the new AFL-CIO “super PAC” that will spend money
year-round to mobilize voting by union and non-union workers.  In addition, labor money and enthusiasm have poured into
 Wisconsin ,  Ohio  and other states where Republican governors
fought for laws that curb union rights. That kind of action
“energized our base,” Trumka said.  Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , elected in November in a
sweep of Republican gubernatorial victories, has led a push in
states to curtail union rights and benefits as budget deficits
widened. Trumka said in June he wanted to give Walker a
“mobilizer of the year” award because anger at his anti-union
agenda drew protests as large as 70,000 people to the state
capitol.  The rift between the president and labor is wide enough
that a dozen unions last month said they plan to boycott next
year’s Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . Labor is angry that the Democrats chose North
Carolina, a state that lacks unionized hotels and has the lowest
rate of unionized workers.  Trumka, who has served as a delegate in the past, said he
isn’t sure if he will participate in the convention. “I haven’t
made that decision yet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  