-- 
AIG to Sell More Than 20% of ILFC Plane-Leasing Business in Initial Offer

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   J u l i e   A l n w i c k
-- 
2011-09-02T13:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/aig-s-international-lease-finance-files-for-ipo-on-new-york-stock-exchange.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out U.S. insurer, plans to sell more than 20 percent
of its ILFC Holdings Inc. plane-leasing subsidiary in an initial
public offering and divest most of the unit over time.  Details including the number of shares offered, price and
timing haven’t been determined, New York-based AIG said today in
a regulatory filing. None of the proceeds will go to ILFC, the
filing said.  AIG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , is
selling assets as the company seeks to exit a government rescue
that was valued at $182.3 billion. ILFC, the world’s largest
independent aircraft lessor, may be worth about $3 billion, said
Paul Newsome, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  “One of the problems with the offering of ILFC is there’s
a very wide range of valuations,” Newsome said in a phone
interview. “My sense is investors will probably take the most
pessimistic view until it’s completed.”  ILFC, headed by Chief Executive Officer Henri Courpron, has
more than 1,000 owned or managed aircraft, as well as
commitments to buy almost 240 new planes. Revenue topped $2.2
billion in the six months ended June 30.  “AIG has determined that ILFC is not one of its core
businesses,” the insurer said. “The IPO is the first step in
AIG’s plan to monetize its interest in ILFC.”  AIG said it intends to dispose of at least 80 percent of
ILFC within three years of the IPO. AIG, once the world’s
biggest insurer, said it needs approval from the U.S. Treasury
Department, which owns about 77 percent of the firm’s stock.  AIG’S Sales  AIG sold a 67 percent stake in Hong Kong-based insurance
company AIA Group Ltd. for $20.5 billion in an IPO last year.
AIG sold American Life Insurance Co., a carrier with business in
more than 50 companies, to MetLife Inc. in November for about
$16 billion.  At least 11 companies, including ILFC, filed for U.S. IPOs
this week, compared with 15 in the previous week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. More than 100 U.S. IPOs raised $35.8
billion this year, the most of any country.  Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley are
managing the offering, according to the filing. AIG bought the
plane-leasing business more than 20 years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .
Julie Alnwick in London at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net .
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  