-- 
Taiwan Bonds Advance This Week on Slowdown Fear; Currency Gains

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-02T08:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/taiwan-bonds-advance-this-week-on-slowdown-fear-currency-gains.html
Taiwan ’s bonds had a weekly advance
on speculation a faltering global recovery will hurt the
island’s export-led economy, prompting the central bank to pause
on interest-rate increases.  The local dollar rose this week as investors bet the
 Federal Reserve  will announce new measures to shore up the
world’s biggest economy. Taiwan, together with Malaysia and
 Singapore , are the most vulnerable to a “U.S. and European
demand shock” as the island’s exports are “highly cyclical,”
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG report published
yesterday. Overseas shipments account for about two-thirds of
the island’s economy, official data show.  “If there are slowdowns in developed countries there’s no
question Taiwan will be affected, that’s why traders are
thinking the central bank might not raise  interest rates  later
this month,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First
Securities Inc. in Taipei. “But I doubt the five-year yields
will fall 1 one percent. It’s just not very justified.”  The yield on the 2 percent notes due July 2016 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, today and this week to
1.009 percent as of the 1:30 p.m. local close, prices from
Gretai Securities Market show. The rate fell to 0.974 percent on
Aug. 19, the least since Dec. 20.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.1 percent during the five-
day period to NT$29.025 versus the greenback, and was down 0.2
percent today, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  The central bank last boosted its benchmark interest rate
on June 30 by 12.5 basis points to 1.875 percent. The policy
board is set to meet again later this month.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed this week and today at
0.394 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  