-- 
AMR in Stalemate in Bid for $800 Million Labor Savings

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-09-29T14:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/amr-faces-union-stalemate-in-bid-for-800-million-labor-savings.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines ,
saddled with the U.S. industry’s highest labor costs, now faces
contract  negotiations  stalled so badly that federal mediators
have walked away from the talks.  A stalemate with three unions is thwarting American’s bid
to chop what it says is an $800 million-a-year disadvantage to
rivals in labor expenses. Pilots say “considerable gaps”
remain as they meet with executives at a rural Texas resort this
week to assess what to do next in bargaining that began in 2006.  Unions for the pilots, flight attendants and ground workers
want to recoup at least part of the $1.6 billion in annual
concessions made to avert bankruptcy in 2003.  Fort Worth , Texas-
based AMR seeks productivity gains to cut labor bills that are
helping drag it to a fourth straight annual loss.  “Not only do they need to be able to exact some cost
savings out of labor agreements, but they need certainty to
navigate what’s ahead,” said  Brian Nelson , president of equity
research at Valuentum Securities Inc. in  Chicago . “While they
do have a large cash position, their cash-flow generation is
faltering. I would put labor near the top of the priority
list.”  AMR will be alone among peers with a 2011 loss and won’t
post a profit in 2012, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Its labor spending last year equaled 30.9 percent of
sales, the most among the six largest U.S. airlines, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Union Template?  “The breakthrough would be if you got the pilots to do
some concessions,” said Henry Oechler, an attorney with
Chadbourne & Parke LLP in  New York  who has handled airline labor
issues. “That could serve as a template for the other unions.”  By law, airline contracts don’t expire, so existing pay
scales and work rules stay in place pending a new accord.
American has flown for years under terms it wants to change
while working on deals with three unions whose members make up
73 percent of employees at the third-largest U.S. carrier.  A  National Mediation Board  mediator recessed talks last
month between American and the union for 11,000 mechanics over a
lack of progress and didn’t set new sessions, after a similar
outcome for baggage handlers in July. An April NMB session ended
with no dates for more talks with 17,000 attendants.  American and its pilots have been on their own for talks
since October, when the NMB abandoned those negotiations.  ‘Very Challenging’  “As tough as 2011 has been, 2012 is shaping up to be
another very challenging year,” Jeff Brundage, American’s
senior vice president for employee relations, said in an e-mail
before he and Vice President Mark Burdette gathered this week
with pilot leaders at  Rough Creek Lodge & Resort  in Glen Rose,
 Texas .  While Brundage said American was “working as quickly as
possible with our unions,” the  Allied Pilots Association  said
it didn’t see any agreement soon.  “We’ve got considerable gaps between our positions on some
of the big areas,” Sam Mayer, a union spokesman, said in an
interview. “I don’t think either side has an expectation of
getting there in one week, but we’ll have a better idea if both
sides think they have a way to bridge the gaps.”  A contract with American’s 8,700 active pilots can’t come
too soon for the airline, which hasn’t posted an annual profit
since 2007 and saw competitors return to profit in 2010.  Stock Performance  AMR is the worst performer on the 10-carrier Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index in 2011, tumbling 55 percent before today. The
shares closed yesterday at $3.52, compared with $24.69 when
talks started with pilots on Sept. 20, 2006.  Most American rivals were in bankruptcy then or had exited
within 12 months. Avoiding Chapter 11 meant American couldn’t
chop costs in court protection. Then it missed out on
consolidation such as last year’s United Airlines-Continental
Airlines merger, which created the world’s biggest airline.  AMR should end 2012 with $4.4 billion in liquidity, “so no
financial risk” now,  Dan McKenzie , a Rodman & Renshaw analyst
in Chicago, said in a report yesterday. “But the margin for
error continues to narrow.”  Through 2015, AMR has $6.37 billion due in principal
payments on long-term debt, spokesman Sean Collins said.  Adding to the urgency for a pilot accord is the fact that
American has ordered hundreds of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS jets
it can’t fly until new pay scales are negotiated, said  Hunter Keay , an analyst at New York-based Wolfe Trahan & Co. who rates
AMR as “underperform.” McKenzie recommends holding the stock.  NMB’s Role  The National Mediation Board declined to comment on the
status of American’s labor talks. With the freeze, American
isn’t getting its sought-after savings, and its work groups
don’t have payback for the 2003 concessions or the required
federal clearance to move toward a strike.  “We might be sitting on the sidelines for quite some
time,” said Sidney Jimenez, president of Transport Workers
Union Local 568 in  Florida , which represents workers such as
baggage handlers.  American has reached agreements with each work group on
numerous contract provisions. The unresolved issues are those
that often require the most negotiating time, including
compensation and retirement.  Laura Glading , president of the  Association of Professional
Flight Attendants , said it was “baffling” that American hasn’t
concluded agreements with its biggest unions.  “All three groups are offering them some increased
productivity and efficiency,” Glading said in an interview.
“Yet you still don’t do what you need to do to close the
deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  