-- 
Mantega Says Brazil to Continue ‘Rigorous’ Inflation Fight After Rate Cut

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-09-02T17:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/mantega-says-brazil-to-continue-rigorous-inflation-fight-after-rate-cut.html
Brazil will remain vigilant against
inflation in the wake of the central bank’s decision to cut
interest rates, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  “There can be no doubt about us continuing our rigorous
strategy of containing inflation,” Mantega said in an interview
in  Sao Paulo .  A more restrictive fiscal policy will assist the central
bank in its inflation fight and complement a “more active” use
of monetary policy, Mantega said. Critics of the bank’s decision
to lower interest rates while inflation is running at a six-year
high of 7.1 percent are unfounded, he added.  “Brazil has some of the highest  reserve requirements  and
the highest  interest rate  in the world,” he said. “If anyone
expresses doubts about the seriousness of our monetary policy
they must be joking.”  A recent spike in food prices caused by a poor harvest in
the U.S. will be temporary, Mantega said.  Mantega said a reduction in spending this year and the
decision to increase the government’s budget surplus before
interest payments target are helping to ease inflationary
pressures. The government has no intention of taking advantage
of special accounting rules allowing it to discount up to 40
billion reais ($24 billion) in investments from its 2012 budget
goal, he said.  “That escape valve is there only in case of a tragedy in
the international economy,” he said. “If this isn’t exemplary
fiscal behavior, I don’t know what is.”  As part of its campaign of fiscal austerity, the government
won’t authorize any salary increases for government employees
next year, Mantega said. Only workers in the federal judicial
branch whose request for a raise is still under consideration
may see wages increase in 2012, he added.   While Mantega said he is against raising taxes, the
government needs to negotiate with Congress a solution to the
country’s health care problems that have been taking a toll on
the budgets of  Brazil ’s 27 state governments.   “I don’t know how it’s going to be solved,” Mantega said.
“We’re going to discuss a solution with the Congress that
doesn’t imply an increase in federal  government spending .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  