-- 
AOL Is Said to Move TechCrunch Founder Arrington to New Role of Investor

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-02T22:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/aol-is-said-to-move-techcrunch-founder-arrington-to-new-role-of-investor.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  invested in a new fund for
technology startups to be led by Michael Arrington, who will no
longer be top editor of AOL’s TechCrunch blog, which he founded,
said two people familiar with the plan.  Arrington’s fund has raised $20 million from AOL and
venture capital firms including  Sequoia Capital , according to
the people, who requested anonymity because the plans have not
been made public. He will remain employed under AOL’s investment
arm, while the company plans to find a new editor for
TechCrunch, said the people.  AOL, the  Internet company  that’s struggling to halt a sales
slide, bought TechCrunch in September 2010 as part of a broader
effort to add publications and writers to generate advertising
revenue. Moving its founder into a new role as investor will
diminish the acquisition’s value, said  Laura Martin , senior
media and Internet analyst at Needham & Co.  “Arrington’s brand value is as an independent assessor and
introducer of promising new companies and technologies,” said
Martin, who is based in  Pasadena ,  California . “By starting a
fund that invests in some and not in others, the credibility of
every assessment he does is questionable.” Martin has a “buy”
rating on AOL and doesn’t own the stock.  Mark Dempster, a spokesman for Sequoia, confirmed his
company’s investment in the fund.  Marc Andreessen  and Ben Horowitz also invested on their own behalf and not on the behalf
of their venture capital firm, Andreessen Horowitz, said Margit Wennmachers, a partner at the firm. Bloomberg LP, parent of
Bloomberg News, is an investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Outside Investors  AOL pushed to be the sole investor in the new fund,
according to two people familiar with the talks. Arrington
insisted on taking money from outside investors, said the
people. AOL invested less than $10 million, one person said.  Maureen Sullivan, a spokeswoman for New York-based AOL, did
not respond to requests for comment. Arrington didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  AOL fell 69 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $14.50 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading. The stock has fallen 39 percent
this year.  TechCrunch was founded in 2005 by Arrington, who created
the blog from his home in Atherton, California, to share news
about emerging Internet companies. In addition to publishing an
assortment of technology blogs, TechCrunch hosts conferences.  After the acquisition, Arrington said he planned to stay at
AOL for at least three years. AOL paid $25 million for
TechCrunch, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 