-- 
Marubeni Pays $324 Million for U.K. Wind Stake From Dong

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-02T12:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/marubeni-pays-324-million-for-u-k-wind-stake-from-dong-2-.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002)  became the first
Japanese company to invest in an offshore wind project after
agreeing to pay 200 million pounds ($324 million) for 49.9
percent of a U.K. park owned by Dong Energy A/S.  The Japanese trading house agreed to buy shares in the 172-
megawatt Gunfleet Sands facility off Essex in southern  England ,
Skaerbaek, Denmark-based Dong Energy said in a statement.  Dong, the largest owner of offshore wind parks, has been
funding projects by luring co-investors. It has sold stakes in
three parks to Dutch and Danish pension funds to help finance
developments in offshore wind, being promoted by  Germany  and the
U.K. even as it’s one of the most costly renewable technologies.  “We are working from the principle that we will divest 49
percent of the parks that are in the pipeline in order to
finance coming projects,”  Dong Energy ’s Chief Executive Officer
Anders Eldrup said in an interview by phone from Copenhagen. He
declined to comment on a time frame for further divestments.  The plan spreads risk and generates funds for its project
pipeline, including the 1-gigawatt London Array park and the
400-megawatt Anholt facility off  Denmark , he said.  Gunfleet Sands, in the Thames Estuary, began full operation
last year and produces enough power for 125,000 British homes.
Among the offshore parks Dong fully owns are Horns Rev 2 in
Denmark and Burbo Bank in the U.K.  Google Inc.  “The offshore wind power sector represents a tremendous
growth opportunity not only in  Europe  but in  Japan  and the
Americas,” Masumi Kakinoki, an executive officer at Marubeni,
said in the statement. Marubeni said the transaction marked the
first investment by a Japanese company in an offshore wind farm.  Marubeni, based in  Tokyo , will have 450 megawatts of
renewable-energy capacity when the deal is completed in the
fourth quarter, provided it wins project finance commitments.  “This is also another important transaction for the
offshore wind sector both in allowing more capital to be
recycled but also in bringing another new entrant to the
market,” Ronan O’Regan, director of energy and renewables in
London at consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said by e-mail.  Marubeni has a track record of investing in the renewable-
energy sector, according to Jerome Guillet, managing director of
Green Giraffe Energy Bankers of Paris. The company is part of a
$5.5 billion power transmission project off the U.S. Atlantic
coast including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that will link 6,000 megawatts of
power harvested from wind parks at sea.  NM Rothschild  “Marubeni’s aim is to enter this new energy offshore wind
power area to get know-how in this field and to establish a
strong position,” Jiro Iokibe, a senior analyst at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co Ltd., said by phone from Tokyo.  With 8,796 megawatts of power globally including Gunfleet,
Marubeni is a “very competitive global power player,” he said.  Dong Energy and Marubeni also agreed a long-term purchase
accord for power and green certificates, a financial incentive
awarded to renewable power producers, from Marubeni’s portion of
Gunfleet. The Danish company, which was advised by NM Rothschild
& Sons Ltd., will operate and maintain the plant.  “This new sale by Dong of a minority stake in one of their
operational projects shows there is appetite for offshore wind
assets from many different types of investors,” Guillet said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  