-- 
Harvard’s Frankel Sees Weak U.S. Economy Instead of Recession

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c K e e   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-02T18:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/harvard-s-frankel-sees-weak-u-s-economy-instead-of-recession.html
The economy in the U.S. will face a
protracted period of weak growth rather than slide into another
recession, said  Jeffrey Frankel , a professor of economics at
 Harvard University .  “This is a long slump we’re in,” Frankel, a member of the
National Bureau of Economic Research committee that determines
when recessions begin and end, said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Radio’s “On The Economy With Michael McKee.” “In
that sense, it’s like the 1870s or 1930s. You have a recovery
but not enough to create jobs or get the economy going.”  Recent reports, including the Labor Department’s data today
that showed payrolls were unchanged in August and unemployment
held at 9.1 percent, have fueled concern the world’s largest
economy is contracting barely two years into a recovery. The
last recession ended in June 2009, the NBER announced in
September 2010.  Frankel put the odds of another recession at less than 50
percent. He said that although revisions to gross domestic
product issued in July showed the recovery was much weaker than
previously estimated, members of the NBER Business Cycle Dating
committee will probably not alter their decision pinpointing the
end of the slump.  “I suppose we could change our mind on that, the
statistics have been revised,” said Frankel. “But we’ve never
done that before and I don’t think it’s likely.”  Therefore, any contraction beginning now will be considered
a new slump, he said. “I think we’ll escape a second downturn,
but if we didn’t, that would qualify as a second recession,”
said Frankel, who teaches economics at Harvard’s Kennedy School
of Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McKee  in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  