-- 
Stocks Tumble as 10-Year Yield Nears Record Low

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-02T21:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/asia-stocks-end-six-day-rise-as-u-s-futures-drop-franc-climbs-oil-falls.html
Stocks tumbled, wiping out the
weekly gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, while the
dollar, Treasuries and gold rose following a report showing
American job growth stalled in August. European sovereign-debt
risk climbed to a record amid bickering over Greece’s bailout.  The S&P 500 fell 2.5 percent to 1,173.97 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 2.4
percent. The Dollar Index rose 0.4 percent in a fourth straight
gain, its longest rally since January, and the Swiss franc rose
versus all 16 major peers. Ten-year Treasury yields sank 14
basis points to 1.99 percent, four points above a record low,
and the 30-year rate reached the lowest since 2009. Gold jumped
2.6 percent to $1,876.90 an ounce; oil lost 2.8 percent.  The Labor Department said U.S. payrolls were unchanged last
month, the weakest reading since September 2010 and worse than
the median economist forecast that called for growth of 68,000.
Stocks sank and Treasuries surged in August as investors bet
that the odds of a recession had increased. Markets reversed
course toward the end of the month amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  would act to spur growth.  “Another disappointing report that speaks to a severe
unemployment crisis that, unfortunately, is becoming even more
stubbornly embedded,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , the chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
 California , wrote in an e-mail. Pimco is the world’s largest
bond-fund manager. “Along with Europe’s dislocations, this
fuels concerns about the global economic outlook and the growing
risk of a recession.”  Mortgage Suit  Financial shares led losses amid concern banks will face
greater liabilities from practices that led to the 2008-2009
financial crisis.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc were sued by the Federal
Housing Finance Agency over residential mortgage-backed
securities. The agency, representing  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
also named as defendants Nomura Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc
and Credit Suisse Group AG among 17 lenders targeted.  The FHFA has been demanding refunds from banks for loans
sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were based on false or
missing information. The two government-backed mortgage finance
firms had to be rescued by taxpayers as defaults on home loans
soared toward record levels. The size of the suits may dwarf the
$20 billion sought from the biggest mortgage servicers in a
separate probe by 50 state attorneys general, one person
familiar with the matter, who was not authorized to speak
publicly about the issue, said before the suits were announced.  ‘Crashing’ Banks  “If in fact all that cash gets taken away in these
lawsuits, you are crashing the American banking system,”
 Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,
 Florida , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “If you
make the assumption that over the next few years, all of these
suits are going to be put in place and they’re all going to be
won, you’re going to wipe out the American banking industry and
you’re going to wipe out the American economy.”  Bank of America sank 8.3 percent and JPMorgan, Citigroup
and  Wells Fargo & Co . tumbled more than 4 percent to help lead
declines in all 24 companies in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which slid
4.5 percent and lost 7.4 percent in two days. Gannett Co. and
Sears Holdings Corp. sank at least 6.6 percent to pace declines
in the Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of 30 stocks considered
most-sensitive to economic growth.  August Slide  Stocks sank in August, sending the MSCI All-Country World
Index down 7.5 percent for the biggest loss since May 2010,
after regional Federal Reserve reports showed a contraction in
manufacturing and S&P’s downgrade of the U.S. government credit
rating roiled markets. Treasuries returned 2.8 percent last
month, the most since December 2008, according to data compiled
by Bank of America Corp.  U.S. stocks surged on Aug. 26 after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated the economy isn’t deteriorating enough to
warrant any immediate stimulus. The central bank vowed on Aug. 9
to keep  interest rates  “exceptionally low” until at least
mid-2013, a day after the  S&P 500  sank 6.7 percent for the
biggest loss since 2008.  “I don’t think at this stage there is a lot the Fed can do
to prevent a recession from happening,” David Rosenberg, the
chief economist for Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc. in Toronto,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We don’t have the
fiscal policy bullets like we had a few years ago, and at the
same time interest rates are at zero.”  Short Bets  Bearish bets against the S&P 500 rose to a nine-month high
last month as short sellers increased speculation stocks may
decline. The proportion of S&P 500 shares outstanding sold short
on Aug. 29 rose to 3.03 percent, the most since the end of
November and up from 2.37 percent at the beginning of August,
according to New York-based researcher  Data Explorers . Short
selling of the gauge reached a three-year high of 5.52 percent
in August 2008, before the index sank to a 12-year low in March
2009.  The yield curve, or the difference between two- and 30-year
Treasury debt, narrowed to 310 basis points, the least in a
year, as the jobless data bolstered the view that Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke will be inclined to take addition steps beyond
the two previous rounds of debt buying, known as quantitative
easing, or QE.  The central bank will likely extend the maturities of its
portfolio by buying five- to 10-year Treasuries while shedding
shorter-maturity debt, Pimco’s  Bill Gross  told Bloomberg Radio,
in what has been referred to as “Operation Twist” after a
similar 1960s program named after the dance crave of the time.  ‘Twist’ Again  “I don’t know what form it will take and whether you call
it a QE, there’s certainly opposition from the hawks in terms of
the Fed,” Gross said. “We would stick in the 5- to 10-year
area and I think that will be the focus for the Fed in terms of
policy change come September.”  Among European shares, carmakers and banks led declines.
AstraZeneca Plc slumped 3.7 percent after the drugmaker reported
study results for its Crestor treatment. Straumann Holding AG,
the world’s biggest maker of dental implants, slid 5.6 percent
as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised selling the shares.  European sovereign default risk rose to a record. The
Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-default swaps
insuring the debt of 15 governments rose 11 basis points to 310
at 4:30 p.m. in  London , surpassing an all-time high closing
price of 308 on Aug. 26. Swaps tied to Italian debt jumped 15
basis points to 400, topping last month’s record closing price
of 391, according to CMA.  Greek Rescue  Greek 1-year debt yields surged 10.4 percentage points, or
more than 1,000 basis points, to a record 72.05 percent. Rates
on the nation’s two- and 10-year debt also reached all-time
highs, while the yield on the benchmark German bund dropped 14
basis points to a record low 2.01 percent. The euro weakened
against 10 of 16 major peers, losing 0.5 percent to $1.4194.  The  International Monetary Fund  opposes European plans to
force  Greece  to put up collateral in its second rescue, said
four people with direct knowledge of the matter. The use of
collateral, a concession to win Finland’s backing for 109
billion euros ($155 billion) of loans pledged by euro leaders in
July, would deny the IMF priority creditor status and violate
Greek bondholders’ rights, said the people, who declined to be
named because the talks are in progress.  IMF objections threaten to snag Europe’s crisis-management
effort after aid of 256 billion euros for Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  failed to restore order. Europe also faces hurdles in
trying to widen the powers of its rescue fund, with German
lawmakers demanding a veto over its operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  