-- 
AstraZeneca Falls as Crestor Study Results Not Significant

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-09-02T15:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/astrazeneca-s-crestor-had-some-benefit-over-lipitor-in-study-1-.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  shares fell the most
in two weeks in London trading after the company’s best-selling
drug, Crestor, failed to meet the main goal of a study comparing
it to a rival cholesterol-lowering pill.  AstraZeneca declined 106.5 pence, or 3.7 percent, to
2,809.5 pence. Crestor showed a benefit over  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Lipitor in a study, though by one measure the result wasn’t
statistically significant, the London-based company said in a
statement today.  The drugmaker needs to convince doctors that Crestor has a
significant benefit over Lipitor so that they will keep
prescribing Crestor once cheaper copies of Lipitor reach the
market,  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein, said
in a report on Aug. 31. Crestor brought in $5.7 billion in 2010
revenue for AstraZeneca.  “A lot of people were hoping the study would differentiate
the two,” Navid Malik, an analyst with Matrix Corporate Capital
LLP, said an interview today. “I don’t think it will now.”  The study, dubbed Saturn, compared the two drugs’ effect on
plaque build-up in the arteries of patients with  heart disease .
Crestor showed a greater reduction in the volume of plaques, or
fatty deposits, in the coronary artery, AstraZeneca said.  Fatty Deposits  The researchers measured the amount of plaque in two
different ways, by total volume and percentage volume. Crestor
reduced the total volume of fatty deposits in the artery more
than Lipitor, the world’s best-selling medicine. On a percentage
basis, the study’s main measure of effectiveness, the result
wasn’t statistically significant.  The lack of statistical significance means the company’s
sales force can’t tell doctors that Crestor topped Lipitor in
the study,  Justin Smith , an analyst with MF Global U.K. Ltd.,
wrote in a note published today. Generic Lipitor may reach the
U.S. market as early as November, he said.  Crestor should still fare well against generic Lipitor
because it has been marketed since 2003 to difficult-to-treat
patients whose cholesterol levels weren’t lowered effectively by
Lipitor, Smith said. He estimates Crestor’s market share in the
U.S. to be in the mid-teen percentage points and recommends
buying the shares.  Sales Estimates  Bernstein’s Anderson lowered his estimate for sales in 2015
by 5 percent to $6.5 billion. That compares with the $7 billion
average estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  AstraZeneca will present further data from the Saturn study
at the American Heart Association meeting on Nov. 15. Malik, who
has a “reduce” rating on the stock, said he awaits further
data to see whether Crestor had a negative effect on kidney
function after seeing some signs of toxicity in previous
studies.  Crestor’s tolerability and effectiveness in the study were
consistent with previous trials, the company said today.  Lipitor generated $10.7 billion in sales last year for New
York-based Pfizer. Lipitor loses patent protection this year
while Crestor faces generic competition in the U.S. as early as
2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 