-- 
AT&T Said to Misread U.S. Signals Before T-Mobile Deal Blocked

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-09-02T21:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/at-t-said-to-misread-u-s-signals-in-meetings-before-t-mobile-deal-blocked.html
On the morning of Aug. 31,  AT&T Inc. (T) 
Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson said in a television
interview that he expected his company’s bid for T-Mobile USA
Inc. to get government approval by the first quarter of 2012.  An hour later, his lawyers received a call from the U.S.
Justice Department and were told the government was suing to
block the $39 billion transaction, a person familiar with the
matter said. The suit halted the biggest deal of the year and
drew a line in the sand on antitrust policy that may affect
pending acquisitions.  The sudden turnaround occurred because the Justice
Department came to a meeting the day before looking for AT&T to
lay out a game-changing national remedy to eliminate what it saw
as the anticompetitive defects in the proposed merger, and that
didn’t happen, said another person involved in the meeting. AT&T
was under the impression that it would have more time to present
ideas that would assuage the government’s reservations about the
deal, another person involved in the discussions said.  The  Justice Department  concluded the companies on the other
side of the table weren’t responding to concerns that the deal
would hurt competition and raise consumer prices in the wireless
phone market, a person familiar with the decision said.  Skepticism in the antitrust division had been building for
weeks as a technical review of national and local markets showed
the merger to be highly anticompetitive, said the person, who
asked not to be identified, as did all others quoted
anonymously, because the talks were confidential.  Justice Department Talks  Against that backdrop, 40 people gathered around a wooden
table in a third-floor conference room at the Justice Department
on Aug. 30, the day before Stephenson’s televised prediction
that the deal would be approved. They included representatives
of AT&T, T-Mobile, a unit of Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the
Justice Department and the Pennsylvania attorney general, the
person said. Officials from several state attorneys general
offices, including  California  and  New York , listened in by
telephone, two of the people said.  Their primary purpose was to brief the acting chief of the
antitrust division, Sharis Pozen, said one of the people. The
meeting was also called to review the merger’s effect on
competition after previous sessions focused on so-called
economic models, a person who attended said.  AT&T and T-Mobile’s position on the merger’s benefits was
outlined by four people, while Justice Department lawyers
interjected questions that they regarded as thoughtful rather
than confrontational, one of the people said.  AT&T has  said  it would keep low-cost T-Mobile subscription
plans if the deal is approved.  Possible Divestitures  At the end of the hour-and-half presentation, Pozen said
she was concerned that merging the two companies would leave
local and national wireless markets too concentrated, the person
said. She also expressed reservations about shrinking the market
from four major companies to three -- AT&T/T-Mobile,  Verizon
Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the person said.  AT&T and T-Mobile representatives said they wanted to
discuss with a smaller group, at a later meeting, possible
divestitures of customers, network and spectrum in regional
markets that might allow the deal to go forward, according to
one person.  Justice Department officials viewed such an approach, which
had been discussed at previous meetings, as failing to address
their concerns about preserving a strong fourth competitor that
serves the national wireless market, another person said.  No Idea  AT&T’s Stephenson, his lawyers and others involved in the
acquisition had no idea those reservations would lead to a
lawsuit being filed the next day, the people familiar with their
mindset said.  “We are deep into the analysis with the  Department of
Justice , and it’s all the questions and data gathering you might
expect,” Stephenson had told CNBC’s “Squawk Box” at 8:39
a.m., about an hour before the company’s lawyers were advised of
the complaint.  “The news caught everybody by surprise,” said  Steve Largent , president and CEO of CTIA-The Wireless Association,
which hadn’t taken a position on the transaction. “AT&T was in
the middle of explaining and detailing the merger that was being
proposed when the Justice Department filed,” Largent said. CTIA
includes AT&T, T-Mobile and Sprint Nextel Corp. among its
members.  Jessica Smith, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the details of the meeting or the decision as did
Brad Burns, an AT&T spokesman in  Dallas  and T-Mobile spokeswoman
Anna Friedges.  ‘Pulled The Trigger’  “As soon as they decided, they pulled the trigger,” said
Harold Feld, legal director of  Public Knowledge , a Washington-
based consumer group that opposes the deal.  Pozen and her team made the final decision to sue after the
Aug. 30 meeting, convinced AT&T wasn’t going to propose a remedy
that could fix what they viewed as the scope of the antitrust
problem, the person said.  The move was approved by Associate U.S. Attorney General
Thomas Perrelli and Deputy U.S. Attorney General  James Cole , the
department’s second-highest ranking official. U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder recused himself from the AT&T review,
according to Justice Department spokeswoman  Tracy Schmaler , who
declined to provide the reason.  The White House wasn’t involved in the decision, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday at a news
briefing. “This is a law enforcement action.”  Serious Concerns  Pozen said at a news conference on Aug. 31 after the filing
that the department had consistently told AT&T it had serious
concerns about the transaction.  “We have been in constant dialogue with the parties,
exploring their arguments, exploring the materials they have
provided, asking questions, engaging fully with them,” Pozen
said.  AT&T, which said it will challenge the lawsuit, is seeking
to meet again with Justice Department officials to propose
remedies that might allow the deal to go through, according to
three people familiar with the company’s position.  Pozen said at the news conference that the department’s
“door is open” for further discussion.  “It is true that you can always settle a case, but the
Justice Department doesn’t use litigation as a settlement
tactic,” said Public Knowledge’s Feld. “This merger creates
dangerous levels of concentration in 97 of the top 100 markets--
there isn’t a cure for that. It’s not like you can sell
Chattanooga and give up a few licenses in  Milwaukee ,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  