-- 
Tax-Exempts’ Yield Advantage Over Treasuries Lures Investors: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/tax-exempts-yield-advantage-over-treasuries-lures-investors-muni-credit.html
A flight to  U.S. debt  amid signs of
an economic slowdown put tax-exempt yields at their highest
premium to Treasuries in more than two years last month,
creating a buying opportunity that could extend into 2012.  Ten-year municipal yields averaged 101 percent of those for
Treasury notes in August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and were 105 percent yesterday. The ratio touched
109.5 percent in the month, the highest since April 2009.  The yield advantage has lured taxable-bond investors into
munis, said  Peter Hayes , a managing director with New York-based
Blackrock Inc., which owns $98.2 billion of municipal bonds.  “We have been buying and we continue to look,” Hayes
said. “If a particular credit comes out that we happen to like
and it’s priced attractively on a relative basis, we’d still
find some value and a reason to put it in our taxable funds.”  Some A and AA rated tax-exempts in the health-care,
education and utility categories, as well as prepaid gas bonds,
can produce ratios of more than 100 percent, Hayes said.  “If you were to compare them just to Treasury rates, on a
relative basis they would look very, very cheap,” he said.
“They would be well over 100 percent, maybe 130 percent or 140
percent.”  Treasury yields fell faster than those of municipals last
month as investors sold stocks and bought bonds after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating and amid reports of a
slower economic recovery. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
released yesterday showed sentiment slumped to the second-lowest
level in two years.  30-Year Yields  Top-rated 30-year tax-exempt bonds offered an average yield
of 3.93 percent in August, 28 basis points more than the average
30-year Treasury yield, according to Bloomberg data. The ratio
between 30-year tax-exempt debt and 30-year Treasuries averaged
108 percent in August and was 110 percent yesterday. It reached
113 percent in the month, the highest in almost a year.  In addition to higher yields than Treasuries, municipals
provide tax-free earnings, said John Hallacy, head of municipal
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  “It’s a relative world, and if the Treasuries are so much
lower and you can get munis at 150 percent, why not buy?” he
said. “If they’re tax exempt, that’s even better.”  The higher muni-to-Treasury ratio could continue through
the November 2012 presidential election because the  Federal
Reserve  has said it will hold its benchmark  interest rate  at
zero until mid-2013 and investors will wait to see if federal
income-tax breaks expire at the end of 2012, Hallacy said.  Persistent Condition  “Even though we’re not always trading one to one perfectly
with Treasuries, it stands to reason that this might persist for
quite some time,” he said.  Municipal securities have returned 7.52 percent so far this
year, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal
Master Index, which measures interest income and price
appreciation. Treasuries have returned 7.08 percent and
corporate bonds have returned 5.77 percent.  Investors thinking about tax-exempts shouldn’t wait because
the spread between yields will correct itself, said Chris Shayne, senior market strategist at  Mill Valley , California-
based BondDesk Group LLC, a bond-trading platform for
individuals.  “Either Treasuries will come up or munis will come down,
but the volatility that is creating this additional spread will
dissipate,” Shayne said. Investing in tax-exempt debt now is a
“defensive buying opportunity,” he said.  Municipal issuers are scheduled to borrow $3.7 billion next
week after $1.9 billion this week, the lowest for a week before
Labor Day in at least eight years, Bloomberg data show.  Value Ahead  Issuance will probably increase though the latter part of
the year and offer “a tremendous amount of value,” said Peter Demirali, who manages $350 million of taxables at New Jersey-
based Cumberland Advisors.  “We don’t think that this will last forever,” Demirali
said of muni yields higher than Treasuries. “Ultimately, those
ratios will come in considerably. On a total-return basis, it’s
the trade to make.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  NEW YORK  STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY, which oversees a 570-mile
toll road system, will sell as soon as next week $350 million of
personal-income tax revenue bonds to finance highway and bridge
projects. The bonds are rated AAA, Standard & Poor’s highest
grade. Siebert Brandford Shank & Co. LLC will lead banks on the
deal. (Added Sept. 1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  