-- 
Mayors Call for Job Creation Through U.S. Spending Coupled With Tax Change

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-09-02T19:09:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/mayors-call-for-job-creation-through-u-s-spending-coupled-with-tax-change.html
Mayors from Philadelphia to  Los
Angeles  called on Congress and President  Barack Obama  to stop
playing politics and get to work on a  job-creation program  that
includes tax credits for hiring and loans to spur manufacturing.  To pay for the proposals that include extending jobless
benefits and spending on transportation, $1.5 trillion of
corporate profits held overseas should be repatriated and
business-tax loopholes should be closed, U.S. Conference of
Mayors leaders said today on telephone call with reporters.  Congress failed to pass measures to create jobs and
unsettled consumers, investors and markets by bickering over
raising the nation’s debt ceiling, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, president of the group, said on the call. The
recommendations also urge a redirection of federal funds from
the wars in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  and overhauling the  tax code  to
“establish more equitable rates.”  “It is time for these people to get off their duffs and
start doing the work of the American people,” said
Villaraigosa, a 58-year-old Democrat.  Employment growth unexpectedly stagnated in the U.S. last
month, Labor Department figures released today show. While
employers reported adding no new jobs for the month, a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts had a median forecast of a 68,000 gain.
The nation’s jobless rate held at 9.1 percent and has averaged 9
percent this year, compared with 4.6 percent in 2007, before the
onset of the longest recession since World War II.  Obama Speech  Obama plans to propose tax and spending initiatives next
week that would have a “significant” effect on economic growth
and  job creation , according to  Gene Sperling , a top economic
adviser in the White House. The president will address Congress
on Sept. 8 to lay out his proposals.  The conference of mayors, which includes the chief
executives of 1,191 cities with populations over 30,000, said
investing in improvements to roads and bridges through a fully
funded transportation bill would create 2.8 million jobs. It
proposed a manufacturing loan program to provide $20 billion to
spur development, and called for rehabilitating and renting out
foreclosed homes to create construction work.  Instead of helping to spur employment, Congress has cost 51
jobs in his city by cutting Community Development Block Grants,
Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter said. The program provides
money for low-income neighborhoods.  “Congress is working against the interests of Americans
while they sit in the bubble of  Washington  while the rest of
America is in pain,” Nutter, a Democrat, said on the call.
“The American people did not vote them into office to have
adult food fights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  