-- 
Quake Region Lawmaker Azumi Named Finance Chief to Lead Japan’s Recovery

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-09-02T04:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/azumi-named-japan-finance-chief-as-yen-near-postwar-high-threatens-economy.html
Jun Azumi, a lawmaker from Japan’s
devastated northeast, will become the nation’s eighth finance
chief since 2008, tasked with funding earthquake reconstruction
and securing a recovery endangered by a soaring yen.  Azumi, 49, a former head of parliamentary affairs for the
ruling party, replaces Yoshihiko Noda, who’s succeeding former
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan . Azumi hails from Ishinomaki, a coastal
city with almost 4,000 dead or missing from the March 11 quake
and tsunami. Incoming Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura
made the announcement in a press briefing in  Tokyo .  The next finance minister is less well known than his two
predecessors -- Noda and Kan, who had a record of public remarks
on topics ranging from exchange rate policy to the  Bank of Japan 
when they took the job. Noda oversaw three rounds of yen sales
to counter the currency’s appreciation to a postwar high against
the dollar, and endorsed tax increases to cope with rebuilding.  “With Noda as his boss, the new finance minister is likely
to inherit Noda’s commitment to ensuring fiscal health,”
 Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co., said before today’s announcement. “The question
is how he will convince lawmakers strongly opposed” to tax
increases to rein in Japan’s public debt, the world’s largest.  Azumi told reporters today he may need to ask the public
for “help” in funding the reconstruction, one sign he may
endorse tax changes. He wrote in December 2010 that Japan will
face “big problems” if it fails to overhaul its fiscal revenue
structure, according to his blog.  G-7 Gathering  The incoming minister’s first appearance on the
international stage may come as soon as next week, when the
Group of Seven holds a meeting in Marseille,  France . Global
policy makers have struggled to sustain confidence in the
economic rebound from the 2008 world recession, with U.S.
unemployment in excess of 9 percent and European confidence in
the outlook the weakest since 2008.  Along with scrutinizing Azumi’s stance on exchange-rate
policy, traders may seek to gauge his appetite for applying
pressure on the Bank of Japan to add monetary stimulus. Noda has
refrained from such comments, saying as finance chief in April
the government and central bank had basically the same view on
the economy. He said Aug. 8 that he hoped the BOJ would continue
to offer support through appropriate policy steps.  The BOJ meets next week to set policy. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has expanded the central bank’s asset purchases since
the March temblor, while warning against more aggressive steps
such as direct underwriting of government debt.  Bureaucrats’ Role  “Azumi isn’t likely to put much pressure on the BOJ to
ease monetary policy further, just like Noda,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities in Tokyo. Since he
doesn’t have a background in the areas of economy and finance,
“there’s a chance for a shift to bureaucrat-led policymaking,”
she added. Kan had sought to bolster the role of politicians in
setting policy, rather than career bureaucrats.  A former journalist with national broadcaster NHK, Azumi
graduated from Tokyo’s  Waseda University , which is also Noda’s
alma mater. He was first elected to parliament in 1996, is
married with two children and counts reading and golf among his
hobbies, according to his website.  The incoming minister may be met with calls by corporate
leaders to take further action on the yen, which has advanced
about 21 percent against the dollar since the start of last
year. The currency traded at 76.87 as of 1:25 p.m. in Tokyo,
less than 2 percent from its postwar high reached last month.
The government spent 4.51 trillion yen ($59 billion) in August
on yen sales, the biggest intervention for any month since 2004.  Yen Pressure  “I want the new government to show a firm stance against
the strong yen, which isn’t reflecting Japan’s economic
fundamentals at all,” Toshiyuki Shiga, head of Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, said on Aug. 31. “The strong yen
will cause significant damage to the  auto industry ,” said
Shiga, who is also the chief operating officer of Nissan Motor
Co., Japan’s second-largest automaker.  Exchange-rate appreciation threatens to hurt exporters’
earnings, impairing a forecast rebound from three straight
quarters of economic contraction. A government report today
showed that  capital spending  tumbled 7.8 percent in the second
quarter, bucking the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists for a 1 percent gain. The  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly rose for a second month to 4.7 percent in July.  Nuclear Crisis  Power disruptions stemming from the nuclear crisis at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after it was inundated by the March 11
tsunami have also challenged the nation’s exporters. In
addition, with reconstruction weighing on  Japan ’s finances, the
outgoing government incurred corporate criticism from abandoning
plans to lower the nation’s business taxes.  “Manufacturers here have faced endless obstacles such as
foreign exchange rates, corporate tax and environmental and
labor regulations,” Katsuhiko Machida, chairman of Sharp Corp.,
Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal displays, said at a
briefing in  Osaka  on July 15. “This issue over power supply
could be the end of manufacturing in Japan.”  Among Azumi’s tasks will be preparing a third package of
post-quake spending, after two supplementary budgets totaling 6
trillion yen so far -- about one third of the 16.9 trillion yen
of damage from the disaster, according to Cabinet Office
estimates.  Rating Downgrade  The size and financing method of the next round of
reconstruction may affect the nation’s credit rating. Moody’s
Investors Service already lowered the nation’s rating last month
on concern that the government will fail to rein in its debt.
The one-step cut to Aa3 left the grade even with  Standard &
Poor’s , which still has the sovereign rating under review for a
downgrade.  Japan’s public debt is projected to reach 219 percent of
GDP next year even before accounting for borrowing to fund
reconstruction, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  