-- 
Baidu to Offer New Technology Platform for Mobile Phones

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-02T09:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/baidu-to-offer-new-technology-platform-for-mobile-phone-users.html
Baidu Inc.,  China ’s biggest Internet
company by market value, will offer a new technology platform
for  mobile phones  to lure more users.  The system will give mobile phone users more direct access
to Baidu services including search, maps and an electronic
reader, according to a statement distributed in Beijing today.
Baidu Yi, as it’s being called, will also support applications
based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, Baidu Vice
President Wang Jing said in an interview.  Baidu Chief Executive Officer Robin Li, ranked China’s
richest man by Forbes magazine, is stepping up acquisitions and
boosting spending on services such as online commerce and video
to add users amid competition from Tencent Holdings Ltd. and
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Baidu also plans to offer cloud-
computing services, including online data storage, the company
said today.  Baidu Yi has been released to application developers, and
is not yet available for consumers, Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo
said.  In July, Alibaba, China’s biggest online commerce company,
unveiled an operating system it developed for mobile phones that
lets users access applications with cloud computing technology.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts fell 1 percent to
$144.29 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday, valuing the
company at $50.3 billion.  The stock has gained 49 percent this year after more than
doubling in 2010, outperforming the Hong Kong-traded shares of
Tencent, China’s biggest online-games company, and  Alibaba.com
Ltd. (1688) , the business-to-business unit of Alibaba Group, the
country’s biggest e-commerce company.  Baidu accounted for 75.9 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the second-quarter, rising from 75.8
percent in the previous three months, according to research
company Analysys International. Google’s share dropped to 18.9
percent from 19.2 percent, the researcher said.  Users of Apple Inc.’s platform may also find the Baidu
platform relevant eventually, said Wang.  Baidu Yi may be “leveraged” by Apple users in the future,
Wang said. “A lot of things need to be done” before Apple
customers can use the new platform, he said. He declined to say
whether Baidu is in talks with Apple over the new technology
platform.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  