-- 
Baidu’s Li Says New Homepage Design May Hurt Search Volume

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-02T20:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/baidu-s-new-homepage-may-affect-search-traffic-volume-li-says.html
Baidu Inc. said new features on its
website may erode search-engine traffic, the main revenue source
for  China ’s biggest Internet company by market value.  “Baidu relies on search traffic volume to make money,”
Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said today. “The new homepage
may have a negative impact on search traffic volume, but it is
OK because it is good for users, and will in the long-term
benefit Baidu.”  Li is moving Baidu away from a style that resembled U.S.
rival  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search site by adding a section that
promotes applications developed by external partners and links
to other websites. The revamp comes as Baidu develops services
such as online commerce and video to challenge rivals including
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest online-games company.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts fell 2.7 percent to
$140.45 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
valuing the company at about $49 billion. The stock had gained
49 percent this year before today, after more than doubling in
2010, outperforming the Hong Kong-traded shares of Tencent, and
 Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , the business-to-business unit of Alibaba
Group, the country’s biggest e-commerce company.  Baidu has been diverging from Google’s strategy to make its
service more suited to the Chinese market, Li said at a
conference in Beijing today. The two companies’ paths diverged
years ago, when Baidu started its Tieba information-sharing
service, he said.  Search Revenue  Li, ranked China’s richest man by Forbes magazine, didn’t
comment on how the new website design may affect revenue.  Baidu accounted for 75.9 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the second-quarter and 75.8 percent in the
previous three months, according to research company Analysys
International. Google’s share dropped to 18.9 percent from 19.2
percent, the researcher said.  Google has been losing ground in China’s search-engine
market since January 2010, when the  Mountain View , California-
based company said it was no longer willing to comply with
Chinese regulations to self-censor Web content. Two months
later, the U.S. company shut its Google.cn service and
redirected Chinese users to its site in  Hong Kong .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  