-- 
U.S. Said to Prepare Mortgage Lawsuit Against BofA, JPMorgan

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-09-02T19:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/bank-of-america-shares-slump-on-concern-of-lawsuit-by-u-s-finance-agency.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among lenders that may face a lawsuit by the
U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency over faulty mortgage loans,
according to six people with knowledge of the matter.  The agency representing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is
likely to act before next week’s deadline for legal claims,
according to the people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. The amount may dwarf the $20 billion sought from the
biggest mortgage servicers in a separate probe of lending and
foreclosures by 50 state attorneys general, one person said.  Bank of America led declines in shares of U.S. lenders
after the suit was reported in the  New York  Times earlier today.
The FHFA has been demanding refunds from banks for loans sold to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were based on false or missing
information about borrowers and properties. The two government-
backed mortgage finance firms had to be rescued by taxpayers as
defaults on home loans soared toward record levels.  A lawsuit “is an uncertainty that can go on for years --
that gets the market quite nervous,” said Nader Naeimi, a
Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages almost $100 billion. “Bank of America, being at the
epicenter of these problems, is going to get smashed.”  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  and the
largest U.S. lender by assets, fell 66 cents, or 8.3 percent, to
$7.25 at 3:27 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , both based in New York, slipped
more than 4.5 percent, while San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, declined 4.4 percent.  Pressure on Shares  “Any bad news such as new lawsuits is inevitably going to
put the stock under pressure,” said Richard Staite, an analyst
at Atlantic Equities in  London , referring to Bank of America.
“There is a question hanging over the company as to whether it
needs to raise new equity. If the lawsuit was to result in
significant new losses, then it becomes more likely that the
company might need to raise equity, which would be a difficult
thing to do in the current market.”  Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among firms that may be sued by the agency
for misrepresenting the quality of mortgage securities sold at
the height of the housing bubble, the Times said. Morgan Stanley
is likely to be included in the lawsuit, according to one of the
people.  Mortgage Overhang  A separate report in the Wall Street Journal said Bank of
America was told by the  Federal Reserve  to explain what steps it
would take if its financial condition worsens. Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has committed more than $30 billion to
quelling claims for faulty mortgages since he took the top job
in 2010.  “It doesn’t surprise me when we wake up and there’s
somebody else trying to sue them,” said  Marty Mosby , a
Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst with Guggenheim Securities
LLC. “The overhang and the pressure related to this residential
real estate isn’t going away any time soon.”  The lawsuit involves purchases by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac before the financial crisis in 2008 of private-label
mortgage securities, which were assembled by firms that lack
government guarantees, said two people with knowledge of plans
for the lawsuit.  The suit will claim that banks misrepresented the quality
of the underlying mortgages in the securities and thus are bound
by their contracts to reimburse any losses, the two people said.
Banks typically offer “representations and warranties” about
the quality and terms of the loans, which includes a promise to
buy back the loans or make up the difference if they decline in
value. The FHFA plans to demand the latter, the people said.  Legal Options  Analysts and former regulators have said the cumulative
impact of lawsuits from different agencies could backfire by
imperiling the health of some banks. This could trigger a new
round of bailouts that will hurt the same taxpayers that the
government is trying to protect, they have said.  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, said via e-mail he’s “strongly
opposed” to regulatory forbearance for the lenders, and that
any further aid to banks should come with transparency and
accountability.  ‘Off the Cliff’  “The government needs to be as aggressive as possible to
vindicate the taxpayers’ rights to get as much money from the
big banks as possible,” Barofsky said earlier on Bloomberg
Television. “If this ends up pushing them off the cliff and
putting them in a position where they need to be bailed out
again, that bailout should be done through the front door.”  The FHFA’s lawsuit may be motivated mainly by a desire to
keep its options open as the deadline for filing legal claims
approaches, according to two people with ties to the banks.
Negotiations were under way, and in other circumstances a
lawsuit and resolution would be announced together, one person
said. With the deadline looming, the FHFA may be planning to
preserve its legal rights and then return to settlement talks,
the person said.  “We are not discussing our litigation,” said Stefanie
Johnson, a spokeswoman at the FHFA. Officials at the lenders
said they couldn’t comment. In a memo to Bank of America
employees, Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said the
lender had made “tremendous progress” in resolving claims.  UBS Lawsuit  The bank is being sued now because in many cases, the
statutes of limitations have been running out, he wrote. “Now
we have to simply let the judicial process work.”  The costs so far and the prospect of even more claims
caused some investors to question whether the bank may need more
capital. Thompson said Bank of America has “more than enough
capital to run our business” and said the lender doesn’t intend
to issue more common stock to meet new regulatory standards
starting in 2013. “There are many non-dilutive ways for us to
get there,” he wrote.  The FHFA sued UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, in July
over $4.5 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities sold
to Fannie and Freddie, claiming they misstated the risks of the
investments. The suit seeks unspecified damages.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  BofA’s Options  Responding to the Fed’s call for an explanation of how Bank
of America would respond to a deterioration in its financial
condition, the lender outlined options including the issuance of
a separate class of shares linked to the performance of its
Merrill Lynch brokerage unit, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing people familiar with the matter. Such a step isn’t
imminent, the newspaper said.  “I can’t imagine that it could be structured in an
attractive way,” Staite said. “It doesn’t make sense for them
to try to separate Merrill and list it separately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  