-- 
Banks Overwhelmed by Mortgage Refinancing After Job Cuts

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-09-02T15:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/banks-in-u-s-overwhelmed-by-mortgage-refinancing-boom-after-reducing-jobs.html
Mortgage rates near historic lows
have sparked a refinancing boom that has U.S. lenders struggling
to handle the surge.  “There’s just so much volume,” said Kristin Wilson, a
senior loan officer in Bloomington,  Minnesota , for Fairway
Independent Mortgage Corp., who has seen clients seeking lower
rates climb to about half of her business from 20 percent a
month ago. “We can’t just ramp up by hiring inexperienced
people because they don’t know what they’re doing.”  The lending logjam extends to the nation’s biggest banks,
which fired thousands of mortgage workers after  interest rates 
rose in November through February, chilling refinancing demand.
Now, the time needed to close a loan has as much as doubled to
60 days, according to Wilson and other bankers, and lenders are
holding some mortgage rates higher than they could be to slow
the torrent of customers, data show.  Refinancing applications are up 83 percent from this year’s
low in February, according to an index compiled by the  Mortgage
Bankers Association , a Washington-based trade group. After
topping 5 percent that month, the average rate on 30-year fixed
loans fell two weeks ago to 4.15 percent, the lowest in surveys
dating back to 1971 by  Freddie Mac , the second-largest U.S.
mortgage-finance company.  Compounding the delays are stricter underwriting and
disclosure requirements implemented in the past few years, which
leave no room for shortcuts, said Stew Larsen, head of the
mortgage unit at San Francisco-based Bank of the West.  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, is no longer hiring
temporary staff and outsourcing firms when applications jump
because of separate  rule changes , according to Franklin Codel,
head of national consumer lending at its mortgage unit.  Obstacle for Obama  “The industry has come a long way in terms of automation,
but it’s still a people-driven industry,” Larsen said.
“Mortgage insurers, appraisers and title companies, all those
surrounding industries, they downsized as well.”  Lenders’ capacity to handle loan applications could be an
obstacle for the Obama administration, which is weighing options
for spurring a housing recovery, including steps to promote
refinancing for underwater borrowers, or those who owe more than
their property is worth. Almost 27 percent of single-family
homeowners with mortgages have negative equity, according to
Zillow Inc., a Seattle-based real estate data provider.  Mortgage Bonds Underperform  Refinancing can provide a boost to the economy by reducing
monthly mortgage payments and putting more money in the hands of
consumers. Banks can profit from making new loans at lower rates
because the existing, more expensive mortgages are mostly held
by investors in the form of bonds or by other lenders. The
refinancing bank collects fees and other revenue.  The $5.3 trillion of mortgage securities with government-
backed guarantees underperformed U.S. Treasuries last month by
the most since 2008 on speculation that the government will ease
refinancing rules. That could speed up repayment of the mortgage
bonds and deprive investors of their higher yields.  Refinancing is a cyclical business tied to yields on
Treasuries, and lenders sometimes don’t let their rates fall as
low as possible to avoid being overwhelmed. Today’s  mortgage
rates  could be lower, based on their recent relationship with
yields demanded by investors buying mortgage-backed bonds.  Yield Spreads  The difference between the average rate on a 30-year fixed
loan and Fannie Mae-guaranteed bonds widened last month to more
than 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, from an average of
60 basis points in the first half, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Bankrate.com, a North Palm Beach, Florida-based
financial-information provider. The gap, which never exceeded 75
basis points in the decade through 2007, shows that banks have
increased their margins on average.  “With the consolidation of the mortgage-lending industry
during the housing bust, there is a lack of capacity to meet a
surge in refinancing,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in an e-mail.
“Mortgage lenders have been slow to lower primary lending
rates, which is likely due in part to their lack of capacity.”  When the books close at Fairway Independent Mortgage,
Wilson’s employer, August may turn out to have been the second-
busiest month in the company’s 15-year history, said Dan Cutaia,
president of capital markets and risk management. The Sun
Prairie, Wisconsin-based lender operates in 47 states and
originated $4 billion of mortgages last year.  Looming Test  The test for banks will come in a couple months when newly
approved borrowers expected to close, Cutaia said.  “We took in all this volume,” he said. “Now we have to
do the best we can to have them processed, underwritten and
closed.”  A smooth process requires underwriters, title insurance
companies and appraisers to work quickly. The turnaround time
for an appraisal, usually five business days, now is as long as
14 days in some parts of the country and probably will get
longer because of new valuation requirements that will take some
getting used to, according to Betty Graham, senior vice
president of operations at Frisco Lender Services LLC, a unit of
Fairway in Fort Wayne, Indiana.  New York Condos  In  New York City , managing agents at condominiums and
cooperative apartment buildings are swamped by requests for
information from appraisers, said Norman Calvo, president and
chief executive officer of Universal Mortgage Inc. in Brooklyn.  Calvo said his refinancing work has tripled since June, and
borrowers who took on new loans a few months ago are applying to
lower their rates again.  “It was one of our greatest months in more than 10 years,
and it keeps on coming,” Calvo said.  Mortgage companies, which kept their loan-servicing
operations lean during the housing boom, similarly were
unequipped to handle the avalanche of defaults in the four years
since the crash, resulting in paperwork snafus that continue to
delay foreclosures and the recovery of the  property market .  One proposal to expand the administration’s refinancing
program for homeowners hit by the decline in property values
would remove the cap on negative equity and exempt participants
from risk-based fees charged by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac. The
mortgage-finance companies would also be required to inform all
of their borrowers that the program is available, according to
legislation filed by U.S. Senators  Barbara Boxer , a California
Democrat, and  Johnny Isakson , a Georgia Republican.  Bob Walters, chief economist for Detroit-based Quicken
Loans Inc., the largest online lender, said mortgage companies
in the past depended on independent brokers to field borrower
applications. The number of brokers dwindled after the housing
bubble burst, he said.  Slashing Jobs  “All of a sudden now we see a smaller universe of people
handling the volume,” Walters said. “So what’s happening is
when the volume hits, people hit capacity much quicker.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said Aug. 31 that it plans to sell or
shut its correspondent-mortgage unit, which buys loans from
smaller companies, a move that may exacerbate the crunch.
Earlier this year, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
joined lenders across the industry in cutting staff added during
a refinancing boom that crested in October.  In April, Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , said it
aimed to cut 4,500 employees from its mortgage unit, and Bank of
America, its biggest competitor, said it trimmed its mortgage
workforce by 1,500 employees and 2,000 contractors.  Wells Fargo’s Codel said the bank shut a handful of
refinancing offices it had opened around the country that
employed as many as 300 back-office workers each. The company is
now reaching out to staff it let go and holding job fairs in an
effort to add employees within a few weeks.  Warning Customers  Mortgage-industry jobs fell to 239,100 on June 30 from
259,700 at year-end and more than 500,000 in 2003, according to
Department of Labor data cited by Bank of America bond analysts
and MortgageDaily.com, an industry-news website.
MortgageDaily.com says the data are skewed by how individuals at
some firms are counted, and puts net layoffs this year at more
than 2,200, including those in lending and servicing divisions.  While Bank of the West held its mortgage staff steady
earlier this year, it’s also being challenged by higher volumes,
telling consumers a refinancing is likely to take 45 days, said
Larsen, whose 137-year-old bank is owned by  France ’s  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA. Its customers can usually close within 30 days.  Keeping rates higher than the bank might otherwise to ward
off business is “certainly in the playbook, but that’s not
something we’ve had to go with yet,” Larsen said. “Some
lenders do that more than others.”  Managing Expectations  Wells Fargo has sometimes offered less competitive rates
because “we look at it all around the country and there are
times when we do that to control volume,” Codel said. The bank
has stopped offering the option to lock in rates for 30 days, as
a way to curb consumer expectations that loans will close that
quickly. Longer rate locks, which it continues to provide, can
cut down on applications because they carry higher rates, he
said.  Both Wells Fargo and Bank of the West said they often
extend rate locks if consumers can’t close on time because of
processing delays.  Meeting Demand  Bank of America can cope with refinancing demand with its
current staffing, partly by moving work among different
departments, Terry Francisco, a Calabasas, California-based
spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mail. Some local offices
aren’t as inundated as call centers working with online
applicants, he said.  “We seek to price competitively but not at a level that
will cause volumes to spike and disrupt our ability to close
loans within a customer’s requested closing date,” Francisco
said.  Lenders’ decisions on pricing depend on several issues,
including their ability to handle volume and their own costs to
borrow money, said Doug Lebda, founder and chief executive
officer of Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Tree.com Inc. (TREE) , which
runs the LendingTree mortgage website.  “In a market that is very volatile, there are wide
varieties of pricing,” Lebda said. “Now it’s more important
than ever to comparison shop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  