-- 
Baosteel, CITIC Group Pay $1.95 Billion for 15% Stake in Niobium Producer

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-02T06:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/baosteel-citic-group-pay-1-95-billion-for-15-stake-in-niobium-producer.html
Baosteel Group Corp. and CITIC Group
teamed up with three Chinese companies to pay $1.95 billion for
a 15 percent stake in the world’s biggest niobium producer as
demand for the raw material grows.  Baosteel,  China ’s second-largest steelmaker, CITIC, Anshan
Iron & Steel Group Corp., Shougang Corp. and Taiyuan Iron &
Steel Group Co. agreed to buy the stake in  Brazil ’s Companhia
Brasileira de Metalurgia e Mineracao, according to an e-mailed
statement from Baosteel.  Buying the stake gives the companies a share in a company
with 82 percent of the global market for niobium, according to
Posco, the South Korean steelmaker that bought a stake in March.
Rising prices of rare metals from niobium, which can be used to
strengthen steel, and indium, used in liquid-crystal displays,
to lithium, chrome and magnesium, have increased competition for
supplies.  “Worldwide demand for niobium recorded an annual growth
rate of some 10 percent from 2002 through 2009, buoyed by
growing need for high-grade steel,” the Baosteel statement
said. “Demand for niobium is projected to grow faster than the
expansion in world crude steel production.”  The Brazilian producer, established in 1955, mines and
produces niobium, a key material used to make steel for cars,
building and oil pipelines. The deal follows the purchase of a
similar-sized stake in the closely held company by a group of
Japanese and South Korean companies in March.  The companies that bought that stake include Posco,  South
Korea ’s National Pension Service ,  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ,  JFE
Holdings Inc. (5411) ,  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  and Japan Oil, Gas and Metals
National Corp.  “Such investment has a very relevant strategic value for
all parties,” according to the Baosteel statement. “Brazil
holds the largest part of total known niobium reserves in the
world, according to data from official agencies, and CBMM is
thought to hold rights to the best niobium reserves in Brazil,”
the statement said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  