-- 
Barclays Buys Stake in Warehouse Owner Erus Metals in England, Person Says

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-02T17:08:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/barclays-said-to-buy-stake-in-u-k-warehouse-for-storing-lme-inventories.html
Barclays Capital  took a stake in
U.K. metals-warehousing company Erus Metals Ltd., which is
seeking approval to store  London  Metal Exchange inventories,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Barclays will control the stake jointly with steel and raw-
materials supplier  Metalloyd Ltd. , the person, who declined to
be named, said yesterday by phone. A third company will own the
remaining holding, according to the person. Erus, based in
Witham,  England , is awaiting LME approval to register its
warehouses as part of the exchange’s network, the person said.  Ownership of the Erus stake will enable Barclays, one of 12
dealers on the LME’s floor, to reduce the cost of storing
metals. The company is moving into warehousing after banks and
commodities traders including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Glencore International Plc took control of storage companies.  “If you are running financing deals as a bank, then it
makes more sense to run your own warehousing because you can
better manage costs,”  David Wilson , an analyst at Societe
Generale SA in London, said by phone today. Such transactions
involve a simultaneous purchase of metal for nearby delivery and
a forward sale to take advantage of a market in contango, when
contracts with later delivery dates trade at higher prices than
nearer-dated metal.  Henry Bath  Metalloyd, based in London, referred calls to Barclays
Capital. Barclays Capital spokeswoman Aurelie Leonard in London
declined to comment. Erus also declined to comment. Metalloyd is
controlled by brothers and billionaire real-estate investors
 David and Simon Reuben .  Goldman Sachs bought Metro International Trade Services LLC
last year, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  took control of  Henry Bath
& Son Ltd.  on acquiring units of RBS Sempra Commodities.
Glencore, the largest listed commodity trader, took over
Pacorini Metals,  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  acquired Delivery Network
International LLC and Trafigura Beheer BV owns North European
Marine Services Ltd.  Banks’ ownership of warehouses has cast doubt on the
effectiveness of information barriers, commonly known as Chinese
walls, between different units of the same company.  “There is a high degree of skepticism outside the banking
community that Chinese walls will be effectively implemented,”
Wilson said.  No Investigation  The  Office of Fair Trading , the U.K. antitrust regulator,
said in June it wouldn’t investigate LME trading firms operating
warehouses for market violations, citing a lack of evidence. The
U.K. Parliament’s Science and Technology Committee published a
report in May asking the OFT to look into whether the practice
was anti-competitive.  The LME is seeking views on introducing third-party
verification of barriers’ effectiveness. The policy would
require warehouse companies to engage accountants to confirm
that the barriers meet criteria specified by the exchange.  The exchange’s executive committee and board will review
comments on the proposal after Sept. 30, Chris Evans, head of
business development at the LME, said Aug. 22.  Erus was registered as a U.K.-based company in September
2010, according to  Companies House , where all businesses located
in the country must register. Alec Gunn is currently Erus’s
director and also sits on the boards of other Witham-based
businesses including food processor Fanpac Ltd.,  Companies House 
documents show.  The LME, the world’s biggest marketplace for industrial
metals, has approved more than 600 warehouses and compounds
worldwide in 37 locations, according to its  website . At least 30
companies are authorized to store LME metals. Depots are
selected based on criteria such as access to highways and the
ability to meet minimum daily delivery rates to clients, known
as the load-out rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  