-- 
Beyond Good Politics, Egypt Needs Economic Remodeling: Vali Nasr

-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 
2011-09-02T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/beyond-political-reform-egypt-will-need-economic-restructuring-vali-nasr.html
Six months after the fall of the
Mubarak regime,  Egypt  remains in disarray. Protesters continue
to take to the streets demanding change, while dozens of secular
and Islamist parties jockey for power with the all-powerful
military in anticipation of elections in November.  Whether Egypt will then get a stable government and develop
into a genuine democracy will depend not only on how it manages
its raucous politics but also on whether it can fix its
sclerotic economy, and soon.  Political upheaval has plunged Egypt’s economy into crisis.
Since January, unemployment has climbed to 12 percent, and
investment has shrunk by 26 percent. In a country in which
tourism accounts for 11 percent of GDP, international arrivals
have fallen a precipitous 46 percent. Given that 40 percent of
the population lives on less than $2 a day, the impact of such
jolts has been profound.  It gets worse: Half of Egypt’s 80 million people are under
the age of 24. Among the country’s unemployed, as many as 90
percent are young, and two-thirds have never worked.  Egypt faces a vortex of poverty and instability unless it
finds jobs for its rapidly growing population. To keep up with
the youth bulge, the economy has to grow faster (in the range of
10 percent to 11 percent) and for much longer than perhaps has
been seen anywhere in the world.  Radical Change  That would require radical change. Egypt would have to open
its economy, shrink its bloated and corrupt public sector,
reform its laws and financial regulations, invest more in
education and infrastructure, and promote privatization, trade
and direct foreign investment. Unfortunately, the country has
been reluctant to do any of this.  This is a shame because such changes have a record of
working. Economic reform was integral to democratization in
Eastern  Europe  and Latin America in the 1990s. In those cases,
the U.S. and Western Europe insisted on economic restructuring
early on, tapping the  International Monetary Fund  and the World
Bank to help with the process. Reform was not easy. It was
marked with setbacks, social hardships and political resistance.
But in the end, economies were transformed, and Eastern Europe
and Latin America are better off for it.  The Turkish Model  Since the start of the Arab Spring, many have touted
 Turkey , a prosperous democracy with a moderate Islamist
government, as a model for Egypt. It’s important to remember
that Turkey’s transformation began in the early 1980s with an
 IMF reform plan  and was helped since then by additional IMF
prescriptions.  Egypt took a different route. With rare exception, the
country has avoided IMF reforms at every turn going back to
1977. In that year, a bankrupt Egypt, buoyed by a major increase
in U.S. aid that was a benefit of its peace agreement with
 Israel , decided not to swallow the bitter pill of IMF reforms.  That aid, and the largesse of Persian Gulf monarchies, has
enabled Egypt to stumble along in a state of economic stagnation
absent serious restructuring. In June, billions of dollars in
assistance from Gulf donors allowed Egypt once again to turn
down World Bank and IMF loans conditioned on changes.  Egypt must finally break this habit. There are three
obstacles that must be overcome for this to happen: Egyptian
xenophobia, greed within the country and the inattention of the
Western world, which is engrossed in its own financial problems.  Suspicious of Outsiders  Egyptians are notably suspicious of outside interference in
their affairs. The explanation for this contains a pinch of Arab
hubris but mostly the bitter aftertaste of colonialism. This is
the nation that found its voice during the 1956  Suez Crisis ,
when President Gamal Abdel Nasser became the hero of the Arab
world by nationalizing the  Suez Canal  in defiance of Western
powers. The idea of ceding to the advice of international
financial institutions is particularly galling now, when the
danger of Western intrigue is again the slogan of choice for
everyone from the military high command to liberal protesters.  Military Domination  In addition, businessmen who grew wealthy through
corruption and cronyism under former President  Hosni Mubarak 
understand all too well that economic reform will end their
monopoly on riches. And their resistance pales before that of
the military, which, experts estimate, controls 80 percent of
all industry and accounts for a third of all economic activity.
The greed of this gargantuan cartel is an impediment to
democratic as well as economic advances. There will be no end to
the military’s domination over Egypt unless reform frees the
economy from its clutches.  Unfortunately, Egypt’s revolution comes at a time of
economic crisis in the West. The U.S. and Europe are busy with
their own problems, and the resources that were available to
help  Latin America  and Eastern Europe are not available to
Egypt.  Yet the outcome in Egypt will strongly influence
developments across the Arab world. Egyptian resistance to
external pressure could be mitigated by emphasizing that reforms
would be rewarded with significant financial support and access
to markets in the U.S. and Europe.  U.S. Leadership  The U.S. and European powers must come to realize it is in
their interest to give Egypt the full measure of their attention
and support. Neglect could prompt Egypt to return to
dictatorship or to slide, perhaps, into extremism. U.S.
leadership is especially important. The Obama administration
should make clear its belief that democracy requires economic
reform and that it would be foolish, after spending trillions of
dollars over the past decade trying to change the  Middle East ,
to withdraw support from a country that is struggling to become
a genuine democracy.  The U.S. should work closely with its European and Arab
allies to make sure aid to Egypt supports economic
restructuring. A useful first step would be to create an
international fund to which all donors to Egypt, including the
oil-rich  Persian Gulf states , could contribute to support
development and economic reform. The IMF and the  World Bank 
could manage the fund in partnership with the Egyptian
government. This would send a clear message of long-run
international support for restructuring and would also reduce
the risk that aid money is squandered or lost to corruption.  In responding to the Mideast, we should bear in mind that
it was economics that triggered the Arab Spring. And it is
economics that will decide where the Arab world will go from
here.  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 