-- 
BP Concealed Information Before Blowout, Halliburton Claims

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-09-02T16:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/bp-concealed-information-before-blowout-halliburton-claims-in-new-suit.html
BP Plc (BP)  gave inaccurate information
about the location of hydrocarbon zones, a risk factor, in the
Macondo oil well to avoid stalling the project before the well
blew out in April 2010,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  said in a lawsuit.  Halliburton Energy Services Inc., the unit that provided
cementing services for the well, sued BP in state court in
Houston yesterday, alleging slander and business disparagement.
A BP report on the incident in the  Gulf of Mexico  called the
cementing job “a root cause of the blowout,” Halliburton said
in its complaint.  The report “intentionally and deliberately omits the
critical fact that BP knew or should have known about an
additional hydrocarbon zone in the well that BP failed to
disclose” before Halliburton designed the cement program for
the well, according to the complaint. Halliburton said it
wouldn’t have pumped cement had it known of the zone.  BP failed to disclose this after the blowout as well in an
effort to blame others for the explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig, Halliburton said. Halliburton also filed a
proposed amendment in its suit against BP in federal court in
 New Orleans , seeking to add fraud claims.  “This lawsuit is the latest attempt by Halliburton to
divert attention from its role in the Deepwater Horizon incident
and its failure to meet its responsibilities, and to deflect all
blame to BP,” BP said in a statement today.  Reviewing Claims  The company won’t comment in detail until its review of the
claims is complete, according to the statement.  “Multiple independent investigations have identified
serious problems with the cementing of the well as a potential
contributory factor to the Deepwater Horizon disaster -- not
only BP’s own investigation,” the company said.  The Macondo blowout and the explosion that followed killed
11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors. The
lawsuits over economic losses and personal injuries have been
combined before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.  The lawsuits also name as defendants  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that exploded; Houston-based Halliburton; and
 Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which provided blowout-prevention
equipment. BP’s minority partners in the well,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, were
also sued.  Halliburton Vulnerable  BP’s actions before and after the blowout left Halliburton
vulnerable to these lawsuits, the company said in court papers.  “The motive behind BP’s intentional nondisclosure of the
upper hydrocarbon zone is apparent -- profit and greed,”
Halliburton said in the Houston suit.  Halliburton wouldn’t have pumped cement at the well until
changes were made, “changes that likely would have required a
redesign of the production casing,” the company said in its
complaint. “Such changes would have cost BP millions of dollars
on a well that was already painfully over budget and behind
schedule.”  The Houston case is Halliburton Energy Services Inc. v. BP
Exploration & Production Inc., 2011-525809, District Court,
Harris County,  Texas . The federal case is In Re  Oil Spill  by the
Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20,
2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 