-- 
Brookfield Saves in ‘Big Megillah’ Deck Plan for New York West Side Towers

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-09-02T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/brookfield-saves-in-big-megillah-plan-for-new-york-s-west-side.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. is
seeking to gain an edge in the construction of millions of
square feet of  office space  on Manhattan’s west side by using
bridge-building technology to cover a 65-foot railroad trench.  The plan would employ a method never used with a building
project, save two years of labor, and cut costs for a platform
in half to about $300 million, according to Brookfield. The
company, owner of lower Manhattan’s  World Financial Center , aims
to build three skyscrapers at the site, which requires covering
tracks that shuttle about 100,000 people each weekday into and
out of Pennsylvania Station.  Brookfield is competing with Related Cos. to develop the
rail yards and lure tenants to the far west side, where the New
York-based companies are building 11.2 million square feet (1.04
million square meters) of offices spanning 30th to 33rd streets
near the  Hudson River . That total would be slightly less than
all the office space in downtown Baltimore.  Platforms on the west side “are a big megillah,” said
 Joseph Harbert , chief operating officer for the New York region
of Cushman & Wakefield Inc. “Once those platforms are up, that
place is going to be on fire,” he said of Brookfield’s plan.
“If they can get it up faster and at a lower cost, that stuff
is going to rent.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has compared the far west side to
 Canary Wharf , which gave  London  a second financial center to the
east after it was built in the early 1990s. He is the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Site Plans  Brookfield’s project, named  Manhattan  West, calls for two
towers of 2 million square feet each and a third of 1.2 million
square feet, plus as much as 200,000 square feet of retail
space. Related, developer of the Time Warner Center, is planning
almost 13 million square feet of construction, including about 6
million square feet of offices, at its 26-acre (11-hectare)
 Hudson Yards  site, a half-block west of Brookfield’s trench.  Related also expects to develop more than 5 million square
feet of housing, a million square feet of stores, a hotel, a
school, a cultural center and open space.  The developer has a more traditional approach to cover its
west side yards site, where  Long Island  Rail Road trains are
stored and dispatched. It involves drilling caissons, or
vertical supports, to support a platform over the tracks.  Both companies aim to start site preparation next year, and
say they’ll have their first buildings completed in 2015. They
are competing in the same market of tenants, including media,
fashion and financial-services firms, offering state-of-the-art,
environmentally friendly office space on an island where more
than 60 percent of the stock is more than 50 years old.  Tenant Competition  Accelerating the construction of the deck should help
Brookfield compete for tenants with Related, Harbert said. Part
of Related’s site is on “terra firma” -- ordinary land that
needs no platform -- on the southeast corner along 10th Avenue,
Joanna Rose, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. It plans
a 950-foot (290-meter) skyscraper of 1.7 million square feet at
that location.  Platforms for skyscrapers have been critical to Manhattan’s
emergence as the model for a global business center, said
Alexander Garvin, president of AGA Public Realm Strategists and
onetime planner for NYC2012, the city’s failed bid for the 2012
Olympics. That group had hoped to build the main Olympic stadium
on the Hudson Yards.  Grand Central Platforms  The best example of the power of platforms is Park Avenue
and the nearby streets surrounding  Grand Central Terminal , where
the decking of the  New York  Central train yard early in the 20th
century “changed the city of New York forever” by moving the
center of business to Midtown from lower Manhattan, Garvin said.  “The opportunity of the platforming on the far west side
is an opportunity to extend the central business district to the
Hudson River,” Garvin said. “If we do it with the same quality
of excellence that was done by the New York Central railway,
then we will do a very fine thing for New York.”  Brookfield’s platforms are needed to support a plaza
between its towers, as well as an atrium and possibly retail
space. The buildings themselves will be rooted in the bedrock to
either side of the trench.  The company’s decking plan is unique because it involves
building 30-foot-wide, 12-foot-high, and 8-foot-long T-shaped
segments of the deck that are molded off site, then fused
together to give them the strength to bear heavy loads, said Jim
White, Brookfield’s vice president of construction. A previous
plan would have involved about 50 support columns, taken three
years and cost about $600 million. Now, only 21 columns would
remain after completion.  Roslyn Viaduct  The idea was conceived in 2009, while the project was put
on hold after the credit meltdown the year before. White said he
was driving to his home in  Oyster Bay , New York, when he stopped
to admire the reconstruction of Long Island’s Roslyn Viaduct. At
about 3 a.m. the next morning, he popped up in bed with an idea.  White said he recalled how the engineers were extending
precast concrete segments over Hempstead Harbor, dropping them
into place using cranes. In his mind, he could see a similar
system dropping in concrete decking over the west side trench,
without disturbing the trackbed below. The next morning, he was
on the phone with the viaduct’s contractors.  The insertion of the concrete segments saves time and money
by letting Brookfield create the sections and the equipment that
will erect the deck offsite, while preparing the location for
building at the same time, White said.  “You only want to be down there once,” Chief Executive
Officer Ric Clark said in an interview. “We eliminated the need
to build structure that you don’t need, and the net result is
it’s about half price.”  Weekend Shutdowns  The plan needs the approval of train operators  Amtrak  and
the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , and isn’t without
disruptions. Brookfield would build a 50-foot temporary bridge
adjacent to Dyer Avenue, the western edge of the trench, which
is also an entrance to the Lincoln Tunnel. That would require
overnight weekend shutdowns of at least some of the train tracks
beneath. There will also be coordinated late-night weekend
outages as the platform sections are lowered into place.  Besides Amtrak,  New Jersey Transit ’s commuter trains
traverse the space. A train crosses the trench every two minutes
during weekday rush hours, Clifford Cole, an Amtrak spokesman,
said in an e-mail. Empty Long Island Rail Road trains also
connect to the west side yards through the site.  Minimal Interference  The concept is “acceptable” because it would minimize
interference with rail operations, said George Ehrhardt,
director of engineering coordination for the Long Island Rail
Road. “The devil’s in the details but overall, and of course
Amtrak is the driver, but it appears the concept is favorable.”  Jim Richter, Amtrak’s deputy chief engineer for structures,
said he has seen an overview of the concept and called it a
“good solution to a very tough problem.” A more thorough
review is still to be completed.  Billionaire Stephen Ross’s Related has a different set of
problems when it comes to decking over its site, which is cut
into roughly equal 13-acre tracts divided by 11th Avenue.  The placement of footings is “a little tricky,” said Jay Cross, president of Related Hudson Yards. The western half is
basically a train parking lot, with 30 tracks all parallel to
one another, making platforming the area relatively simple, he
said. On the eastern yards, the tracks come together as they
feed trains to  Penn Station .  Construction Complexities  The eastern yards also contain a control tower, which will
be moved, a maintenance building that must stay, and a
substation in the northeast corner which powers the trains as
they move through the site. Two train tunnels that run below the
site add to the complexity.  “You can’t be sure every place you think you can put a
caisson, you actually can put a caisson,” Cross said.  The eastern deck should cost about $800 million, down from
about $1 billion when the company was bidding for the site in
2008, Cross said. Much of the price reduction is due to a
decline in labor costs since 2007, when construction was going
“full blast,” said Michael Spiro, a Related vice president.
The company also found ways to reduce the number of caissons to
188 from about 250, he said.  Related must provide an average clearance of 19.5 feet, or
about 5 feet above the height of the railroad cars, to allow
equipment to get in to reset a derailed train, said Ehrhardt of
the Long Island Rail Road. The MTA has given the developer four
years to complete the deck.  “The west side yards is critical to our LIRR operation,”
he said. “We want to minimize disruption.”  Related has only spoken to the MTA about concepts and
hasn’t submitted formal design documents, Ehrhardt said. Cross
said the company would make its first submissions “imminently”
and fill in more details over the next three months or so.  Tenant Demand  Related and Brookfield are in the process of marketing the
towers to prospective tenants. Clark said Brookfield is seeing
“meaningful demand” from financial firms, as well as media and
entertainment companies, even as the world’s 50 largest banks
announced almost 60,000 job cuts this year through the first
week of August. Companies considering consolidating operations
to new towers in New York include Citigroup Inc., Jefferies
Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and  News Corp ., according to
Cassidy Turley, a commercial property broker.  Related is in late-stage negotiations with  Coach Inc. (COH) , the
largest U.S. luxury-handbag maker, to take about 600,000 square
feet in the first Hudson Yards tower, according to a person with
knowledge of the discussions who asked not to be named because
the talks are private. Cross declined to comment.  “Short-term news is not ultimately going to affect a 10-
year, 20-year decision,” he said. “The resilience of the New
York market standing up as well as it did post-’08 gives us
reassurance for the future and gives us comfort for Hudson
Yards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  