-- 
California’s Revenue Anticipation Notes Win Highest S&P Rating in 4 Years

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-09-02T15:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/california-revenue-notes-get-highest-s-p-rating-since-2007-lockyer-says.html
California’s $5.4 billion sale of
revenue-anticipation notes won  Standard & Poor’s  top short-term
credit rating for the first time since 2007, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  S&P assigned a rating of SP-1+ to the Sept. 15 issue,
citing California’s smaller-than-usual borrowing and ability to
absorb declines in  cash flow  without threatening the notes,
known as RANs. Moody’s Investors Service graded the securities
MIG-1, its highest for short-term debt. Fitch Ratings gave the
notes an F1, its second highest.  “This is a strong indication that our state’s finances are
on the right track,” Governor  Jerry Brown  said in a statement
yesterday.  The largest U.S. municipal borrower will use the proceeds
to repay a loan Lockyer rushed to secure from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and six other banks and investors
July 27. The treasurer said he acted in anticipation of a
credit-market disruption if the U.S. should default on its debt
as Congress debated raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  “These top ratings reflect the strength” of the state
budget, Lockyer said in a statement. “Particularly important
from an investor standpoint are the spending cuts that will be
triggered automatically if revenues fall short of projections.”  The most-populous state’s $86 billion general-fund spending
plan for the fiscal year that began in July includes a series of
so-called triggers. The first would cut spending if revenue
falls $1 billion short of plan. A $2 billion gap would mean a
seven-day reduction in the school year and an end to busing
subsidies.  Return to Market  The sale will mark  California ’s return to the municipal
market after Lockyer and Brown imposed a voluntary moratorium on
debt sales this year to curb costs. Lockyer plans to sell as
much as  $2.6 billion  of general-obligation bonds Sept. 20.  California’s RANs will go to market as yields on such debt
have plunged along with Treasuries. One-year tax-exempt note
yields fell to 0.31 percent yesterday, according to a Bond Buyer
index, down from 0.51 percent a year earlier and 3.62 percent in
2007, before the recession. One- to three-year Treasury yields
also fell in the last year, to a record-low 0.56 percent
yesterday from 0.9.  California sold $10 billion of RANs at the end of November.
The sale included $2.25 billion of notes that came due in May
with a yield of 1.5 percent and $7.75 billion that matured in
June at 1.75 percent.  The May notes yielded 98 basis points, or 0.98 percentage
point, more than top-rated one-year debt at the time and the
June notes yielded 123 basis points more, Municipal Market
Advisors data show.  Lowest Rating  California has the lowest general-obligation credit rating
of any state from Standard & Poor’s. While it is typically the
largest U.S. issuer of municipal debt, the state hasn’t sold any
general-obligation bonds in 2011 as legislators debated
solutions for a $26 billion deficit.  S&P downgraded California’s credit in January 2010. The
state is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its fifth-
highest grade, and A- by  Fitch Ratings , seventh highest. After
passage of the budget June 30, Standard & Poor’s raised its
outlook to stable from negative, meaning the possibility of a
downgrade had decreased.  Ten-year general obligation bonds from California state
issuers yield 3.64 percent on average, or about 1.30 percentage
points more than average top-rated debt of that maturity,
according to Bloomberg Fair Value indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  