-- 
China Telecom Said to Plan U.K. Mobile Services Before Olympics

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-02T18:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/china-telecom-said-to-plan-u-k-mobile-phone-service-before-2012-olympics.html
China Telecommunications Corp. (728) , the
nation’s largest fixed-line phone company, is in talks with U.K.
carriers to lease network capacity for selling mobile services
in the country, people with knowledge of the matter said.  China  Telecom has sought information from companies
including Everything Everywhere, the venture between  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
wholesale customers, said the people, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private. The Beijing-
based carrier aims to agree on a contract to allow services to
start in time for the London Olympics next year, one of the
people said.  Leasing a network would allow China Telecom to target the
half a million Chinese citizens living in the U.K., and the
tourists that are set to flock to the  London  Olympics in June.
In China, intensifying competition has led companies such as
China United Network Communications Group Co. to slash
international roaming fees by as much as 90 percent.  Ou Yan, managing director at China Telecom  Europe , didn’t
respond to e-mailed requests for comment. The Europe unit is a
subsidiary of the state-owned parent company, not Hong Kong-
listed China Telecom Corp., said Lisa Lai, a spokeswoman for the
publicly traded unit. China Telecom Europe, based in London, was
established in 2006 to offer high-speed data services between
China and Europe.  Virtual Network  Representatives at London-based Everything Everywhere and
Newbury, England-based Vodafone declined to comment.  China Telecom is “trying to address overseas Chinese and
capture that market,” said Neil Juggins, a Hong Kong-based
analyst with JI Asia Research Ltd. “They are heavy users of
international service and also those overseas Chinese go back to
China, talk to friends in China, and this improves the feel-good
factor with customers in China and helps them grow their
domestic user base that way.”  Operators of so-called mobile virtual networks, or MVNO,
typically lease bulk network capacity at wholesale prices,
allowing them to offer competitive retail rates with reduced
operating expenses. Customer service, marketing, distribution,
billing can be handled using the company’s existing
capabilities.  Setting up an MVNO would help China Telecom, the nation’s
third-largest wireless carrier, compete on international roaming
rates with China United, Juggins said. China United, the
country’s second-largest mobile phone company, in May said it
cut international roaming rates in 50 regions.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish owner of the O2 network in the
U.K., holds a 9.8 percent stake in China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd.,
the publicly traded unit of China United.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  