-- 
Christie Contradicting Cantor on Disaster Budget

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/christie-contradicting-cantor-on-budget-shows-tension-over-disaster-relief.html
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ’s
call for budget cuts to pay for Hurricane Irene’s damage didn’t
sit well with another prominent Republican.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  broke with his party’s
fiscal conservatives, saying his state’s cleanup from the deadly
storm can’t wait while lawmakers fight over budget offsets.  Christie lashed out at Cantor’s remarks after touring
flood-stricken communities this week. His impatience exposed a
rift between a Republican governor who must respond to urgent
needs of residents and the hard-line stance on budget discipline
taken by members of his party in Washington.  “He’s a governor and he has to deliver the goods,” said
 Ross Baker , a political scientist at  Rutgers University  in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey . “If Christie said to the people of New
Jersey, ‘Sorry guys, but we’re looking for an offset somewhere
else in the budget, and you’re just going to have to wait until
Congress gets back,’ that would be grounds for impeachment.”  In New Jersey, where there are seven confirmed Irene-
related deaths, 45,600 residences were still without power as of
yesterday, according to Mary Goepfert, a spokeswoman for the
state Office of Emergency Management. In all, 10,209 people
remained blocked from their homes, and 568 were staying in
shelters as the state cleans up from widespread flooding.  No Time to Wait  “We don’t have time to wait for folks in Congress to
figure out how they want to offset this stuff with other budget
cuts,” Christie, 48, a first-term governor, told reporters at a
news conference on Aug. 30.  “I would urge all my colleagues in the New Jersey
delegation, no matter which party you’re in -- and all the rest
of the folks in Congress -- that nobody was asking about
offsetting budget cuts in Joplin,” Christie said, referring to
the Missouri tornado that killed more than 150 people in May.  “I don’t want to hear about the fact that offsetting
budget cuts have to come first before New Jersey citizens are
taken care of,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  is scheduled tomorrow to tour
Paterson, one of New Jersey’s poorest cities and the scene of
some of the worst flooding. Obama signed disaster declarations
for several states, including New Jersey, to make federal
resources available. Christie said yesterday he’ll join the
president in Paterson.  “These storms are not Republican or Democratic storms and
we don’t have a Republican or Democratic president -- we have
one president at the time,” Christie said on the boardwalk in
Point Pleasant Beach on the New Jersey shore. “And I will be
there on behalf of the people of New Jersey to welcome the
president.”  New Jersey Losses  New Jersey’s insured losses due to Irene are estimated at
$751.4 million, and total economic losses at $2.1 billion,
according to Kinetic Analysis Corp., a  Silver Spring , Maryland-
based disaster-cost forecaster.  Cantor, a Virginia Republican, has stepped back from
comments he made in an Aug. 29 interview on Fox television.  “As I’ve said continuously, we will find the monies for
disaster relief,” Cantor said in an Aug. 31 message on Twitter.  “No one is talking about holding funding hostage or
blocking it,”  Brad Dayspring , a spokesman for Cantor, said in
an interview. “We should always make the effort to try to pay
for it.”  In 2004, Cantor helped his state get about $20 million in
federal disaster relief after a tropical storm struck. He voted
against an amendment to offset the disaster aid with budget cuts
elsewhere.  ‘Probably a Mistake’  Cantor “would be the first to tell you that looking back,
that was probably a mistake” to vote against the offsets,
Dayspring said.  The nation’s debt was less than $8 trillion at the time and
now stands at $14.6 trillion. Republicans regained control of
the House last year “promising to be stewards of the taxpayer’s
dollar,” Dayspring said.  Cantor agrees with Christie that people struggling need
 disaster relief  quickly and that those funds can be offset
later, Dayspring said.  Cantor, 48, is pressing for Senate passage of a House
spending bill for the Department of  Homeland Security , which
would provide an additional $1 billion for the Disaster Relief
Fund in fiscal 2011, which ends Sept. 30, and $2.65 billion in
fiscal 2012. That legislation cuts funding for advanced
technology vehicles to offset the increase.  Commuter Rail Tunnel  The federal response to Irene drew praise for Obama and the
U.S. government from Christie, who in the past cast doubt on the
president’s leadership and also rejected billions of federal
dollars for a commuter rail tunnel.  “We’re coordinating well with the federal government,”
Christie said in an Aug. 28 appearance on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.” The federal emergency staffers were “working
incredibly hard at providing things to us that we need,” he
said.  By contrast, in October he canceled construction on a
commuter rail tunnel to  New York City  from New Jersey, a project
that had been championed by the state’s two Democratic U.S.
senators and whose cost estimate had ballooned to $14 billion
from $8.7 billion.  New Jersey taxpayers couldn’t afford the state’s share of
the project, Christie said.  Christie toured Paterson on Aug. 31 alongside Janet Napolitano, the Homeland Security secretary and former
Democratic governor of  Arizona .  ‘Dealt With Crises’  “She’s dealt with crises as a governor,” Christie told
reporters. “That’s why it’s so great to have someone like her
in this position. I commend the president for choosing her.”  The split over the urgency of budget offsets shows the
difference between governors seeing firsthand the value of
government services and lawmakers in  Washington  debating the
details of spending matters, said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of
history and public affairs at  Princeton University  in New
Jersey.  “It’s one thing to sit in Washington and say we need
offsets and can’t spend more, and it’s something very different
to be seeing people’s homes flooded and power out and the kind
of desperation people feel in times of crisis,” he said.  For Cantor, his timing wasn’t so great, said  John Feehery ,
a Republican strategist in Washington.  “It’s better to have that debate when the nerves aren’t so
raw,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  