-- 
Corn, Soybeans May Extend Gains on Worsening Weather, Mirae Asset Says

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-02T06:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/corn-soybeans-may-extend-gains-on-worsening-weather-mirae-asset-says.html
Corn and soybeans may extend gains,
outperforming other agricultural commodities, as worsening
weather in the U.S. hurts crop yields and tightens supplies,
according to Mirae Asset MAPS Global Investments.  Increasing feed-grain demand led by  China  and low
inventories should also push up corn and soybean prices, Kwon
Jung Hoon, manager of South Korea’s biggest agriculture-
commodity fund, which is run by Mirae Asset MAPS, said in an
interview yesterday. Investment demand for commodities,
including metals, is expected to increase in the Asian nation as
people seek methods to hedge against rising inflation, he said.  Corn prices have jumped 20 percent since July 1 after an 18
percent drop in May through June in  Chicago  and soybeans touched
a three-year high on Aug. 31. Morgan Stanley joined Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. last month in lowering estimates for corn
yields in the U.S., the top grower and exporter of the two
commodities, citing unfavorable weather and poor crop conditions.  “Crop conditions hold the key in the second half,” Kwon
said in  Seoul . “Weather conditions in the northern hemisphere
have deteriorated since August and that will likely help boost
prices in the second half, especially for corn and soybeans.”  Corn futures for December delivery gained 1 percent to
$7.455 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 3:53 p.m. Seoul
time. November-delivery soybeans rose 0.6 percent to $14.425 a
bushel.  Corn, used in food, livestock feed and biofuels, is the
second-best performing commodity in the past year on the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity index. Wheat gained 8.2 percent
and cotton rose 19 percent, respectively.  Inflation Hedge  Farm commodities offer a “right” method to hedge against
inflation as rising food costs fuel consumer prices, Kwon said.
 South Korea ’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in three
years in August on rising food prices.  South Korea’s consumer prices rose 5.3 percent from a year
earlier last month after increasing 4.7 percent in July, the
government said yesterday. That exceeded all 11 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Speculators increased bullish bets on agricultural
commodities to the highest level since early May in the week
through Aug. 23, U.S. government data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rising Demand  Commodity-backed funds doubled to about 1.8 trillion won
($1.7 billion) in terms of assets under management from Jan. 2,
2009, to Aug. 1, according to data from  FnGuide Inc. , a
financial market data provider.  “There’s more room for commodity funds to grow in the
Korean market,” Kwon said. “The inflation risk will continue
to rise, boosting investors’ needs to guard against it.”  Commodity assets under management rose $8.3 billion in July,
the biggest inflow since December 2010, to $431 billion,
 Barclays Capital  said in a report on Aug. 24. The S&P GSCI index
of 24 commodities has climbed 30 percent in the past year and
the  MSCI World (MXWO)  index gained 7 percent.  The Mirae Asset MAPS Rogers Agriculture Index Derivative
Investment Trust, which tracks the Rogers International
Agriculture Commodity Index, has returned 44 percent in the year
through Aug. 31, according to the company. The fund has 100.5
billion won in assets. Mirae Asset MAPS is an affiliate of South
Korea’s biggest mutual fund manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  