-- 
Crude Oil Falls as Stagnant U.S. Employment Data Signals Weak Fuel Demand

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-02T19:43:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/crude-oil-falls-as-stagnant-u-s-employment-data-signals-weak-fuel-demand.html
Crude oil fell the most in two
weeks, trimming a second weekly gain, after employment in the
U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August, bolstering concern that
fuel demand will drop.  Futures dropped 2.8 percent after Labor Department data
showed payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest reading
since September 2010. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a gain of 65,000. Tropical Storm Lee formed
today in the  Gulf of Mexico , prompting companies to shut 48
percent of the area’s crude output.  “The macroeconomic data continues to indicate a
deceleration of economic growth at best,” said  Michael Wittner ,
the head of oil-market research at Societe Generale SA in New
York and the third-most accurate forecaster for Brent oil among
26 analysts ranked by Bloomberg in the past eight quarters.
“We’ve got a lot of weak data from around the world recently.”  Crude oil for October delivery fell $2.48 to settle at
$86.45 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest drop since Aug. 18. Prices rose 1.3 percent this week
and have gained 15 percent in the past year. There will be no
Nymex floor trading on Sept. 5 because of the Labor Day holiday.  Brent oil for October settlement dropped $1.96, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $112.33 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  The European benchmark traded at a $25.88 premium to West
Texas Intermediate, the grade traded in  New York . The record
spread based on settlement prices is $26.21 on Aug. 19, two days
before the Libyan rebels entered the capital of Tripoli.  ‘Ridiculously Overpriced’  “Brent is ridiculously overpriced and WTI is too low,”
said Peter Beutel, president of trading advisory company Cameron
Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan , Connecticut. “Two perfectly good
crude grades are being ruined as benchmarks by speculators. The
spread should be declining because the Libyan disruption and
containment at Cushing are being alleviated.”  Oil supplies at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
WTI, fell 21 percent from a record 41.9 million in April by Aug.
26, the Energy Department said.  Estimates of the 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
for overall payrolls ranged from a decline of 20,000 to an
increase of 160,000.  “This underscores why we’re looking for the outlook to get
more bearish,” Wittner said. “A slowdown hasn’t been priced in
yet, so oil should move lower.”  Oil dropped 7.2 percent on the Nymex last month amid
speculation the  U.S. economy  is slowing. The downgrade of  U.S.
debt  by Standard & Poor’s, political squabbling about the
American budget and fears that one or more of the countries in
the euro zone will default triggered a plunge in stocks last
month that caused  consumer confidence  to sink.  Falling Confidence  “August was not a good month for the U.S. economy,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts. “The difficulty in coming to a
budget agreement hurt consumer confidence and spending in
August, and this will be reflected in lower fuel demand.”  A report yesterday showed U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly
grew in August. The Institute for Supply Management’s factory
index fell to 50.6 in August from 50.9 in July. A reading of 50
is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  “We’re in a holding pattern,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief
energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  Washington . “The market
keeps meandering based on the most recent headline. Yesterday
the ISM number surprised us to the upside and now the non-farm
employment number is surprising us to the downside.”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index decreased 2.6 percent to
1,173.16 in New York and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell
2.2 percent to 11,242.99. The dollar rose 0.5 percent to $1.4186
against the euro.  Production Disruptions  “We’re obviously reacting pretty dramatically to the jobs
number,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest
in  Chicago . Output in the Gulf “has already been disrupted and
there could be serious flooding over the long weekend.”  The storm was “nearly stationary” south of Louisiana,
according to the National Hurricane Center. The system is 210
miles (338 kilometers) southwest of the mouth of the  Mississippi
River , the Miami-based center said today in an advisory issued
at 1:35 p.m. East Coast time. Lee is moving toward the northwest
at 2 miles per hour and its maximum winds are 40 mph.  Platform Evacuations  Companies including Anadarko Petroleum Corp., BP Plc, Exxon
Mobil Corp. and Noble Corp. have evacuated workers from Gulf
rigs and platforms. About 48 percent of Gulf oil output has been
shut by the storm, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement  said today.  Personnel have been evacuated from 169 production platforms
and 16 rigs, the bureau said. The Gulf accounts for 27 percent
of U.S. crude production.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 507,026
contracts as of 2:42 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 561,414
contracts yesterday, 18 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts, the
highest level since Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 