-- 
David Bohnett Woos Dudamel After $3.6 Billion Sale of Geocities

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/david-bohnett-woos-dudamel-funds-chimps-after-3-6-billion-geocities-deal.html
Artworks by  Donald Judd  and  Ed
Ruscha  decorated the house, and  Frank Gehry ,  John Williams  and
 Los Angeles  Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa were among those at the
dinner table. The guest of honor even got to ride the host’s
 Segway scooter .  When the  Los Angeles Philharmonic  sought to lure Gustavo Dudamel, it turned to its board chairman, the social-networking
pioneer David Bohnett, who opened his home to the Venezuela-born
conductor.  “I told Gustavo that most of us in Los Angeles come from
somewhere else, and just as we choose Los Angeles, Los Angeles
chooses us,” Bohnett, 55, said in an interview. “And that was
how it all started.”  Los Angelinos can also thank Bohnett for persuading the now
30-year-old conductor to stay longer. After Dudamel signed on to
succeed Finnish conductor  Esa-Pekka Salonen  in 2009 as the
orchestra’s music director, Bohnett helped persuade him to
extend his 5-year contract through the 2018-19 season.  For the Philharmonic’s season-opening performance on Sept.
27, Dudamel conducts an all-Gershwin program featuring pianist
 Herbie Hancock .  A philanthropist who made his fortune selling Geocities.com
to Yahoo! Inc. in 1999 for $3.6 billion, Bohnett has become a
prime booster for one of the most admired and richly funded
orchestras in the U.S. He himself gives $250,000 a year to the
symphony and contributed $1 million to its capital campaign.  “I had been a patron of the orchestra for many years, and
with the opening of the Disney Hall in 2003, I saw this as such
a significant event for the city of Los Angeles,” Bohnett said.
“I thought this was an important time to step up.”  $100 Million Budget  With the help of Dudamel’s rock star-like following, the
orchestra covers 65 percent of its $100 million budget through
about 1 million tickets sold each season.  Bohnett developed a tight bond with Dudamel, traveling with
the conductor and the orchestra to every city on their last
European tour.  “David invests where he believes he can provide help,”
Deborah Borda, the Philharmonic’s president and chief executive
officer, said by phone. “He invests himself emotionally, and
he’s been a partner for Gustavo.”  Beyond the orchestra, Bohnett is a board member of the  Los
Angeles County Museum of Art , to which he pledged $5 million
toward its current capital campaign. He has made dozens of
grants to nonprofits such as the AIDS Project Los Angeles and
the American Foundation for AIDS Research.  Harvard Program  Harassed as a kid, Bohnett set up a gay and lesbian
leadership-fellows program at Harvard University’s Kennedy
School of Government. His more than 60  David Bohnett
CyberCenters  in the U.S. provide computer access for thousands
at gay and lesbian centers. Since 1999, he and his  David Bohnett
Foundation  have given more than $40 million to causes ranging
from the arts to  gun control .  Animals are another interest of Bohnett, who lives with
two dachshunds and one cat. In  Chicago , he supports animal
cognitive research at Lincoln Park Zoological Society. On  Long
Island , New York, he writes checks for the  Animal Rescue Fund of
the Hamptons Inc . This year, he donated $30,000 to  Friends of
Washoe , an Ellensburg, Washington-based nonprofit that advocates
the well-being of chimpanzees and studies their language
abilities.  “The more proof there is that animals communicate, the
harder it is to treat them as badly as we do,” he said.  LowerMyBills.com  A graduate of the University of  Southern California  and
 University of Michigan ’s MBA program, Bohnett runs his business
and philanthropic pursuits from a small, pristine office in
 Beverly Hills ,  California . Bohnett still has a hand in Internet
startups through his venture-capital company, Baroda Ventures.  “I’ll come in after the company has been launched but
before they’ve raised money from financial entities,” he said
about the firms he’s involved in, including Fab.com, a design
website, and  OV Guide.com . Baroda invested in the startups of
 LowerMyBills.com  and  NetZero.net .  Although Bohnett was disappointed when Yahoo shut down
Geocities.com in 2009, he said the company will be regarded as
an Internet trendsetter.  “I’m glad we had a role in the establishment of user-
generated content as a viable format on the Internet,” he said.
“This was before Amazon.com and Yahoo were on the Internet.”  (The Los Angeles Philharmonic’s 2011-12 season opener is on
Sept. 27 at the Walt Disney Concert Hall, 111 South Grand Ave.
in Los Angeles at 7 p.m. In October Dudamel will conduct
programs featuring works by Berlioz and Mendelssohn and
performers such as pianist Yefim Bronfman and cellist Johannes
Moser. Information:  http://www.laphil.com/tickets/performance -
detail.cfm?id=4600)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 