-- 
Teen McHale Loses, Roddick Wins Nebraska Showdown at US Open

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-03T04:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/del-potro-tops-junqueira-in-straight-sets-to-move-to-u-s-open-third-round.html
New Jersey teenager Christina
McHale’s surprising run ended in the third round of the U.S.
Open, where  Andy Roddick  won a showdown of Nebraska natives.  McHale, 19, from Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, lost 6-2, 6-
3 last night to Maria Kirilenko, a 25th-seeded Russian. In the
previous round, McHale upset No. 8 Marion Bartoli of France.  “Right now, I’m disappointed in the way I played,” McHale
said in a news conference. “But, for sure, it’s the first time
I’ve made it to the third round of a Grand Slam, so I will just
take the positives from it.”  Roddick, 29, the men’s 21st seed, won 6-3, 6-3, 6-4 in the
all-American match against 18-year-old Jack Sock, who was a
wild-card entrant. Roddick was born in Omaha, the largest city
in  Nebraska . Sock was born in the state capital of Lincoln and
grew up following Roddick’s professional performances.  “He was the guy to watch for guys my age, obviously being
from Nebraska was even more incentive to watch him,” Sock said
in a news conference. “I think we got closer after the match
tonight as friends.”  Former champion  Maria Sharapova  was eliminated earlier in
the day by  Flavia Pennetta , becoming the highest seed to lose so
far in the tennis season’s final Grand Slam tournament.  Defending men’s champion Rafael Nadal won when Nicolas Mahut of France quit with an abdominal injury after dropping the
first two sets.  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed from Britain, came
back from a two-set deficit to top  Robin Haase  of the
Netherlands.  Isner vs. Bogomolov  No. 5 seed David Ferrer of Spain won 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 against
American James Blake. Two other U.S. men advanced and will face
each other in the next round -- No. 28 John Isner, who served 20
aces in his win against fellow American Robby Ginepri, and Alex
Bogomolov Jr.  American Donald Young came back for a five-set win against
 Stanislas Wawrinka , the No. 14 seed from Switzerland. Young, 22,
never before had won a five-set match.  “I just started relying on my fitness and using my
forehand,” Young said in a televised courtside interview. “It
was 4 hours, 20 minutes and I didn’t even know I could go that
long.”  Top seeds Novak Djokovic and  Caroline Wozniacki  are slated
to play today, as well as five-time men’s champion Roger Federer
and three-time women’s champ  Serena Williams . Americans Sloane
Stephens and Mardy Fish also are scheduled for matches today.  Williams, who is seeded 28th, will face No. 4 Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, in a match on the Arthur Ashe Stadium
court.  Sharapova’s Errors  Sharapova, the No. 3 seed from Russia, lost 6-3, 3-6, 6-4
yesterday while making 60 unforced errors, including 12 double
faults. The 24-year-old double-faulted twice to open the final
game, which Pennetta ended with a backhand service-return
winner. Pennetta, 29, of Italy, is seeded No. 26.  “I didn’t feel comfortable with most of my game today,”
Sharapova said at a news conference. “It’s just one of those
days. Unfortunately, it was at the  U.S. Open .”  Sharapova had been 12-0 this year in three-set matches.  “She had a lot of double faults, so I think she was just
feeling the pressure,” said Pennetta, who next will face Peng Shuai, the No. 13 seed from  China .  Vera Zvonareva, the women’s No. 2 seed from Russia,
advanced to the fourth round along with No. 22 Sabine Lisicki of
Germany, who defeated American Irina Falconi 6-0, 6-1. Ninth-
seeded Samantha Stosur of Australia needed 3 hours, 16 minutes
to defeat No. 24 Nadia Petrova of Russia in three sets that
included two tiebreakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 