-- 
Deutsche Bank Said to Not Plan New Cost-Cutting Programs

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-09-02T17:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/deutsche-bank-said-to-not-plan-additional-cost-cutting-programs.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest
bank, doesn’t plan any new cost-cutting programs, said two
people familiar with the matter, after the Financial Times
Deutschland reported the company is weighing more reductions.  The newspaper said the firm may decide to save between 1
billion euros ($1.43 billion) and 2 billion euros a year from
2012, and may make job cuts at the investment bank. No decision
has been made about whether and how much the bank would save
should the economic situation worsen, the paper said, without
citing anyone.  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, wants to win market
share and already has savings programs, spokesman Christian Streckert said today. He declined to comment further.  Global banks such as UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc have announced more than 80,000 job losses so far this
year, including 65,000 from European-domiciled firms, according
to data collected by Bloomberg Industries. Deutsche Bank already
has three cost-saving and integration programs in progress, one
for the whole bank, a second for the corporate and investment
bank and a third linked to the purchase of Deutsche Postbank AG.  Savings Sought  The bank is targeting group-wide savings of about 1 billion
euros from reduced infrastructure costs such as  information
technology  and shifting some operations abroad. The corporate
and investment bank aims for cost and revenue benefits of about
650 million euros in 2011 by reducing duplication and boosting
cooperation between corporate finance bankers, traders and
transaction banking. Deutsche Bank also aims to save about 1
billion euros annually by 2015 with the integration of Postbank.  The German company may examine new cost cuts later this
year if markets worsen, one of the people said. Potential
options to boost savings would include shedding jobs and bonus
reductions, the person said.  Deutsche Bank fell 1.64 euros, or 5.9 percent, to 26.02
euros in Frankfurt trading today. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index of 46 stocks declined 4.2 percent.  Deutsche Bank is among more than a dozen large banks that
may be sued by the U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency for
misrepresenting the quality of mortgage securities sold at the
height of the housing bubble, according to a report in the New
York Times.  “We can’t comment on a suit that we haven’t seen and
hasn’t been filed yet,” spokesman Streckert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  