-- 
Dish Said to Stream Blockbuster Films to Challenge Netflix

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-02T21:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/dish-said-to-plan-blockbuster-rival-to-netflix.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, will introduce a Blockbuster
streaming-movie service to compete with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  next month,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the plans.  The timing is designed to coincide with price increases
being implemented by Netflix, according to the person, who
declined to be named because Dish’s new offering isn’t public.
Starting this month, Netflix said it will charge separate fees
for mail-order and streaming videos, raising the price by 60
percent to $15.98 for customers who want both options. Dish
hasn’t set a price for its rival service, the person said.  Dish acquired almost all of Blockbuster’s assets in April
for $320 million out of bankruptcy. The company is trying to
transform Blockbuster into a business that can compete online
with Netflix,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Hulu LLC. U.S. residents
watched an average 4 hours 33 minutes of video on the Internet
monthly in the first quarter, a 35 percent increase from a year
earlier, according to a Nielsen Holdings NV report.  “This ought to begin changing the way investors think
about Dish,” said Ryan Vineyard, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  New York . “It goes from being an old-school pay-TV
company to launching what could be a really high-growth
business.”  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , fell 70 cents, or 2.8
percent, to $24.30 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, paring a decline of as much as 4.9 percent earlier in
the day. Netflix dropped $20.16, or 8.6 percent, to $213.11. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 2.5 percent following a
report showing American job growth stalled in August.  Streaming Service  Aaron Johnson, a spokesman for Dish, declined to comment.
The new service may also include on-demand Blockbuster movies
that Dish satellite customers can watch on television sets, the
person said. Blockbuster may offer the streaming service in
conjunction with its mail-order and in-store DVD rentals.  Dish has been negotiating rights with studios since it
acquired Blockbuster, which already had certain contracts in
place coming out of bankruptcy. Discussions with studios
typically include authentication and online rights as well as
other programming rights.  While  Blockbuster.com  offers on-demand movies for one-time
purchase, this would be its first subscription-based streaming
service. The new option would complement  Blockbuster On Demand ,
which allows users to watch content on personal computers,
mobile devices and DVRs.  Starz Movies  The offering is expected to include movies from Starz LLC,
said the person. Starz announced yesterday it had halted
negotiations with Netflix to renew an online-viewing deal for
next year.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , has 24.6 million
U.S. customers and a library 20,000 movies and television shows
available online.  “Netflix leads a big, growing market, and big, growing
markets always attract competition,” said Netflix spokesman
 Steve Swasey .  Seattle-based Amazon announced in February it would give
its Prime members instant streaming of movies and TV shows.
Prime membership costs $79 annually and gives subscribers free
two-day shipping and access to more than 9,000 shows and films.  Hulu, the Los Angeles-based web service that for sale, had
875,000 paid subscribers at the end of June and said yesterday
it was starting service in  Japan . Dish was one of the companies
interested in acquiring Hulu, two people familiar with the
process said in July.  Dish ranks second in the U.S. satellite-TV behind  DirecTV (DTV) ,
based in El Segundo, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  