-- 
DnB NOR Says Profit Target Tough to Reach as Recovery Falters

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-02T09:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/dnb-nor-says-profit-target-tough-to-reach-as-recovery-falters.html
DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) ,  Norway ’s biggest bank,
said it faces challenges in reaching its profit target four
years from now as a faltering global recovery forces the central
bank to backtrack on interest-rate increases.  “The 2015 targets have become more difficult because of
the long-term  interest rates  and interest rate expectations,”
Chief Executive Officer Rune Bjerke said in an interview in Oslo
yesterday. “So far we are on track with our growth ambitions
and we are on track with our cost initiatives.”  The Nordic region’s second-biggest bank forecast in June
its pretax operating profit before writedowns will reach 30
billion kroner ($5.5 billion) by 2015, compared with a target of
22 billion kroner to 25 billion kroner for 2012. Since then, a
global market rout fueled by  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis and
 Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. have undermined policy
makers’ commitment to monetary tightening, threatening to put
pressure on interest-rate margins.  “When we presented our targets we were more sure that
interest rates in Norway would be raised more rapidly than most
analysts expect today,” Bjerke said. “It is a little bit more
challenging because the interest rate level will stay lower for
a longer period of time,” he said, adding that the bank’s
targets had not changed.  DnB NOR shares slumped 2.8 percent, or 1.85 kroner, to
63.85 kroner at 11:05 a.m. in Oslo. The stock has lost 22
percent this year. Norway’s benchmark OBX Index dropped 1.9
percent today, compared with a 2.4 percent decline in the Euro
Stoxx 50.  Returns on Equity  Norway’s central bank last month left its benchmark deposit
rate unchanged at 2.25 percent, when most economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had anticipated a quarter point increase following the
bank’s earlier signals. The decision not to raise rates followed
a “flare-up in financial market turbulence and clear signs of
weaker growth internationally,” the bank said Aug. 10.  The  Federal Reserve  pledged last month to keep its target
lending rate at virtually zero until at least mid-2013, while
the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  left rates unchanged
and resumed bond purchases to support the region’s debt markets.  DnB also targets a return on equity of more than 14 percent
and a cost-to-income ratio below 45 percent in 2015, according
to a June presentation.  Job Cuts  Shares in DnB NOR slumped 17 percent in August, as the
value of global equities dropped by more than $4 trillion amid a
worldwide sell-off.  Equity losses and a weaker global recovery outlook have
forced banks in much of Europe and the U.S. to slash jobs.  Nordea, the Nordic region’s biggest bank, said this week it
plans to cut a total of 2,000 staff, or 5.9 percent of its
workforce, this year and in 2012 to trim costs and boost profit.  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said on Aug. 23 it will
cut 5 percent of its workforce. ABN Amro Group NV, a Dutch
state-owned lender, plans to slash 2,350 jobs, and HSH Nordbank
AG, a regional German lender, said it would eliminate 900 jobs
by 2014.  DnB has “no immediate plans or immediate needs to
announce new initiatives,” Bjerke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  