-- 
Dollar Declines Versus Franc Amid Speculation Fed Will Act; Euro Weakens

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-02T21:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/dollar-index-is-little-changed-as-data-show-employment-stagnated-in-august.html
The dollar fell for a third day
versus the Swiss franc, the longest losing streak in a month, as
investors bet the  Federal Reserve  will take steps to stimulate
growth after U.S. employment unexpectedly stagnated in August.  The franc had its biggest weekly gain on record versus the
euro, and currencies of commodity exporters dropped as stocks
fell, boosting haven demand. The greenback had for its first
weekly loss in almost a month versus the franc amid speculation
the Fed may start a third round of asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, debasing the U.S. currency. The euro fell
versus most peers on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  “The knee-jerk reaction is to take risk off the table,”
said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “This number goes a long
way to firming up expectations that another round of asset
buying could be in the cards.”  The dollar slumped as much as 3.1 percent versus the franc
to 77.12 centimes before trading at 78.83 centimes at 5 p.m. in
New York. It was the biggest intraday drop since Aug. 9, the day
the Fed pledged to keep  interest rates  near zero until mid-2013.
The greenback fell 0.2 percent to 76.80 yen, from 76.93.  The euro slid 1.3 percent to 1.1201 francs, dropping 4.2
percent for the week, the biggest decline since the 17-nation
currency’s debut in 1999. It fell 0.5 percent to 109.11 yen. The
euro was down 0.4 percent to $1.4205.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, rose 0.3 percent to
74.706, from 74.479 yesterday.  ‘Bear Trap’  Brazil ’s real was the biggest loser against the dollar as
risk appetite fell and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled
2.5 percent.  “Stocks are much lower, and if they continue to unwind,
it’ll continue the risk-off sentiment,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “The market exhausted itself, and it’s
running into a bit of a bear trap.”  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest
reading since September 2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that
was less than first estimated, Labor Department data showed. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of
68,000. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  The White House’s Office of Management and Budget said
earlier in an update of economic forecasts through August the
jobless rate will average 9.1 percent in 2011 and show little
change next year.  Fed Tools  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank still has tools to boost a recovery, while sticking to his
view that growth will pick up. He spoke at a conference in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming. At last year’s event, he foreshadowed the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s second round of quantitative
easing, the purchase of $600 billion of Treasuries from November
through June.  Minutes of policy makers’ Aug. 9 meeting showed some FOMC
members favored more aggressive action to stimulate the economy
beyond the pledge adopted to hold interest rates near zero. The
minutes were released Aug. 30.  President Barack Obama will address Congress Sept. 8 on his
plans to boost jobs and accelerate growth.  The euro weakened against the franc as a Bloomberg survey
showed factory orders in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy,
likely decreased 1 percent in July from the prior month. The
Economy Ministry will report the data on Sept. 6.  ‘Pretty Bad’  “The outlook for the euro is pretty bad,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest bank by market value.
“For the past six months, there’s been no good news for it.
Probably there’ll be none going forward either.”  The  International Monetary Fund  opposes European plans to
force  Greece  to put up collateral in its second rescue, said
four people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Greece’s two-year government bond yield surged to a euro-
era record of 47.29 percent.  Canada ’s dollar and  Mexico ’s peso slid against the
greenback after the jobs report. The U.S. is the biggest trading
partner of both nations. The Canadian currency fell 0.9 percent
to 98.53 cents per  U.S. dollar , and the peso dropped 0.9 percent
to 12.4079 per dollar.  The Brazilian real dropped 1.3 percent to 1.6411 per dollar
and touched 1.6470, its weakest since Aug. 9.  The Swiss franc surged 13 percent this year against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback lost the most, 6.4
percent, while the euro was little changed.  Economic Stimulus  Switzerland’s government pledged 870 million francs ($1.1
billion) this week as part of an economic stimulus program to
help counter the impact of the currency’s strength.  While the Swiss National Bank has avoided currency
purchases, it may soon have no alternative but to follow through
on its threat to intervene, economists and strategists said.
Central banks intervene by selling or buying currencies to
influence prices.  “The SNB will fire its nuclear weapon and start
interventions if the franc reaches parity,” said You-Na Park, a
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  