-- 
Dollar Bonds Plunge Most in 15 Months as Turmoil Hits Market: India Credit

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   V   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-02T04:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/dollar-bonds-plunge-most-in-15-months-as-turmoil-hits-market-india-credit.html
Dollar-denominated bonds sold by
Indian companies handed investors the worst returns in 15 months
in August and money managers said the debt will rally only once
the global economy shows signs of recovery.  The notes lost 2.2 percent last month, the biggest decline
since May 2010, when concern first arose that  Greece ’s debt
crisis may spread to other European nations, indexes compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. show. Chinese corporate dollar debt fell
3.6 percent in the same period, while notes from Russia and
 Brazil  slumped more than 1 percent, the indexes show.  International bond sales by Indian companies plunged 80
percent last month to $200 million from July, after a record
first half helped fuel growth in Asia’s third-largest economy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Clariden Leu AG and
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc say evidence of improvement of the
 U.S. economy  and European debt crisis is needed to revive the
market after the yield premium of Indian debt over Treasuries
widened to the most since 2009.  “When sanity prevails and things calm down,  India  should
be among the first markets where the yield will come down
because companies are doing well and the economy will continue
to grow,” said Hemant Dharnidharka, a Hong Kong-based credit
analyst at SJS Markets Ltd. “We don’t see the yields coming
down in the next few months as uncertainty is likely to
continue.”  Ballarpur Industries Ltd. (BILT) , India’s biggest paper maker, was
the only company to sell dollar bonds last month, issuing 9.75
percent perpetual notes with a  call option  in August 2016,
Bloomberg data show. While the coupon is higher than the 5.59
percent average for Indian dollar debt tracked by the HSBC
Holdings Plc index, it’s lower than the 9.9 percent rate the
company paid on five-year rupee notes in July last year.  Spreads Widen  State-controlled  Indian Bank (INBK)  will delay raising $500
million on the  bond market  “until the pricing is attractive,”
V. Rama Gopal, an  executive director  at the lender, said in an
Aug. 10 interview.  The average yield Indian companies pay to borrow in dollars
over Treasuries widened 101 basis points, or 1.01 percentage
point, to 487 basis points last month after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the U.S.’s top credit rating one level to AA+ on Aug. 5,
triggering a global rout in equities.  The extra yield demanded by investors to hold Indian notes
over  U.S. debt  touched 493 basis points on Aug. 30, the widest
gap since December 2009, HSBC data show. Similar spreads for
 China  widened 76 basis points to 444, and by an average 62 to
346 across  Asia .  ‘Buying Opportunity’  Last month’s loss in Indian dollar bonds was dwarfed by a
27 percent plunge in October 2008 following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., JPMorgan data show.  “There is a pipeline of Indian issuers and if markets do
recover, as we think there is a good chance they will, then the
new issue market will open up,” said  Viktor Hjort , a Hong Kong-
based credit strategist with Morgan Stanley. Indian banks are
priced between 50 and 100 basis points wider than a month ago,
making valuation “quite a bit more appealing” for investors,
he said.  Spreads on  State Bank  of India’s $1 billion of 4.5 percent
bonds due July 2015 widened 98 basis points last month to 345,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices. Relative
yields on  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ’s $750 million of 5.5 percent, March
2015 debt increased 114 to 409.  “I expect credit spreads to compress when the global
picture improves,” said Cornel Bruhin, who helps oversee about
$4 billion of emerging-market assets at Zurich-based Clariden
Leu. “It’s a good buying opportunity at current levels.”  Debt Sales Slow  International bond sales from India have slowed since
reaching $7.8 billion in the six months to June 30, and this
quarter’s issuance of $1.2 billion so far is the lowest since
the same period of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Offerings of local-currency debt totaled 1.03 trillion
rupees ($22.3 billion) this year to Aug. 31, down 27 percent
from the same period last year, as the highest benchmark rates
since 2008 deter companies from borrowing, the data show.  India’s top-rated companies pay 9.4 percent to borrow in
rupees for five years, 46 basis points higher than at the end of
2010, Bloomberg data show.  The rupee’s 2.6 percent decline this quarter has also made
companies wary of borrowing funds in foreign currencies,
according to SJS Markets. The rupee gained 0.5 percent to 45.88
per dollar today. India’s financial markets were closed
yesterday and Aug. 31 for holidays. Companies that are “bullish
on the currency” may want to borrow should the rupee weaken to
47, said SJS Markets’ Dharnidharka.  Growth Pressure  The  Reserve Bank  of India has boosted the repurchase rate
11 times since March 2010 to contain inflation that has held
above 9 percent this year. An economy that grew a faster-than-
estimated 7.7 percent last quarter is adding to pressure for the
central bank to continue raising the rate from its current 8
percent level.  Indian growth compares with 9.5 percent in China and 1
percent in the U.S., government figures show. Euro-area growth
slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter.  “There is a compelling case for emerging market debt as
these economies are on a sounder footing at least when the West
is in trouble,” said Pierre Faddoul, a Singapore-based credit
analyst at Deutsche Asset Management (Asia) Ltd. Still, “there
is more clarity that needs to be found on global growth before
investors start investing.”  Yields on the India’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell 14 basis
points in August, the most in six months, to 8.32 percent,
according to the central bank’s trading system.  Forecast Slowdown  The cost of insuring the debt of government-owned  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , seen as a proxy for the nation, climbed 83 basis
points last month to 275, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in privately negotiated markets. Five-year credit-default swaps
on Brazil rose 29 to 143 in the same period, while those for
Russia increased 48 to 190 and China contracts jumped 21 to 108.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The central bank forecasts economic expansion will slow to
8 percent in the year ending March, from 8.5 percent in the
previous year. State Bank, the nation’s largest lender, posted a
bigger-than-expected 46 percent drop in first-quarter profit as
bad loans increased.  Investors are waiting for economic data that suggests U.S.
growth is “no longer slowing or is accelerating,” said  Scott Bennett , Singapore-based head of Asian credit at Aberdeen Asset
Management, which oversees $298 billion globally. “After the
traditionally slow summer period, we expect the primary market
to open again in September, and depending on market spreads
Indian issuers may try to tap again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  