-- 
Dominion Says Crack Found at North Anna Containment Building

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-02T22:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/dominion-says-crack-found-at-north-anna-containment-building.html
Dominion Resources Inc. found a
small crack on a wall with “no safety significance” in a room
of a containment building at the North Anna nuclear plant after
an Aug. 23 earthquake in  Virginia , a company official said.  The fissure was a “superficial crack in a wall that serves
no safety significance,” Dominion spokesman Richard Zuercher
said today in an interview.  The 5.8-magnitude earthquake may have caused ground motion
that surpassed the power plant’s design, the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission said Aug. 29. The facility’s two reactors,
located about 11 miles (18 kilometers) from the epicenter, are
shut until the company and NRC complete their analysis of data
from the facility following the temblor.  Dominion, based in Richmond, Virginia, expects the seismic
study to be complete by the end of next week, Dan Stoddard, the
company’s senior vice president for nuclear operations, told
reporters today before conducting a tour of the facility.  Inspections so far have found “no significant damage,”
according to Stoddard.  Dominion won’t restart the reactors “until we have
completed the inspections and testing and we are highly
confident that these units can operate safely and reliably,” he
said.  ‘Cosmetic’ Crack  Dominion discovered a “cosmetic” crack in a horizontal
construction joint on a wall that is in the containment
building, Stoddard said.  The wall is “not part of the containment structure”
itself, Larry Lane, Dominion’s vice president for the North Anna
site, told reporters. The crack, which is about seven feet off
the floor, is on a non-load-bearing, inner wall that is used to
separate spaces within the Unit 1 building, he said. Its widest
point measures 0.03 of an inch, according to Lane.  Other noticeable damage at the site, on the shores of Lake
Anna in central Virginia, includes a small crack in the floor of
an auxiliary building.  Dominion invited reporters to tour the plant’s control
room, transformer and generator areas. Company officials didn’t
take the group into the reactor containment structure or the
building that houses a cooling pool for spent fuel because that
would have been “more complex and more time-consuming,”
Stoddard said.  Dry casks storing radioactive spent fuel also shifted from
one to four-and-a-half inches in their storage area at the
complex, the company said yesterday. The casks, large white
barrel-like structures made of steel, sit on a concrete pad away
from the reactor containment buildings.  Dominion may not return them to their original positions,
Stoddard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  