-- 
EDF Renewables Unit to Partner OpenHydro in Tidal Power Project

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-09-02T13:55:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/edf-renewables-unit-to-partner-openhydro-in-tidal-power-project.html
OpenHydro Group Ltd., an Irish maker
of tidal turbines, said it’s planning a second marine energy
project in French waters with Electricite de  France  SA,  Europe ’s
biggest power producer.  OpenHydro, which is already working with EDF on a 4-
megawatt tidal power project, is looking to develop another with
the company’s renewable power unit, EDF Energies Nouvelles SA,
Peter Corcoran, chief financial officer of Dublin-based
OpenHydro, said in a telephone interview. He declined to provide
details.  “We are working on planning with EDF Energies Nouvelles on
a potential project in French waters,” Corcoran said yesterday
from Dublin. Aurelia de Lapeyrouse, spokeswoman for EDF Energies
Nouvelles, confirmed the collaboration in an e-mail and declined
to comment further.  The first 4-megawatt project with EDF, which is costing
about 40 million euros ($57 million), should be fully connected
to the grid in 2012, OpenHydro said yesterday in a statement.
The project will see the installation of four turbines off the
coast of Paimpol-Brehat, northwest France. The first of these is
now fully assembled and ready for testing.  OpenHydro received 14 million euros ($19 million) from DCNS
SA, a Paris-based marine engineering company, for an 8 percent
stake in January. This added to speculation that the tidal
 energy industry , which is struggling to raise capital, would
pursue more deals, Ashwini Bindinganavale, a clean-energy
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said at the time.  The company won’t be raising further funds until 2012 or
2013, but would look to its existing shareholder base first,
Corcoran said. “DCNS will be given an opportunity to further
invest should OpenHydro require further funding,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  