-- 
Death of Medicis CEO’s Girlfriend Was a Suicide, Not a Crime, Sheriff Says

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n ,   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-09-02T21:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/medicis-ceo-shacknai-didn-t-commit-crime-death-was-suicide-sheriff-says.html
The death of a woman at the home of
 Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)  Chief Executive Officer Jonah Shacknai was a suicide and not a crime, San Diego County Sheriff
Bill Gore said.  The death of Shacknai’s girlfriend, Rebecca Zahau, was
determined to be a suicide, Gore told reporters today. Shacknai
was at the hospital where doctors were trying to keep his 6-
year-old son alive after an accident when Zahau hung herself in
July, Gore said. It appears she became distraught after
receiving a phone call reversing earlier, optimistic reports
about Max Shacknai’s condition, the sheriff said.  “Given the totality of the evidence, there’s really no
other logical explanation for what happened to her other than
she took her own life,” Gore said.  Medicis, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based maker of wrinkle
treatments and acne drugs, fell the most in almost five months
in New York trading on July 14, after Zahau was found dead at
the executive’s beachside home in Coronado,  California .  Zahau, 32, was found nude, with a rope around her neck and
her hands and feet bound, a sheriff’s department official said
at the time.  At today’s news conference, Gore said Zahau left a painted
message on the door of the guest bedroom from which she stepped
onto a balcony that she fell from after binding herself with a
red rope. The contents of the message, which have been made
available to the victim’s family, won’t be made public, he said.  Son’s Death  Shacknai’s son, Max, died on July 16, from injuries
sustained in a fall from the stairs in the house on July 11.  “While the investigation is over, the emptiness and
sadness in our hearts will remain forever,” Jonah Shacknai said
today in a statement. “Max was an extraordinarily loving,
happy, talented, and special little boy. He brought joy to
everyone who knew him, and we will miss him desperately.”  “Rebecca too was a wonderful and unique person who will
always have a special place in my heart,” Shacknai said.
“Nothing will ever be the same for our families after these
losses, but with today’s information providing some much needed
answers, we will try to rebuild our lives and honor the memories
we carry with us.”  Gore and other officials at today’s news conference said
they were told by witnesses that Zahau had been having emotional
problems since January, had lost weight and was not exercising
regularly any more even though she was a “health nut,” as one
of the officials said.  Zahau ‘Unhappy’  “There were indications she had been unhappy for a
while,” Gore said.  The Coronado Police Department received a 911 call on the
morning of July 11 from Zahau’s 13-year-old sister, reporting
Max Shacknai had fallen down stairs and wasn’t breathing,
Commander Michael Lawton said at the press briefing today.
Rebecca and her sister were the only two people in the house,
along with the family dog, he said.  Max hit his head and suffered an injury to his upper spinal
cord, which stopped his heart and lungs. That resulted in  brain
damage  that killed him, said Jonathan Lucas of the San Diego
County Medical Examiner’s office.  The officials gave a PowerPoint presentation showing how
they believe Shacknai’s son tripped over a second-floor railing,
clutched at a chandelier and landed face-first on a concrete
floor covered by carpeting. They also showed a video of a woman
demonstrating how an individual could tie herself with her hands
behind her back, as Zahau was found.  “Was Max’s death a homicide? The answer is no; it was a
tragic accident,” Gore said. “Was Rebecca’s death a homicide?
Again, the answer is no; it was a suicide.”  Gore was asked repeatedly about whether the message that
was put in black paint on the guest bedroom door was a suicide
note. He described it only as “a message.” He said it didn’t
appear to be addressed to anyone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  