-- 
Lehman’s Australian Creditors in Lurch as Federal Court Judge Ponders Suit

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-02T04:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/lehman-s-australian-creditors-in-lurch-as-federal-court-judge-ponders-suit.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
Australian creditors, who agreed to settle claims in mediation,
will have to wait for a judge’s ruling on a class-action suit
filed by town councils before they can get any money.  The Alternative Dispute Resolution plan, which attracted 69
creditors since winning a judge’s approval in December, has been
stalled because insurance companies aren’t willing to pay claims
until the resolution of the class-action suit, Brett Walker,
lawyer for Lehman’s liquidators, told a federal court judge in
Sydney today.  “Negotiations between the liquidator and various insurers
have not led to any commercial certainty at this stage,”
Justice Steven Rares said in a summary of the case today. He
said the proceeds from the insurers “will fall far short of the
claims.”  Competing creditors including town councils and charities
that invested in synthetic collateralized debt obligations,
those who agreed to the mediation and those not involved in
either group will probably seek proceeds from any insurance
payments for themselves, Walker said. A ruling on the council
lawsuit may clarify who has priority, he said.  Synthetic collateralized debt obligations are groups of
credit default swap contracts that are combined to create a new
asset that is then divided into tranches based on risk levels
and sold as separate securities.  Wingecarribee Shire Council , about 140 kilometers (90 miles)
southwest of Sydney, and two other towns sued Lehman in 2007
claiming the company’s Australian unit failed to advise of the
risks of collateralized debt obligations and ignored policies
that required municipalities to invest conservatively.  Council Losses  Wingecarribee has A$21.4 million ($23 million) of losses on
the books from the investments, some of which the town continues
to hold, it said at trial in March. The towns of Swan and Parkes
have A$15.9 million of losses on the books.  Creditors in Australia have submitted proofs of debt for
about A$435 million, according to documents submitted in court
by Neil Singleton, one of the liquidators.  The town council trial began Mar. 2 and concluded June 7.
Rares today gave no indication when he planned to issue a
decision in the case.  The judge granted the liquidators’ request to put the
mediation on hold, pending the ruling on the town councils’
lawsuit.  The cases are Between Wingecarribee Shire Council and
Lehman Brothers  Australia  Ltd. NSD 2492/2007 and In the matter
of Lehman Brothers Australia Ltd. (In Liquidation). NSD1795/2010.
Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  