-- 
Azumi as Eighth Finance Chief Since 2008 Signals Japan’s Eroding Influence

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-09-02T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/eighth-japan-finance-chief-since-2008-signals-eroding-influence.html
Japan ’s revolving-door politics may
be diminishing the nation’s global influence after Jun Azumi was
appointed the eighth finance minister since 2008.  In the Group of Seven nations, Japan’s tally compares with
one finance chief for  Canada  and two each for the U.S., U.K.,
 Germany ,  France  and  Italy  in that time. Azumi, 49, was named in
Tokyo yesterday to replace  Yoshihiko Noda , who became prime
minister, the sixth person to have that job in five years.  Already eclipsed by China last year as the world’s second-
biggest economy, Japan may be impeded at international forums
such as the G-7 and Group of 20 nations by the lack of
continuity in its representatives. After attending a G-20 summit
in June 2010, Noda, who was then finance minister, said he was
concerned that the Japanese face most familiar to his
counterparts belonged to a translator.  “Japan’s dismal economic performance of the last two
decades has greatly eroded its influence in the global economy
and has contributed to the turnover in finance ministers,” said
 Tim Condon , head of Asia research at ING Groep NV in  Singapore .
“The good thing is that the bureaucracy is very disciplined,
which will help ease the transition.”  Azumi’s debut on the international stage may be at a Group
of Seven meeting in Marseille, France next week. Global policy
makers are struggling to sustain the economic rebound from the
2008 recession, with U.S. unemployment in excess of 9 percent
and European confidence in the outlook the weakest since 2008.  Noda has suggested that frequent changes of leadership hurt
the nation’s case at international conferences.  Economic Diplomacy  “It’s difficult to aggressively carry out economic
diplomacy when leaders that attend important international
meetings change positions right away,” Noda wrote in his blog
after the 2010 G-20 meeting.  Japan’s concerns include the yen’s advance to a post-World
War II high against the dollar last month, as the stronger
currency may may hurt exporters’ earnings and endanger the
nation’s economic recovery after the March 11 earthquake.  Azumi said late yesterday he will closely watch the yen’s
strengthening trend as it’s negative for companies.  The G-7 jointly intervened in the  currency market  on March
18 after the yen surged following the disaster in the northeast.
Japan’s government sold yen unilaterally last month, spending
4.51 trillion yen ($59 billion), the most for any month since
2004.  Flexible Yuan  China ’s currency policy is also a concern for Japanese
policymakers, Noda said Aug. 23. “I think the yuan’s still not
flexible enough so I want to keep discussing that at
international meetings,” such as G-20 conferences, he said.  Azumi, a former head of parliamentary affairs for the
ruling party, will be faced with the task of ensuring a rebound
in Japan’s economy after three straight quarters of contraction.  A government report yesterday showed that  capital spending 
tumbled 7.8 percent in the second quarter, bucking the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists for a 1
percent gain. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose for a
second month to 4.7 percent in July.  Azumi may be met with calls by corporate leaders to take
further action on the yen.  “I want the new government to show a firm stance against
the strong yen, which isn’t reflecting Japan’s economic
fundamentals at all,” Toshiyuki Shiga, head of Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, said on Aug. 31. “The strong yen
will cause significant damage to the  auto industry ,” said
Shiga, who is also the chief operating officer of Nissan Motor
Co., Japan’s second-largest automaker.  Post-Quake Spending  Among Azumi’s tasks will be preparing a third package of
post-quake spending, after two supplementary budgets totaling 6
trillion yen so far -- about one third of the 16.9 trillion yen
of damage from the disaster, according to government estimates.  The size and financing method of the next round of
reconstruction may affect the nation’s credit rating. Moody’s
Investors Service already lowered the nation’s rating last month
on concern that the government will fail to rein in its debt.
The one-step cut to Aa3 left the grade at the same level as
China’s.  Standard & Poor’s  has the sovereign rating under review
for a downgrade.  Azumi said the government must find a way to fund
rebuilding that doesn’t “leave the burden for the next
generation.” The timing of any tax increases for reconstruction
should depend on the economy’s state, he said.  Japan’s public debt is projected to reach 219 percent of
GDP next year even before accounting for borrowing to fund
reconstruction, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “Azumi doesn’t have much experience in economic and fiscal
areas, but it probably won’t be a big problem as officials at
the  finance ministry  are steady hands,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “Azumi will likely follow the ministry’s line on things
like fiscal reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  