-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline First Day in Six Before U.S. Payroll Report

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-02T11:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/emerging-market-stocks-decline-paring-weekly-rally-on-economic-outlook.html
Emerging stocks fell the first day
in six before U.S. jobs data that may show a jobless rate over 9
percent and as a stronger Swiss franc sparked concern Polish
borrowers may default on foreign-currency loans.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.8 percent to
1,030.16 at 12:19 p.m. in London, paring the gauge’s five-day
gain to 5.6 percent, the biggest weekly advance in two years.
The Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.1 percent. Polish shares
were set for the steepest drop in two weeks as the zloty
depreciated versus the Swiss franc. Stocks in Moscow slid by 1.7
percent as oil fell.  The Labor Department report today may show non-farm
payrolls climbed by 68,000 in August after a 117,000 increase in
July, according to the median forecast of 86 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The  unemployment rate  will hold at 9.1
percent, according to the median survey estimate.  “After such a strong run this week, equity markets face a
bout of profit taking today,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
Troika Dialog in Moscow, wrote in an e-mail. “Investors
everywhere are more inclined to wait for the U.S. payroll data
later today and to stay sidelined ahead of the long weekend in
that market,”  The WIG20 Index sank 1.9 percent in Warsaw. The zloty
slumped as much as 3.3 percent against the Swiss franc, its
fourth day of losses. Franc-denominated mortgages totaled 151.8
billion zloty ($51.7 billion) in June, accounting for almost 53
percent of all home loans in  Poland , according to the country’s
financial regulator.  Polish Banks  Getin Holding SA (GTN) , the financial-services group controlled
by Polish billionaire Leszek Czarnecki, declined 4.2 percent,
headed for the biggest two-day drop in more than three weeks.
 Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , majority-owned by UniCredit SpA, slid 3.4 percent
and PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s biggest bank, retreated
2.8 percent.  The forint weakened 3.2 percent versus the Swiss currency.
 Turkey ’s lira depreciated 1.2 percent versus the dollar and the
ruble slid 0.3 percent to the U.S. currency as oil fell.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index slid 1.2 percent in
Johannesburg as the prices of copper and other industrial metals
sank in London trading..  Benchmark indexes in Turkey,  India  and Malaysia rose after
they reopened following holidays. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) 
gained 3 percent in Istanbul after Citigroup Inc. raised Turkish
stocks to “overweight” from “neutral.”  Slowing Withdrawals  Emerging-equity fund outflows slowed for the third week,
Citigroup said. Funds investing in developing-nation stocks
reported withdrawals of $600 million of outflows in the week
ended Aug. 31, analysts led by Markus Rosgen said in a report
today, citing figures compiled by EPFR Global. That compares
with “peak” weekly outflows of $7.7 billion during the past
month’s stock market rout, the report said.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 362, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps jumped seven basis
points to 257.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  