-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall First Day in Six After U.S. Payrolls Stagnate

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-02T21:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/emerging-market-stocks-extend-declines-after-u-s-payrolls-report.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in six days after hiring in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated as U.S. employers became less confident in the
recovery of the world’s largest economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.6 percent to
1,021.88 at 5:26 p.m. New York time, trimming the week’s gain to
4.7 percent. Benchmark gauges in Russia and Poland dropped more
than 2 percent, while those for  South Africa  and the Czech
Republic declined more than 1 percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index
slumped the most in the Latin America region, and benchmarks in
Mexico,  Chile  and  Argentina  also dropped.  The Labor Department said U.S. payrolls were unchanged in
August, the weakest reading since September 2010, after an
85,000 gain in July that was less than initially estimated.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on Aug. 26 that a
second day has been added to the Fed meeting this month to
“allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and policy options.  “In bad times, emerging markets always overreact,”  Keith Springer , the president of Springer Financial Advisors in
 Sacramento ,  California , said in a phone interview. The job data
has to do with “the major headwinds the economy, the government
is facing. It’s going to give Bernanke more ammunition.”  The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent last month. The Fed’s
minutes published this week showed some policy makers favored a
“more substantial move” beyond an Aug. 9 pledge to hold rates
at record lows through mid-2013.  Emerging Stocks Underperform  Developing countries’ equities have trailed their
developed-nation counterparts this year, with the MSCI emerging-
market index declining 11 percent. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has lost
8.2 percent for the year. Emerging-market shares trade at 10.8
times estimated earnings, less than the 12.5 times for the MSCI
World Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The WIG20 Index sank 2.3 percent in Warsaw. The Czech PX
Index dropped 1.5 percent. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index
slid 1.8 percent in Johannesburg. Stocks in Moscow tumbled 2.3
percent as oil futures fell 2.8 percent in New York, the most in
two weeks.  The Bovespa Index fell for the first time in six days,
dropping 2.7 percent. B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, Brazil’s
largest online retailer, tumbled 7.8 percent, leading declines
among members in the benchmark gauge. Only four stocks rose
while 31 fell on  Mexico ’s IPC Index. America Movil SAB, Latin
America’s largest wireless carrier, slipped 2.1 percent.  Currencies Weaken  Most currencies across the emerging economies weakened
versus the  U.S. dollar , led by the Turkish Lira, which
depreciated 1.7 percent. Brazil’s real fell 1.3 percent and the
Mexican peso dropped 0.9 percent.  This week’s reduction in Brazil’s benchmark interest rate
will help curb the appreciation of the real, and economic
conditions are in place for further cuts in borrowing costs,
Finance Minister Guido Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo
today.  Emerging-equity fund outflows slowed for the third week,
Citigroup said. Funds investing in developing-nation stocks
reported withdrawals of $600 million in the week ended Aug. 31,
analysts led by Markus Rosgen said in a report today, citing
figures compiled by EPFR Global. That compares with “peak”
weekly outflows of $7.7 billion during the past month’s stock
market rout, according to the report.  Getin Holding SA (GTN) , the financial-services group controlled
by Polish billionaire Leszek Czarnecki, declined 5.4 percent,
the biggest two-day drop since February 2009. PKO Bank Polski
SA, the country’s biggest bank, retreated 2.3 percent. OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, and OAO Lukoil, its
second-largest oil producer, followed  oil prices  lower.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries added seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 369, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.1 percent, bringing
its weekly loss to the biggest in three months, on speculation
the government won’t ease policy measures to cool inflation even
as economic and earnings growth slows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linda Shen at 
 lshen21@bloomberg.net  