-- 
U.S Employment Stagnated in August

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-02T20:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/employment-in-u-s-unexpectedly-stagnated-in-august-jobless-rate-at-9-1-.html
Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August, increasing pressure on Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and President Barack Obama to spur an
economy that’s barely growing two years into the recovery.  Payrolls were unchanged, the weakest reading since
September 2010, the Labor Department said today in Washington.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain
of 68,000. The figures included a 48,000 drop in the information
industry, mostly reflecting a strike at  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  “This is further evidence that the economy is very close
to stalling if not having stalled,” said Nariman Behravesh,
chief economist at IHS in Lexington,  Massachusetts , who forecast
a gain of 15,000. Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., called the report “grim and
scary” in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu.  Stocks slumped and Treasuries rallied on bets the data
raise the odds of another recession. Earnings and hours worked
both declined, today’s report showed, reducing the purchasing
power of consumers whose spending accounts for 70 percent of the
world’s largest economy.  “We’re calling for a mild recession at this point,” said
 Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas
in New York. “We’ll see QE3 definitely,” she said, referring
to a third round of large-scale asset purchases by the Fed. “It
helps put a floor under the economy and stabilize things.”  Stocks Slump  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.5 percent to
1,173.97 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note dropped to 1.99 percent from 2.13 percent
late yesterday.  The report raises the political stakes for Obama as he
prepares to address a joint session of Congress next week. An
unemployment rate stuck near 9 percent has helped push Obama’s
disapproval rating to an all-time high, according to a
Quinnipiac University Aug. 16-27 poll of 2,730 registered
voters. Some 52 percent disapprove of Obama’s job performance,
up from 46 percent in July.  Gene Sperling , director of the White House National
Economic Council, said Obama will propose tax and spending
initiatives that will have a “significant” impact.  “There’s no question we need stronger jobs growth,
stronger growth overall,” Sperling said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  Obama Proposal  Among the steps Obama has been considering are more
infrastructure spending, tax incentives to spur hiring, a
reduction in the employer portion of the payroll tax and changes
to unemployment insurance to subsidize worker retraining,
according to people familiar with discussions.  Obama’s options will be limited by opposition to increased
spending from Republicans in Congress.  “I’m not sure what the administration can do at this
point,” said  Gus Faucher , director of macroeconomics at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “I think any
full-bore stimulus is dead in the water.”  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and show little change next year
with an average of 9 percent. It won’t fall below 6 percent
until 2016, the OMB said.  Political squabbling over the budget and mounting fear of a
default in  Europe  caused the  S&P 500  to plummet 17 percent from
July 22 to Aug. 8, prompting companies and consumers to cut
back. The lack of hiring is one reason Bernanke last week said
the central bank still has tools available to stimulate growth.  Bond Purchases  The Fed ended a $600 billion bond-buying program in June
and last month said it would keep its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero at least through the middle of 2013, adding a specific
time-frame to its low-rate pledge for the first time.  Further options for the Fed include extending the maturity
of  Treasury securities  in its $1.65 trillion portfolio to push
down long-term interest rates, purchasing more Treasuries, or
expanding the range of securities it buys, El-Erian said.  Estimates of the 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
payrolls ranged from a decline of 20,000 to a 160,000 increase.
The unemployment rate was projected to hold at 9.1 percent,
according to the survey median. The July gain in payrolls was
revised down to 85,000 from 117,000.  Second Quarter  The economy expanded at a 1 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, the Commerce Department reported last month.
 Consumer spending  grew 0.4 percent, the smallest increase since
the last three months of 2009.  “The macroeconomic environment has remained difficult for
consumers who continue to face high unemployment rates, high
gasoline and high food costs,” Rick Dreiling, chairman and
chief executive officer at Dollar General Corp., said on an Aug.
30 teleconference with analysts. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-
based company is the biggest dollar discount chain in the U.S.  Sustained payroll increases of around 150,000 a month are
needed to bring unemployment down about half a percentage point
over a year, according to  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .
“200,000 is the speed the economy needs to really cut into the
jobless rate,” he said.  Still, today’s jobs report could be “a one-off event tied
to the financial-market turbulence in early August,” Rupkey
said. He said it would take three months of job losses to signal
a recession.  Household Survey  A separate survey of households showed the number of
employed people increased by 331,000. The share of the eligible
population holding a job climbed to 58.2 percent from 58.1
percent.  The same survey showed the number of Americans working
part-time for economic reasons increased by 430,000, a sign
employers may be only willing to take on part-time help for now
so they don’t have to pay as many benefits and can easily
reverse course if the outlook worsens.  Government payrolls decreased by 17,000 in August.
Employment at state governments rose by 5,000, even after the
end of a partial shutdown of the Minnesota government returned
about 23,000 workers to their jobs. Local government employment
slumped 20,000.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, climbed
17,000 last month, the smallest increase since a decline in
February 2010. The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey
called for a 95,000 increase.  Manufacturing Jobs  Factory payrolls fell by 3,000 in August after a 36,000
gain the prior month. Manufacturing has been a source of
strength for the economy, expanding for 25 straight months,
according to the Institute for Supply Management.  Employment at service-providers increased 3,000 in August.
Construction employment fell by 5,000.  Fares Abderrahmane said he’s been looking for work for
three months after losing his job as manager at a clothing
warehouse in New York that paid $1,400 every two weeks. He has
sent hundreds of online applications, mostly to clothing
retailers.  “There’s no response, nothing,” said Abderrahmane, 36,
who lives in  Brooklyn . “It’s hard to find a job now. Everybody
is looking.”  Banks have been among companies announcing the biggest
dismissals.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, will
eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to focus “on what we
can control” amid market turmoil, said Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan  on Aug. 19.  Verizon Strike  The drop in information industry employment reflected a
strike of about 45,000 Verizon workers Aug. 7 after their
contract expired. They began returning to work Aug. 22 and will
be counted as employed in next month’s jobs report. The Labor
Department’s survey week includes the 12th of the month.  Average hourly earnings fell 0.1 percent to $23.09, today’s
report showed. The average work week for all workers dropped six
minutes to 34.2 hours.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 16.2 percent
from 16.1 percent.  “Economic growth has, for the most part, been at rates
insufficient to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment,”
Bernanke said Aug. 26 at the  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, central bank
symposium. “It is clear that the recovery from the crisis has
been much less robust than we had hoped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  