-- 
ETF Volume Surges Most Since 2008 Amid Unprecedented Volatility

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-09-02T17:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/etf-volume-surges-most-since-2008-as-economic-concerns-boost-volatility.html
Investors increased their use of
U.S. exchange-traded funds by the most since January 2008 last
month, as concern the economy is slowing prompted a shift toward
bets on the direction of the entire market and industries
instead of individual companies.  Average daily trading volume for ETFs jumped 83 percent
from July to 2.24 billion shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , which tracks the
benchmark measure of U.S. equities, saw a 105 percent jump to
394 million per day.  U.S. stocks produced the biggest gains and losses of the
year in August, including a stretch of four days when the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index alternated between rallies and
declines of 4.4 percent or more. Unprecedented swings caused
correlations to tighten, spurring investors to make broader
bets, said James Dailey of Team Financial Asset Management LLC.  “People didn’t care what stocks they owned,” Dailey said
in a telephone interview from Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania . The
company manages $215 million. “They weren’t picking stocks but
saying, ‘I want out of stocks, I’m shorting stocks or hedging,’
and they were doing it through ETFs.”  Stocks in the  S&P 500  moved in lockstep with each other by
the most since at least 1990, according to MF Global Holdings
Ltd. The average correlation coefficient between the 500
companies and the index was 0.8268 on Aug. 18, using 60 days of
data, according to MF Global. The increase shows investors were
ignoring the merits of individual stocks and instead reacting to
news about the economy, said Craig Peskin, co-head of technical
analysis at the New York-based securities firm.  Gold Rallies  Investors pared back on risky assets last month amid
concern the  U.S. economy  is faltering and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis will spread. The S&P 500 posted its biggest monthly
loss since May 2010, while gold futures had their largest
monthly advance since November 2009 and prices jumped to a
record $1,917.90 an ounce. The SPDR Gold Trust briefly surpassed
the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust as the biggest fund by market value.  The ProShares UltraShort Gold fund and the  PowerShares DB
Gold Double Short ETN (DZZ)  posted the largest increases in daily
trading among the 100 securities with the highest volume,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of shares
that changed hands jumped more than sixfold, the data show.  Investors turned to ETFs for liquidity and a more efficient
way to make bearish wagers, Dailey said. “That’s why you saw
the explosion in inverse and leveraged ETFs,” he said.  Swaps, Derivatives  Leveraged ETFs use swaps or derivatives to amplify returns,
while inverse funds are designed to move in the opposite
direction of their benchmark index. Leveraged ETFs held over
longer periods sometimes deviate from the performance of the
underlying assets, raising concerns the funds may not be
suitable for some investors and pushing the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to halt the approval of new funds making
significant use of derivatives.  Traders piled into leveraged inverse funds to bet the
record prices in gold will drop. The  ProShares UltraShort Gold (GLL) 
Fund and the PowerShares DB Gold Double Short ETN are both
designed to double the daily inverse of the metal. Shares
outstanding increased 150 percent and 110 percent, respectively.  ETFs are “corroborating evidence of what happened in both
sides of the gold trade in August,”  Michael Cuggino , who helps
manage about $15 billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San
Francisco , said in a telephone interview. “When volatility goes
up, leveraged products are a way to get that better return for
people who are active traders.”  VIX Bets  Amid unprecedented price swings, investors boosted their
bets on stock-market volatility. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index climbed 25 percent last month, while
daily volume for the  VelocityShares Daily Inverse VIX Short Term
ETN (XIV) , which rises when futures on the measure fall and vice
versa, had the third-biggest increase out of the 100 ETFs,
jumping 276 percent.  Financial stocks had the second-biggest loss out of 10
groups in the S&P 500 during August. Volume for the Direxion
Daily Financial Bull ETF 3X Shares fund, which gains three times
as much as the industry during a rally, climbed 185 percent as
shares outstanding surged 70 percent.  “It was a product of the panic that you get when the herd
moves in such an aggressive fashion one direction or the
other,” Dailey said. “Any time you have that kind of behavior,
it’s always a question of ‘What are the opportunities?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 