-- 
EU Bans Syrian Oil After Assad Rejects Resignation Demands

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-02T12:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/eu-bans-syrian-oil-after-assad-rejects-resignation-demands-1-.html
The European Union banned imports of
crude oil from  Syria , expanding sanctions against President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime for its deadly crackdown on protesters.  The oil embargo approved by EU governments today in
Brussels affects Syrian exports valued at 3.16 billion euros
($4.5 billion) in 2010, according to the  European Commission ,
the 27-nation bloc’s executive arm. Crude oil accounted for 88
percent of total EU imports from Syria last year, commission
data show.  “The prohibition concerns the purchase, import and
transport of oil and other petroleum products from Syria,” the
EU said in a  statement . “No financial or insurance services may
be provided for such transactions.”  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  announced the
planned embargo two weeks ago, when she cited “intensifying
large-scale use of indiscriminate military force” in Syria and
joined leaders in Europe and the U.S. in calling on Assad to
step down. Assad rejected the demands and pledged to schedule
parliamentary elections by February.  The EU import ban follows a similar step by the U.S. in
mid-August and will take effect after the decision is published
tomorrow in the bloc’s Official Journal.  Total SA (FP) ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and  OMV AG (OMV)  are among oil companies,
refiners and traders that had planned to ship about 162,200
barrels a day of Syrian crude this month, according to a loading
program obtained by Bloomberg.  The EU is widening sanctions against Syria that include an
arms embargo as well as an asset freeze and a travel ban on 50
people and nine entities deemed “responsible for the violent
repression against the civilian population.” The United Nations
puts the death toll at more than 2,200.  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began in mid-March after
revolts ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a
conflict in Libya.  In its statement today, the EU also said it decided to add
four people and three entities to the list of those targeted by
the asset freeze and travel ban against Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  