-- 
EU Proposes to Protect Markets From High-Frequency ‘Threat’

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-02T16:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/eu-proposes-to-protect-markets-from-high-frequency-threat-.html
High-frequency trading firms may
face greater scrutiny from market regulators as part of plans
drawn up by the European Union to reduce excessive risk taking.  The EU is planning to impose detailed requirements on high-
frequency trading, according to a European commission document
obtained by Bloomberg News. The requirements will include
safeguards to prevent high-frequency trades from “overloading
the systems of trading venues,” generating “erroneous orders”
or “otherwise malfunctioning” in a way that may create a
disorderly market, according to the document.  Certain regulatory and supervisory measures were identified
as necessary to “deal with the potential threats for the
orderly functioning of markets arising from algorithmic and
high-frequency trading,” the document said.  The measures are part of a wider overhaul by the
commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, of trading rules
for financial markets following the 2008 contraction in the
credit markets that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The commission has also sought to curb naked
short-selling and trading in non-standardized derivatives.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May last year,
during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points. Reuters reported the proposed EU rule
earlier today.  Trading Halt  The EU will also seek to define “conditions under which
trading should be halted if there is a significant price
movement in a financial instrument on that market or a related
market during a short period,” according to the proposals.  The flash crash prompted policy makers to ask whether high-
frequency trading firms have “the people and the risk-
management systems in place to control what they are doing on
the market,”  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the
Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels-based policy
group, said in a telephone interview.  Authorities are also asking whether the technology “is to
the benefit of the market or the benefit of a few,” she said.  The commission proposed that regulators be prepared to take
direct measures during a crisis.  Supervisors should “limit the ratio of unexecuted orders
to transactions that may be entered into the system by a member
or participant” and be able to “slow down the flow of orders
if there is a risk of its system capacity being reached,”
according to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  