-- 
EU Pits Alberta Beef Against Quebec Dairy Products in Canada Trade Talks

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-09-02T21:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/eu-pits-alberta-beef-against-quebec-dairy-products-in-canada-trade-talks.html
The European Union may refuse to
open its market to more Canadian beef, pork and sweet corn
unless  Canada  provides better access to its heavily protected
dairy sector, a senior European diplomat said.  The EU is “disappointed” Canada hasn’t offered any
concessions for products shielded by its supply-management
system, under which domestic farmers receive production quotas
for dairy products such as milk and cheese, as well as poultry
and eggs, said Maurizio Cellini, head of economic and commercial
affairs at the EU delegation to Canada in Ottawa. Under the
system, foreign products face steep tariff rates above an import
quota.  “As a consequence, the EU side has withheld offers on
beef, pork and sweet corn,” Cellini said in an email, adding
that “further liberalization” can be still be achieved.  The impasse over agriculture may slow  negotiations  on a
free-trade agreement between Canada, the world’s 10th biggest
economy, and the EU, the world’s biggest trading bloc. The two
sides started negotiations in May 2009, and are set to enter a
ninth round of talks in October in Ottawa.  The impasse may also cause political problems for Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  in balancing  regional concerns , with his
 Conservative Party  holding all but one of the seats in  Alberta ,
the country’s biggest beef-producing province, and hoping to
rebuild in  Quebec , home to almost half of Canada’s dairy farms,
which supply companies like Montreal-based  Saputo Inc. (SAP)   Diversify Growth  Harper has promoted such bilateral deals as a way to boost
economic growth and diversify shipments beyond the U.S., which
bought 75 percent of Canada’s exported goods last year. At the
same time, Harper has defended supply management, making it a
plank of his party’s platform in the May 2 election in which the
Conservatives won a majority.  Canadian Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz said Canada isn’t
considering changes to the supply-management regime.  “We fully support our supply-managed sector,” Ritz said
in a telephone interview today. “We have in the past, we’ll
continue to in the future. It works well for our system. It
works well for our farmers.”  European cheese-making countries, including Germany, France
and  Italy , hope to sell more brie and parmigiano-reggiano into
Canada’s C$13.7 billion ($13.9 billion) market.  Canada’s import quota for foreign cheese is 45 million
pounds, said Chantal Paul, a spokeswoman for the  Canadian Dairy
Commission , a federal government agency. Above that mark,
importers must pay a tariff of 246 percent. Canadians consumed
about 815 million pounds of cheese in 2010, according to
government figures.  ‘Internal Canadian Problem’  “The EU does not want to dismantle supply management,”
Cellini said in a phone interview. “This is an internal
Canadian problem. It has a cost for the Canadian consumer, like
other policies may have costs for domestic consumers. We would
like to have better  market access .”  Quebec’s 6,375 dairy farms accounted for 49.2 percent of
Canada’s total in 2010, followed by Ontario with 4,191 farms, or
32.3 percent, according to the  Dairy Farmers  of Canada, an
industry association.  “We’re very pleased that Canada is not prepared to make
any concessions when it comes to dairy products and other supply
managed products,” said Yves Leduc, director of international
trade for the association.  Michael Hart , a former Canadian trade official, said
federal political parties have been reluctant to oppose supply
management, for fear of alienating voters in Quebec, which
accounts for 75 of the 308 seats in Canada’s House of Commons.  Quebec Seats  The Conservatives lost six Quebec seats in the election,
leaving them with five.  “No Member of Parliament will stand up in the House and
ask the minister of agriculture when he’s going phase out this
stupid regime,” said Hart, who teaches trade policy at  Carleton
University  in Ottawa. He said the Europeans appeared to be
making a “tactical” move to put political pressure on Canada.  A spokesman for Canada’s cattle farmers said producers want
the EU to remove import quotas. Canada sells very little beef
into  Europe  because it bans use of growth hormones, which most
Canadian farmers employ, said John Masswohl, director of
government and international relations for the Canadian
Cattlemen’s Association.  Beef producers are willing to produce more beef without
hormones if it’s clear the European market is open to their
products, he said.  “It’s a bit of a shell game,” Masswohl said by phone.
“At the end of the day, it’s not a matter of this item for that
item in the agreement.”  European and Canadian negotiators exchanged offers at the
last round of talks in Brussels in July. The two sides agreed to
drop tariffs on most products within seven years, said Cellini.  Canada said at the time that it expected to complete a deal
by next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 