-- 
Euro-Area Producer-Price Inflation Quickens

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-02T09:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/euro-area-producer-price-inflation-quickens.html
European producer-price inflation
accelerated in July, led by higher costs for energy.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 6.1
percent from a year earlier after a 5.9 percent increase in
June, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
today. The gain was in line with the median of 18 economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices rose 0.5 percent
from June, when they remained unchanged.  Crude-oil costs have jumped 18 percent over the past year,
adding pressure on companies to raise prices just as economic
growth falters. European economic confidence slumped in August
as consumers grew more pessimistic. While the  European Central
Bank  has raised borrowing costs twice this year, bringing the
benchmark to 1.5 percent, members of the bank’s so-called shadow
council have called on council members to reverse the increases.  “There’s still a slight pressure due to energy costs,”
said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in
Bonn,  Germany . “Price growth will probably weaken over the
coming months with a significant moderation early next year. The
ECB will keep rates on hold through 2012.”  The euro extended losses after the data were released,
trading at $1.4244 at 11:35 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent.  ECB Forecasts  Energy prices at the producer level jumped 11.9 percent
from a year earlier after a 10.7 percent gain in June, today’s
report showed. The cost of intermediate goods such as  car
engines  and steel advanced 6.3 percent, while capital goods
including equipment and machinery were 1.4 percent more
expensive. Prices of durable  consumer goods  rose 1.8 percent.  With the economy slowing, companies may struggle to pass on
higher costs. Euro-region growth weakened to 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from 0.8 percent in the previous three months,
the worst performance since the economy emerged from a recession
in 2009. Manufacturing contracted in August and industrial
orders declined in June.  The ECB in June forecast euro-region inflation to average
2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. Growth may weaken
to 1.7 percent in 2012 from 1.9 percent, the central bank
projected. It will release its latest economic forecasts when
policy makers meet in  Frankfurt  on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  