-- 
Europe-U.S. Tanker Earnings Fall to 9-Month Low as Summer Ending

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-02T15:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/europe-u-s-tanker-earnings-fall-to-9-month-low-as-summer-ending.html
Earnings for shipping gasoline
cargoes to the U.S. from northwest  Europe  fell to a nine-month
low as demand slows with the Northern Hemisphere summer ending.  Daily rental income for medium range tankers carrying
37,000 metric tons of gasoline to the U.S. Atlantic Coast fell
11 percent to $2,961, the lowest since Nov. 16 and down 61
percent from $7,572 at the start of the year, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in London.  U.S. gasoline demand tends to peak during summer’s so-
called driving season, running from Memorial Day at the end of
May to Labor Day in the first week of September, Tina Revsbech,
head of tankers at Torm A/S, said by phone today from Hellerup,
 Denmark . U.S. oil production in June was near a seven-year high
in June, U.S. Energy Department figures show.  “Oil production in the U.S. has been quite high which
reduces the need for imports,” Revsbech said. Torm transports
refined oil products globally, including Europe and the U.S.  The U.S. pumped 5.62 million barrels a day of crude oil in
June, up 3.7 percent from the same month a year earlier,
according to the country’s Energy Department. That’s just short
of the 5.65 million barrels a day produced in September 2010,
which was a seven-year high.  Slower economic growth has limited demand for gasoline
consumption because fewer people can afford to pay for
“discretionary driving,”  Roy Jordan , a London-based research
associate for FACTS Global Energy, said this week.  Refinery Usage  U.S. refinery usage rates in the week ended Aug. 26 fell
1.2 percentage points to 89 percent, according to the Energy
Department. That’s still more than 87 percent of capacity for
the week ending Aug. 27 last year.  The number of gasoline shipments to the U.S. from Europe
has fallen 33 percent since 2005 as cargoes have been displaced
by supplies from  India , according to an e-mailed report Aug. 25
from McQuilling Partners Inc., a New York-based shipping
research company.  Charter rates for tankers shipping gasoline to the U.S.
dropped 1.2 percent to 133.54 Worldscale points, according to
the exchange. That’s the lowest level since Feb. 16.  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  