-- 
European Stocks Sink as Report Shows U.S. Jobs Growth Stagnates

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-02T16:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/european-stock-futures-decline-before-u-s-jobs-report-reckitt-may-move.html
European stocks plunged, paring the
biggest weekly rally since July, as a report showing no growth
in U.S. jobs spurred concern that the world’s largest economy
won’t help offset weakness caused by the sovereign-debt crisis.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  tumbled more than 7
percent as European sovereign default risk climbed to a record.
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  slumped 3.7 percent after the drugmaker reported
study results for its Crestor treatment. Carmakers and
construction companies helped lead drops among industry groups
with profits most tied to economic growth.  The Stoxx 600 sank 2.4 percent to 233.11 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London . The gauge has still gained 3.4 percent this
week, its biggest weekly jump since July, as investors
speculated that the rout which had left the gauge trading at as
little as 9.1 times its estimated earnings wasn’t commensurate
with the prospect for profit growth.  “For the stock markets, this highlights the high
uncertainty we’re facing,” said Espen Furnes, an Oslo-based
 fund manager  at Storebrand Asset Management, which oversees $74
billion. “The economic recovery in the U.S. is still weak and
vulnerable.”  European sovereign  default risk  rose to a record with the
Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-default swaps
insuring the debt of 15 governments rising 11 basis points to
310, surpassing an all-time high closing price of 308 on Aug.
26.  The Stoxx 600 declined 10 percent in August, its largest
monthly retreat since October 2008, amid concern global economic
growth is slowing as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis spread. The
gauge has traded at an average multiple of 12.1 over the past
five years.  Banks May Be Sued  In the U.S., more than a dozen large banks may be sued by
the Federal Housing Finance Agency for misrepresenting the
quality of mortgage securities sold at the height of the housing
bubble, the New York Times reported. Bank of America Corp.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  are among firms that will be targeted by the suits that the
agency will file in coming days. The agency will seek billions
of dollars in compensation, the newspaper said, citing three
people briefed on the matter that it didn’t identify.  U.S. Jobs, Unemployment  Stocks extended their losses today after a Labor Department
report showed that the U.S. unemployment rate remained unchanged
at 9.1 percent in August. The release also showed that the
world’s largest economy added no jobs last month. Economists had
forecast that employers would add 68,000 jobs, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Investors should buy stocks as valuations suggest low
economic growth is already accounted for in the price, wrote
HSBC Holdings Plc equity strategist  Garry Evans  in a note.  Earnings at U.S. companies can buck the trend of weak
economic growth as 33 percent of their sales last year came from
outside the country and almost 50 percent of European company
profits came from outside the region, Evans wrote in a report
today.  National benchmark indexes declined in every western-
European market except Portugal. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost
2.3 percent, Germany’s DAX Index declined 3.4 percent and
France’s CAC 40 Index retreated 3.6 percent.  Barclays slumped 8.4 percent to 165.2 pence, halting a
three-day rally, while Credit Agricole lost 7.4 percent to 6.19
euros.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  slid 7.1 percent to 33.12 pence
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  dropped 5.4 percent to
24.84 pence. Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, tumbled
5.9 percent to 26.02 euros.  AstraZeneca, Carmakers Fall  AstraZeneca lost 3.7 percent to 2,809.5 pence after the
London-based company said Crestor showed a benefit over Pfizer
Inc.’s Lipitor in a study, though by one measure the result
wasn’t statistically significant.  Gauges of carmakers and construction companies on the Stoxx
600 declined 4.6 percent and 3.6 percent, respectively.  Peugeot
SA (UG)  lost 6 percent to 19.86 euros. Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA,
Europe’s biggest supplier of building materials, retreated 6
percent to 32.96 euros.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  dropped 5.6 percent to 144.50 Swiss
francs after Goldman Sachs downgraded the shares to “sell”
from “buy.”  Bilfinger Berger SE (GBF)  declined 4.1 percent to 56.56 euros
following a report that the company might spend 1 billion euros
($1.4 billion) on acquisitions over the next two years. The
Financial Times Deutschland cited Chief Executive Officer Roland Koch as saying Bilfinger seeks opportunities for its building-
services business in Italy and the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  