-- 
European Stocks Post Second Weekly Gain as Bouygues Rallies; Eiffage Sinks

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-02T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/european-stocks-post-second-weekly-gain-as-bouygues-rallies-eiffage-sinks.html
European stocks rose for a second
week as U.S. consumer spending gained, business activity and
factory orders topped forecasts and Federal Reserve minutes
showed some policy makers wanted to add to stimulus measures.  The market pared its weekly gain yesterday as data showing
no growth in U.S. jobs spurred concern the world’s largest
economy won’t help offset weakness caused by  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis. Hargreaves Lansdown Plc rose the most this week in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, soaring 24 percent, after profit
increased.  Bouygues SA (EN)  surged 15 percent after announcing a
stock buyback and raising its full-year sales forecast. Eiffage
SA sank 13 percent after earnings missed estimates.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 3.4 percent this week, the most in
two months, after slumping 2.4 percent yesterday. The gauge
still posted the biggest monthly decline since October 2008 in
August, falling 10 percent, amid concern the economic recovery
is weakening. The retreat has left the Stoxx 600 trading at 9.7
percent the estimated earnings of its constituent companies,
near the lowest valuation since March 2009.  “European equities look very cheap compared with bonds and
one must make extremely negative assumptions to arrive at a
different conclusion,” said Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at
Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22
billion. “Regarding macro-economic data, we’re seeing a
discrepancy between the hard data that looks encouraging and
soft data, based on surveys, that is disappointing. The question
is which one is right? One important thing in the coming weeks
will be to see whether sentiment-based indicators are
improving.”  U.S. Consumer Spending  A report on Aug. 29 showed that U.S. consumer spending
climbed more than forecast in July. Purchases rose 0.8 percent,
their biggest gain since February, according to Commerce
Department figures. They declined 0.1 percent in June. The
median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 0.5 percent increase. Separate reports on Aug. 31
showed that U.S. business activity and factory orders expanded
more than economists had forecast.  Fed policy makers debated ways to invigorate the recovery
and hiring at the last meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , according to minutes released on Aug. 25. That
potentially lays the groundwork for action at the FOMC’s Sept.
21 gathering. A few members of the Federal Open Market Committee
favored a “more substantial move” at the Aug. 9 meeting beyond
the pledge adopted by the panel to hold  interest rates  at record
lows for the next two years.  U.S. Jobs, Unemployment  The Stoxx 600 pared some of its weekly advance after a
report showed that the  U.S. economy  added no jobs in August and
the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent. Payrolls were
unchanged last month, their weakest reading since September
2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that was less than initially
estimated, according to a Labor Department release. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for an increase of
68,000 in August.  European sovereign  default risk  rose to a record after the
report, which added to signs the global economic recovery is
weakening. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps insuring the debt of 15 governments rose 11
basis points to 310, surpassing an all-time high closing price
of 308 on Aug. 26. Swaps tied to Italian debt jumped 15 basis
points to 400, topping last month’s record closing price of 391,
according to CMA.  National benchmark indexes gained in all of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  rose 2 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index added 3.1 percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index
advanced less than 0.1 percent.  Greece ’s ASE Index rose 1.3
percent, its first weekly gain in six weeks.  Hargreaves Lansdown Jumps  Hargreaves Lansdown surged 24 percent after the U.K.’s
biggest retail broker said full-year net income in the year
ended July 31 jumped 50 percent to 91.8 million pounds ($149
million) from 61.3 million pounds a year earlier as revenue
increased 31 percent to 207.9 million pounds.  Bouygues, the French construction company that also runs
telecommunications and media units, gained 15 percent after
saying it will buy back 1.25 billion euros ($1.8 billion) of
stock at 30 euros a share. The company also lifted its 2011
revenue target to 32 billion euros after reporting second-
quarter sales that beat estimates.  Eiffage, a French construction company, plummeted 13
percent after saying net income plunged by 54 percent to 43
million euros.  BHP Billiton , Rio  BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s biggest
mining companies, followed gains in commodity stocks, both
rising more than 3.5 percent. The sector was the best performing
this week, surging 5.3 percent.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG soared 13 percent as Germany’s
biggest private broadcaster said it will repurchase up to 2.5
million non-voting, preferred shares.  Alpha Bank SA,  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  and Piraeus Bank
SA all rose more than 3 percent, while EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA
sank 18 percent. Alpha Bank said on Aug. 29 it will acquire
Eurobank to create Greece’s biggest lender. The combined
company, to be known as Alpha Eurobank, will increase capital by
3.9 billion euros to strengthen its finances, including a 1.25
billion-euro rights offer, a 500 million-euro convertible note
to be taken up by Qatari-backed Paramount Services Holding Ltd.
and 2.1 billion euros of internal measures.  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  tumbled 11 percent after France’s biggest
publisher predicted that recurring media earnings for the year
will drop 5 to 7 percent. The owner of the Europe 1 radio
station posted a 41 percent decline in first-half profit. Net
income adjusted for some items dropped to 57 million euros from
97 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  