-- 
European Banks Slide as Concern on Economic Recovery Grows

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-09-02T15:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/european-banks-slide-on-continued-concern-over-sovereign-debt.html
European bank stocks tumbled for the
first time this week as worry over the economies of  Greece ,
Italy and  Spain  and a stagnation in U.S. jobs growth sparked
renewed concern the global economy is slowing.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
tumbled 4.2 percent to 76.38 at 3:27 p.m. in London, the first
drop in five days. The declines were paced by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and Societe Generale SA, all
down more than 6 percent. Shares extended their drop after a
U.S. Labor Department report showed employment in the world’s
biggest economy unexpectedly stagnated in August.  “Sovereign risk fears are once again translating into the
usual sell off of financial shares,” said Daniel Redfern, a
 fund manager  at Vontobel Asset Management Ltd. in Zurich. The
 European Central Bank  “is intensely watching the progress of
Italian austerity measures and with similar alarm bells over
Greece and the country’s financial minister holding a news
conference today - it could get quite choppy in the markets.”  Italian 10-year bonds fell for a 10th day, the longest
streak of declines since the euro’s introduction, with yields
climbing 10 basis points to 5.23 percent. The difference in
yield, or spread, versus bunds widened as much as 24 basis
points to 325 basis points, the most since the European Central
Bank began buying Italian and Spanish debt on Aug. 8. The yield
on Spain’s 10-year security climbed four basis points to 5.07
percent. U.S. 10-year yields declined 7 basis points to 2.06
percent.  No Jobs Added  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by assets, slid
7.9 percent to 166.2 pence in London.  Societe Generale (GLE) ,  France ’s
second-largest, tumbled 7.1 percent to 22.06 euros in Paris.
Raiffeisen fell 7.5 percent to 27.58 euros.  The Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index also fell after
four days of gains, led by  AXA SA (CS)  and Swiss Re AG, down 6.5.
percent and 5.4 percent respectively.  The U.S. unemployment rate remained unchanged at 9.1
percent in August, according to a Labor Department report. The
release also showed that the world’s largest economy added no
jobs last month. Economists had forecast that employers would
add 68,000 jobs, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the depth
of Greece’s recession this year was a main focus of talks with a
European Union-International Monetary Fund team of officials in
Athens for a quarterly review. He repeated that the contraction
of the economy would be bigger than originally forecast “moving
in an area that is very close to 5 percent of” gross domestic
product. He spoke to reporters in Athens today.  Credit-default swaps tied to Italian debt jumped 13 basis
points to a record 398, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps insuring the debt of 15 governments rose 12 basis
points to 311 at 3 p.m. in  London , compared with a record
closing price of 308 on Aug. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  