-- 
Evergreen Creditors Fight Plan for Auction, Move to China

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-02T16:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/evergreen-solar-creditors-fight-plan-for-auction-move-to-china-factory.html
Low-ranking creditors of  Evergreen
Solar Inc. (ESLR)  asked a judge to reject a proposal to turn the
bankrupt company over to its lenders at an auction and move all
production of its solar panels to  China .  Evergreen’s lenders are using their status as secured
creditors to quickly take control of the company without making
any payment on lower-ranking debts, the official committee of
unsecured creditors said in court papers filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “The relief sought is tantamount to the secured creditors
renting the bankruptcy process for their own parochial purposes
and using unsecured creditors’ money to pay the landlord,”
unsecured creditors said in court papers filed yesterday.  The company, based in Marlboro,  Massachusetts , filed for
bankruptcy last month, blaming increased competition from
government-subsidized solar-panel makers in China and the
failure of the U.S. to adopt clean-energy policies.  The company has plans to move all manufacturing to China,
where it has a factory that is part of a joint venture with the
local government, unsecured creditors said in court papers.  The committee, represented by the law firm Kramer Levin
Naftalis & Frankel LLP, asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath
to reject the company’s proposal for an auction and other
related requests. The committee wants Evergreen to give
unsecured creditors more time to prepare for a possible sale and
to include them in the auction process.  Under the proposed auction rules, Evergreen’s lenders would
trade their debt for control of the company, unless a higher
offer came in.  Evergreen bankruptcy attorney P. Sabin Willett didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the filing.  The case is In re Evergreen Solar Inc. 11-12590,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  