-- 
Texas’s Cult of Smoke, Barbecue-Land Journeys: Nathan Myhrvold

-- B y   N a t h a n   M y h r v o l d
-- 
2011-09-02T00:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/texas-cult-of-smoke-barbecue-land-journeys-commentary-by-nathan-myhrvold.html
A cult food is a dish people are
passionate about that has at least some of the following five
characteristics:  It has strong regional or local variations. People argue
about which version is authentic. Secret recipes are handed down
in families through generations. Cook-offs are held to see whose
recipe is best. And perhaps most important, people invest so
much pride in the dish, it is a fundamental part of their
identity.  Near Marseilles in the south of  France , bouillabaisse is a
cult food. In Toulouse and Carcassonne, the bean-based stew
cassoulet is a cult food.  Spain  has paella and a number of
others. Italy has so many, its cuisine is practically defined by
them.  Cult foods of the U.S., for the most part, have not been
accorded the same attention, though we have plenty of them, from
clam chowder to chili. Southern barbecue -- meat that is hot-
smoked for many hours over a hardwood fire -- is perhaps our
most extreme cult food. There are championships. (I’ve competed
on John Willingham’s team in one of the two “world”
championships that are held each year.) And there are huge
variations from one area to another. My book “Modernist
Cuisine” identifies nine regional styles, with variations (a
map is included).  On a recent business trip to Austin,  Texas , I and a couple
of friends took time out to visit four famous barbecue joints
not far from the city. I first went to Lockhart, Texas, about 35
miles south of Austin, for classic central Texas meat-market
barbecue. This area was settled in part by immigrants who
brought with them the great butcher traditions of  Germany  and
the  Czech Republic . In Texas, butchers set up shop in small
towns to sell fresh meat as well as sausages, hams and other
prepared meats. Over time they started to offer barbecue --which
was sold, like all other meat, by the pound and wrapped in
butcher paper.  Tradition Continues  To this day, a typical barbecue joint in central Texas
still serves its fare on butcher paper. By now the rest of the
meat market has disappeared, so the place is a restaurant. But
this hasn’t led people to start using plates. They’ve always
served their barbecue on butcher paper, so they still do.  What’s also surprising is that there is no sauce. A sign at
one place tells you not to even ask. And, although the meat
itself has been slaved over for hours by the pit master and
refined to the nth degree, no one sees any contradiction in
serving it with cheap saltines, industrial white bread or the
world’s worst beans or corn bread. As in any cult, devotees will
tell you that the butcher paper, the lack of sauce and the bad
side dishes are part of the charm.  Our first stop in Lockhart was Smitty’s Market, which has a
bit of a twisted  history . The place opened in 1900 as Kreuz
Market (named for the owner, Charles Kreuz), but was sold in the
late ‘40s to Edgar (Smitty) Schmidt, an employee. Smitty died in
1990, having sold the business to his sons, Rick and Don, but he
left the building to his daughter, Nina Sells. The siblings got
into a dispute over rent, and eventually  Kreuz Market  moved to a
new place down the road. The pit master dragged along a barrel
of embers from the fire at the old location that had been
burning continuously for a century. Then Sells opened Smitty’s
Market in the original Kreuz building, supposedly with the same
family recipes.  It was well over 100 degrees on the day we stopped for
lunch, and as soon as you come inside  Smitty’s  you are in the
pit room, with its roaring fire. The heat was oppressive, but we
ordered all three things you get in Texas barbecue -- beef
brisket, pork ribs and sausage. Brisket is the defining meat of
Texas barbecue. The flat portion, known as the point, is lean,
and thus very dry, while the thicker back portion, known as the
deckle, is fatter and juicier. Brisket is also tough, so it must
be cooked slowly, typically for 12 to 18 hours. These challenges
lead most of the Southeastern barbecue world to avoid brisket
altogether. You find it only in Texas, Oklahoma and  Missouri .  Cheap Cuts  Pork ribs are another cheap cut -- not “high on the hog”
like chops, loin and tenderloin, but lower down on the chest --
though ribs are easier than brisket to cook well. Sausage is
another classic Texas barbecue item, not generally found in
other parts of the country, and it’s made of beef, pork and
sometimes additions like cheese and jalapeno.  I had eaten at this place years ago when it was still Kreuz
Market, and everything looked the same. However, the food didn’t
measure up. The sausage was tasty, but its texture was terrible.
Good sausage must hold together after cooking. The sausage at
Smitty’s did not. It “greased out,” -- that is, the fat melted
and separated so that the meat disintegrated with each bite into
crumbling pieces swimming in fat.  The brisket was OK, but a bit too dry, even though I had
ordered it from the deckle. The pork ribs were also OK, but it’s
hard to ruin pork ribs.  Next we headed to Kreuz Market, which is in an enormous new
building that’s done up to look old. Here, the brisket was far
better -- juicy and delicious. The ribs were great, too, well
smoked without being overcooked. The sausage was also far
superior to Smitty’s, though still a bit greasy for my taste. I
suspect that both Smitty’s and Kreuz smoke their sausage in the
same pits as their ribs and brisket, and that is likely too hot.  What’s funny is that Kreuz Market seems to be the
inspiration for an entrepreneur who opened a virtual clone in,
of all places,  Manhattan  -- Hill Country Barbecue Market on 26th
Street. (I’ve eaten there, and it’s pretty good.) How is it
possible to transfer barbecue knowledge across the country, but
not across town?  Our third stop in Lockhart was  Black’s Barbecue , which
touts itself as the “oldest and best major barbecue restaurant
continuously owned by the same family.” You can bet that every
one of those qualifiers is needed because, in Texas, tradition
is important. There must be a really good place that is family-
owned, but not continuously by the same family, and another
place that is older but not “major.”  With cult foods, there is an underlying assumption that the
best cooking ideas came generations ago. Yet culinary innovation
is nothing to be ashamed of. When a chef tells me he is cooking
with his grandmother’s recipe, I always wonder why. Did talent
skip the past two generations?  Best Brisket  Black’s is in many ways the least appreciated barbecue
place in Lockhart, not often included on “best of” lists. But
the brisket there was the best I had in Lockhart: a thick set of
slices from the deckle and fantastic -- all that brisket should
be. The ribs and sausage at Black’s were also good, on a par
with or slightly behind those at Kreuz.  At that point my merry band had ordered and eaten, within a
period of two hours, a pound of brisket, a pound of pork ribs
and a couple of links of sausage at each of three places. So we
couldn’t stop at the fourth place in Lockhart, Chisholm Trail.
The next day in Austin at a business meeting, some Texans told
me, “Well, that’s where the locals all go.”  Which brings up another assumption about cult foods -- that
the locals are great gastronomes. People who grow up in a region
doubtless have a better cultural awareness of their own cuisine,
but it’s also true that a lot of locals go to McDonald’s,
Applebee’s and the like. All I can report about Chisholm Trail
is that to be able to survive in Lockhart with three strong
competitors, it must be pretty decent.  My next barbecue pilgrimage was more unusual. I got up at
dawn on a Saturday morning and went to  Snow’s BBQ  in Lexington,
about 50 miles east of Austin. Lexington is a very small town,
population about 1,200. There is almost nothing there but a
water tower bearing the town name and some rusty corrugated iron
buildings. “Now this,” my limousine driver said as he turned
around at a stoplight, “this is Texas.”  Snow’s is open only on Saturday mornings, from 8 a.m. until
they sell out of meat, which is usually about 11. This unusual
policy reflects the original mission of Snow’s, which was to
serve the ranchers who come to town on Saturdays to sell their
cattle at the local auction. Well before 8 o’clock, I joined the
line at the door. Pickups rolled down the streets, and the
cattle mooed loudly in their trailers.  Cow Town  Yet many of the people in line with me weren’t in town to
sell cows; they had come for the barbecue. Snow’s found itself
in the limelight in 2008, when Texas Monthly proclaimed it the
best barbecue joint in Texas. You might think that would be
enough to get the owners to open on other days, or at least cook
enough meat to last all day Saturday. But then, you clearly
wouldn’t be thinking as they do.  At 8 a.m. sharp, the door opened, and we all went in and
soon had brisket, ribs and sausage. Strangely, they also had
chicken and “roast pork,” which was a slice of smoked pork
shoulder. The chicken was pretty dry. (It’s hard to get a decent
result from smoking a chicken.) But the brisket slices, even
though they were from the point, were very good. And the sausage
was great, as was the pork shoulder. Getting up ridiculously
early had paid off.  The Michelin guide in France rates restaurants in stars --
three stars are “worth a journey,” two are “worth a detour.”
By that standard, the barbecue I had in Lockhart and in
Lexington was three-star -- worth the journey.  ( Nathan Myhrvold , the former chief strategist and chief
technology officer at Microsoft and the founder and chief
executive officer of  Intellectual Ventures , is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nathan Myhrvold at  nathanmyhrvold@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 