-- 
Failure of Biggest Intervention in Seven Years Pressures BOJ: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-09-02T02:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/failure-of-biggest-intervention-in-seven-years-pressures-boj-japan-credit.html
The yen’s third monthly gain against
the dollar means the  Bank of Japan  may decide next week to boost
injections of funds into the financial system, as policy members
seek ways to stem the currency’s strength and spur growth.  The BOJ has eased policy at least five times since December
2009, all following yen advances in the prior month. The yen
posted a 0.1 percent gain versus the greenback last month and
reached a post-World War II record of 75.95 per dollar on Aug.
19 even as Japan conducted its biggest currency-market
intervention in seven years. The BOJ’s key  interest rate  is the
lowest in the world at a range of zero and 0.1 percent, and
hasn’t been above 0.5 percent since 1995.  A report this week showing a slowdown in Japanese factory
output was the latest sign that the yen’s strength is impeding
economic recovery from three quarters of contraction. Net
exports, or shipments less imports, in the second quarter were
the biggest drag on gross domestic product since 2009. The Bank
of  Japan  will hold a two-day policy meeting on Sept. 6, ahead of
a Federal Reserve gathering that starts Sept. 20.  “Because there’s no doubt the most serious risk to Japan’s
economy comes from foreign exchange, we can say it’s the biggest
deciding factor for BOJ policy,” said  Chotaro Morita , chief
rates strategist in Tokyo at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd., one of
the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.
“Additional easing must be in the BOJ’s sight, given monetary
policy in the U.S. may put further appreciation pressure on the
yen.”  Asset Purchase  The BOJ said on Aug. 4 it was  doubling  the amount of
government debt it buys through its asset-purchase program and
the same day intervened in the foreign-exchange market for a
third time in a year. The yen weakened to 80.24 per dollar on
that day before erasing all the losses in the next three days.  Japan sold 4.51 trillion yen ($59 billion) in August, a
statement from the Ministry of Finance showed this week, the
largest monthly amount since March 2004. Yoshihiko Noda, who has
succeeded  Naoto Kan  as prime minister, oversaw the operations as
finance minister.  Demand for safer assets increased last month amid concern
the U.S. recovery is faltering and  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening. Yields on 10-year government debt slid to a record
1.9735 percent in the U.S. and a nine-month low of 0.97 percent
in Japan on Aug. 19, while the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index for stocks
slumped 7.3 percent for the month, the most since May 2010.  Yield Spread  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial
stress because Japan’s export-reliant economy doesn’t need
foreign capital to balance its current account, the broadest
measure of trade. A stronger currency reduces the overseas
competitiveness of Japanese companies, and cuts the value of
foreign earnings when repatriated.  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt is 66 basis
points, down from this year’s peak of 78 basis points on June 10,
according to Nomura Securities Co.’s Bond Performance Index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold two-year
Treasuries instead of the Japanese equivalent slid to three
basis points yesterday, the least since 1992, diminishing the
appeal of dollar-denominated assets.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on Aug. 4 that there is
a “relatively high” correlation between the two-year yield gap
and the dollar-yen rate.  The BOJ currently buys Japan’s bonds with remaining
 maturities  of between one and two years through its asset-
purchase fund. Barclays’ Morita said the central bank may
increase the amount of bond purchases or buy longer-maturity
debt.  ‘More Substantial’  A few Fed policy makers favored more aggressive action to
stimulate the  U.S. economy , minutes of their Aug. 9 meeting
showed this week. Those members, who weren’t identified, “felt
that recent economic developments justified a more substantial
move” beyond the pledge adopted last month to hold its key
interest rate at a record low until mid-2013.  U.S. GDP grew at a 1 percent annual pace in the April-to-
June quarter, down from the 1.3 percent previously reported, the
Commerce Department data showed last week.  “The Fed will do something for sure in September to
bolster the economy, which will lead to further weakness in the
dollar,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer in Tokyo
at Okasan Securities Co., another primary dealer. “We can
increase dollar shorts against the yen without any fear in this
environment.”  ‘Real’ Threat  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bonds yielded 1.07 percent today,
10 basis points from the lowest level since Nov. 9, amid
evidence the economy is struggling to recover from a record
earthquake in March that triggered meltdowns at a nuclear
facility and nationwide energy shortages. Industrial production
gained 0.6 percent in July from the previous month, the slowest
increase since March, the Trade Ministry said on Aug. 31.  “There is a real threat of a double-dip recession to the
global economy,” bolstering demand for bonds, said Daisuke Uno,
Tokyo-based chief strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.,
which manages $964 billion in customer deposits.  Credit-default swaps insuring Japan’s sovereign debt for
five years climbed to 113 basis points on Aug. 24, the highest
since March 16, according to New York-based CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. They were at 102.3 basis points
yesterday.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  