-- 
Bernanke’s Next Easing May Not Do Much to Aid 14 Million Jobless Americans

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-09-03T04:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/fed-s-next-stimulus-may-do-little-for-14-million-jobless-economists-say.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably try to spur economic growth this month by
cutting near-record-low borrowing costs, economists said. His
new stimulus may not aid the 14 million Americans without work.  Hiring stalled in August in the worst month for U.S.
employment in almost a year, the Labor Department said
yesterday. The unemployment rate remained stuck at 9.1 percent.  The Fed may decide at its Sept. 20-21 meeting to replace
short-term  Treasury securities  in its $1.65 trillion portfolio
with long-term bonds in a bid to lower rates on everything from
mortgages to  car loans , said economists at Wells Fargo & Co., T.
Rowe Price Associates Inc., Barclay’s Capital Inc. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The Fed’s influence on the economy will
probably be muted as sagging consumer confidence, depressed home
values and 6 million workers unemployed for six months or more
weigh on demand.  “The problem is that rates have been low for three years
now and that isn’t spurring people to buy,” said  John Silvia ,
chief economist at Wells Fargo in  Charlotte , N.C. “Companies
won’t hire unless demand is there. The Fed can lower the cost of
credit, but it can’t force companies to create jobs.”  Silvia predicts the economy will grow at a 1 percent annual
rate in the second half of this year, little changed from the
0.7 percent pace logged in the first six months, the weakest
stretch since the recovery began in June 2009.  Longer-Term  Bond investors are already anticipating that the Fed will
sell short-term assets to finance purchases of longer-term
assets, said Michael Pond, a managing director at Barclays
Capital in  New York .  Yields on U.S. two-year notes rose 2 basis points to 0.2
percent in New York trading, while yields on 10-year notes fell
14 basis points to 1.988 percent late yesterday.  “The market is clearly pricing in ‘Operation Twist,’” said
Pond, referring to how the Fed action will change the Treasury
yield curve. “Short rates are moving higher, while long rates
are moving lower.”  Economic growth would need to be closer to 5 percent for a
full year to lower the  unemployment rate  by one percentage
point, Bernanke has said.  The Fed chief, in a speech last week to an economic
conference at Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , said the central bank has a
“range of tools that could be used to provide additional
monetary stimulus.” The costs and benefits of those tools would
be debated more fully at the Fed’s Sept. 20-21 meeting.  Sustain Recovery  At the same time, Bernanke said the Fed alone can’t keep
the recovery going. “Most of the economic policies that support
robust economic growth in the long run are outside the province
of the central bank,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  plans to address a joint session of
Congress on his plans to boost jobs and growth at 7 p.m.
Washington time on Sept. 8. Bernanke is scheduled to give a
speech on his economic outlook that day in  Minneapolis .  “At the end of the day, the Fed is a bridge, and if the
other agencies don’t react, it’s a bridge to nowhere,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  Fiscal stimulus is currently better suited to bolstering
the economy and creating jobs than monetary policy, said Alan Levenson, chief economist at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore.  Road Work  With households and businesses intent on paying down debt,
 government spending  on building or repairing roads, schools and
bridges is more effective at generating jobs than interest rate
reductions by the Fed, Levenson said.  “Fiscal policy is more helpful,” he said. “It is not
that Fed policy makers are running out of ammunition, but rather
the caliber of the bullets that they are shooting is getting
smaller.”  The Fed expected the impact of its $600 billion government
bond-buying program on hiring to be “relatively modest,”
Bernanke told Congress on July 13. He cited estimates made in
the fall that the program, which ended in June, could boost
employment by about 700,000 over two years, or by about 30,000
extra jobs a month.  The Fed at the meeting this month will probably debate how
much a third round of asset purchases would help growth and
hiring. Some economists say it’s unlikely policy makers will
announce a new quantitative easing program after the gathering.  ‘Full Blown’  “We don’t think they’re quite ready to do a full blown QE3
at this point,”  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays
Capital , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Still, extending the average maturity of bonds in the Fed’s
portfolio “doesn’t do a lot,” Maki said. “The reason to do it
is to give people the sense that the Fed is in motion, they are
paying attention.”  Central bank officials may have a hard time convincing
investors that they’ll sustain the same clout as before in
influencing liquidity and inflation, said  Paul Ballew , chief
economist at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus,  Ohio .  The Fed’s first round of quantitative easing involved the
purchase of $1.25 trillion in agency mortgage-backed securities
and about $200 billion of housing agency debt. The Fed’s March
18, 2009, statement said the aim was to support “mortgage
lending and housing markets.”  Second Round  The second round of quantitative easing, approved by the
Fed in November 2010 and suggested by the chairman in a  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming, speech the previous August, was aimed at moving
the  U.S. economy  away from deflation risk, the Fed said in its
statement.  Expectations for inflation beginning five years from now
jumped from 1.97 percent before Bernanke’s speech to 2.8 percent
by the end of the year, according to a measure tracked by
Barclays Capital. The impact of monetary policy on unemployment
is delayed and much less direct, Ballew said.  “As you move further and further away from quantitative
easing one, you move further away from the things the Fed can
impact,” Ballew said. More bond purchases by the Fed would take
aim at boosting economic activity and jobs, which are “a few
degrees away from what the Fed could directly influence,” he
said.  The Fed needs to do more to explain the rationale for
another round of bond purchases, Ballew said. “If they are
going to go down that path, they have a lot to do on the
communication front,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  