-- 
Firefighters’ Union to Join Labor Efforts in Congressional Races

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-09-02T16:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/firefighters-union-to-join-labor-efforts-in-congressional-races.html
The national firefighters’ union
reversed course and is planning to support federal candidates,
joining the U.S. labor movement in putting up cash to influence
next year’s elections for Congress and the White House.  After closing a committee in April that funded federal
candidates “to take a stand and make a statement,” the
 International Association of Fire Fighters  has decided to aid
candidates for Congress, President Harold Schaitberger said Aug.
31 in an interview with Bloomberg Government. The union’s
political action committee said it spent $15 million in the 2010
election, mostly to back Democrats.  “We will be fully engaged in the political arena,”
Schaitberger said in advance of U.S. Labor Day on Sept. 5. “We
will engage, yes, with our money, and resources and boots on the
ground.”  The firefighters are planning to rejoin labor groups such
as the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest union federation, that say
they will step up spending for next year’s campaigns. The AFL-
CIO said this month that it will create a fundraising committee
to spend money year-round in a drive to spur voting by both
union and nonunion workers. The unions haven’t said how much
they plan to spend.  U.S. labor leaders have said they were frustrated that
President  Barack Obama  and Democrats in Congress spent less time
this year on issues important to unions while debating free-
trade agreements,  deficit reduction  and ways to reduce
regulation. AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said in June that
Obama will have a “more challenging time” in his 2012 re-
election campaign because of waning union enthusiasm.  Ohio  Role Sought  The firefighters also are pushing congressional Democrats
to join union members in seeking to repeal an Ohio law that cuts
labor rights, said Jeff Zack, an assistant to Schaitberger. The
union will only support Democrats who get involved in Ohio and
on other issues identifed by unions, he said. The union’s
executive board would make a decision on political action next
year, Zack said.  Unions said they spent more than $200 million in 2010 to
help Democrats run for Congress, about half the $400 million
that went to aid Democrats and the Obama campaign in 2008.
Spending went to political-action committees,  television
advertising , campaign mailings, phone banks and voter-turnout
drives.  The firefighters’ union, representing about 300,000 U.S.
workers, decided in April to spend only on state campaigns.
Republican governors led by  Scott Walker  in  Wisconsin  and  John Kasich  in Ohio were pushing legislation curtailing union rights
and benefits as state budget deficits widened.  26 States  Schaitberger said the union is spending to push back
against lawmakers in 26 states seeking to cut union rights.
Since April, he said the union and its locals spent more than
$3.4 million in states, including $1 million in Ohio where
voters will decide whether to overturn a law limiting collective
bargaining for public employees.  The firefighters’ political action committee ranked among
the 10 biggest donors to members of Congress in 2010, according
to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington-based group
that monitors campaign spending. That year, when the committee
spent $2.37 million on federal candidates, 82 percent of the
money went to Democrats, according to the group.  The firefighters grew unhappy because Democratic leaders in
Washington weren’t doing enough to defend unions, Schaitberger
said. Members were disappointed Democrats sided with Republicans
on extending President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts and increasing
the federal borrowing limit while failing to spend more to
stimulate the economy, he said.  ‘Great Signs’  Now, the union is seeing “great signs” of support from
Democratic leaders, including House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi 
and Representative  George Miller , the top Democrat on the House
committee that oversees labor issues, Schaitberger said. Both of
the California lawmakers have long championed labor unions.  On July 26, Pelosi and Democratic leaders held a news
conference with Schaitberger at their side to say Republicans
are using efforts to reduce the  budget deficit  as a pretext to
destroy union rights. The lawmakers also criticized Republican
efforts to strip the powers of the  National Labor Relations
Board , which mediates employment disputes.  “We’re seeing some signs that our friends are getting
it,” Schaitberger said. “We had seen a pattern of
disappointment.”  Union spending on state campaigns will help congressional
candidates and Obama in 2012, even if they money isn’t going
directly to them, said Michael Malbin, executive director of the
Campaign Finance Institute, a Washington-based research group.  “They will be mobilizing voters who vote in all
elections,” Malbin said in an interview. “Efforts that are
highly emotional affect turnout, and Obama is going to have a
hard time getting voters out to the polls. If unions get more
people out, that helps people up and down the ticket.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  