-- 
First Solar Gets $455.7 Million Guarantees for Canada Plants

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-02T18:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/first-solar-receives-455-7-million-ex-im-bank-loan-guarantee.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
largest maker of thin-film solar modules, received $455.7
million of loan guarantees from the U.S. Export-Import Bank to
build power projects in  Canada .  The company plans to build two plants with a total capacity
of 90 megawatts in southern Ontario, the company announced today
at a press conference at its Perrysburg, Ohio, factory.  The guarantee is the largest Ex-Im Bank has approved for
U.S. solar products shipped abroad and will help President Obama
reach a goal of doubling U.S. exports by 2015.  “We’re well on our way” to reaching that target, said
Fred Hochberg, chairman and president of the Ex-Im Bank, said in
an interview at the plant.  U.S. exports of solar products surged 83 percent last year
to $5.63 billion, led by sales of manufacturing equipment and
polysilicon, the main component of photovoltaic cells, the Solar
Energy Industries Association said in an Aug. 29 report.  The top solar import was photovoltaic modules, worth $2.4
billion. Obama wants to reverse the trend of shipping raw
materials abroad and importing finished products from  Asia .  “We invent things in the U.S. and then export the jobs and
technology,” U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said
in a speech at the event. That’s why the First Solar guarantees,
which will create domestic manufacturing jobs, are “so
important for American workers.”  All of the solar panels produced at Perrysburg plant will
be exported,  James Brown , president of Tempe, Arizona-based
First Solar’s utility systems business group, said in an
interview.  Financing Unavailable  The loan guarantees were critical to developing the two
Canada projects. “Financing in emerging markets isn’t available
at any terms without Ex-Im’s help,” he said. “Banks just don’t
understand the technology.”  Ex-Im Bank will guarantee a loan of $236.7 million for a
50-megawatt plant that First Solar is planning in the southern
Ontario townships of Amherstburg, Belmont and Walpole, and
another loan of $219 million for a 40-megawatt project in St.
Clair. The debt will be repaid over 18 years.  Obama in August reaffirmed his vow to double exports to
$3.14 trillion by 2015 in an effort to create jobs and counter
unemployment that stood at 9.1 percent in July. Delivering on
the promise grew more difficult after the Commerce Department
reported on Aug. 11 that U.S. sales of goods and services abroad
fell 2.3 percent in June, the most since January 2009, as
purchases declined from  Mexico  to  China .  Ex-Im Bank approved this year loan guarantees of $118
million for solar projects in  India  that will use First Solar
panels.  First Solar fell $7.56, or 7.8 percent, to $89.38 at 2:20
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, amid a broad decline in
stock prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 2.4
percent and the Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index was down 5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  