-- 
Forint Slips Fourth Day Versus Franc on Global Slowdown Concern

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-02T15:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/forint-heads-for-biggest-four-day-slide-against-franc-in-year.html
The forint weakened for the fourth
day against the Swiss franc on concern a slowdown in the global
economy will hamper  Hungary ’s efforts to cut public debt.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 2.5 percent to 246.203 per
franc, extending the four-day loss to 6.9 percent. That’s the
longest losing streak since Aug. 22. The forint slumped 0.9
percent to 275.15 per euro and the benchmark BUX index of shares
slid 0.2 percent to 18,233.03 by the 5 p.m. end of trading in
Budapest.  The central bank will probably cut its economic-growth
estimates for this year and next as Western Europe’s slowing
economy will hurt growth prospects, Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President Andras Simor said at a conference in Alpbach,  Austria ,
yesterday. The government will announce tax increases next week
affecting alcohol, tobacco and gambling and plans to delay some
spending to help meet this year’s budget targets amid slower-
than-forecast economic growth, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said
in a  TV2 interview  late yesterday.  “The plans are rather vague at the moment,” Kata Baller,
an economist at  DZ Bank  AG in Budapest, wrote in a research
report today, referring to government efforts to plug holes in
the budget. “Investors may remain anxious about Hungary’s
fiscal pledges” until more details are given, she said.  The forint fell to its lows of the day after a report
showed employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August
and the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent, as employers became
less confident in the strength of the recovery in the world’s
largest economy.  Underlying Demand  “If underlying demand is weak, emerging-markets exports
will be under threat and you can’t be too bullish about risky
assets,”  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone of the U.S. jobs data.  Hungary will continue to dedicate funds to cut the debt
level, the biggest among the eastern members of the European
Union, even as economic growth is projected to miss earlier
forecasts, straining the budget, Orban told reporters today.  The government will consider new steps to help borrowers
struggling to repay foreign-currency mortgage loans, he said.
Measures approved so far only offer a “temporary solution,”
Orban said.  The forint weakening past 240 per franc is a “worrying
outlook” for Hungarian households and municipalities with debts
in the Swiss currency, DZ Bank’s Baller said.  Hungarian households are struggling to repay mortgages,
with two-thirds of loans denominated in Swiss francs, this
year’s best-performing currency. The franc has surged 40 percent
against the forint in the past three years, increasing
homeowners’ monthly payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  