-- 
Regulator Loses Bid to Ban Former Commerzbank Trader Over Lead Contracts

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-02T11:55:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/fsa-loses-bid-to-ban-ex-commerzbank-trader-over-lead-contracts-on-the-lme.html
A former metals trader at
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s Dresdner Kleinwort unit won a U.K. tribunal
ruling preventing the  Financial Services Authority  from banning
or fining him in a market abuse case over lead contracts.  A U.K. tribunal limited the FSA to censuring Jason Anthony Geddis over the 2008 trades on the London Metal Exchange, the
regulator said in a statement today. Geddis had challenged the
FSA’s decision issued last year.  “The tribunal felt that a public censure was a more
appropriate penalty,” the FSA said in the statement. “The
tribunal determined that Mr. Geddis’s conduct in creating a
disorderly market fell below the proper standard of care, but it
was not a failure of integrity.”  The FSA banned 71 people from working in the industry and
issued fines of 98.5 million pounds ($159.6 million) in the year
that ended March 31, 2011, according to the regulator’s annual
report. The regulator alleged Geddis committed market abuse and
violated LME trading guidelines by building a position of more
than 90 percent of warrants for lead stockpiles, without lending
back to the market.  Geddis’s lawyer,  Michael Segen  of Segens Solicitors in
 London , didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  The tribunal considered Geddis’s “exemplary” record prior
to his disputed trade, and could encourage other people to
challenge FSA decisions, said  Jonathon Crook , a lawyer at
Eversheds LLP in London, who wasn’t involved in the case.  “The tribunal concluded that despite the failings which
gave rise to the FSA’s complaint, the fact that this was a one-
off occurrence as a result of a lack of care did not justify the
imposition of a financial penalty,” Crook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  