-- 
GM Retains Former Vice Chairman Lutz to Advise Executives

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-09-02T20:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/general-motors-retains-former-vice-chairman-lutz-as-consultant.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  retained former
Vice Chairman Bob Lutz, who helped lead each U.S. automaker
during the past 48 years, as a part-time consultant.  Lutz, 79, will be available to senior executives effective
immediately, the Detroit-based company said today in a  statement 
on its website.  The former U.S. Marine fighter pilot worked two stints at
the largest U.S. automaker, the first ending in 1970. In the
second, he led GM’s global product development and held other
management roles during a nine-year stretch until May 2010.  “I don’t think he’ll ever retire until he’s in a coffin,”
Dave Sullivan, a product analyst at Tustin, California-based
AutoPacific Inc., said in a phone interview. “He’s a true car
guy and he was born to do this. It’s hard for him to cut the
cord.”  Lutz already has informally consulted with senior leaders
including Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson and Mary Barra,
who was named head of global product development in January,
said Jay Cooney, a GM spokesman.  “This simply formalizes those discussions,” Cooney said
in a phone interview. “He would be available to speak with any
senior leader at General Motors about any topic. His knowledge
and experience runs the gamut.”  Cooney declined to comment on Lutz’s compensation.  Lutz’s Models  Lutz rejoined GM in September 2001 and later championed the
Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid car, which began selling late last
year. He previously held executive posts at  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
where he helped develop the Ford Explorer sport-utility vehicle,
and the former Chrysler Corp., where he oversaw the Dodge Viper
sports car and Ram pickup, and PT Cruiser wagon.  He also worked at  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  starting in
1972, after his first GM stint. Lutz’s GM career began in 1963.  “His impact at GM is probably bigger than maybe any other
automaker he’s been at,” said Sullivan, who is based in Troy,
Michigan. “Their product line right now is probably the best
it’s ever been. Everything that GM’s coming out with that’s new
seems to be doing very well.”  Lutz has said he delayed his retirement from GM in 2009
when he was asked to stay as head of sales and marketing. Then-
Chairman  Ed Whitacre  changed his role to adviser for global
design and product development in December 2009, and GM
announced three months later that Lutz would leave the company.  Akerson, 62, picked Barra to lead product development
earlier this year after she spent about 19 months as vice
president of global human resources. Before leading human
resources, Barra worked with Lutz as vice president of global
manufacturing engineering.  “She has a lot of people that are still upset with GM over
getting bailed out by the government,” Sullivan said. “There’s
a lot riding on her shoulders to prove people wrong. It’s going
to be up to her to continue what has brought about GM’s recent
success with the next generation of vehicles.”  GM fell 96 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $22.07 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  