-- 
Global Logistic to Raise Japan Rents on Warehouse Shortage

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-09-02T02:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/gic-s-global-logistic-to-raise-japan-rents-on-shortage-of-warehouse-space.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , the
overseas logistics unit of the  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. , said it aims to raise rents in Japan because
of a shortage of newer storage and distribution facilities.  Global Logistic, which has 99 percent occupancy rate in the
country, would like to increase rents by about 5 percent to 10
percent, said Jeffrey Schwartz, deputy chairman of the company.
Only about 2 percent of 480 million square meters (5.2 billion
square feet) of space are modern logistic facilities, he said,
citing a report by  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   The vacancy rate for warehouses in Tokyo fell by more than
half to 7 percent in June from a peak of 20 percent in September
2009 due to a lack of new supply, according to CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. The March 11 earthquake that damaged and destroyed
more than 46,000 non-residential properties highlighted the need
for newer facilities such as those equipped with ramps that
trucks can move freight in the building.  “It’s a horrible tragedy, but actually we have seen an
increase in demand,” said Schwartz in an interview in  Tokyo 
yesterday. “It’s a testimony of reasons why customers should be
in modern space.”  Singapore-based Global Logistic yesterday said it formed a
joint venture with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
which manages C$153.2 billion ($157 billion). The venture will
invest $500 million over the next three years to develop and
hold storage and distribution centers in greater Tokyo and Osaka
areas, according to a statement to the Singapore stock exchange.  Japan Market Share  The venture will build as many as 12 warehouses that may be
worth as much as $1.4 billion, Schwartz said.  Shares of Global Logistic rose as much as 2.9 percent and
traded at S$1.765 as of 10:09 a.m. on the Singapore exchange.  Global Logistic had an 18 percent market share in terms of
floor space in  Japan  as of March 31, according to CB Richard
Ellis. Prologis Inc. and AMB Property Corp. each owned about 10
percent in the country before they merged in June.  It manages 69 warehouses throughout Japan with about 2.8
million square meters of floor area, according to the Singapore
company. About half of the properties are in the greater Tokyo
area including at least two facilities near Narita International
Airport.  While asking rent for medium to large multitenant
warehouses and logistics facilities in Tokyo fell to 5,230 yen
per tsubo as of June from 5,510 yen in 2010, it may rebound
because of a supply shortage, according to a report by CB
Richard Ellis yesterday. One tsubo, a standard measure of
property area in Japan, is 3.3 square meters or 35.5 square feet.  “It’s likely that rents could strengthen against the
backdrop of a limited new supply, with only four multitenant
lease premises slated to open by the end of 2012,” it said.  Global Logistic manages about $11.7 billion of facilities
in Japan and  China , according to the company’s annual report.
Customers in the two countries include Amazon.com Inc., the
world’s biggest Internet retailer; Nippon Express Co., a Tokyo-
based freight company, and Deutsche Post AG’s DHL International
GmbH.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  