-- 
Scientology Racks Up Fees, Reveals Victoria’s Secret: Review

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/godless-scientology-racks-up-fees-reveals-victoria-s-secret-book-review.html
Forget the “thetans” who dwelled
in space a gazillion years ago, though they do add a diverting
back story to Scientology, the religion founded by science-
fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard in the 1950s.  What really distinguishes the faith followed by  Tom Cruise ,
John Travolta and other lesser lights is commerce and
godlessness.  “The traditional religious bedrock -- worship, God, love
and compassion, even the very concept of Faith -- is wholly
absent from its precepts,” writes Janet Reitman in “ Inside
Scientology: The Story of America’s Most Secretive Religion .”  “Unique among modern religions, Scientology charges
members for every service, book and course offered, promising
greater and greater spiritual enlightenment with every dollar
spent.”  Reitman  draws on interviews with current and former Church
members (gruntled and disgruntled), previous reporting by
outlets such as the St. Petersburg Times and church documents
that have leaked onto the Internet to chronicle the rise and,
possibly, decline of a quintessentially American faith.  ‘Total Freedom’  What began as an alternative to psychotherapy evolved into
a theology based on the idea that traumas over many lifetimes
have stained our souls and that “auditing” -- revisiting and
confronting those traumas with the help of trained interlocutors
-- can help make the worshipper “Clear” and eventually bring
“Total Freedom.”  Auditing costs money, and members are encouraged to pay
for courses as they pursue the “bridge to total freedom.”  The Church of Scientology, like other U.S. religious
groups, avoids paying taxes, honors big donors and promises
simple solutions to life’s most tormenting problems (suffering,
uncertainty, death).  Scientology won a long battle for broad religious tax
exemptions in 1993, a time when theocracy was a rising force in
U.S. politics and lawmakers were building careers by vilifying
the  Internal Revenue Service .  Children of Scientologists are put at the service of the
Sea Org, the church’s managing body, and must pay for all their
“free” courses if they choose to quit and want to remain in
good standing (though no one, Reitman says, is compelled to stay
with the church).  Reitman profiles a young woman raised in the church who
left and became a vocal critic, only to revert to silence to
reconnect with her family.  Lingerie Boxes  There are also happy stories. The teaching tools Hubbard
developed enjoy a good reputation among some educators. Another
young woman raised in the church has found it a source of solace
and the basis of her personal growth.  And there are wacky stories. To get a message to a loved
one past the prying eyes of church staffers, one defector hid a
letter and cell phone in a Victoria’s Secret box. The church,
which is about as puritanical as any other, had a policy of not
inspecting any packages from the lingerie company, Reitman says.  Celebrity culture also gets reviewed. According to Reitman,
reclusive church leader David Miscavige miscalculated when he
hitched his fortunes to Cruise, who came across as a glassy-eyed
zealot, criticizing Brooke Shields’s treatment for post-partum
depression, ranting about Ritalin on the “Today” show and
jumping on  Oprah Winfrey ’s couch.  “ South Park ” ridiculed Scientology and Cruise in
typically merciless fashion. Oscar-winning musician Isaac Hayes,
one of the few prominent black Scientologists and a cast member
of the show, quit after the episode aired, complaining of
religious bigotry -- which only made the church seem petty.  Internet Congregations  But, as Reitman’s book illustrates, what might hurt more
than movie-star tantrums or cartoons is something Hubbard the
science-fiction writer would have appreciated: the Internet.  The Web is where Scientology’s critics meet and share
stories and church documents, where former members find each
other, commiserate and even form alternative Scientology
congregations.  The book would have benefited from a deeper foundation in
the history of American religion, especially faith-healing
traditions such as Christian Science. Also, aside from a mention
of “Battlefield Earth,” a later work, Reitman fails to mine
Hubbard’s bizarre literary output for germs of the faith.  “Inside Scientology” is published by Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt (444 pages, $28). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  is an editor at Bloomberg news. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of the review:
Andrew Dunn in  New York  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 