-- 
Gordhan Says South African Debate on Mines Nationalization May Pose Danger

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-02T10:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/gordhan-says-south-african-debate-on-mines-nationalization-may-pose-danger.html
A debate over nationalizing mines
may affect investor confidence in  South Africa  if it’s not
carried out properly, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “The danger is that the nationalization debate is
mishandled, which could affect sentiment, undermine confidence
and raise uncertainty regarding policy and policy direction,”
Gordhan said in response to a parliamentary question, dated Aug.
24 and e-mailed today. Still, a “robust” discussion should be
welcomed and investors understand the difference between
government policy and a debate on the subject, he said.  The ruling African National Congress’s Youth League is
lobbying for the nationalization of South Africa’s mines and
banks, arguing it will help redress the economic imbalances
between whites and blacks that have remained since the end of
apartheid 17 years ago.  Chief executives and ANC officials including Treasurer-
General Mathews Phosa and Minister of Public Enterprises Malusi Gigaba have come out against the notion, arguing it would
destroy  Africa ’s biggest economy.  The calls for nationalization stem from “frustration at
the slow pace of economic transformation,” Gordhan said. Mining
companies have “fallen short” of commitments to increase black
participation in the industry, he said.  Lack of Diversity  “There has been minimal diversification of management and
core-skilled workers and a failure to adequately acknowledge the
needs of poor communities in the areas it operates,” Gordhan
said.  South Africa, where companies like  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  operate, has the world’s largest reserves
of platinum, chrome ore and manganese. Citigroup Inc. has valued
its total mineral resources at $2.5 trillion.  Mining companies also haven’t invested sufficiently in
South Africa even as commodity prices boom, Gordhan said.  “Since the early 2000s, both mining investment and mining
production in South Africa have remained relatively flat, while
investment and production in other mineral-rich countries have
increased substantially,” he said, citing an annual rate of
mining industry growth of 7 percent in the 2000s, compared with
24 percent in  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 