-- 
England Beats Bulgaria as Germany Qualifies for Euro Soccer Championship

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-09-02T21:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/greece-beats-israel-to-stay-at-top-of-european-soccer-championship-group.html
Wayne Rooney  scored twice to help
England win 3-0 in Bulgaria and keep the top spot in its
qualifying group for the European soccer championships. Germany
became the first team to qualify, and the Netherlands set a
scoring record.  Defender Gary Cahill put England ahead in the 13th minute,
and Rooney got his first 8 minutes later. The Manchester United
striker scored again just before halftime.  England entered the game tied in Group G with Montenegro,
which lost 2-1 to  Wales  in Cardiff tonight. England has a three-
point lead going its game next week game in Wales.  Germany beat Austria 6-2 in Group A to clinch a spot in
next year’s event. The Netherlands recorded a record 11-0
victory over  San Marino  in Group E. The winner in each of the
nine groups, along with the second-place team with the most
points, qualify for Euro 2012 with hosts Poland and Ukraine. The
remaining eight second-place teams will play off for the final
four spots.  In Eindhoven, the Dutch got four goals from Arsenal’s Robin van Persie, while Wesley Sneijder and Klaas-Jan Huntelaar each
got two. Dirk Kuyt,  John Heitinga  and Georginio Wijnaldum also
scored for the home team. It was the Netherlands’s most lop-
sided victory ever, surpassing the 9-0 beatings of Norway in
1972  World Cup  qualifying and Finland in the 1912 Olympics.  Perfect Starts  Mesut Ozil scored twice to pace  Germany ’s attack. Miroslav Klose,  Lukas Podolski , Andre Schurrle and Mario Gotze also
scored for the Germans, while Marko Arnautovic and Martin Harnik
scored for Austria.  Germany and the Netherlands have won all their matches so
far. The other perfect team in qualifying, World Cup champion
Spain, didn’t play today.  Italy defeated the Faroe Islands 1-0 on an Antonio Cassano
goal in the 11th minute, while France got goals from Karim Benzema and Yann M’Vila in the first 20 minutes against Albania
and then held on.  Russia is leading Group B after a 1-0 victory in Macedonia.
Ireland is in second in the group, even on points with Slovakia
but ahead on goal difference. The two teams drew 0-0 tonight in
Dublin.  The leader in Group H, Portugal, got two goals from
Cristiano Ronaldo in a 4-0 defeat of Cyprus in Nicosia.  In  Tel Aviv ,  Greece  got a goal from Sotorios Ninis to beat
Israel 1-0 to stay atop its qualifying group for the European
soccer championships.  The Panathinaikos midfielder put the visitors ahead in the
60th minute in Tel Aviv. Greece has 17 points from its 7 games
to top Group F, to lead Croatia by a point and Israel by 4.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  