-- 
Libyan Militia Surrounds Qaddafi Holdouts

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-05T07:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/libya-restoring-oil-rests-with-companies-official-says-1-.html
Troops from  Libya ’s transitional
government engaged in sporadic fighting with fighters loyal to
Muammar Qaddafi near Bani Walid after talks for a peaceful
surrender of the city broke down.  Al Jazeera reported that there may be fewer than 100
Qaddafi loyalists in the holdout city, one of a handful still
controlled by the old regime. Local tribes were divided over
whether to surrender in advance of an attack by the transitional
government’s force, which was prepared for launch within 24
hours, the Associated Press said.  Asked whether Qaddafi himself was in Bani Walid, oil
minister Ali Tarhouni said, “we know where he is,” according
to Al Jazeera. Tarhouni didn’t say where that might be.  Since rebels captured Tripoli in late August, transitional
authorities have been trying to restore stability, consolidate
military gains and capture Qaddafi. More than six months of
fighting to end the Libyan leader’s 42-year rule have reduced
oil production and disrupted power supplies in the country with
Africa’s largest crude reserves.  The rebels will need time to achieve their goals, Qatari
Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani said in an interview with
 Al Jazeera . Since fighting broke out in Libya, the Qataris have
provided loans and light weapons to the rebels.  Defenses Abandoned  Libyan National Transitional Council head Mustafa Abdel
Jalil said Sept. 3 forces will pressure the cities of Sirte,
Bani Walid, Jufra and Sabha until they give up, while continuing
to supply them with humanitarian aid.  “We are, by the grace of God, in a position of strength,
capable of entering any city,” Jalil told reporters in
Benghazi. The Misrata Military Council said it deployed its most
powerful unit, the 500-man Halbus Brigade, around Bani Walid and
that pro-Qaddafi defensive outposts were abandoned.  British aircraft struck nine weapons and ammunition sites
near Sirte, Ministry of Defence spokesman Major General Nick
Pope said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Libya’s new leadership extended by a week, to Sept. 10, the
deadline for Qaddafi loyalists in his hometown of Sirte to
surrender. Qaddafi vowed to fight on and turn the country “into
a hell” in an audio recording broadcast by Arrai satellite
television.  Oil Production  The new leaders anticipate restoring oil output “within a
reasonable time.” The pace of restoring production rests on how
soon oil companies return their workers, said Ahmed Jehani,
minister for reconstruction in the transitional administration.  Companies with major investments in Libya include Italy’s
 Eni SpA (ENI) ,  France ’s  Total SA (FP)  and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  of the U.S.,
as well as  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Hess
Corp. (HES)   Libyan oil production slumped to 60,000 barrels a day in
July from 1.7 million barrels in January, according to the
Paris-based  International Energy Agency .  There was little damage to infrastructure, Jehani said in
an interview, and most of the required work involves restoring
pressure to wells and cleaning sludge out of pipelines and
storage facilities.  “Many of our fields are concessions held by international
companies, so they are the ones that have to do the work,”
Jehani said. “We can’t do it for them. It depends on how fast
they deploy back to the country.”  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  of  Italy , the largest
buyer of Libyan energy, said that Eni is aiming to re-open a  gas
pipeline  between the two countries by Oct. 15.  Jalil said the NTC would move its headquarters to Tripoli
from Benghazi, and pledged to hold presidential and legislative
elections within 20 months, according to  Agence France-Presse .  Qaddafi Elusive  While opposition supporters now control most of Libya,
Qaddafi has avoided capture. The former rebels believe he may be
in one of their three target cities: Sirte, 280 miles (450
kilometers) southeast of Tripoli; Bani Walid, 90 miles southeast
of Tripoli; or Sabha, home to a major military base about 400
miles south of the capital.  Jehani said he expected oil production to return to prewar
levels “within a reasonable time.”  Crude oil fell on concerns fuel consumption will drop in
the U.S., the world’s largest economy. Crude oil for October
delivery settled down $2.48, or 2.8 percent, to $86.45 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Aref Ali Nayed, the operations coordinator for the National
Transitional Council’s stabilization team, said in a news
conference that Eni and at least four other  oil companies  have
sent advance teams to the country. He wouldn’t name the others.  Restoring output “could be faster than some people
think,” Jehani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  