-- 
ICB 2015 Deadline, Deutsche Boerse EU Probe, Hedge Fund Rules: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-02T12:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/icb-s-2015-deadline-deutsche-boerse-eu-probe-cftc-compliance.html
British banks won’t be compelled to
implement proposals from the government-appointed Independent
Commission on Banking until 2015 at the earliest, according to a
person with knowledge of the discussions.  The date is the soonest possible for the commission’s
recommendations, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Introducing the new rules as late
as 2018 has also been discussed, the person said.  The process will take years rather than months because the
issues are complex, a government official said.  With the ICB due to report on Sept. 12, banks and industry
lobbyists have argued that any new rules should be postponed
because of the U.K.’s faltering economic recovery. The
commission, led by  John Vickers , 53, an Oxford academic,
recommended in April that the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost
capital, introduce plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect
firebreaks around consumer units to protect taxpayers from
further bailouts.  Business Secretary Vince Cable, a Liberal Democrat, and
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, a Conservative, will
not respond to the report with immediate proposals for
legislation, a person with knowledge of the coalition
government’s thinking on bank regulation said last month.
Instead, the Cabinet’s banking committee will consider what
action to take and put forward plans before the end of the year.  A parliamentary bill to implement ICB recommendations will
need to be approved by both the House of Commons and the House
of Lords before it can receive assent from  Queen Elizabeth II 
and become law.  Compliance Policy  Deutsche Boerse  Customers Quizzed for Second Time in EU Probe  Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext customers and over-
the-counter derivatives platforms were quizzed for a second time
by European Union regulators examining the effect of the $7.46
billion exchange deal on competition.  The  European Commission  asked 106 questions about what Bats
Global Markets, Chi-X  Europe  Ltd. or  The Order Machine  would
need to succeed in derivatives trading. Separately, customers
were asked 98 questions about the difference in fees paid for
trading on exchanges or over-the-counter for a single stock
option, equity index option or an interest rate future/forward.  Deutsche Boerse’s offer for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  would put more
than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of European stock trading in the
hands of one organization. The EU opened an expanded probe into
the deal last month, citing concerns over reduced innovation.  Regulators seek comments from competitors and customers
when they examine whether a large takeover may harm competition.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the  European Commission ,
declined to comment on the questionnaire. Naomi Kim, a
spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse in  New York , and James Dunseath,
a spokesman for NYSE Euronext in  London , both declined to
immediately comment.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said last
month that the proposed merger “would remove a strong
competitor from the market and would give the merged company by
far the leading position in derivatives trading in Europe.”  The EU’s antitrust agency has set a deadline of Dec. 13 to
rule on the deal.  Regulators to Set Tougher Shadow-Bank Rules by October, FSB Says  Global regulators will reach a deal on tougher regulation
and oversight of hedge funds and other so-called shadow banks by
October in an effort to prevent them being used by lenders to
take excessive risks. Further work will continue in 2012, with
additional policy recommendations to be published by July.  Authorities in the Group of 20 countries are to probe
shadow bank activities including securitizations and repurchase
agreements, the  Financial Stability Board  said in a statement on
its website. The board will also examine whether regulated
lenders hold enough capital against their transactions with
“shadow-banking entities.”  “Authorities will narrow down their focus to non-bank
credit intermediation that has the potential to pose systemic
risks,” according to the FSB, which was founded in 2009 and
brings together G-20 nations regulators and finance ministries
as well as international standard-setting organizations.  Authorities have warned that shadow banks such as
structured investment vehicles, hedge funds and money-market
mutual funds could be used to evade regulators’ attempts to
clamp down on excessive risk taking in the wake of the global
credit crunch and subsequent lender bailouts. The shadow-banking
system had liabilities of about $16 trillion in the first
quarter of 2010, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in a
 report last year .  UKFI Says Reforms May Reduce Value of U.K. Bank Stakes, Sky Says  U.K. Financial Investments Ltd. , the agency that manages
taxpayers’ stakes in British banks that received government
bailouts, has said introducing new banking rules proposed by the
 Independent Commission on Banking  could reduce the value of the
shareholdings by up to 10 billion pounds ($16 billion),  Sky News 
reported in a blog on its website, citing a “secret report”
presented to the  U.K. Treasury  and the members of the
Independent Commission on Banking.  UKFI also said the stakes would be much more difficult to
sell if the changes to the structure of British banks are
implemented, because they would make the U.K. banking industry
more unattractive than those in other countries, Sky said,
citing the report.  Traders May Face EU Position Limits on Naked Sovereign Swaps  Banks and financial firms may face European Union limits on
sales of so-called naked credit-default swaps for sovereign debt
as part of proposals to prevent the products from exacerbating
the region’s debt crisis.  Under the draft plans by the European Commission obtained
by Bloomberg News, traders would be banned from exceeding
thresholds set by the  European Securities and Markets Authority 
for buying insurance against default on sovereign debt they
don’t actually own.  ESMA would “establish for each sovereign issuer a position
limit for uncovered positions in credit-default swaps relating
to” that country, according to the document prepared for
negotiations on an EU short-selling law. National regulators
would submit data to ESMA every six months to help set the
thresholds.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and lawmakers in
the  European Parliament  have called for the EU to ban naked
credit-default swaps on sovereign debt over concerns the
securities fueled the euro zone’s debt crisis. Germany already
has restrictions on using swaps to bet on sovereign defaults.  The need for curbs on sovereign CDS has been one of the
main dividing lines between the parliament and governments in
the 27-nation region in their attempt to agree on an EU short
selling law. A spokeswoman at the European Commission couldn’t
be immediately reached to comment.  For more, click here.  Cameron Receptive to Banks’ Lobbying on Reforms, FT Reports  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is becoming receptive to
lobbying by banks about new banking rules to be proposed by the
 Independent Commission on Banking , the Financial Times reported,
citing an unidentified government official.  Cameron will express his concerns about the possible effect
of the proposals on the economy when he meets with Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne,  Business  Secretary  Vince Cable  and
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg at a planned meeting next week,
the newspaper said, citing an unnamed government official.  Compliance Action  Insurers, EU to Discuss Auto Insurance Court Ruling This Month  Insurance companies will meet with the European Union
justice commissioner this month to assess the impact of a court
ruling that outlaws cheaper premiums for female drivers, the EU
said.  Viviane Reding  said she would host “a summit with business
leaders from the insurance industry in September to discuss the
implications of the judgment,” she said in an answer to a
parliamentary question dated Aug. 23. Insurers have until the
end of 2012 to make legal changes, she said.  The talks will take place on Sept. 21 and focus on how
insurers can adapt to a legal framework that will require
changes to insurance policies across the 27-nation bloc,  Matthew
Newman , a spokesman for Reding, said in a phone interview. He
declined to say which companies were invited to the discussions.  Auto insurance premiums for female drivers could rise as
much as 50 percent as a result of the March 1 ruling from the EU
Court of Justice, KPMG LLP said. The present system “works
against the achievement of the objective of equal treatment”
for men and women and should end by the end of next year, the
court said in its decision.  FSA Loses Bid to Ban Ex-Commerzbank Trader Over Lead Contracts  A former metals trader at  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s Dresdner
Kleinwort unit won a U.K. tribunal ruling preventing the
 Financial Services Authority  from banning or fining him in a
market abuse case over lead contracts.  A U.K. tribunal limited the FSA to censuring Jason Anthony
Geddis over the 2008 trades on the  London Metal Exchange , the
regulator said in a statement today. Geddis had challenged the
FSA’s decision issued last year.  The FSA banned 71 people from working in the industry and
issued fines of 98.5 million pounds ($159.6 million) in the year
that ended March 31, 2011, according to the regulator’s annual
report. The regulator alleged Geddis committed market abuse and
violated LME trading guidelines by building a position of more
than 90 percent of warrants for lead stockpiles, without lending
back to the market.  Geddis’s lawyer, Michael Segen of Segens Solicitors in
London, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  BlackRock Seeks SEC Permission to Open 13 Actively Managed ETFs  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest provider of exchange-traded
funds, is seeking permission to open 13 actively managed ETFs.  The funds would invest in a variety of equity categories
such as large and mid-size companies, and include versions free
to bet on both rising and falling prices, according to a filing
by New York-based BlackRock yesterday with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Unlike most ETFs, the funds wouldn’t
disclose their holdings daily.  ETFs hold baskets of securities, commodities or other
assets while trading throughout the day like individual stocks.  Courts  U.K. Regulator Wins Order in Second ‘Layering’ Market-Abuse Case  The U.K. financial regulator won an order barring a Swiss
asset-management firm from using “layering” to manipulate
shares, the second penalty this week involving the practice
compared to high-frequency trading.  Judge Guy Newey in London Aug. 31 granted a temporary
injunction against Da Vinci Invest Ltd. and extended a previous
asset freeze on individuals at the firm. Andrew George, a lawyer
for the Financial Services Authority, said senior management at
the U.K.-registered firm was aware of irregularities in trading.
The FSA said four traders were responsible for the market abuse
at the Unterageri, Switzerland-based company.  Illegal profit from the layering, in which traders place
large orders they have no intention of allowing to go through,
may have been 1 million pounds ($1.6 million), the FSA said in a
statement yesterday. The regulator Aug. 31 said it fined Swift
Trade Inc. 8 million pounds in a case involving layering.  Hendrik Klein, the chief executive officer of Da Vinci,
opposed the injunction at the hearing Aug. 31, saying whatever
had happened in the past, it wouldn’t be repeated. Klein said he
had funded four Hungarian traders and hadn’t investigated their
trades. The pattern of activity identified by the FSA was
similar to so-called high frequency trading, he said.  Klein told the judge he had been hurt by the asset freeze
and wasn’t able to hire lawyers.  The FSA has said that Da Vinci has “legitimate business”
in Switzerland.  The case is: The Financial Services Authority v. Da Vinci
Invest Limited & Ors, 11-02409.  Diamondback Capital’s Scolaro Settles SEC Insider-Trading Case  Anthony Scolaro, an ex-portfolio manager for Diamondback
Capital Management LLC, agreed to pay about $203,000 to settle
an insider-trading lawsuit filed against him by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Scolaro, 50, accused of reaping $1.1 million for his firm
by trading on inside information about Axcan Pharma Inc. late in
2007, agreed to disgorge $140,400 in principal and interest and
pay a $63,000 penalty, the SEC said in a  statement .  The allegations were related to a criminal case in which
Scolaro pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges stemming from
the Galleon Group LLC investigation, the agency said Aug. 1 in a
complaint in U.S. District Court in New York.  Scolaro’s November 2010 plea of guilty to insider trading
was unsealed in May. He hasn’t been sentenced. His attorney,
 William Brodsky , didn’t immediately reply to a telephone message
seeking comment on the Aug. 1 filing.  The civil case is SEC v. Diamondback Capital Management
LLC, 11-cv-6112, in the U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Tax Court Rules Against  Chicago  Lawyer’s Distressed-Debt Deals  The U.S. Tax Court  ruled  that a distressed-debt transaction
promoted to clients by Chicago lawyer  John Rogers  was invalid.  The deals involving Brazilian consumer debt featured
transactions among U.S. taxpayers and a company in the British
Virgin Islands. The government calls the transactions the
Distressed Asset Debt and Distressed Asset Trust tax shelters,
or DAD and DAT.  “There has been no showing of reasonable cause or good
faith on Rogers’ part in conceptualizing, designing and
executing the transactions,” wrote Judge Robert A. Wherry in a
decision released yesterday. “Instead, Rogers’ knowledge and
experience should have put him on notice that the tax benefits
sought by the form of the transactions would not be forthcoming
and that these transactions would be re-characterized and
stepped together to reveal their true substance.”  Last year, the U.S. Justice Department sued Rogers to
prevent him from promoting the transactions. In  its statement  at
the time, the government said Rogers had generated more than
$370 million in improper tax deductions for more than 100
clients. That case is pending in federal court in Chicago.  Paul Kozacky, Rogers’ attorney in the Tax Court case,
didn’t immediately return a request for comment on the ruling.  Rogers was a partner at Seyfarth Shaw LLP in Chicago until
2008, when the firm required him to resign because he had
continued to promote the tax shelters, the government said.  Interviews/Speeches  Levitt Says CFTC Plan Is Necessary for Transparency  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Arthur Levitt says the Commodities Futures Trading Commission
should push for transparency in traders’ positions. Levitt
talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Coene Calls Liquidity Primary Bank Problem, Libre Belgique Says  European Central Bank Governing Council member Luc Coene
said liquidity is the primary problem facing Europe’s banks,  La
Libre Belgique  reported, citing an interview.  “The problem that arises in Europe in the first place is
that of liquidity,” Coene told the newspaper. “The banks have
again lost a little confidence” and they “aren’t lending to
each other,” he was quoted as saying.  “The situation isn’t as bad as in 2008-2009, but we see
that we’re going little by little in that direction,” Coene
said in the interview. “I hope for the return of calm on the
markets after September when all the measures will be
effectively put in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 