-- 
Iceland Says $11.4B Payout Ends Spat With U.K.

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-02T07:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/iceland-says-11-4b-payout-ends-spat-with-u-k-.html
Iceland declared a three-year
dispute with the U.K. and the Netherlands to be history after it
promised to pay out $11.4 billion from the estate of failed
Landsbanki Islands hf to cover all foreign depositor losses.  The most recent valuation of Landsbanki’s assets shows the
lender, which failed in October 2008 together with the rest of
Iceland’s financial system, will have enough funds to pay back
more than double the $5.3 billion backed by depositor
guarantees, according to a report published by the bank’s
resolution committee yesterday.  The so-called Icesave dispute, named after the high-
yielding Internet accounts Landsbanki offered abroad, had soured
Iceland’s relations with the U.K. and the Netherlands after the
bank’s collapse left about 350,000 foreign depositors in the
lurch. Since then, the island has pulled off an economic
resurrection that has pushed the cost of insuring against an
Iceland default below the average for the European Union.
Landsbanki can probably start paying claimants later this year,
Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnason said.  “These simple facts should change completely our
understanding of the old Icesave dispute,” Arnason said in an
interview in Reykjavik late yesterday. “There is nothing to
dispute any longer.”  The government in Reykjavik is now hoping to sidestep an
international court case that had seemed unavoidable after
voters in April rejected an Icesave accord requiring taxpayer
backing for the private debt.  Court Battle  The European Free Trade Association’s Surveillance
Authority “will have to consider all aspects of this matter
before proceeding with any case,” Arnason said. “Now all
depositors -- regardless of whether they were covered by
depositor guarantees -- will get their money in full.”  The island still needs to settle a domestic court battle
questioning the status of priority claims, which include amounts
owed the foreign depositors.  “We have to get a Supreme Court ruling on the status of
what constitutes a priority claim,” Larentsinus Kristjansson,
the chairman of Landsbanki’s resolution committee, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We’re expecting the court to rule
in the matter in the first half of October. Following that we’ll
commence payments. The payments will be quite significant.”  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt in
2008, is now emerging from its economic meltdown with faster
growth and a smaller  budget deficit  than the euro area,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Default Insurance  Credit default swaps on Iceland’s five-year debt were 278
basis points at the end of last week, compared with a 345 basis
point average for the 27-member European Union, CMA prices show.
The island’s gross domestic product will expand 2.9 percent in
2012, compared with 2 percent in the 17-member euro area.
Iceland’s government deficit will narrow to 1.4 percent of GDP,
versus a 3 percent shortfall in the euro bloc in 2012, the OECD
said in a May 25 report.  The island completed a 33-month International Monetary Fund
program last month after the Washington-based lender established
that all economic “objectives have been met and the country is
on the road to recovery,” according to an Aug. 26 statement
marking the island’s final review.  Iceland’s economic resurrection has been achieved “with
very heterodox policies -- debt repudiation,  capital controls ,
and  currency depreciation ,” Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman wrote
in his New York Times blog published yesterday. “It was as
close as you can get to the polar opposite of the gold standard.
And it has worked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  