-- 
Tiesto at Electric Zoo, Rock the Bells, 9/11 Quilt: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/tiesto-headlines-electric-zoo-lauryn-hill-trinity-s-bach-n-y-weekend.html
Epic three-day dance festival
Electric Zoo kicks off today on Randall’s Island with DJ Tiesto
headlining the main stage.  Packed with huge names that specialize in delivering
euphoria, the weekend’s line-up runs the gamut from David
Guetta’s straight-up dance to the slinky, spooky rhythms of
British blog-star SBTRKT.  On Friday, the four stages are packed with diversity: what
to choose -- Rusko’s grinding dubstep or Josh Wink’s techno-
house, the dance-punk of MSTRKRFT or Moby’s DJ set?  These are good problems to have.  Begins at 11 a.m. on Randall’s Island Park, located along
the  East River  between  Manhattan , Queens and the Bronx.  Information:  http://www.madeevent.com/ElectricZoo .  Saturday  If hip hop is more your speed, get over to  Governors Island 
for the Rock the Bells festival, which boasts a roster of more
than 30 acts spanning east to west coast.  New York City’s own Nas headlines alongside reclusive
performers Lauryn Hill and Erykah Badu.  Also packed on the bill are Mobb Deep’s eerie menace, the
loping rhymes of Mos Def and Talib Kweli’s Black Star and
Cypress Hill’s West Coast wit.  Expect greatness.  Doors open at noon. Take the free ferry from the Battery
Maritime Building at 10 South St.  Information:  http://rockthebells.net .  Sunday  Head over to Pier 84 for the annual Great North River
Tugboat Race and Competition.  The hard-working vessels will go all out to win for speed,
but there are also nose-to-nose and line-tossing contests, as
well as awards for the best-looking tug and best mascot.  The parade starts at 10 a.m., the race from 79th St. at
10:30 a.m., with lunch and music at noon.  Activities on the pier and on a spectator boat at the foot
of W. 44th St.  Information: +1-212-757-1600;  http://www.workingharbor.com .  Sunday Matinee  Mike McAlary was a tough and funny  New York City  reporter
who liked chasing the story wherever it took him.  He skipped his own chemotherapy session to interview a
hospitalized Abner Louima, winning a Pulitzer Prize for his
Daily News expose of police brutality.  McAlary died a few months later at 41. Filmmaker Dan Klores
has written “The Wood,” slang for a front-page headline, about
his friend. John Viscardi brings him to life.  Runs through Oct. 9 at Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224
Waverly Place.  Information: +1-212-627-2556;  http://www.rattlestick.org .  Sunday Evening  Watch the lights twinkle on as the sun sets over the
Hudson. Jon Morris and his team at the Windmill Factory mounted
217 LED capsules on the remnants of a pier to resemble
constellations.  Engineered by Google’s Adam Berenzweig, “Reflecting the
Stars” reminds us of the light pollution that masks the night
sky for more and more of the world.  At Pier 49, Hudson River Park at Bank St., until the end of
Oct. when the sun can no longer power the installation.  Information: +1-818-987-9435;
 http://www.thewindmillfactory.com .  Then wander over to Annisa for a glass of Sancerre and
stuffed zucchini blossoms with chickpeas, cheese and mint
chutney.  Leave room for Anita Lo’s famous poppyseed bread pudding
with Meyer lemon curd.  13 Barrow St., near W. 4th St. Information: +1-212-741-
6699.  Monday  A poignant commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the
terrorist attacks is the 9/11 Peace Story Quilt by Faith
Ringgold and New York City students.  Three 71-by-50 inch panels, each with 12 squares, contain
reproductions of art work created by kids riffing on the
question: “What will you do for peace?”  Ringgold learned the art from her grandmother, who had
learned it from her mother, a former slave. She has been
constructing story quilts since 1983, many of which are in the
permanent collections of major museums.  Special programs on Sept. 11; runs until Jan. 22 at the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art, 1000 Fifth Ave. at 82nd St.  Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Monday Afternoon  Founded in 1697, Trinity Church stands at the intersection
of Wall St. and Broadway, and it provided refuge for people
fleeing the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center.  In commemoration, the church offers a week of concerts to
honor the memory of the dead and the heroic efforts of first
responders and recovery workers.  Today at 1 p.m. the choir and orchestra conducted by Julian
Wachner present Bach cantatas, including “Jesu meine Freude”
and the Actus Tragicus.  74 Trinity Place. Information: +1-212-602-0800;
 http://www.trinitywallstreet.org .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 