-- 
IMF Says Irish Progress With Bank Reforms, Approves Payment

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-09-02T21:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/imf-says-irish-progressing-with-bank-reforms-approves-payment.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
Ireland is ahead of schedule on legal restructuring of banks, as
the fund approved a 1.48 billion-euro ($2.1 billion)
disbursement to the country under the international rescue plan.  “The authorities are pushing forward financial sector
reforms which are at the heart of Ireland’s response to the
crisis,” the IMF said in a  statement  released in  Washington 
today. “Bank recapitalization has been completed with welcome
private investor participation. Legal restructuring of banks is
ahead of schedule and their boards and management teams are
being renewed.”  In addition to the IMF disbursement, Ireland is set to
receive up to 2.5 billion euros in European aid by the end of
September and up to 3 billion euros in October, the European
Union said in an e-mailed statement in Brussels earlier today. A
disbursement of 500 million euros from the U.K. is also
expected, the EU said.  Ireland’s government, which accepted the 85 billion euro
international rescue package last year, is aiming to cut its
 budget deficit  to 3 percent of GDP by 2015. Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said yesterday the government may have to cut its
2012 growth forecast, and will publish a revision of its 0.8
percent growth forecast for this year in October.  ‘Faster’ Approach  Irish central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  told lawmakers
in Dublin that the government should consider a “faster”
approach to cutting its deficit, and the current deficit plan is
the “minimum required to ensure stability.”  Ireland’s budget deficit widened to 20.4 billion euros in
the eight months through August compared with a shortfall of
12.1 billion euros a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry  in
Dublin said in a statement today. The shortfall was boosted by
the costs of bank recapitalization.  “The Irish authorities have maintained resolute
implementation of their economic program,” the IMF said today
as it completed the third review of the rescue package. “The
economy is showing signs of stabilization and financial market
conditions have also recently improved.”  “Ireland’s economy, however, faces a weakening in trading
partner growth, which could dampen the pace of Ireland’s
recovery in the near term,” the IMF statement continued.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  