-- 
IMF Said to Oppose Push for Greek Collateral

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-02T15:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/imf-said-to-oppose-push-for-greek-collateral.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
opposes European plans to force Greece to put up collateral in
its second rescue, said four people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  The use of collateral, a concession to win Finland’s
backing for 109 billion euros ($155 billion) of loans pledged by
euro leaders in July, would deny the IMF priority creditor
status and violate Greek bondholders’ rights, said the people,
who declined to be named because the talks are in progress.  IMF objections threaten to snag  Europe ’s crisis-management
effort after aid of 256 billion euros for Greece, Ireland and
Portugal failed to restore order. Europe also faces hurdles in
trying to widen the powers of its rescue fund, with German
lawmakers demanding a veto over its operations.  The 17-country euro area’s troubles “are going to get
worse, not better,”  Nouriel Roubini , a professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business, told reporters in
Cernobbio,  Italy  today. “We’re in this vicious circle which is
likely to have systemic effects in the euro region.”  Greece’s predicament deepened today with the forecast of a
worsening economic contraction and a two-week suspension of a
European-IMF economic review mission to give the government time
to plot a pro-growth course. Two-year Greek yields rose today
above 47 percent, a euro-era record.  IMF spokesman  David Hawley  had “no specific comment” on
the European collateral discussion at an  Aug. 25 press
conference  in Washington. Another spokeswoman,  Conny Lotze ,
declined to go further when contacted by e-mail today.  Summit Agreement  Collateral was one element of the second Greek package set
up on July 21. Also at that summit, euro leaders agreed to give
the main rescue fund, the 440 billion-euro  European Financial
Stability Facility , the power to offer precautionary credit
lines, recapitalize banks and buy bonds in the secondary market.  Initial market gains dissipated, leading the  European
Central Bank  to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds on Aug.
8. Bond yields also climbed in  France , bringing the threat
closer to Europe’s core and forcing President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
into a pre-election austerity package.  Europe’s relations with the IMF, contributor of a third of
the bailout money so far, have worsened as the crisis drags on.
Trans-Atlantic miscommunication complicated Greece’s payout in
July, and officials from emerging economies such as  Brazil  have
questioned the fund’s exposure to Europe.  Negotiations on the issue continue Sept. 5 with visits by
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  to Helsinki and
Berlin, and Sept. 6 with a meeting of the Finnish, Dutch and
German finance ministers in Berlin.  Finland’s Push  Throughout August, AAA rated Finland was at center stage
with its pursuit of collateral, the product of a June coalition
accord by new Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  after an election
marked by an anti-bailout backlash.  Acting on Europe’s July endorsement of collateral “where
appropriate,” Finland on Aug. 16 got  Greece  to offer a cash
deposit, in a side deal it was forced to tear up after countries
such as Austria balked.  Finland shrugged off pressure to back away today, with
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen obtaining support for the
collateral bid from a parliamentary oversight committee. The
government is looking to shape a deal that finds European favor.  Slovakia and Slovenia plan to piggyback on any arrangement
negotiated by the Finns and the Dutch and Austrian governments
may follow suit, further fraying attempts to forge a united
anti-crisis stance.  Next Payment  Finland’s guarantees for the second Greek package are about
1 billion euros. Its demands won’t derail an 8 billion-euro
disbursement due to Greece later this month because it will be
paid out under the first program, negotiated by European leaders
and the IMF in May 2010.  In the IMF’s view, stringent conditions such as spending
cuts and tax increases are a better way than collateral of
keeping Greece in line, the people said. Collateral would also
run afoul of so-called negative pledge clauses in Greek bonds
that bar the Greek government from issuing more senior claims,
the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  