-- 
IMF Says Spillover Effects Most Prominent in Financial Markets

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-02T18:30:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/imf-says-spillover-effects-most-prominent-in-financial-markets.html
Major economies’ policies can have
spillover effects, primarily through financial-market channels,
in neighboring countries and in emerging markets, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The magnitude of spillovers, stemming from both monetary
and fiscal policies, is determined by financial market
conditions, the Washington-based lender said today in a report.
The impact is less prominent in areas such as international
trade, the IMF said.  “The financial channel of transmission is far more
important than any direct effect that monetary or fiscal policy
may have,” Ranjit Teja, deputy director of the IMF’s Strategy,
Policy and Review Department, told reporters on a conference
call. “You really do need to target policies at ameliorating
the stresses that are there in the financial sector.”  Spillover reports measure how one country’s fiscal and
monetary policies affect trade and financial markets in other
nations. The IMF said this analysis focused on the relationship
among so-called systemic economies --  China , the euro area,
 Japan , the U.K. and U.S. -- and some emerging markets.  The fund said it consulted with emerging-market economies
such as  Brazil ,  India  and  Russia  to gauge how industrialized
nations affect their domestic policies. Some of those emerging
nations told the IMF they were “net importers of spillovers.”  Lending, Risks  “The promotion of lending and risk taking through easy
monetary policy makes sense in sluggish advanced countries but
has complicated macroeconomic stabilization in booming emerging
markets,” the IMF said in the written report. “An area where
there is some tension between domestic and external goals
relates to monetary policy in advanced countries, notably in the
 United States .”  The report said that the biggest risk emanating from the
U.S., the world’s largest economy, is that eventual tightening
of monetary policy will “reverse the rise in emerging market
capital flows and currencies.” The  Federal Open Market
Committee  on Aug. 9 pledged to keep its target for overnight
loans among banks near zero until at least mid-2013.  The IMF also called for a trans-Atlantic approach to
regulation. “Given the importance of financial channels in the
propagation of global shocks, and the centrality of U.S.-U.K.-
European financial core, stronger and more coordinated
regulation in the core is essential,” the report said.  The “Consolidated Spillover Report” is the IMF’s first
comprehensive look at how some countries’ policies impact
others’. The IMF Executive Board will decide whether to continue
or expand the surveillance exercise, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  