-- 
Indian Manufacturing Expands at Slower Pace

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-02T06:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/indian-manufacturing-expands-at-slower-pace.html
India ’s manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace in 29 months in August, adding to signs of a global
slowdown and indicating interest-rate increases are curbing
consumer demand.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 52.6 from 53.6 in
July, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an e-mailed
statement today. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  Factory output has slumped in Asia and  Europe  as the global
recovery falters, leaving emerging markets facing the twin
threats of elevated price gains and slowing economic growth.
India’s inflation has exceeded 9 percent for eight straight
months, weathering 11 rate increases since mid-March 2010 even
as higher borrowing costs crimp domestic spending.  “Inflation will dominate the  Reserve Bank ’s agenda for now
more than growth,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , Mumbai-based chief
economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s .
“Inflation pressures are strong and there is a need for prices
to drop on a sustained basis.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 1.1 percent
as of 11:23 a.m. local time. The rupee strengthened 0.4 percent
against the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Recent reports showed euro-area manufacturing contracted
more than initially estimated in August while Chinese factory
output growth stayed near a 29-month low. Purchasing managers’
indexes for  Sweden , the U.K.,  South Korea  and Taiwan all
indicated contraction.  Growth Slowdown  In the U.S., manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
contracted in August by the most in more than two years as
orders plunged and factories shed workers, according to a report
last month from the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Europe’s debt crisis and slower U.S. expansion are clouding
the outlook for the global economy and have contributed to a
stock market decline that has wiped almost $7 trillion of shares
worldwide since the start of May.  Companies from UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG to Morgan
Stanley have cut estimates for Indian economic expansion. UBS
predicts 7.2 percent growth for 2011-2012, lower than an earlier
estimate of 7.5 percent.  At the same time, India’s benchmark wholesale-price
inflation rate has stayed above 9 percent since the start of
December. It was 9.22 percent in July after the government
allowed state-run companies such as Indian Oil Corp. to increase
diesel costs.  Higher raw-material prices led to the fastest rate of cost
inflation in four months in August, HSBC and Markit said in a
statement.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised
rates by 0.5 percentage point to 8 percent on July 26. While
threats to growth could increase if global financial risks
amplify, the “immediate challenge to sustaining growth” lies
in taming inflation, the central bank said on Aug. 25.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the maker of almost half the cars
sold in the country, said it scaled back output of most models
in August because of poor demand. The company said last month it
may consider increasing prices to counter rising costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  