-- 
Indonesia Fails to Convince WTO on U.S. Clove-Cigarette Ban

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-09-03T04:54:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/indonesia-lost-bulk-of-wto-discrimination-case-on-u-s-clove-cigarette-ban.html
Indonesia  failed to prove that a U.S.
ban on clove cigarettes, designed to prevent teenagers from
starting to smoke, is unnecessary, a panel of World Trade
Organization judges said.  “The panel found that the ban is inconsistent with the
national-treatment obligation because it accords clove
cigarettes less favorable treatment than that accorded to
menthol-flavored cigarettes,” WTO judges in Geneva said in
their  report  yesterday. “However, the panel rejected
Indonesia’s second main claim, which was that the ban is
unnecessary.”  Indonesia argued that U.S. tobacco legislation, signed by
President  Barack Obama  in June 2009, breaks global trade rules
because it outlaws cloves and not the mint used to make menthol
cigarettes. Indonesia, the world’s largest producer of clove
cigarettes, or kreteks, made by companies such as PT Gudang
Garam, has exports valued at $500 million a year, a fifth of
which go to the U.S.  Menthol-flavored cigarettes that are produced by U.S.
manufacturers such as Altria Group Inc.’s Philip Morris USA and
 Lorillard Inc. (LO)  were exempted from the U.S. ban as part of a 2008
compromise by lawmakers that led Altria to endorse the
legislation. Menthol cigarettes, the most popular flavor,
constitute 20 percent of the U.S. market, according to Federal
Trade Commission  data .  Studies show that 17-year-olds are three times more likely
to use flavored cigarettes than people over 25, according to the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration .  ‘Scientific Evidence’  “The panel’s conclusion was based, in part, on its finding
that there is extensive scientific evidence supporting the
conclusion that banning clove and other flavored cigarettes
could contribute to reducing youth smoking,” the judges said on
the trade arbiter’s website.  When Indonesia lodged its complaint at the WTO in April
2010, the country’s trade minister, Mari Pangestu, said there
was “a discriminatory component” in the Obama administration’s
decision to exclude menthol from the cigarette-flavorings ban.  Indonesia says more than 6 million of its citizens depend
on the production of clove cigarettes. Cloves, native to the
Southeast Asian nation, are a spice taken from the dried flower
buds of a tropical tree.  No one was available at Indonesia’s mission in Geneva to
comment on the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 