-- 
Iowa Says State AG Accord Won’t Release Banks From Liability

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-02T21:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/iowa-s-miller-says-foreclosure-deal-won-t-release-banks-from-all-liability.html
The 50-state attorney general group
investigating mortgage foreclosure practices won’t release banks
from all civil, or any criminal, liability in a settlement, Iowa
Attorney General Tom Miller said.  Miller said criticism of the multistate case was based on
the “false notion” that its organizers were prepared to release
the banks from all liability, including criminal liability. New
York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  has been portrayed as
resisting that position, Miller wrote in a letter to New York
lawmakers who complained about Schneiderman’s removal from an
executive committee working on the agreement.  “The negotiation committee, working on behalf of all 50
states, does not have any intention of constraining the office
of the New York attorney general in any way, has not tried to do
so and could not do so,” Miller said. “Schneiderman was
removed from the executive committee because he has, over the
last several months, undermined our efforts to reach an
agreement.”  Schneiderman walked away from negotiations with the banks,
Miller said. A spokesman for Schneiderman, Danny Kanner,
declined to comment on Miller’s letter.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states last year announced
their investigation into the foreclosure practices of banks
following reports that faulty documents were being used to seize
homes.  Since then, a group of attorneys general and federal
officials, including from the Justice Department, have been
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers in the U.S. --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  Miller announced Aug. 23 that he removed Schneiderman from
the executive committee of the group. The New York legislators
said this removal set a dangerous precedent, stifling dissent
within the 50-state group.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  