-- 
Israel ‘Excessive’ in ‘Legal’ Block of Gaza Flotilla, UN Says

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-02T07:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/israel-s-gaza-blockade-found-legal-by-un-force-on-flotilla-was-excessive.html
Israel ’s effort last year to stop a
flotilla of ships from reaching the Gaza Strip was legal, though
the way it was carried out was “excessive and unreasonable,”
the  United Nations  said in a  report .  “Israel’s decision to board the vessels with such
substantial force at a great distance from the blockade zone and
with no final warning immediately prior to the boarding was
excessive and unreasonable,” according to the 105-page report
obtained by the New York Times and posted on its website. The UN
said Israel’s naval blockade was legal, so “it follows that
Israel was also entitled to enforce it.”  The Israeli raid on May 31, 2010, on vessels attempting to
breach the blockade of the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  left nine
Turkish citizens dead, generated international criticism and
prompted  Turkey  to suspend diplomatic and security cooperation.
Turkey was once Israel’s closest ally in the region.  The release of the report, which has been held back, may do
little to heal relations between nations. Turkey’s position is
that both the Israeli maritime blockade of Gaza and the attack
on the aid flotilla were unlawful.  Both countries were rebuked in the investigation.  “Although people are entitled to express their political
views, the flotilla acted recklessly in attempting to breach the
naval blockade,” the UN said in the report. “The majority of
the flotilla participants had no violent intentions, but there
exist serious questions about the conduct, true nature and
objectives of the flotilla organizers.”  Israel’s Account  Israel has said that in the confrontation, which followed
numerous warnings for the ships to change course, its soldiers
were attacked with knives and clubs after boarding the Mavi
Marmara, one of six vessels in the flotilla, and seven were
wounded, including by gunfire after volunteers aboard the ship
managed to grab Israeli firearms.  The report cited forensic evidence indicating that the dead
were shot “multiple times,” including in the back or at close
range. The findings also said Israeli soldiers faced
“significant, organized and violent resistance” from a group
of passengers on the vessel.  “The panel considers it important that an appropriate
statement of regret be made by Israel in respect of the incident
in light of its consequence,” the UN said. “Israel should
offer payment for the benefit of the deceased and injured
victims and their families.”  Turkey Demands Apology  That will probably frustrate Turkey, which demanded an
apology. Expressions of regret would fall short of Israel taking
responsibility for the deaths.  Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said yesterday that
Turkey’s position is clear and won’t change until Israel
apologizes, pays compensation and takes steps including the
lifting of the blockade, according to state-run Anatolia news
agency. Davutoglu will comment on the report’s findings and
Turkey’s relationship with Israel today at 11 a.m. in Ankara.  “Turkey didn’t expect an Israeli apology before the
report, and the fact that it said IDF response was excessive
will make the government feel even more comfortable in
challenging Israel on the Palestinian issue in all international
forums,” Kaan Nazli, director of emerging markets at Medley
Global Advisors in New York, said in an e-mail.  An Israeli official, speaking anonymously by phone because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on the record, said the UN report
clearly vindicates the Israeli position on the legality of the
naval blockade and its enforcement. The official didn’t address
parts of the report critical of Israeli action.  Legal Blockade  Israel has said the blockade is legal as it prevents the
smuggling of weapons into Gaza, which is controlled by the Hamas
movement. Hamas is designated a terrorist organization by the
U.S., the European Union and Israel. Several boats have tried to
breach the blockade since the May incident. All attempts were
diverted peacefully.  Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state and its leaders say they will renounce violence when
Israel withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Istanbul at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  