-- 
James Murdoch Says He Declined Bonus Awarded by News Corp.

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-09-02T19:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/james-murdoch-says-he-declined-bonus-awarded-by-news-corp-1-.html
James Murdoch,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s deputy
chief operating officer, declined a $6 million bonus in light of
the phone-hacking scandal at the company’s U.K. newspaper unit
he oversees.  “While the financial and operating performance metrics on
which the bonus decision was based are not associated with this
matter, I feel that declining the bonus is the right thing to
do,” Murdoch said in a statement.  Murdoch, the 38-year-old son of Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , is CEO of the News
International publishing unit and chairman of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the pay-TV service in which News Corp.
holds a 40 percent stake. His testimony over settlements he
authorized in the hacking scandal has been questioned by former
subordinates who will appear before Parliament on Sept. 6.  James Murdoch ’s compensation for the year ended June 30
totaled $17.9 million, including the $6 million bonus, a $3
million salary and $8.3 million in stock awards, according to a
proxy filing today. The total compensation represented a 74
percent increase from fiscal 2010.  Rupert Murdoch, 80, received $33.29 million by Securities
and Exchange Commission rules, up 47 percent from the previous
year’s $22.7 million.  The now-defunct News of the World has been accused of
hacking into the voice mails messages of murdered school girl
Milly Dowler, celebrities, athletes and politicians.  Canceled Speech  James Murdoch told lawmakers in July that he hadn’t
realized until late 2010 that phone hacking was widespread at
the tabloid. That’s been contradicted by Tom Crone and  Colin Myler , two former executives of the tabloid, who said they
informed him in 2008 about an e-mail that suggested more
reporters were involved.  News Corp. said yesterday that James Murdoch canceled a
Hong Kong speech scheduled for Sept. 6., the same day as Crone
and Myler will answer questions from U.K. lawmakers. James
Murdoch won’t attend the Asia Media Summit conference to focus
on events in the U.K., the company said.  While the hacking incidents took place before James Murdoch
started overseeing News International, he authorized settlements
to hacking victims that are now being questioned.  The scandal forced News Corp. to drop a 7.8 billion pound
($12.7 billion) bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB it doesn’t
already own.  News Corp., the owner of  Fox News  and the Twentieth Century
Fox film studio, is dealing with three probes by police and
regulators into phone hacking at the News of the World. At least
15 people have been arrested, including former News
International CEO Rebekah Brooks and ex-News of the World editor
 Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief
until January.  News Corp. lost 56 cents to $16.25 at 3:17 p.m.  New York 
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have
declined 10 percent since the hacking scandal broke on July 4.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 
Kenneth Wong 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  