-- 
JSW Steel to Run Plant at Capacity as Court Allows Ore Auctions

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 
2011-09-02T11:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/jsw-steel-to-run-plant-at-capacity-as-court-allows-ore-auctions.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-
biggest producer, said today’s court order, allowing the auction
of  iron ore  stockpiles in Karnataka, will help it run its 10
million metric ton plant in the state at full capacity.  Production at the Vijayanagar plant dropped to 80 percent
of capacity following the  Supreme Court ’s decision to curb iron
ore mining in the southern state, Director Vinod Nowal said
today by phone. The company expects the iron ore auction to
start next week, he said.  The  Supreme Court  banned iron-ore mining in the districts
of Tumkur and Chitradurga on Aug. 26 because of environment
degradation, following curbs on production from mines located at
Bellary, which accounts for almost 75 percent of the state’s
output. JSW, which owns the largest factory in south  India , buys
most of the iron ore needed from mines in the three districts.  The court on Aug. 5 allowed state-run NMDC Ltd. to mine 1
million tons of ore a month at Bellary to meet the requirement
of local steelmakers. Today, it permitted monthly auctions of
1.5 million tons of iron ore from stockpiles of 25 million tons
in the state.  The auction will begin after steel companies in the state
submit details of their requirement, according to today’s
decision by a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice Sarosh Homi Kapadia. The court asked steel companies to form an
association and work out a rehabilitation program in three
months so that regulated mining could be allowed.  JSW Steel shares today rose 6.6 percent, the most in six
months, to 722.95 rupees. The shares have declined 39 percent
this year, compared with an 18 percent drop in the benchmark
Sensitive Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
PS Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net  