-- 
Korean Won Has Best Week in Five Months on Inflation Fight

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-02T07:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/korean-won-has-best-week-in-five-months-on-inflation-fight.html
South Korea ’s won had its biggest
weekly gain in five months after a pickup in inflation fanned
speculation policy makers will tolerate currency gains and U.S.
data bolstered confidence in the global recovery.  The currency snapped a five-day advance today before a U.S.
jobs report that analysts predict will show hiring in the
world’s biggest economy slowed in August. South Korea’s consumer
prices rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier last month after
increasing 4.7 percent in July, the government said yesterday.
That exceeded all 11 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  “Market players are expecting the government will allow
currency appreciation for some time to tame inflation,” said
David Choi, head of trading at Hana Bank in  Seoul . “The
currency fell today as some players judged recent gains were
excessive.”  The won advanced 1.8 percent this week, the most since the
five-day period ended April 1, to 1,063.03 per dollar as of the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency dropped 0.2 percent today even as central bank data
showed the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves increased $1.2
billion to a record $312.2 billion last month.  ‘Bit Feverish’  Appreciation in the won may slow as flagging exports put
economic growth targets out of reach, according to Citigroup
Inc. Exports, equivalent to about half of the economy, fell to
$46.4 billion last month from $50.6 billion in July, causing the
 trade surplus  to narrow to $821 million from $6.3 billion,
official data showed yesterday.  “The won looks a bit feverish compared to everything else,
given that we’re having questions on growth and exports,”
Patrick Perret-Green, head of rates and foreign exchange at
Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore , said in an interview yesterday. The
currency “looks to be getting ahead of itself,” he said.  Economists expect U.S. non-farm payrolls climbed by 68,000
last month after a 117,000 increase in July, based on the median
forecast in a survey.  The yield on South Korea’s 4 percent bonds due March 2016
fell five basis points this week to 3.56 percent, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc. That was the lowest level for a
benchmark five-year note since October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 