-- 
KSK Energy Says Dongfang Wind-Turbine Order Delayed by Approvals

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-02T03:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/ksk-energy-says-dongfang-wind-turbine-order-delayed-by-approvals.html
KSK Energy Ventures Ltd. (KSK) , an Indian
power-project developer, said a wind-turbine order it placed
with Dongfang Electric Corp., one of the largest overseas
contracts for a Chinese supplier, has been held up by permitting
issues.  “The Dongfang order couldn’t proceed yet because they have
completed only two out of three mandatory tests for undertaking
any global supplies,” KSK Energy said in an e-mailed response
to questions about the 250-megawatt order announced last
December. Dongfang expects to complete those requirements this
month, it said, without specifying who stipulated the tests.  Companies like Sinovel Wind Group Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. rank among the world’s top five turbine
makers mostly because of domestic demand. As growth slows at
home in the world’s largest wind market, Chinese suppliers are
focusing on expanding abroad, and Dongfang’s order with KSK was
“the first meaningful export contract,” CCB International
Securities Ltd., a unit of  China  Construction Bank, said in an
April report.  Dongfang, China’s third-largest maker of the wind
equipment, announced the $203 million contract to supply 166
units of its 1.5-megawatt, direct-drive  wind turbines  to
Hyderabad-based KSK Energy last year after Premier Wen Jiabao’s
visit to  New Delhi  that generated $16 billion of deals between
Indian and Chinese companies.　  KSK Energy has 71 megawatts of operational wind farms,
according to its  website . It plans to increase that to 300
megawatts by the end of this year, it said in December after
announcing the Dongfang order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  