-- 
Netflix Declines After Starz Walks Away From Streaming Deal

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-09-02T20:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/netflix-falls-after-starz-walks-from-talks-on-new-streaming-deal.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and DVD
rental service, fell the most in four months after  John Malone ’s
Starz LLC cable network ended contract renewal talks in a
standoff over pricing.  Netflix slid $20.16, or 8.6 percent, to $213.11 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market after Starz, part of
Liberty Media Corp., said yesterday it halted talks to renew an
online viewing deal. Liberty Media’s Starz tracking stock fell
$1.15, or 1.7 percent, to $66.18.  Starz had sought an additional levy on Netflix users for
its films and TV shows, and premium placement similar to deals
with cable and satellite services, according to a person briefed
on the talks who wouldn’t speak publicly.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second largest U.S. satellite-TV
provider, will introduce a Blockbuster streaming-movie service
to compete with Netflix next month, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the plans. The offering is expected to
include movies from Starz, said the person.  Netflix would be without online access to films from Sony
Pictures and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  if the Starz contract was to lapse
as scheduled on Feb. 28. The mail-order and online movie service
may lose as much as 15 percent of its 25 million subscribers
without Starz, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush
Securities in Los Angeles. Those would be in addition to
defections from a price increase that took effect yesterday.  “It’s a negotiating ploy, but an effective one since
Netflix simply cannot allow Starz to leave,” Pachter said in an
interview. “On the other hand, Starz needs to cut this deal”
to boost revenue.  Renewal Negotiations  As Netflix enters negotiations later this year to renew
other content deals, it will face demands for concessions that
give rights-holders a bigger cut of its revenue and more
prominence as partners, Pachter said.  The  Los Gatos , California-based company’s costs to acquire
content in 2012 will rise to more than $2 billion from about
$800 million this year, Pachter projected.  Starz Chief Executive Officer Chris Albrecht told analysts
on Aug. 9 that the pay-TV provider intended to position itself
as a premium provider of content.  “It’s very hard to draw analogies between what’s happened
on Netflix with Starz and what’s happening with more traditional
distributors, but we do think that going forward in any scenario
we need to maintain the premium nature of our products,”
Albrecht said.  Sony, Disney Films  Netflix had gained online access to newer films from  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and Disney through its streaming agreement with Englewood,
Colorado-based Starz, operator of the namesake and Encore cable
channels. Sony has already pulled its movies, after Starz
reached a cap in online viewing in June.  “We are confident we can take the money we had earmarked
for Starz renewal next year, and spend it with other content
providers to maintain or even improve the Netflix experience,”
 Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, said in an e-mail. He
declined to comment on the specifics of the negotiations.  Theano Apostolou, a spokesman for Starz, declined to
comment beyond the statement.  The Starz announcement coincided with yesterday’s effective
date for new Netflix prices that boost the combined cost of its
mail-order and streaming service by 60 percent.  Movies from Starz have become less important since Netflix
has licensed other films and TV shows for online viewing, Swasey
said. Starz makes up about 8 percent of Netflix’s online viewing
in the U.S., after the loss of Sony films, a share that is
expected to decline to 5 percent to 6 percent in the first
quarter, he said.  Time Before Expiration  “While we regret their decision to let our agreement lapse
next February, we are grateful for the early notice of their
decision, which will give us time to license other content
before Starz expires,” Swasey said in the statement.  Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in June
it “wouldn’t be shocking” to pay $300 million a year, or 10
times more, to renew the Starz rights.  Most of the major studios have signed contracts that give
cable networks exclusive access to movies. Netflix must wait for
those contracts to end or negotiate with the networks that, like
Starz, have additional online rights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  