-- 
New Orleans Levees Won’t Be Tested by Tropical Storm Lee, Officials Say

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-09-02T18:06:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/new-orleans-levees-won-t-be-tested-by-tropical-storm-lee-officials-say.html
New Orleans officials, bracing for
rain from Tropical Storm Lee in the  Gulf of Mexico , said they’re
confident a new drainage and pumping system will protect the
city from flooding following $10 billion of repairs.  No storm surge is expected, so the levees fortified after
devastation by  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005 won’t be tested, said
 Robert Turner , regional director of the Southeast Louisiana
Flood Protection Authority.  “I don’t have any major concerns with the pumping
capacity,” said Turner. “There is nothing we have seen that
would indicate there are any problems there.”  The storm, about 210 miles (340 kilometers) southwest of
the  Mississippi  River mouth, may reach Louisiana over the
weekend. Winds of almost 60 miles per hour were reported on oil
rigs north and east of the storm center at elevations of a few
hundred feet, the Miami-based National Hurricane Center said
today in an advisory.  After Katrina hit coastal  Louisiana  and Mississippi, a
storm surge as high as 14 feet (4.3 meters) broke through levees
and  caused flooding  as high as 20 feet in 80 percent of New
Orleans. Almost the entire population was displaced after homes
were destroyed.  ‘Ready to Defend’  After the repairs, the levee system is ready to withstand a
100-year flood, which has a 1 percent chance of occurring in any
given year, said Wade Habshey, a spokesman for the U.S.  Army
Corps  of Engineers. The 133 miles of levees that surround the
city have been raised and strengthened, he said.  “We’re ready to defend against a hurricane storm surge,”
Habshey said.  Still, there is still a chance the rebuilt levees may be
breached by a surge stronger than a 100-year-flood, Habshey and
Turner said. That would test the ability of the city’s drainage
and pumping system to carry the water away.  Sandy Rosenthal, president and founder of  Levees.org , a
group set up after Katrina to monitor the status of the
improvements, said she is satisfied with the work. Even so, she
is taking items from the first floor of her  New Orleans  home to
the second level and moving cars to higher ground.  “If the rain falls too fast, the pumps may not keep up,”
she said in a telephone interview. “We would expect floods. But
I wouldn’t expect the levees to break.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  