-- 
News Corp. Director Perkins Says He’s Leaving Company at 79 Because of Age

-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z ,   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-09-03T00:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/news-corp-names-breyer-to-board-as-directors-tom-perkins-cowley-depart.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  director  Tom Perkins  said
he resigned from the board because of his age, reducing the
number of independent directors at Rupert Murdoch’s media
company two months into a phone-hacking scandal.  Kenneth Cowley, also considered independent, won’t stand
for re-election, New York-based News Corp. said today in a
statement. James Breyer, a partner of venture capital firm  Accel
Partners , was nominated to join the board.  Together, the changes would reduce the board’s size to 15,
and lower the number of independent directors to eight from
nine. Perkins, 79, began to discuss stepping down several months
ago, he said today in an interview. A member since 1996, he is
News Corp.’s second-oldest director after 80-year-old Murdoch,
who is chairman and chief executive officer.  “We agreed that having two 80-year-olds on the board
wasn’t great corporate governance,” Perkins said. “This has
nothing to do with current events.”  News Corp. has faced shareholder criticism of board ties to
Murdoch, even among directors the company considers independent.  “An examination of News Corp.’s governance reveals several
areas of concern, including dual chairman/CEO role, a high
number of inside or affiliated directors, and a dual share class
structure,” Wespath Investment Management, wrote to lead
independent board member Roderick Eddington last month, on
behalf institutional investors who questioned the board’s
independence.  Dinh’s Role  Viet Dinh , the News Corp. independent director who serves
as a conduit to the panel created to cooperate with official
investigations, is godfather to the second child of Murdoch’s
son Lachlan.  The “management and standards” committee, established by
News Corp. in July, reports to board member and Executive Vice
President  Joel Klein , who then reports to Dinh.  Murdoch dismissed those concerns during a Aug. 10 earnings
call. “I don’t acknowledge,” he said. “I don’t plan changes.
It’s a very strong board, very often very critical, and we have
a lot of free-ranging discussions.”  The changes won’t affect his viewpoint on News Corp.’s
governance, said Christopher Marangi, a  fund manager  at Rye, New
York-based  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL) , which held 6.18 million non-
voting shares as of June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Murdoch’s Company’  “Some of the cosmetics are interesting but it doesn’t
change our view,” Marangi said in an interview. “It’s
Murdoch’s company and it will always be Murdoch’s company.”  Murdoch and his son James were questioned by British
lawmakers in July regarding phone-hacking allegations at the
News of the World tabloid. The scandal, which escalated in July
after disclosures that the newspaper intercepted the voice mails
of murder and terror victims, has led to the closure of the
newspaper and 15 arrests, and prompted the company to drop its
7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) bid for all of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Perkins, founding partner of venture capital firm Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, was among those who suggested that
Dinh serve as point man for the board’s role in News Corp.’s
response to the phone-hacking scandal, a person familiar with
the situation has said.  The venture capitalist had sought Dinh’s advice after
resigning from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s board in 2006 to protest
that company’s probe of media leaks. At the time Perkins accused
HP of illicitly obtaining his personal cell- and home-phone
records as part of its investigation.  Pressure on Klein  News Corp. directors, especially Dinh and Klein, are under
pressure to show that the board is independent, said a person
close to some News Corp. directors who is also knowledgeable
about governance issues. That’s what’s behind the resignations
of Perkins and Cowley, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private.  Cowley was a senior executive of News Corp.’s News Ltd.
subsidiary from 1964 to 1997, according to company filings. He
has been a director since 1979.  After Murdoch and Perkins, Cowley, 76, is News Corp.’s
third-oldest board member.  “It doesn’t make sense to stay on any public company board
after you are 80 unless you own the company,” said Perkins, who
turns 80 in January.  Show Independence  Calls to Cowley’s office in  Australia  were not returned.  Rupert Murdoch  controls News Corp. through an almost 40
percent stake in the voting shares.  Perkins said today he wrote an e-mail to director Andrew Stephen Bower Knight, a member of the  audit committee  on which
he also serves, several months ago, saying he wanted to resign.  “I told him that if Rupert really wants me to stay I will
but I really don’t want to,” Perkins said. “There’s no rancor
or discord.”  Perkins said he doesn’t expect Murdoch to give up his post
as CEO and chairman. If Murdoch suddenly is unable to fulfill
his duties as CEO, Deputy Chairman  Chase Carey  would be the
logical executive to succeed him, Perkins said.  “I completely support the family,” Perkins said. “If you
buy stock in News Corp. you accept the fact that it is a Murdoch
enterprise.”  Class A shares of News corp., whose assets include the
Twentieth Century Fox film studio, the Wall Street Journal and
the Fox television network, fell 54 cents to $16.27 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has gained 12 percent
this year.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  