-- 
Nokia, Borders, Firehouse, Angels: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-02T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/nokia-borders-firehouse-hells-angels-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  transferred about 2,000
patents and patent applications to  Mosaid Technologies Inc. (MSD) , a
Canadian owner of intellectual property in electronics, in a
move that may reduce administration costs.  Mosaid will keep one-third of revenue from the patents and
give two-thirds to Nokia and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , John Lindgren,
chief executive officer of the Ottawa-based company, said in an
interview. Microsoft has a partnership with Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia, which is using its software in smartphones.  “We pay nothing up front but we are responsible for all
the operating costs of the licensing activities,” Lindgren
said. “The compensation for this is our success in licensing
these patents in the market.”  Nokia, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones by units,
still has more than 30,000 patents and patent applications from
a research and development program that ranges from handset
design to nanotechnology. The assets sold to Mosaid include
about 1,200 patents classified as essential for current wireless
technologies and another 800 for implementations, Mosaid said in
a statement.  “This could be seen as Nokia outsourcing the management of
this collection of patents, with Mosaid taking care of any
lawsuits,” said Michael Schroeder, a Helsinki-based analyst
with FIM Bank. “It’s probably not Nokia’s core business to put
pressure on everyone else in the industry and collect licenses
and fight in court.”  The Finnish company retains a license to use the
transferred patents without paying royalties, said Mark Durrant,
a spokesman.  Mosaid expects that revenue from the intellectual-property
assets will exceed the Canadian company’s lifetime sales to date
of about $1 billion, Lindgren said. The patents are good for an
average of 10 to 11 years, he said.  Mosaid, founded in 1975, has earned all revenue since 2007
exclusively from licensing patents that it acquires and develops
through its own research, the CEO said.  “This portfolio is very deep and there is more than a
critical mass of fundamental IP here,” Lindgren said. “We
believe it’s as strong if not stronger than the recent Nortel
portfolio that was sold.”  Nortel Networks Corp., which a decade ago was North
America’s biggest maker of telephone equipment, was broken up
earlier this year after filing for bankruptcy in 2009. The
Mississauga, Ontario-based company agreed on June 30 to sell a
set of about 6,000 patents and patent applications to a group
composed of Microsoft,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , EMC
Corp., Ericsson AB and  Sony Corp. (6758)  for $4.5 billion.  The Nortel portfolio included about 500 essential patents,
Lindgren said.  “Licensees whose agreements are made before such
divestments will continue to benefit from their licenses,”
Durrant said in a statement. “The purchasers of Nokia
standards-essential patents must also assume the obligation to
grant licenses under fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Borders Group Sues Next Jump Inc. Over Use of Website  Borders Group Inc., the bankrupt book retailer, sued Next
Jump Inc. for trade-secret misappropriation and trademark
infringement over the use of a website.  Borders contends it had a contract with New York-based Next
Jump to operate the Borders rewards site and that Next Jump,
armed with a Borders client list, set up the OO.com website to
gain customers.  “There is a danger of imminent, irreparable harm to the
debtors’ estates” as a result of Next Jump’s use of the list
and infringement of Borders’ trademarks, lawyers for the company
said in a complaint filed Aug. 31 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan . Borders asked a  New York  bankruptcy judge to award
punitive damages in the case.  Borders, based in Ann Arbor, Michigan, filed for protection
from creditors Feb. 16, listing debt of $1.29 billion and assets
of $1.28 billion. The company is liquidating its assets.  The retailer lost business as customers switched to e-
readers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle, introduced in 2007.
Barnes & Noble invested in its own Nook device to attract
customers.  Officials of Next Jump weren’t immediately available to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Borders Group Inc. v. Next Jump Inc., 11ap2567,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The bankruptcy case is In re Borders Group Inc.,
11-10614, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Trademark  Firehouse Subs Got Trademark Through Fraud on USPTO, Jury Says  Firehouse Restaurant Group Inc., a Florida-based restaurant
chain with more than 350 outlets, lost an attempt to enforce
various Firehouse trademarks against a South Carolina restaurant
owned by a firefighter.  A jury in federal court in Florence, South Carolina, also
found that the Florida company obtained its Firehouse trademark
by fraud.  Scurmont LLC, which does business as  Calli Baker’s
Firehouse Bar & Grill  in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, claimed
it had been threatened with the possibility of trademark
infringement litigation by Firehouse Restaurant Group of
Jacksonville, Florida. Firehouse Restaurant Group does business
as  Firehouse Subs .  In the complaint filed in March 2009, Scurmont said the
term Firehouse was generic and used by many other food-service
operations in  places such as Arizona, Massachusetts, Wisconsin
and Pennsylvania. Scurmont has used the term for more than 20
years, it claimed.  The jury agreed and in an Aug. 19 verdict found that
Scurmont hadn’t infringed any of the marks belonging to the
Florida chain, and that the Firehouse Restaurant Group’s
Firehouse trademark was obtained through fraud on the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  Scurmont filed papers with the court Aug. 29 seeking
$484,986 in attorney fees and $16,947.53 in litigation costs.  The South Carolina company was represented by  Ammon T.
Lesher ,  Bernard S. Klowski Jr.,  and  Sarah Day Hurley  of  Turner
Padget Graham & Laney PA  of Greenville, South Carolina.  The case is Firehouse Restaurant Group Inc., v. Scurmont
LLC, 4:09-cv-00618-RBH, U.S. District Court, District of South
Carolina (Florence).  First Fake Versions of Winnipeg Jets’ Jerseys Seized by RCMP  In advance of the  Winnipeg Jets ’ home season opener Oct. 9,
 Canada ’s border service agents and the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police seized a shipment of fake jerseys bearing the hockey
team’s new logo, the Vancouver Sun  reported .  Other fakes that made it into the country are presently
being sold on various websites, according to the Sun.  Jets spokesman Scott Brown told the Sun that law
enforcement informed the team earlier this summer that its
jerseys would be popular counterfeit items.  The official jerseys are to be released shortly, and after
that, Brown said, it will be “very clear” which ones are
authentic and which ones are fakes, according to the Sun.  Hells Angels Sue Wildfox Couture for Trademark Infringement  Hells Angels Motorcycle Club , which last year sued fashion
design house  Alexander McQueen  and retail chain  Saks Inc. (SKS)  for
trademark infringement, filed a new infringement suit against a
Los Angeles-based sportswear company.  The Oakland, California-based motorcycle club aggressively
enforces its intellectual property rights. According to
Bloomberg data, the club has brought at least 15 trademark
infringement cases in the past decade against a wide range of
defendants including, in a 2006 dispute, the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   In the newest case, filed Aug. 23 in federal court in  San
Jose ,  California , the club is objecting to a t-shirt it says is
manufactured by  Wildfox Couture LLC  of Hollywood, California.
The shirt, identified on the Wildfox website as the “Hells
Angel Hippie Crewneck T,” featured a wing design on the back. A
text on the front of the shirt reading “My boyfriend’s a Hells
Angel,” according to the complaint.  Co-defendants with Wildfox are four named retailers --
including Amazon.com Inc. -- and 20 unnamed defendants. The club
claims it’s suffered “irreparable harm” from the manufacture
and sale of the shirt. When the wildfoxcouture.com website was
accessed Sept. 1, the Hells Angel shirt couldn’t be seen. Other
t-shirts, including one showing a rose-wreathed skull and listed
as “Dead Head” were listed for $77 to more than $100.  The club asked the court to order recall and destruction of
the allegedly infringing shirts, and for awards of money
damages, defendants’ profits attributable to the alleged
infringement, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Wildfox didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case against Alexander McQueen’s design house was
settled in March, according to court filings. Co-defendants in
that case -- Saks and Amazon’s Zappos unit -- settled in
February.  That case was Hells Angels Motorcycle Corp. v. Alexander Mc
Queen Trading Ltd., 2:10-cv-08029-CBM-MAN, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  The club is represented in its trademark disputes by  Fritz
Clapp  of Beverly Hills, who is general counsel for the Hells
Angels.  The new case is Hells Angels Motorcycle Corp. v. Wildfox
Couture LLC, 5:11-cv-04141-PSG, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  SAP Wins Bid to Reject $1.3 Billion Oracle Copyright Award  SAP AG (SAP) , the business software maker, won its bid to
overturn a $1.3 billion jury verdict awarded to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in
a copyright infringement lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
California, yesterday granted SAP’s motion to throw out the
award, finding it “grossly excessive.” She ruled that SAP
should get a new trial for damages if Oracle rejects her
decision to lower the award to $272 million.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, won a lawsuit in
November accusing SAP’s TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit of
making hundreds of thousands of illegal downloads and several
thousand copies of Oracle’s software to avoid paying licensing
fees and to steal customers. The award was the largest ever for
copyright infringement.  Oracle maintained at trial that its damages should
represent the value of a hypothetical license that the unit
would have had to pay for the software it infringed.  Such a license would never have existed between two fierce
competitors, so the damage award should have been based on
profits Oracle lost and SAP gained as a result of the
infringement, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said in court filings.
That number is from $28 million to $407.8 million, SAP said.  The case is Oracle Corp. v  SAP AG (SAP) , 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  FHRAI Challenge to Special Copyright Licensing Fees Rejected  An Indian hotel and restaurant industry group has lost its
challenge to special licensing fees performing rights groups
charge to license sound recordings for special events beyond the
annual license fee, the Financial Express  reported .  India ’s Supreme Court rejected the  Federation of Hotels and
Restaurants Association of India ’s request that the rights
societies be limited to charging only 15 percent for special
events above the regular annual license fee, according to the
Financial Express.  Lalid Bhasin, who represented the FHRAI in the case, had
argued that the law permitting the societies to charge the rates
it chose was unconstitutional as it gave the society
“uncontrolled, unregulated and unbridles powers,” the
Financial Express reported.  The federation had asked the court to strike down as
unconstitutional some sections of the copyright act related to
the rights groups and to withdraw their registrations, according
to the Financial Express.  NZ’s Copyright Law Puts Liability on Internet Account Owner  New Zealand’s new copyright law placing liability for
infringement on the owner of an Internet account went into
effect Aug. 1, the New Zealand Herald reported.  The new law, The Copyright Amendment Act 2011, requires
Internet service providers to issue warnings at the request of
content owners to customers accused of copyright infringement,
according to the Herald.  The mayor of Wellington, New Zealand, which began providing
free Internet access Sept. 1 in its central business district,
told the Herald that even though her city is funding the free
access, it’s not an ISP as defined by the new law.  Wellington is the first city in New Zealand to provide free
wireless Internet access in its business district, according to
the Herald.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Chadbourne & Parke Expands IP Practice, Hires Brian Pollack  Chadbourne & Parke LLP hired Brian R. Pollack for its IP
practice, the New York-based firm said in a  statement .  Pollack, who does IP litigation and strategy counseling,
joins from Boston’s Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP. He has
also previously practiced at  Chicago ’s Winston & Strawn LLP and
New York’s now-defunct Morgan & Finnegan LLP.  Before he was a lawyer, he was an engineer working at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Plasma Science and Fusion
Center, the Joint European Torus Nuclear Fusion Facility, the
Indian Point Nuclear Facility and Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory.  He has represented clients whose technologies have included
financial services systems, renewable and alternative energy
systems pollution control systems, polymer properties and
production, and mechanical and medical devices.  He has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering
from Manhattan College, masters degrees in nuclear engineering
and mechanical engineering from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and a law degree from Boston College.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  