-- 
NTN Says Wind-Power Bearing Sales to Beat Target on Fukushima

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-09-02T04:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/ntn-says-wind-power-bearing-sales-to-beat-target-on-fukushima.html
NTN Corp. (6472) , a Japanese maker of
bearings for cars and industrial gear, expects sales of the
devices used in wind-power generators to exceed target after the
Fukushima disaster spurred demand for alternative energy sources.  NTN may reach its revenue target for the specialized
bearings six months or a year earlier than previously estimated,
Shigeyoshi Takagi, president of the Osaka-based company, said in
an interview this week. The company had expected the segment to
rise six-fold in the three years ending March 2014, he said,
declining to give specific figures.  Meltdowns caused by damage from the March 11 tsunami at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Dai-ichi plant in Fukushima threw
Japan’s energy industry into disarray, prompting opposition to
providers’ plans to restart idle reactors. Tokyo Electric and
its next-biggest rival Kansai Electric Power Co., which serves
the Osaka area, asked users to cut electricity consumption by 15
percent over the peak summer demand period as they worked to
restore capacity.  “Attention is focused on clean energy sources after the
accident,” Takagi, 60, said. “Local governments in  Japan  may
accelerate moves to develop independent infrastructure for
renewable energy.”  Revenue from NTN’s industry machinery division, which
includes bearings for wind-power devices and aviation equipment,
accounts for about one-fifth of sales and may rise 45 percent to
144.5 billion yen ($1.88 billion) in three years, according to a
mid-term management plan announced Aug. 1. Most of the company’s
revenue is generated by bearings sold to automakers, including
Honda Motor Co.  French Wind Power  Demand for bearings for wind-power equipment may help
increase the proportion of NTN’s domestic sales to as much as 25
percent, up from 20 percent, Takagi said. Overseas demand, which
fell sharply after the recession triggered by the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc., started recovering last year, he
said.  NTN said last week it will invest 15 billion yen to build a
bearing plant in Nanjing,  China  to meet demand for bearings for
wind-power generators. It also plans to boost its production
capacity for large-sized bearings in 2013 in  France , where there
are plans to build a wind-power plants in the ocean.  Takagi said even France, where more than 75 percent of
electric power is generated by nuclear plants, may start
boosting the proportion of renewable energy soon.  “The consequences of the Fukushima disaster are being felt
by people worldwide,” he said.  NTN shares, down 10 percent this year compared with a 14
percent decline in the benchmark Topix Index, fell 1.8 percent
to 386 yen as of the 11 a.m. morning close on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net  