-- 
Obama Asks EPA to Withdraw Ozone Rules

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-02T19:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/obama-tells-epa-to-withdraw-ozone-air-quality-standards-hit-by-republicans.html
(Corrects Daley’s title in seventh paragraph.)  President  Barack Obama  quashed
proposed rules on ozone from the Environmental Protection
Agency, agreeing with Republicans and industry to withdraw the
costliest regulation being considered by the administration.  Obama said he is seeking to reduce regulatory burdens as
the economy recovers, and said the EPA would weigh tighter
standards on ozone, which causes smog, in two years.  “Ultimately, I did not support asking state and local
governments to begin implementing a new standard that will soon
be reconsidered,” Obama said today in a statement.  The EPA’s proposed regulations for ground-level ozone would
have revised rules issued during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration in 2008. EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson has said
those rules wouldn’t stand up to legal scrutiny. The EPA’s
proposal would have cost $19 billion to $90 billion, according
to the White House.  The EPA will revisit the ozone standard in 2013 as required
by law, Jackson said today in a statement. Business groups,
which joined Republicans to protest that environmental and other
U.S. rules under consideration would further weaken the economy,
applauded Obama’s decision, as health and environmental groups
derided it as capitulating to business.  “The Obama administration is caving to big polluters at
the expense of protecting the air we breathe,” Gene Karpinski,
president of the  League of Conservation Voters , an environmental
group, said today in an e-mailed statement. “This is a huge win
for corporate polluters and a huge loss for public health.”  ‘Good News’  Business group representatives had met Aug. 16 with White
House Chief of Staff  William Daley  to push their case for
scrapping the ozone changes. They said the costs would be much
greater than the administration estimated.  “The signal today was that message is being heard” by the
White House,  Jack Gerard , president of the  American Petroleum
Institute  in Washington, which represents companies such as
Exxon Mobil Corp., said in an interview. “These are the kinds
of signals that the economy and business needs to begin pulling
money off the sidelines and start investing.”  Obama, facing re-election next year, is under political
pressure on the economy, which the Labor Department today said
failed to add jobs last month. Unemployment remained at 9.1
percent, the department said.  The president is set to address Congress Sept. 8 to outline
plans for boosting hiring and economic growth as Republicans
criticize him for his policies, including rules and regulations
on business.  “This action alone will prevent more job losses than any
speech the president has given,” Senator  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky , the top Republican in the Senate, said in a statement.  Republican Votes Planned  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, asked Obama
last week to detail the estimated cost of regulations proposed
by the administration, and Republicans say they plan a series of
votes on measures to delay or prohibit environmental or labor
protections they blame for a weak economy. The EPA’s ozone
proposal was the costliest of seven rules identified by the
administration.  “This sudden admission by President Obama that ill-
considered regulations do, in fact, have a negative impact upon
our economy is a welcome breakthrough,” Representative  Fred
Upton , a Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Energy
and Commerce Committee, said in a statement. His committee is
scheduled to vote on measures to scuttle two other EPA proposals
next week.  The ozone rule has triggered conflicts between the Obama
administration and companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Dow
Chemical Co. over environmental regulation, in part because the
rules affect all industries in areas that the EPA deems exceed
the standards.  Ozone, Sun, Illness  Ozone is created when hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides
combine in the presence of sunlight. Fuel exhaust and vapors are
major sources of the chemicals.  The resulting pollution can contribute to breathing
difficulties, lung damage and reduced cardiovascular function,
according to the EPA’s website.  The proposed standards would apply to states and
localities, which will have to take steps to reduce pollutants
if the tighter restrictions make them fall out of compliance
with the federal ozone rules.  The EPA’s proposed regulations for ground-level ozone would
tighten the standard of 0.75 parts per million issued under Bush
in 2008.  The EPA’s outside science board had recommended that the
standard be lowered to 0.60 to 0.70 parts per million, and that
is what the agency proposed in a preliminary proposal last year.  ‘Penalty Box’  “No matter where they would have fallen on that scale,
there’s no doubt they would have thrown large swaths of the
country into non-attainment, or the penalty box,” said Ross
Eisenberg, counsel for environment and energy at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. Once that happens businesses need costly
permits or technologies to comply, he said.  Environmentalists counter that there is wide leeway under
the  Clean Air Act  to ensure that standards don’t hurt the
economy. In a separate meeting with Daley last month, they
handed him a study by the Center for American Progress, a
 Washington  group that advises Democrats, showing that areas
cited by the EPA in the past didn’t experience lower overall
economic growth.  The EPA’s own analysis found that imposing a standard of
0.70 parts per million would have a net positive impact on the
economy, as health benefits outweighed the costs to industry.  “The White House completely capitulated to an industry
lobbying campaign based on lies” that it would harm the
economy, said John Walke, clean-air director of the National
Resources Defense Council in Washington. “They found themselves
having to repeat those lies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  