-- 
Obama Re-Election Threat Spurs Search for New Ideas on Housing

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-09-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/obama-re-election-threat-spurs-search-for-new-ideas-on-housing.html
President  Barack Obama  and his aides
are increasingly worried that the ongoing housing crisis is
undermining an economic recovery and could become an obstacle to
his re-election.  The challenge is particularly acute in a handful of states
still reeling from foreclosures and declining property values.
Voters in those swing states -- including Florida,  Ohio  and
Nevada -- could decide whether Obama is re-elected.  Administration officials say they’re focusing renewed
energy on housing, drumming up new ideas and tweaking existing
programs to maximize their effect.  “We understand deeply how important the housing market is
to the economy and what an impact it has on struggling
homeowners,” said James Parrott, a senior adviser at the White
House’s  National Economic Council . “We’re thinking every day
about steps we can take.”  Almost three years into his term, Obama has failed to halt
the slide in  home prices  and the rising tide of foreclosures
that began in 2007. Home prices fell by 5.2 percent in July from
a year earlier, according to  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) , a data provider in
 Santa Ana , Calif., and last year brought a record 2.9 million
foreclosure filings.  Obama last addressed the nation’s housing woes in July,
acknowledging that his programs hadn’t lived up to expectations.  “We’re going back to the drawing board, talking to banks,
try to put some pressure on them to work with people who have
mortgages to see if we can make further adjustments, modify
loans more quickly, and also see if there may be circumstances
where reducing principal is appropriate,” Obama said from the
White House in an online town hall sponsored by Twitter Inc.  ‘Still Waiting’  Housing advocates are eager to see what comes of those
efforts.  “We’re still waiting,” said Janis Bowdler, director of
the wealth-building policy project at the National Council of La
Raza, an advocacy group that focuses on issues affecting
Latinos. “Now what?”  Housing, the nation’s largest asset class, has aided every
U.S. recovery but one, according to the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis . Even with record-low  interest rates , its five-year
drag on growth continues.  At the end of last year, more than 11 million households
had more debt on their homes than the properties were worth,
according to CoreLogic. Another 2.5 million had less than 5
percent equity in their houses. Those underwater borrowers can’t
move for a new job or better pay because they often can’t sell.  ‘ Ground Zero ’  “Housing is ground zero for the economy’s problems, high
unemployment and lost jobs,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist
at Moody’s Analytics Inc.  Underwater borrowers and the millions more who have lost
homes to repossession are clustered in states that will be up
for grabs in 2012. For them, Obama’s disappointing rescue
efforts -- including his signature Home Affordable Modification
Program, or HAMP -- could weigh heavily.  “They have a big problem,” Bowdler said. “All their eggs
went into the HAMP basket and HAMP didn’t cut it.”  When Obama presents his new jobs agenda in a speech to
Congress on Sept. 8, he’d be well-served to include a message
for Americans who have lost their homes or are struggling to
keep them, said Wade Henderson, president of the Leadership
Conference on Civil and Human Rights.  American Dream  “Housing, more than anything, reflects the belief in the
American dream,” Henderson said. “Homes lost to foreclosure,
by what appear to be illegitimate means, have done more to erode
confidence in that dream than anything.”  The administration has spent billions of dollars trying to
restore that confidence. A package of programs introduced in
February 2009 was aimed at freeing borrowers from risky loans,
clearing high-risk subprime mortgages out of the system and
preventing foreclosures.  Those loan-modification efforts were overwhelmed by design
flaws, lack of cooperation from banks and high demand from
homeowners, according to government officials, lawmakers and
watchdog groups. As of June, HAMP reported only 657,044
permanent modifications -- a fraction of the millions it was
designed to reach.  The Treasury Department’s Hardest-Hit Fund, established a
year later, allocated nearly $8 billion to prevent foreclosures
in states with plunging home values and concentrated
unemployment. Most of that money has yet to be spent as states
grapple with bureaucratic challenges and the complexities of the
mortgage finance system.  Smaller Steps  The administration continues to take smaller steps. In
July, the Department of Housing and Urban Development extended a
mortgage-payment break for jobless homeowners from three to 12
months for loans backed by the  Federal Housing Administration .  Last month, HUD and the Treasury Department joined the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  to appeal for ideas for coping
with the nearly quarter-million repossessed homes that the U.S.
government owns.  And HUD and the  Justice Department  are intent on reaching a
legal settlement with banks and mortgage companies over botched
foreclosures. Any deal, which would be reached in coordination
with state attorneys general, could direct as much as $20
billion to borrowers.  Still, the thousands of abandoned and devalued houses
scattered throughout the country remain a visible reminder of
the Wall Street excesses that fueled the subprime mortgage
crisis and helped drive the nation into recession.  ‘Afterthought’  “There’s a perception that housing has been a bit of an
afterthought” for the president, said Matt McDonald, an adviser
to Republican Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 presidential campaign.
“If you have a house on your block that has weeds overrunning
it and has been abandoned, that is a big deal in terms of
people’s perception about how the economy is doing.”  The biggest battleground state is  Florida , which delivers
29 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win a presidential
election. Obama took the state in 2008 with less than 51 percent
of the vote.  One in six Florida households were at least three months
behind on their mortgage payments as of June, a higher
percentage than in any other state, according to CoreLogic.
Florida voters have sided with the presidential winner in four
of the last five elections.  Ohio, another bellwether, has picked every presidential
winner since 1964. Obama won the state by 5 percentage points in
2008. Home values there fell again last year, according to
CoreLogic, and new foreclosures are on the rise.  Toss-Up States  In 2008, Obama easily won  Nevada ,  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania 
with double-digit margins. Those once reliably Democratic
states, now littered with foreclosures, are shaping up as
tossups.  Combined, homeowners in Florida, Ohio, Nevada, Michigan and
Pennsylvania received nearly a third of the nation’s 2.9 million
foreclosure notices last year. They hold 89 of the 270 electoral
votes needed to win the election.  Despite keen interest in doing more to address the housing
crisis, Obama has limited options. A divided Congress intent on
budget cutting has no appetite for another housing bailout.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the companies that own or
guarantee more than half of all U.S. loans, also present an
obstacle even though they are government controlled. The
companies’ conservator and chief regulator, Edward J. DeMarco,
has shown little or no interest in putting what are now taxpayer
assets at risk. That poses a particular problem for any effort
to encourage more refinancings of government-backed loans.  “It is important for the White House to proactively
approach these issues and make them a negative for the
Republicans,” said Chris LeHane, a political strategist for  Al Gore ’s presidential campaign in 2000. “Are you on the side of a
hard-working Nevada family and against Wall Street banks, or
standing with the Wall Street banks?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 