-- 
Lockheed Stealth Jet May Win Japan Deal

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   S a b i n e   P i r o n e   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-09-02T08:39:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/lockheed-stealth-jet-may-beat-boeing-eurofighter-for-japan-deal.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company, is counting on stealth technology to
beat  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Eurofighter GmbH in a Japanese fighter
contest that may be worth more than $4 billion.  The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter has better anti-radar
capabilities than Boeing’s  F-18 Super Hornet  and Eurofighter’s
Typhoon as it was specifically designed in a shape that would be
hard to detect, said Craig Caffrey, a London-based analyst at
IHS Jane’s DS Forecast, which advises defense suppliers. That
may give the plane an edge as Japan previously tried to buy
stealth fighters that can be used for spying as well as combat.  ‘Stealth capabilities are clearly an area of focus for the
Japanese,’’ Caffrey said. “It’s a key advantage for the F-35
over the rest of the competition.”  Japan  will accept bids this month to supply about 40
fighters as it bolsters air defenses to counter military
developments in  China  and North Korea. The contest comes as
Lockheed sheds jobs because of projected cuts in U.S. defense
spending, which may include a reduction in F-35 orders, and
after the Bethesda, Maryland-based company missed out on an $11
billion Indian order for fighters this year.  Decision This Year  Japan likely will choose a jet by year-end, said a Ministry
of Defense spokeswoman, who declined to be identified, citing
government policy. Deliveries are due to begin in 2016.  The order is unlikely to be affected by Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s new government, said the spokeswoman. Noda
announced today that Yasuo Ichikawa will be the new defense
minister.  The new aircraft will replace Boeing F-4s, which were last
assembled in Japan in 1981. Japan had a total of 362 fighter
jets as of March 31, according to the defense ministry’s
website.  Japan, which has the world’s sixth-largest  defense budget ,
is upgrading its air defenses as both Russia and China develop
stealth fighters and as  North Korea  works on improving its
ballistic missiles and developing nuclear weapons.  China will boost defense spending about 13 percent to 601.1
billion yuan ($93 billion) this year,  Li Zhaoxing , spokesman for
the National People’s Congress, said in March.  “China continues to rapidly expand and modernize its
military forces and the activities that it conducts in the
waters surrounding Japan are growing larger in scale and more
intense,” according to the latest Ministry of Defense annual
 white paper .  ‘Stalking Horse’  Japan’s Self-Defense Force has traditionally relied on U.S.
military hardware and that history has aided Lockheed and Boeing
in the current fighter contest by causing rival suppliers to sit
out the competition.  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , the French maker of
Rafale fighters, declined to participate because it didn’t want
to play “the role of a stalking horse,” according to Stephane
Fort, a spokesman.  The Rafale and the Typhoon were shortlisted in April for
 India ’s contract to buy 126 fighters.  Eurofighter  is a venture
between  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Finmeccanica SpA and European
Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co.  Japan signaled its interest in stealth by trying to buy
Lockheed’s F-22, IHS Jane’s Caffrey said. That failed because of
a U.S. export ban. The Super Hornet and Typhoon have features
that reduce their radar visibility to a lesser extent than the
 F-35 , which was designed with a greater focus on hitting targets
on the ground, he said.  Tsunami Damage  A handicap for Lockheed may be that development phase for
the F-35 has been extended by four years to 2016. Japan may want
aircraft sooner because 18 of its F-2s were damaged by the March
11 earthquake and tsunami, said  Richard Aboulafia , vice
president at Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based consultant.  “The F-35 is the leader in Japan, but with a big caveat,”
he said. The tsunami “has raised the prospect of an earlier
buy,” which may favor Boeing, he said.  Lockheed is “confident” of being able to deliver the jet
in 2016, said John Balderston, director of the project to sell
F-35s to Japan.  Yesterday, the U.S. Defense Department’s testing office
said that two of three F-35 models have a “design flaw” that
reduces the expected life of a wing structure to 1,200 hours
from an expected 8,000 hours. The F-35 program office and
Lockheed have conducted a safety assessment and concluded that a
failure of the part would not lead to wing failure, F-35 program
spokesman Joseph DellaVedova said in an e-mail.  “This is not considered a serious issue,” DellaVedova
said. The program office and Lockheed have developed retrofits
and new production improvements designed to extend the beam’s
life and correct “durability deficiencies,” he said.  U.S. Cuts?  Lockheed may also be hindered in Japan by possible cuts in
a U.S. order for more than 2,440 F-35s as the nation tries to
reduce its deficit. Changes to the $382 billion deal, the
Pentagon’s biggest procurement program, could affect the F-35’s
price, Lockheed CEO Bob Stevens said in a July 26 conference
call.  By contrast, Boeing is able to offer a fixed price for the
Super Hornet, which entered service in 1999, the Chicago-based
company said.  “We’re going to give them a price, and they know that’s
the price they’re going to pay,” said Phillip Mills, a Boeing
director who has worked on selling F-18s to Japan for six years.
He declined to name that price.  Boeing last year said it would offer F-18 Super Hornets to
the U.S. for $49.9 million each, down from $68 million in 2000.
The F-35, which has also been ordered by the U.K.,  Italy ,
 Netherlands  and  Turkey , costs about $133 million each in today’s
dollars, according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
Typhoons cost about 59 million euros ($84 million), according to
Eurofighter.  Local Production  An advantage for Eurofighter may be the chance for Japan to
pare a reliance on U.S. suppliers, said Douglas Barrie, a senior
fellow for military aerospace at the International Institute for
Strategic Studies in  London . More work on the Typhoon and the
Boeing fighter can also be subcontracted than on the F-35, which
could benefit Japanese companies, he said.  “You could basically have them licensed, built and
assembled in country,” Barrie said. “Industrial participation
is more of a challenge on the F-35” because the program wasn’t
designed with outsourcing in mind, he said.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  has built F-4s and F-15s
for Boeing. The Tokyo-based company,  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) 
and  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012)  have also worked with
Lockheed to supply F-2s, according to Lockheed’s  website .  Boeing Outsourcing  Boeing may offer as much as 80 percent of the work on its
planes to local suppliers, Mills said. Eurofighter will offer
assembly work and the opportunity to make high-technology parts,
which often are restricted in overseas defense deals because of
security concerns.  “There will be no ‘black boxes’ on the Typhoon,” said
Andy Latham, a vice president at London-based BAE Systems, which
is leading Eurofighter’s sales efforts in Japan. “Japan will be
able to build, modify, upgrade and support all elements of the
aircraft.”  Lockheed will allow Japanese companies to assemble jets,
Standridge said in June without elaborating. Coupled with the
F-35’s stealth capabilities that may be enough for Lockheed to
win the deal, said Isaku Okabe, an author of seven books on
Japan’s military and security.  “The Self-Defense Force have their eyes on the F-35,”
said Okabe. “They’ll buy it if they can stand the wait.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  