-- 
Oil Extends Drop After Jobs Data; Gulf of Mexico Rigs Shut as Storm Builds

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-02T12:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/oil-drops-before-u-s-jobs-data-gulf-of-mexico-rigs-shut-as-storm-builds.html
Oil dropped in  New York , trimming a
second weekly gain, as the U.S. failed to add jobs last month,
spurring bets that fuel consumption in the world’s largest
economy will suffer.  Futures extended losses after Labor Department data showed
employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August and the
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent. A tropical depression in the
 Gulf of Mexico  prompted companies including BP Plc and Exxon
Mobil Corp. to shut almost 6 percent of the area’s crude output.
The storm may approach the Louisiana coast this weekend,
according to the National Hurricane Center.  “The data is negative enough to believe there will be a
very slow recovery, and demand for oil is already weak,” said
 Eugen Weinberg , Frankfurt-based head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG, who forecasts Brent will average $100 a barrel
in the fourth quarter. “But it’s not a complete disaster. I
don’t think it’s enough to make the Federal Reserve move.”  Oil for October delivery fell as much as $2.65 a barrel, or
3 percent, to $86.28 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $86.41 at 1:34 p.m. London
time. The contract yesterday gained 12 cents to $88.93, the
highest close since Aug. 3. Prices are up 1.2 percent this week
and have gained 17 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $112.01, down
$2.28, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $25.68 to U.S. futures,
up from $25.58 at yesterday’s settlement and compared with a
record close of $26.21 on Aug. 19.  U.S. Payrolls Stagnate  Payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest reading
since September 2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that was less
than initially estimated, Labor Department data showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a rise of 65,000. New York oil dropped 7.2 percent
last month amid speculation the  U.S. economy  is slowing.  “Demand out of the U.S. is pretty flat at the moment,”
said  Gavin Wendt , founder of Mine Life Pty., an energy and
mining analyst based in Sydney. “The fear that supplies are
going to be impacted can increase the  risk premium  that’s
associated with crude.”  Storm Shuts Production  The tropical depression in the Gulf of Mexico was about 240
miles (385 kilometers) southwest of the Mississippi River mouth,
moving northwest at about 2 miles per hour with maximum winds of
35 mph, the Miami-based NHC said in an  advisory  issued before 5
a.m. East Coast time. The system may become a tropical storm
today before reaching  Louisiana  this weekend.  About 5.7 percent of Gulf oil production and 2.4 percent of
natural gas output has been shut, according to the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement. The Gulf
accounts for 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5 percent of
natural gas production.  BP is evacuating all personnel at platforms in the Gulf of
Mexico, according to a message on the company’s hurricane hot
line. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. removed workers from its Gulf
facilities and is shutting output at eight operating platforms.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc said it was evacuating employees from
most operations and has shut in some production, mainly from
subsea fields. Exxon Mobil pulled 140 workers from platforms and
shut in 11,000 barrels a day of liquids output.  Noble Corp. took about 300 workers from three of five
active rigs in the Gulf. ConocoPhillips evacuated all workers
and shut in output from the Magnolia platform, which averaged
daily production of 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent last year.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Katia was 750 miles east of
the northern Leeward Islands and moving west-northwest at almost
15 mph, the NHC said. Maximum sustained winds were unchanged at
70 mph, according to the center.  “Little change in strength is expected today, but Katia
could become a hurricane again over the weekend,” the center
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  