-- 
Crude Oil May Fall on Economy as Storm Passes, Survey of Analysts Shows

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-02T20:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/oil-may-fall-on-economic-recovery-concerns-as-storm-passes-survey-shows.html
Oil may fall next week after a storm
threatening  Gulf of Mexico  energy installations dissipates and
on concern that the global economic recovery is slowing, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Fifteen of 30 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast oil will
decline through Sept. 9. Ten respondents, or 33 percent,
predicted prices will increase and five estimated there will be
little change during the period. Last week 50 percent of
surveyed analysts projected a drop.  Crude traded near a one-month high in  New York  yesterday as
a depression in the Gulf of Mexico that became Tropical Storm
Lee today led energy companies to evacuate platforms and rigs. A
Chinese manufacturing index hovered near its lowest point in 29
months in August, the  China  Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said yesterday. President  Barack Obama  will outline a
plan for jobs growth in an address Sept. 8.  “The storm threat should subside next week, and the
concerns over the economy will intensify as the president
addresses the nation,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“Unemployment will continue to be a drag on energy prices.”  Production Affected  About 47.6 percent of crude oil production and 33 percent
of natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico has been shut in
as Lee approaches the Louisiana coast, according to estimates
today from the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and
Enforcement.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.9 in August,
compared with a 29-month low of 50.7 in July. A separate measure
released by HSBC Holdings Plc indicated a contraction for a
second month. Factory output in  Europe  shrank more than
initially estimated, according to surveys.  Obama plans to address a joint session of Congress on his
proposals to speed  job creation  while avoiding an increase in
the deficit. Republicans generally oppose increased spending or
boosts to revenue from taxes.  The Obama administration forecast yesterday that the
jobless rate will average 9.1 percent in 2011 and show little
change at 9 percent next year. It won’t fall below 6 percent
until 2016, the Office of Management and Budget said in an
update of its economic forecasts through August.  Unemployment Report  A Labor Department report today showed that payrolls were
unchanged last month, the weakest reading since September 2010.  “Slowing growth and the prospect of rising supply from
 Libya ” may curb prices, said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at
Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Libya’s anti-government rebels, who declared an end to the
42-year rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  last week, have pledged to
restore production which slumped to 60,000 barrels a day in July
from 1.7 million barrels in January, according to the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency .  Crude oil for October delivery increased $1.08, or 1.3
percent, to $86.45 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures are down 5.4 percent this year.  The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 48 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  