-- 
London Police Make 15th Arrest in News Corp. Phone-Hacking Investigation

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-02T16:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/london-police-make-15th-arrest-in-news-corp-phone-hacking-probe.html
London police investigating phone
hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s defunct News of the World tabloid said
they arrested a 30-year-old man on suspicion of conspiracy to
intercept voice-mail messages.  The unidentified man is the 15th person detained since the
Metropolitan Police renewed a probe of the newspaper in January.
The man voluntarily turned himself in at a north London police
station and was also detained on suspicion of attempting to
pervert the course of justice.  The police investigation, and revelations that the News of
the World hacked the voice mail of a murdered school girl, led
to News Corp.’s decision to close the tabloid and scrap a
planned bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Authorities
are also probing whether police officers were paid for news and
whether journalists hacked computers for stories.  Four former executives at News Corp.’s U.K. unit are
scheduled to testify Sept. 6 before Parliament, including two
men who challenged testimony given to lawmakers in July by  James Murdoch , the company’s deputy chief operating officer, about
details surrounding his knowledge of the scandal.  A spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.’s U.K. unit
declined to comment.  Brooks, Coulson  Previous arrests include former editors and journalists who
worked at the newspaper when private detective  Glenn Mulcaire 
was paid to hack into celebrities’ voice mails. Former News of
the World editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson  and former
managing editor Stuart Kuttner are among those that have been
questioned by policed this year.  A London police detective investigating the hacking was
also arrested last month over claims he leaked information about
the probe to the media. U.K. newspapers have on several
occasions published details of phone-hacking arrests before
public announcements were made.  The only person proved to have engaged in hacking with
Mulcaire is  Clive Goodman , the paper’s former royal reporter who
was jailed with the private eye in 2007. News Corp. was forced
to abandon its claim the hacking was limited to the men after
evidence from civil lawsuits showed the practice was more
widespread.  The names of other journalists who instructed Mulcaire to
hack into voice-mail were disclosed last week in a civil lawsuit
against the private detective and News Corp.’s U.K. unit. The
Metropolitan Police have applied to keep the names secret.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  