-- 
London Stock Exchange Is Holding Talks to Buy Clearinghouse LCH.Clearnet

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-09-02T16:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/london-stock-exchange-said-to-join-in-bidding-for-swaps-clearinghouse-lch.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  is
holding talks with LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. to buy all or part of
the world’s biggest clearinghouse for swaps as increased global
regulation of derivatives makes the business more profitable.  LSE’s approach to the London-based company creates a three-
way bidding war, challenging a similar move by Markit Group
Ltd., which provides data on swap prices.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
is also seeking a minority stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,
 Nasdaq  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said on June 17.  Interest in LCH intensified after Deutsche Boerse AG and
NYSE Euronext agreed to merge in February, creating the world’s
largest exchange operator by market value and winning a dominant
share of futures trading in  Europe .  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief
Executive Officer Duncan Niederauer said on June 1 that he was
working with Markit on its bid for LCH.Clearnet.  This would give “the LSE an integrated model and increased
scale at a time when Deutsche Boerse-NYSE could be about to
become the dominant force in European market infrastructure,”
wrote Karl Morris, analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in a
note today. Also, “it provides the conduit through which the
LSE can capture far more post-trade service revenue.”  LCH.Clearnet’s  SwapClear  began clearing interest-rate swaps
traded between banks in 1999. As of March it had cleared more
than $266 trillion in notional amounts of rate swaps, the
company said at the time.  LCH.Clearnet said on May 28 it had been approached about
“some form of possible business combination.” It held talks
with LSE, three people familiar with the matter said at that
time. LSE said May 31 it wasn’t in talks with LCH.Clearnet.  Market Consolidation  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet and  Deutsche Boerse ’s
 Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Exchange operators from  New York  to Frankfurt and  Singapore 
have sought takeovers to augment equity businesses after
regulation and automated trading eroded profit. Nasdaq, which
dropped a bid for NYSE Euronext, is the majority owner of
International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC, which opened in
January 2009 for interest-rate swap futures.  LSE’s offer values LCH at 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion),
the Financial Times reported, without saying where it got the
information. LSE fell 21.5 pence, or 2.3 percent, to 911 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, snapping eight days of gains.  The banks that created over-the-counter derivatives in the
1980s are seeking control over how the $601 trillion market
changes under new regulations in the U.S. and Europe.  Dodd-Frank Rules  The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that most swaps be processed by
clearinghouses and that all trades are reported to data
repositories. The European Union earlier this year moved closer
to adopting a clearing mandate for most interest-rate, credit-
default and other swaps.  As regulators urge more clearing for derivatives, exchanges
such as Deutsche Boerse, NYSE, Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
and  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which own clearinghouses or have the so-
called vertical model that locks in trading and post-trading,
are offering more services. The banks that dominate the market
are seeking to take stakes in clearinghouses or strike profit-
sharing agreements.  LSE, which tried and failed to buy the Canadian exchange
earlier this year, lags behind its rivals in the clearing
business.  The exchange is “in discussions with LCH.Clearnet
regarding a potential transaction,” LSE said in a statement on
the Regulatory News Service today, adding talks were at an early
stage. It gave no details on price or the size of stake sought.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  