-- 
Monsanto Corn Falls to Illinois Bugs as Investigation Widens

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-09-02T21:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/monsanto-corn-is-showing-illinois-insect-damage-as-investigation-widens.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s insect-killing corn
is toppling over in northwestern Illinois fields, a sign that
rootworms outside of Iowa may have developed resistance to the
genetically modified crop, according to one scientist.  Michael Gray , an agricultural entomologist at the
 University of Illinois  in Urbana, said he’s studying whether
western corn rootworms collected last month in Henry and
Whiteside counties are resistant to an insect-killing protein
derived from Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt, a natural
insecticide engineered into Monsanto corn.  The insects were collected in two fields where corn had
toppled after roots were eaten by rootworms, Gray said today.
Planting Bt corn year after year increases the odds that the
bugs will develop resistance to the insecticide, he said. While
the symptoms parallel bug resistance that’s been confirmed in
 Iowa , analysis of the Illinois insects won’t be complete until
next year, he said.  “Whatever is the cause, it is generating a lot of
concern.” Gray said in a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t say
at this point it’s just an isolated field here or there.”  Monsanto takes reports like Gray’s “seriously” and
follows up on all accounts of unexpected damage and other
performance questions, said Lee Quarles, a spokesman for the St.
Louis-based company. Monsanto’s monitoring hasn’t found rootworm
resistance to its Bt corn and the product is performing well on
more than 99 percent of acres planted, he said.  Preliminary Findings  Monsanto dropped $3.13, or 4.5 percent, to $65.80 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have fallen 5.5 percent this year.  Gray detailed his preliminary findings last week in the
university’s  Pest Management and Crop Development Bulletin . He
said he’s since been contacted by more farmers whose Bt corn is
succumbing to corn rootworms.  “It’s very, very significant damage,” Gray said.
“Producers buy these Bt hybrids to protect their root systems,
so it understandably makes them not very happy.”  In July, Iowa State University entomologist Aaron Gassmann
reported the first rootworms confirmed as being Bt-resistant,
which he found in four of the state’s cornfields.  Gray advised growers with performance problems to rotate
corn crops with soybeans and to plant corn with a different type
of Bt technology.  Monsanto’s SmartStax corn introduced last year is
engineered to produce a second Bt insecticide that, when used
with crop rotation and a refuge of non-Bt corn, will extend the
usefulness of the insect-fighting technology, Quarles said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 