-- 
Harrisburg Faces Limbo of Missed Payroll, Default, Takeover

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-02T14:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/pennsylvania-capital-faces-limbo-of-missed-payroll-bond-default-takeover.html
Harrisburg’s City Council has left
residents of  Pennsylvania ’s capital wondering what will become
of their struggling community, one so broke it may miss payroll,
skip bond payments and face a state takeover.  The council voted down a fiscal-rescue plan Aug. 31, the
second time in as many months it rejected a proposed way out
from under costs tied to a municipal incinerator that it can’t
afford. Without an influx of cash, Mayor  Linda Thompson  has said
the city won’t be able to issue paychecks and cover $3.3 million
due Sept. 15 on its general-obligation bonds.  Detective Jason Brinker, the 38-year-old head of the city’s
police union, said no one knows what’s coming next. The city may
lose state aid if it doesn’t put a fiscal recovery plan in place
by Sept. 6.  “It makes an already stressful job 100 times more
stressful,” Brinker said in an interview in the union’s
downtown office. “Now they’ve got to worry about, Can I pay the
mortgage, can I keep the heat on, can I feed my family.”  While U.S. communities have grappled with diminished tax
collections and state-aid cuts since the onset of recession in
2007, the capital city on the banks of the Susquehanna River
confronts fiscal difficulties all its own. It agreed to back
 project financing  for the money-losing incinerator, leaving
taxpayers on the hook for about $300 million, five times the
city’s budget.  Distressed City  Last year, Harrisburg entered Pennsylvania’s Act 47 aid
program for distressed communities, designed to help stave off
bankruptcy. In July, the council rejected a fiscal plan crafted
under the program, saying it would scarifice revenue-generating
assets without erasing enough debt. Thompson’s proposal was
similar. Opponents said it didn’t offer a permanent fix.  Rich Miller , an accountant and 20-year Harrisburg resident,
applauded the Aug. 31 rejection. While a vote for the mayor’s
plan would have moved the city a step toward getting more state
aid, he questioned that approach.  “I am not so sure the state had our best interests at
heart,” Miller said. “I think we should have filed for
bankruptcy. I think we would have gotten more bargaining
power.”  A law passed this year bars Harrisburg from seeking court
protection until July, under threat of a state-aid cut.  Seeking Cash  To deal with present cash needs, Thompson is seeking to
raise $7.5 million through an extension of leases on city
property to the Harrisburg Parking Authority, and by
accelerating about $3 million in state funds due next month. The
lease deal would require the authority to secure a loan, a
transaction Thompson said could be thrown into doubt by the
city’s political discord.  Thompson plans to provide more information next week on
progress toward securing needed cash this month, she said today.
An  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  unit insures the general-
obligation debt Harrisburg sold in 1997. The company entered
bankruptcy in November.  “The vote last night was devastating to the city,” said
Robert Philbin, a Thompson spokesman. He said the move may
hasten a state takeover. About a third of Harrisburg residents
live below the federal poverty level. The city faces a budget
deficit of about $6 million, or roughly 10 percent of spending.  “What now?” said Brinker, the detective. “That’s the
million-dollar question.”  A rejection of Thompson’s plan likely would leave the city
“mired in litigation and financial chaos,” Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, said last week in a letter to the mayor.
He suggested further “irresponsible economic-decision making”
by city officials would raise the probability of a takeover.  Takeover Legislation  A bill to do just that has been pushed by Republican
Senator Jeffrey E. Piccola of Susquehanna Township in Dauphin
County, which includes Harrisburg. Under the measure, a state-
appointed board would be put in charge of distressed cities that
fail to adopt recommended recovery plans.  “We’ve already waited too long and cannot afford to
further delay,” Piccola said in a statement.  Pressure is also coming from the county and bond insurer
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., which have both covered some
of Harrisburg’s incinerator obligations. Both have sought court
hearings this month on lawsuits to obtain city revenue and to
name a receiver for the trash-to-energy plant.  The threat of a fiscal takeover by the state unsettles some
residents.  A decline in municipal services, such as park and street
maintenance, has already begun, said James Brice, a hospital
custodian. He worries that may worsen under state control.  “This way, she’ll have the state telling her what to do,”
said Brice, 64, referring to Thompson. “If the state takes
over, a lot of people they pick to control Harrisburg, they
won’t live here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 