-- 
Permira Said to Be in Talks to Buy Alcatel-Lucent Genesys Unit

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-09-02T17:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/permira-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-alcatel-lucent-s-genesys-software-unit.html
Permira Advisers LLP, the London-
based buyout fund, is in talks to buy Alcatel-Lucent’s Genesys
software unit after deciding against a takeover of its entire
enterprise business, said a person with direct knowledge of the
situation.  Permira, which had been in exclusive talks to buy the
enterprise unit, is continuing non-exclusive talks for Genesys,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  Genesys  makes software for managing
customer call centers and is part of the enterprise unit.  Siemens Enterprise Communications, which has been folded
into a venture with Los Angeles-based private-equity firm Gores
Group LLC, dropped out of the talks to buy Alcatel-Lucent’s
enterprise unit about two months ago, said another person
familiar with the matter. Gores might still be interested in
some parts of the unit, the person said.  A spokesman for Gores declined to comment. Simon Poulter,
an Alcatel-Lucent spokesman, also declined to comment.  The Paris-based networking company has been looking for
buyers for the enterprise unit for several months, and a sale of
all of those assets may fetch about 1.5 billion euros ($2.1
billion), people close to the situation said on April 29.  Aspect Software, a portfolio company of Golden Gate Capital,
is also interested in Alcatel-Lucent’s enterprise business, the
Wall Street Journal reported earlier today. A Golden Gate
spokesman had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 