-- 
Phoenix Solar to Continue Without Strategic Investor, CEO Says

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 
2011-09-02T14:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/phoenix-solar-to-continue-without-strategic-investor-ceo-says.html
Phoenix Solar AG (PS4)  says it can weather
the decline in the solar energy market without a strategic
investor, even after considering mergers and acquisitions in
past years.  Phoenix Solar, which builds and sells solar plants, can
work “very positively over the next years in a stand-alone
mode,” Andreas Haenel, chief executive officer of the
Sulzemoos, Germany-based company, said today in a phone
interview. Buying up a smaller rival “is not the right choice
in a difficult market,” he said.  Slumping demand in  Europe  paired with falling prices for
photovoltaic solar technology is forcing companies to cut costs
by allying with competitors or closing operations in the biggest
consolidation in at least two years. Mergers and acquisitions
announced as of Aug. 30 totaled $3.3 billion, up 33 percent from
the $2.47 billion in all of last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Phoenix Solar seeks to grow outside the European market,
which may shrink by as much as 25 percent this year, Haenel
said. In  Italy , sales of roof-mounted panels didn’t develop as
expected, while large-scale projects may face difficulties amid
monthly cuts to subsidies and a capacity cap that makes grid
connectivity unpredictable, he said.  Demand in  Germany , the world’s biggest market, is expected
to become “much more dynamic” this month after it was
“comparatively weak” in July and August, Haenel said. Phoenix
Solar signed contracts this year worth about 100 million euros
($142 million) for large-scale plants in  France , he said.  The company last year opened a subsidiary in the U.S. and
has won about 20 megawatts worth of projects in Southeast-Asia
and the  Middle East  this year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  