-- 
Pimco, Goldman, RBC Say Bernanke to Revisit Operation Twist

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-02T19:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/pimco-goldman-rbc-say-fed-to-revisit-operation-twist-as-growth-slows.html
The  Federal Reserve  will seek to
narrow the difference between short- and long-term borrowing
rates as early as this month as stalled employment growth
threatens the recovery, according to Wall Street bond dealers
and the world’s biggest manager of fixed income funds.  Pacific Investment Management Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Royal Bank of Canada said they expect the central bank to
announce plans to raise the average maturity of its bond
portfolio by selling shorter-term debt and reinvesting proceeds
from maturing securities into longer-term bonds. The Fed
purchased $2.3 trillion of debt since 2008 in two previous
rounds of what’s become known as quantitative easing, or QE, to
drive rates lower and help spur growth.  “That will be the focus for the Fed in terms of policy
change come September,”  Bill Gross , manager of Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s $245 billion Total Return Fund,
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “We would stick in the five- to 10-year
area” to take advantage of demand from the Fed, Gross said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has cited extending the
average maturity as one of monetary stimulus tools available to
policy makers. Economists with the Fed’s regional bank in  San
Francisco  wrote in April that “Operation Twist,” a 1961
initiative by the central bank and President  John F. Kennedy ’s
administration, spawned a 0.15 percentage point reduction in
long-term Treasury yields.  Curve Flattens  The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell 13 basis points, or
0.13 percentage point, to 2 percent at 3:07 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields on two-year
notes rose 2 basis points to 0.20 percent, narrowing the so-
called yield curve to 1.80 percentage points.  “We are now assuming that the Fed will” sell shorter
maturity Treasuries to buy those due later,  Michael Cloherty ,
the head of U.S. rates strategy for fixed income and currencies
at Royal Bank of Canada in New York, wrote in a research report.
Goldman Sachs said that “following today’s worse-than-expected
jobs report,” the firm expects the  Federal Open Market
Committee  to announce a lengthening in the average maturity of
its holdings at the Sept. 20-21 meeting.  Payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest reading
since September 2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that was less
than initially estimated, Labor Department data showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a rise of 68,000. Hourly earnings and hours worked
both declined. The August data included a 48,000 drop in
information industry jobs, mostly reflecting striking Verizon
Communications Inc. workers.  Stimulus Risk  More stimulus from the Fed may not be beneficial because it
risks a political backlash that could threaten to undermine the
central bank and weaken the economy by driving up commodity
prices, Mohamed A. El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer and
co-chief investment officer with Gross, said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In The Loop” with Betty Liu.  “The balance between the benefits and cost and risks has
changed in an adverse manner,” El-Erian said. “At the end of
the day we will not be solving anything. We’ll just be
undermining the economy and a critical institution for the well
being for America.”  Governments should be focusing on creating growth rather
than reducing debt, Gross said. “To do it right now is almost
suicidal,” he said.  The economy expanded at a 1 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, the Commerce Department reported last month.
 Consumer spending  grew 0.4 percent, the smallest increase since
the last three months of 2009.  U.S. government bonds returned 2.8 percent in August, the
most since December 2008, as investors bet on slower growth and
sought a refuge from global financial market turmoil, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  