-- 
Financial Firms May Face EU Position Limits on Naked Sovereign Swaps

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-02T15:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/traders-may-face-position-limits-from-eu-on-naked-sovereign-default-swaps.html
Banks and financial firms may face
European Union limits on sales of so-called naked credit-default
swaps for sovereign debt as part of proposals to prevent the
products from exacerbating the region’s debt crisis.  Under the draft plans by the European Commission obtained
by Bloomberg News, traders would be banned from exceeding
thresholds set by the  European Securities and Markets Authority 
for buying insurance against default on sovereign debt they
don’t actually own.  ESMA would “establish for each sovereign issuer a position
limit for uncovered positions in credit-default swaps relating
to” that country, according to the document prepared for
negotiations on an EU short-selling law. National regulators
would submit data every six months to help ESMA set the
thresholds.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and lawmakers in
the European Parliament have called for the EU to ban naked
credit-default swaps on sovereign debt over concerns the
securities fueled the euro zone’s debt crisis. Germany already
has restrictions on using swaps to bet on sovereign defaults.  The European Union is also discussing related plans to curb
high-frequency trading in another attempt to prevent excessive
risk taking by traders.  High-Frequency Curbs  The requirements will include safeguards to prevent high-
frequency trades from “overloading” trading systems, generating
“erroneous orders” or “otherwise malfunctioning” in a way
that would create a disorderly market, according to a separate
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The need for curbs on sovereign CDS has been one of the
main dividing lines between the parliament and governments in
the 27-nation region in their attempt to agree on an EU short-
selling law.  While such a ban was included in the European Parliament’s
version of the draft law,  Germany  has been unable to win enough
support from other governments for a similar measure to be
included in their version of the text.  “The ability to impose position limits on uncovered
sovereign CDS for member states is a major erosion of
sovereignty and should only be done if and where individual
member states agree,”Syed Kamall, a U.K. lawmaker who
represents London in the European Parliament, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Bad News  Policy makers should “stop blaming the problems of Greece,
Spain and  Italy  on ‘speculation’ and short selling,” Kamall
said. “Short sellers are merely delivering the bad news that
there is little faith in the ability of these countries to
tackle their debt problems.”  The document was prepared for a negotiation session between
the council and parliament next week. The European Commission,
the EU’s executive arm, will also be represented at the meeting,
and is responsible for proposing possible compromises.  A spokeswoman at the European Commission couldn’t be
immediately reached to comment.  National regulators should be able to temporarily suspend
the position limits if they pose a threat to that nation’s
ability to sell its bonds, the document says. ESMA should
establish thresholds, linked to market liquidity, for when such
suspensions should be allowed, the document says.  The commission’s proposal “represents a compromise,”
Darren Fox, a financial-services lawyer at Simmons & Simmons LLP
in  London , said in an e-mail. “It might form the basis of an
eventual deal, as both sides are keen for the other aspects of
the proposed regulation to become law.”  Direct Impact  Traders may be exempted from the position limits if they
hold other securities whose value is “directly and immediately
impacted” by the government debt, the commission said in a
second, related, document seen by Bloomberg News.  If position limits are used as the basis for a deal on the
short-selling law “the $64,000 question will be: at what level
will ESMA set the thresholds?” Fox said. “Will they be
sensible or will they represent a real fetter on investors’
ability to pursue their trading strategies?”  In addition to naked CDS, governments and lawmakers are
negotiating on other aspects of the draft short-selling law,
including when regulators can introduce emergency curbs.  National regulators should be able to impose bans on short
selling of a company’s stock when the share price falls 10
percent or more in one day, the commission said in the second
document. This would be in addition to powers for regulators to
impose limits when they feel there is a threat to financial
stability or market confidence.  Naked Short Selling  Curbs should be placed on so-called naked short selling of
stocks by requiring traders to have “located” the shares they
need to complete their trades and to have a “reasonable
expectation” that they can acquire them, according to a
compromise document prepared for next week’s meeting by  Poland ,
which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and which will
represent governments at next week’s meeting.  EU states had previously resisted calls from the European
Parliament for traders to have to locate in advance the stocks
they intend to sell short. Naked short selling is when traders
short shares without ever actually taking possession of them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  