-- 
Rand Slides, Paring Weekly Gain, on U.S. Jobs Data; Yields at Record Low

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-09-02T14:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/rand-weakens-and-2015-yields-drop-to-record-low-on-global-growth-concerns.html
The rand declined for a second day
versus the dollar, paring its biggest weekly gain in six, after
a report showed U.S. employment stagnated in August, fueling
concern the world’s biggest economy is slowing. Bonds gained.  The rand weakened as much as 1.1 percent to 7.0683 per
dollar, and traded 0.9 percent down at 7.0538 as of 4:26 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy has
rallied 1.4 percent versus the dollar this week, the most since
the five days through July 22.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged in August, the weakest reading
since September 2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that was less
than initially estimated, Labor Department data showed today.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for an
increase of 65,000.  “This data reinforces the view that we’re heading for a
global slowdown,”  Michael Keenan , an analyst at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. “Emerging-market
exports will be under threat. We’re seeing a move back to safe
havens, out of risky assets.”  Emerging-market stocks fell the first time in six days, and
 South Africa ’s benchmark stock index slumped more than 2
percent, led by raw materials exporters including BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Anglo American Plc. Gold soared the most in four weeks
and U.S. Treasuries rallied.  Concern that weak demand in the U.S. may dim South Africa’s
export prospects outweighed speculation the data will persuade
the U.S. Federal Reserve to start a new round of monetary
easing, Keenan said. Two earlier rounds of bond-buying by the
Fed boosted demand for rand assets.  Bonds Rally  “Even though these poor figures heighten the risk that the
Fed may introduce additional monetary easing, investors will be
concerned that underlying demand is very weak,” Keenan said.
“If underlying demand is weak, emerging-markets exports will be
under threat and you can’t be too bullish about risky assets.”  If the rand breaches 7.07 per dollar today, it may weaken
to 7.17, Keenan said.  Bonds gained, with four-year yields falling to a record as
investors increased bets the central bank will reduce rates as
soon as November.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 climbed 15 cents to 124.909
rand, driving the yield down four basis points 6.382 percent.
The yield fell as low as 6.305 percent. The yield on the 6.75
percent securities declined seven basis points to 7.706 percent.  Investors increased rate-cut bets, with forward-rate
agreements starting in February retreating six basis points, or
0.06 percentage points to 5.17 percent, the lowest on record.  Benchmark Rate  The central bank will act “appropriately” to a
significant slowdown in the global economy,  Reserve Bank 
Governor Gill Marcus said on Aug. 23. An Aug. 30 report showed
South Africa’s economy grew an annualized 1.3 percent in the
second quarter, its slowest pace in almost two years, as
manufacturing and mining output plunged.  The Reserve Bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5.5 percent this year to help boost the recovery in
the nation’s economy, even as price pressures increased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  