-- 
Treasuries Poised for Weekly Advance

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-09-02T11:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/treasuries-hold-advance-before-reports-on-nonfarm-payrolls-unemployment.html
Treasuries headed for a weekly gain
before a report forecast to show U.S. companies created fewer
jobs in August and the  unemployment rate  exceeded 9 percent for
a fourth month, adding to signs the economy is slowing.  Yields on 10-year notes were poised for a fifth drop in six
weeks as European equities and U.S. stock-index futures fell
today, bolstering demand for safety. Two-year notes yielded 0.18
percent, below the upper range of the  Federal Reserve ’s target
rate, after the central bank pledged last month to keep
borrowing costs low until at least mid-2013.  “The market’s key focus is obviously the U.S. employment
report,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at
RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “But even if we saw
renewed signs of labor shedding, downside for risk must be
limited because the markets must just conclude that this would
increase chances of the Fed doing another round of monetary
easing.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes were unchanged at 2.13
percent at 7:18 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities due in August 2021
were at 99 30/32. The yields have fallen six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, this week after sinking to a record low
1.97 percent on Aug. 18.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1.9 percent today, and
futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.9 percent.
German government bonds rose, with the 10-year security yielding
2.08 percent.  Bond Returns  Treasuries returned 2.8 percent in August, the most since
the depths of the financial crisis in 2008, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  U.S. employers added 68,000 workers last month, down from
117,000 in July, according to the median forecast of 86
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s report from
the Labor Department.  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the slow pace
of recent hiring led them to cut their August payroll forecast
to 25,000. The revised estimate is down from a prior projection
of 50,000, they wrote in a note to clients yesterday. The
unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent, a separate Bloomberg News
survey predicts the Labor Department will say.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and 9 percent next year. President
 Barack Obama  will address a joint session of Congress on Sept. 8
on his plans to boost jobs and accelerate growth.  ‘Gloomy Prognosis’  “There’s a pretty gloomy prognosis for the  U.S. economy 
factored into the market, so today’s numbers would have to be
pretty weak for U.S. Treasury yields to move down to the lows we
saw a few weeks ago,” RIA’s Stamenkovic said.  Minutes of the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting released this week
showed some policy makers urged further action to stimulate the
sluggish economy, leading to speculation the central bank will
consider additional measures.  A few Fed policy makers, who weren’t identified, “felt
that recent economic developments justified a more substantial
move” beyond the pledge adopted at the meeting to hold
borrowing costs at zero to 0.25 percent, according to the
minutes. Policy makers will convene on Sept. 20-21 for a two-day
meeting that was originally scheduled to last just one day.  “It’s quite clear that the Fed is willing to provide more
stimulus,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and
strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “It looks
like the hurdle for a full-blown quantitative easing is too
high. Maybe they will shift the duration of the balance sheet,
selling short-term paper and purchasing long-dated Treasuries.”  Yields on 30-year bonds, which are most sensitive to
inflation, increased two basis points to 3.51 percent today.
Five-year note yields were at 0.90 percent.  The so-called break-even rate, the difference in yield
between 10-year Treasuries and similarly dated inflation-indexed
 government bonds , was 2.09 percentage points today, after
shrinking on Aug. 18 to 1.96 percentage points, the narrowest
since October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  