-- 
U.S. 30-Year Yield Falls to January 2009 Low as August Employment Stalls

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-09-02T21:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/treasuries-rally-as-payrolls-report-shows-no-jobs-were-added-last-month.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields below 2 percent, as the government’s payrolls report
showed no jobs were added in August, stoking speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will increase its purchases of longer-
maturity debt.  U.S. 30-year yields fell to the lowest in since January
2009 as U.S. employment data were the weakest reading since
September 2010. Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s Aug. 9 meeting
released on Aug. 30 showed policy makers will debate stimulus
options at their September gathering. German government debt
rallied and credit defaults swaps rose, reflecting concern the
European debt crisis is worsening.  “The markets were expecting some positive rate of job
growth, and with that not materializing, everyone wants the
safety of Treasuries,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “The
nonexistent job growth has decreased fear of inflation and
replaced it with increased fear of recession.”  The 10-year note yield fell 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 1.99 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
2.125 percent security maturing in August 2021 rose 1 9/32, or
$12.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 8/32. The yield touched
1.9806 percent.  Thirty-year bond yields fell 20 basis points to 3.30
percent and two-year note yields rose two basis points to 0.20
percent.  Treasury Rally  The rally in Treasuries comes after government bonds
returned 2.8 percent in August, the most since the depths of the
financial crisis in December 2008, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  U.S. government debt  has returned
7.4 percent this year, compared with a 1.77 percent drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Benchmark 10-year yields declined 57 basis points last
month, the most since a 71 basis-point drop in December 2008,
touching a record low of 1.97 percent on Aug. 18. Two-year notes
have hovered at almost the record low 0.1568 percent after the
Fed pledged Aug. 9 to keep the fed funds rates in a zero to 0.25
range until at least mid-2013.  The rally comes as bond investors have reduced their
expectations for inflation as breakeven rates on Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, are hovering near the
lowest since October 2010. The breakeven inflation rate,
calculated from yield differences on 10-year Treasury notes and
inflation-indexed U.S. government bonds of similar maturity, has
fallen to 2.04 percent from a high this year of 2.65 percent
reached on April 11.  Economic Link  “The  U.S. economy  is dead in the water,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo
Capital Management in Milwaukee. “The Treasury market is
rallying. The hurdle was high for more accommodation, but it’s
not as high anymore.”  The yield curve, the difference between two- and 30-year
Treasury debt, narrowed to 310 basis points, the least in a
year, as the jobless data bolstered the view that Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  will be inclined to take addition steps beyond
the two previous rounds of debt buying, known as quantitative
easing, or QE.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said he
favors longer-maturity debt with the Fed likely to seek to
narrow the difference between short-and long-term borrowing
rates as employment growth stagnates.  Duration Play  “We’ve advocated hard duration, that basically means
something beyond five years,” Gross, manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The front end
of the curve, in the U.S. at least, is inert. You have to move
out into longer duration, harder duration.’  European sovereign default risk rose to a record after the
U.S. jobs data. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps insuring the debt of 15 governments rose 11
basis points to 310 at in  London , surpassing an all-time high
closing price of 308 on Aug. 26.  Greece ’s two-year notes extended their decline, pushing the
yield on the securities up to a euro-era record 46.5 percent in
London.  Germany ’s 10-year bond yield dropped to the lowest since
at least 1999 when the euro was introduced, touching 1.996
percent.  Jobs Data  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month after an 85,000 gain
in July that was less than initially estimated, Labor Department
data showed today in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of 68,000. The
 unemployment rate  was unchanged at 9.1 percent.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and 9 percent next year. President
Barack Obama will address a joint session of Congress on Sept. 8
on his plans to boost jobs and accelerate growth.  Data yesterday showed the Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index fell to 50.6 last month, the lowest level since
July 2009, from 50.9 in July, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
said today. Economists projected the gauge would drop to 48.5,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  “There isn’t much on the calendar that can materially
affect the now-lowered economic outlook for the rest of 2011 and
into 2012, which means rates should stay low within a range”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It certainly provides
cover for the Fed if they want to do more on the accommodation
front.”  Fed Minutes  Minutes from the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting released this week
showed some policy makers urged action to stimulate a sluggish
economy. A few Fed policy makers, who weren’t identified, “felt
that recent economic developments justified a more substantial
move” beyond the pledge to hold its key  interest rate  at a
record low at least until mid-2013, the minutes said.  Fed officials discussed a range of tools, including buying
more  government bonds  to bolster the economy without coming to
an agreement on what they might do next should the economy
weaken further. They will more fully debate their options when
they gather Sept. 20-21 for a two-day meeting that was
originally scheduled to last one day.  “Bernanke is going to have to carry the world on his
shoulders here, and everyone’s going to be looking for him and
the Fed to begin to deploy QE3 now,’ said Richard Schlanger, a
 money manager  at Pioneer Investments in  Boston , which invests
$20 billion in fixed-income securities. “These are definitely
shaky times. That’s why Treasuries continue to rally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  