-- 
Trichet Says Italy Must Confirm Commitment to Aug. 5 Austerity Measures

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 
2011-09-02T05:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/trichet-says-italy-must-confirm-commitment-to-aug-5-austerity-measures.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet said  Italy  must confirm its commitment to
the “overall goal” it announced on Aug. 5 to reduce its  budget
deficit .  “These measures decided by the government in its
announcement on 5 August are of extreme importance to rapidly
reduce public finance deficits and enhance the flexibility of
the Italian economy,” Trichet said in an interview with  Il Sole
24 Ore , according to a text published by the Frankfurt-based ECB.
“It is therefore of the essence that the overall goal in terms
of the public finance improvement that was announced be fully
confirmed and substantiated.”  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  on Aug. 29 agreed
to overhaul the 45 billion-euro ($66 billion) austerity plan of
Aug. 5, which had helped persuade the ECB to start buying
Italy’s bonds. While the full impact of the changes remain
unclear, Berlusconi dropped a tax on the highest earners and
limited funding cuts to regional governments to appease the
 Northern League , a key coalition ally opposed to parts the
original plan that aimed to balance the budget in 2013.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said yesterday that a
planned crackdown on  tax evasion  will offset lost revenue from a
levy on higher earners dropped from the package. The ECB is
watching with “great concern” how Italy progresses with budget
cuts, Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny told reporters last
night.  ‘No Negotiation’  Austerity measures are “decisive to consolidate and
reinforce the quality and the credibility of the Italian
strategy and of the Italian signature,” Trichet said.  Investor fears about the country’s debt load last month
pushed its bond yields to euro-era records. Since the ECB began
buying Italian securities, the yield on 10-year bonds has
dropped more than 100 basis points to 5.15 percent.  Trichet was asked if the ECB’s decision to enter the
Italian  bond market  on Aug. 8 was a quid pro quo for the Aug. 5
pledge of additional austerity measures.  “No. There was no negotiation,” he said. “We sent our
message based upon our analysis of the reasons for the market
disruption. We analyzed the decision taken by the government.
Our decision to activate our Securities Markets Program is
designed to help restore a better transmission of our monetary
policy.”  Asked if he has any tips for Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi , who will take over as ECB president on Nov. 1, Trichet
said: “What matters is the permanence of the institution. I am
certain that Mario Draghi will ensure the institution’s
continuity and credibility over the long term. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  