-- 
Clemens to Be Retried on Perjury Charges in Steroid Case, U.S. Judge Rules

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/roger-clemens-will-be-retried-on-steroid-perjury-charges-u-s-judge-rules.html
Former Major League Baseball pitcher
Roger Clemens must face another trial on charges that he lied to
Congress about using performance-enhancing drugs including
steroids, a federal judge in Washington said.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  said yesterday that
Clemens can be tried again because he couldn’t determine, based
on the record, that prosecutors intentionally caused a mistrial
in July by showing jurors barred evidence. The government was
two days into presenting its case at the time. Walton, ruling
from the bench, set jury selection for April 17.  “I just don’t find anything happened so early in the
proceedings that would give me the factual basis to conclude”
that the government “took the action they’re accused of by
goading the defense into a mistrial,” Walton said.  Walton said that he would consider a request by Clemens to
make the government pay his expenses stemming from the mistrial.  “I’m very troubled by fact that it cost Mr. Clemens a lot
of money to go through,” Walton said. “I don’t know what
authority I would have to require those expenses be reimbursed,
but I would entertain a defense motion. I think fundamental
fairness would be to reimburse him for those expenses.”  Clemens, 49, in a motion filed in July, argued that under
the U.S. Constitution he can’t face a jury twice for the same
crime. His lawyers allege that the experienced prosecutors on
the case intentionally provoked the mistrial after setbacks cast
doubt on whether Clemens could be convicted.  Weighing Appeal  Clemens’ lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , said they would decide
within days whether to seek an immediate appeal of Walton’s
ruling. Walton ended the first trial on July 14 after
prosecutors showed jurors a video clip containing information he
had ruled couldn’t be part of the government’s perjury and
obstruction case.  Shortly before Walton ruled, Steven Durham, the lead
prosecutor on the case and an assistant U.S. attorney in
Washington, apologized to Walton and said the mistake was not
purposeful.  “I feel I’ve let a lot of people down here,” Durham
said. “My father was in the courtroom on July 14. I would never
dishonor my family by violating a rule of the court. I would not
do that.”  Double Jeopardy  The video clip disclosure was an oversight so the double
jeopardy bar does not apply, David Goodhand, an appellate lawyer
in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Washington , told Walton. The
U.S. also alleged the defense team is partly to blame, because
they had the video clips “days prior” and didn’t object to the
clip being shown.  Michael Attanasio, another lawyer for Clemens, told Walton
that prosecutors made a “calculated end-run” around the
judge’s rulings in an effort to win a conviction or provoke a
mistrial.  “Something has gone wrong here and continues to this day
and that’s a win-at-all-cost mentality,” Attanasio told Walton.
“This was a tactical desire to get the upper hand and it is
beneath the dignity of the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  “We cannot let that go with a handshake,” Attanasio
added. “It’s too important to our client. They have walked over
him in an effort to start over and it’s not right.”  Obstructing Congress  The seven-time Cy Young Award winner is charged with one
count of obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts
of making false statements and two counts of perjury in
connection with a congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged
use of performance-enhancing drugs. If convicted on all charges,
he faces as long as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  The charges stem from Clemens’s statements to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or human growth hormone, according to the indictment.  Walton said that prosecutors violated a court order when
they showed the jury of 10 women and two men a video clip of a
2008 congressional hearing where the wife of government witness
 Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton ruled earlier that no
references to Laura Pettitte, or an affidavit she gave Congress,
could be made during the government’s case.  At the start of the trial, prosecutors said that Andy Pettitte, a former teammate, would testify about his close
relationship with Clemens and how Clemens told him in 1999 or
2000 that he had used human growth hormone. Clemens told
Congress that Pettitte “misremembered” the conversation.  Limited Evidence  Walton had limited the evidence from other players and
Laura Pettitte, and then prosecutors found themselves unprepared
to address newly discovered evidence that undermined the
credibility of the government’s key witness, Clemens’s former
trainer,  Brian McNamee , Hardin said in court papers.  Hardin requested the mistrial, explaining that a transcript
of hearing testimony detailing Laura Pettite’s affidavit
remained paused on the television screen in front of jurors for
several minutes while the lawyers met with Walton at the bench.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 