-- 
Ross’s 60%-Off Nikes Set to Overtake Gap With Thrifty Customers

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-09-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/ross-s-60-off-nikes-set-to-overtake-gap-with-thrifty-customers.html
Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  is gaining on
rivals as its 60 percent discounts on Calvin Klein shirts and
Nike sneakers win customers seeking bargains amid a slowing
economy.  At $8.74 billion in market value, Ross is about $78.5
million shy of overtaking  Gap Inc. (GPS) , while having a third of the
stores and no online sales. Ross shares have climbed 18 percent
this year, while Gap has dropped 28 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Balmuth keeps promotions
and fashion displays minimal to maintain low prices while
placing buyers in New York and  Los Angeles  to guarantee hip
merchandise. The strategy has worked amid high unemployment and
falling consumer confidence, and Ross last month raised its
forecast for profit this year after second-quarter sales gained
9.3 percent.  “Consumers haven’t ever fully recovered from 2008 and
tradedowns to cheaper merchandise aren’t embarrassing for people
anymore,” Pamela Quintiliano, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co.
in  New York , said in an interview. “As department stores
continue to restrain orders, factories in China are willing to
sell to Ross to stay in business.”  The first Ross location opened in San Bruno,  California , in
1957 as a full-priced department store. The chain shifted to
discounting in 1982 in the San Francisco Bay area. Business has
boomed steadily since the start of the recession, with sales
rising 41 percent since 2007 to $7.87 billion in the company’s
most recent fiscal year.  Ross Expansion  Ross now has about 1,000 locations, compared with 3,300 for
San Francisco-based Gap’s namesake,  Banana Republic ,  Old Navy ,
Piperlime and Athleta brands. Ross recently expanded to the
Midwest for the first time and will open 12 stores in the
Chicago area by October, Balmuth, 61, said on a conference call
last month.  Brittany Mohr, a spokeswoman for Pleasanton, California-
based Ross, said the company and executives declined to comment.  While Ross focuses on guaranteeing the best prices, Gap is
seeking to boost sales in its namesake line with a fall
advertising campaign to attract the twenty-something crowd.  The overhaul, led by Chief Marketing Officer Seth Farbman,
includes a new look for the stores, clothing and ads. Gap spent
13 percent more on marketing in the second quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Glenn Murphy said on a recent  call  with
investors. Product costs will increase 20 percent in the second
half, the company said.  Gap’s brands are expanding internationally, especially in
 China , and the stores’ design improvements will be evident by
the spring 2012 season, said  Louise Callagy , a spokeswoman.  Apparel Prices  Ross stands to benefit because higher apparel prices are
hurting its rivals, said  David Mann , an analyst at Johnson Rice
& Co. in  New Orleans .  “Ross is positioned well to benefit from an uncertain
macro environment and a period of rising apparel inflation,”
Mann said from New York. “The buying environment is highly
favorable for them.”  While Ross’s focus on lower-income consumers has worked so
far, it may be challenged if the recent market slump hurts its
customers even more, said  Howard Tubin , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York.  Confidence among U.S. consumers in August plunged to the
lowest level in more than two years, with the Conference Board’s
index slumping to 44.5, the weakest since April 2009, from a
revised 59.2 reading in July.  Unemployment Rate   The Labor Department was expected to say today that the
U.S. unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent last month, the
average estimate of 80 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. That
would mark the 25th month in the last 27 that the rate has been
at 9 percent or higher.  The chain also may struggle to expand in the U.S., Tubin
said in a telephone interview. Ross is mostly prevalent in the
West and South, regions without cold winters, and could struggle
providing merchandise for multiple seasons, he said.  For now, the retailer is benefiting from discount shoppers
seeking an adrenaline rush from the “treasure hunt” of sifting
through the store’s selection, Quintiliano said.  Shoppers at Gap and other specialty retailers have come to
expect discounts, and are more likely to leave an item they like
until it goes on sale elsewhere, she said.  “There’s a level of psychological excitement,” she said.
“You never know what you’re going to find.”  Lupe Soris, a 31-year-old cosmetologist, said she has been
shopping at the Ross location in Emeryville, California, for 11
years. She recently bought shoes for herself and her 3-year-old
son.  “It’s cheaper than J.C. Penney, Macy’s, Marshalls,” Soris
said. “And it’s good quality.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeran Wittenstein in  San Francisco  at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  