-- 
Brazil Interest Rate Cut an ‘Antidote’ for Currency Gains, Mantega Says

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-02T15:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/rousseff-s-risky-rate-cut-means-boosting-brazil-gdp-outweighs-inflation.html
This week’s reduction in Brazil’s
benchmark  interest rate  will help curb the appreciation of the
real, and economic conditions are in place for further cuts in
borrowing costs, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  For “the next two or three years, the conditions will be
there for rates to keep falling,” Mantega told reporters in  Sao
Paulo  today. “Falling rates are a good antidote for the gains
in the real.”  Brazil’s central bank cut its benchmark interest rate a
half point on Aug. 31 after raising borrowing costs at its five
previous meetings. The day before the decision, President  Dilma Rousseff  said interest rates should begin to fall as the
government reduces spending.  While the surprise rate cut will stimulate economic growth
in the fourth quarter and next year, Latin America’s biggest
economy doesn’t need any fresh anti-inflation measures, Mantega
said. The pace of price increases is slowing and will reach the
central bank’s 4.5 percent inflation rate target “some time”
next year, Mantega told reporters later in a conference call to
discuss  Brazil ’s second quarter economic performance.  Gross domestic product in the second quarter rose 3.1
percent from a year earlier, the national statistics agency
reported today. That’s in line with the 3.2 percent median
estimate of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. GDP expanded
0.8 percent from the first three months of the year.  The central bank, in a statement, said the second quarter
growth was in line with Brazil’s equilibrium pace.  Economic growth is likely to slow in the third quarter of
2011 then pick up in the last three months of the year, Mantega
said. Growth next year can reach as high as 5 percent, he said.  Rousseff’s administration is relying on a mix of higher
interest rates, spending cuts and so-called macro-prudential
policy aimed at curbing credit to contain inflation that ran at
a six-year high of 7.1 percent in August.  Mantega said the government didn’t exert pressure on the
central bank, which lacks independence like the  Federal Reserve 
or  European Central Bank , to cut the Selic rate to 12 percent.  “The Finance Ministry isn’t looking to interfere in rate
expectations,” Mantega said. “Brazil continues to have one of
the most conservative monetary policies in the world.”  A new round of quantitative easing by the Fed could bring
“problems” for Brazil and other emerging markets, by weakening
the  U.S. dollar  that’s at the source of what he called a global
“currency war.”  -- Editor: Richard Jarvie, Joshua Goodman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir at   aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  