-- 
Russia to Maintain ‘Optimal’ Oil Output, Boost Crude Exports

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-02T15:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/russia-to-maintain-optimal-oil-output-boost-crude-exports-1-.html
Russia  will probably maintain
“optimal” oil output of about 505 million metric tons a year
until 2020, while the new tax regime will help boost exports,
Deputy Energy Minister Sergei Kudryashov said.  He confirmed a 2011 output forecast of 509 million tons (10
million barrels a day) of oil and at least 665 billion cubic
meters of gas.  That output volume is possible with “today’s technology
and today’s level of recoverable reserves,” Kudryashov told
reporters today in Moscow. Production is optimal from the point
of view of taxes and the interests of investors and government.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has ordered tax incentives to
spur investment while calling for daily output to remain above
10 million barrels for at least the next decade. Oil is Russia’s
largest source of  tax revenue . Output peaked during the Soviet
era, reaching 11.48 million barrels a day in 1987, according to
BP Plc data.  Russia plans to introduce the so-called “60-66” tax
measure to spur investment in production of crude and quality
fuels. Levies will rise for heavy products such as fuel oil and
will and fall for light products such as diesel to 66 percent of
the crude duty starting from Oct. 1. The plan also calls for the
crude duty to be lowered to a coefficient of 60 percent.  Gasoline Tax  The higher tax on heavy products will cause a decline of 20
million to 25 million tons a year in primary refining in favor
of crude exports, Kudryashov said. The move will punish the
growing number of mini-refineries that produce  fuel oil , vacuum
gasoil and naphtha, products that aren’t consumed within Russia,
he said.  Such plants aren’t capable of producing motor fuels that
meet European standards and their products are shipped west  for
further refining, he said.  The gasoline tax will remain at 90 percent and may be
revised after October, he said  The energy and finance ministries are considering
compensating OAO  Tatneft (TATN)  and OAO Bashneft, which stand to lose
from increases in the export tax on heavy products, Kudryashov
said, declining to elaborate as the talks aren’t completed.  Russia’s gas output is expected to rise at least 2.2
percent to 665 billion cubic meters this year as independent
producers such as OAO Novatek ramp up production and Russia asks
oil producers to utilize associated gas found alongside crude,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  