-- 
Russia to Put Hundreds of Millions into Central Asia Energy

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-02T16:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/russia-seeks-entry-into-afghan-pakistani-tajik-energy-projects.html
Russia  is ready to invest “hundreds
of millions of dollars” to join high-voltage power line and gas
pipeline projects in Central Asia, President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said in the Tajik capital of Dushanbe.  Pakistan , Afghanistan and Tajikistan “welcome Russia’s
interest” in a gas pipeline project across the countries to
 India , according to a joint statement signed by Medvedev and the
countries’ leaders in Dushanbe. The statement also called for
accelerated construction of the CASA-1000 power project.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s government is seeking to
develop the country as a bridge for energy supplies from Central
Asia’s hydro-electrical and gas resources to the economies of
Pakistan and India. The U.S. has supported the efforts, seeking
to stabilize the country before pulling out its major combat
forces, a step it plans for 2014.  Tajikistan seeks to export electricity to  Afghanistan 
through a 220-kilovolt power line that will form the backbone of
the  CASA-1000  project. Afghan officials have said the line will
be extended to Pakistan, whose 180 million people face
electricity shortages of 3 to 4 gigawatts per day, leading to
blackouts that have lasted for 12 hours in cities, sparking
protests and riots.  “Tajikistan’s competitive advantage is hydropower,” said
Pakistani Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar. “Through CASA-
1000 you are letting Tajikistan use this competitive advantage.
This is a good thing.”  TAPI Gas Link  In December, Karzai, Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari
and officials from India and Turkmenistan signed an agreement to
build a 1,700-kilometer (1,050-mile) gas pipeline from
Turkmenistan’s gas fields to India. The TAPI project faces war
zones and insurgency along the route through Afghanistan and
Pakistan.  Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  told reporters in
October that the country’s gas export monopoly, OAO Gazprom,
might join the TAPI venture. Turkmenistan’s Foreign Ministry at
the time accused Russia of interfering in the country’s attempt
to develop international energy ties and said it had no
agreement with Russia about the pipeline.  Medvedev is holding a summit with Zardari, Karzai and Tajik
President Emomali Rakhmon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Dushanbe, Tajikistan at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  