-- 
Russia to Follow Brazil in Cutting Rates This Year, BofA Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-09-02T14:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/russia-to-follow-brazil-in-cutting-rates-this-year-bofa-says.html
Russia ’s central bank will cut its
main policy rate twice this year, reversing increases of
borrowing costs in 2011, Bank of America Corp. said.  Policy makers around the world are growing increasingly
concerned about a global slowdown as the U.S. is struggling to
stave off a recession. Brazil’s central bank unexpectedly cut
rates on Aug. 31, citing a “substantial deterioration” in the
global economy even as inflation accelerated every month this
year.  “Brazil’s surprise move intensified investors’ search for
rate-cut candidates in emerging  Europe ,  Middle East  and
Africa,” David Hauner, head of emerging-Europe strategy at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in London, said in an e-mailed note.  The two cuts in Russia, the first of which Bank of America
forecasts for the end of this month, will bring the main
refinancing rate to 7.75 percent by year-end, Hauner wrote. Bank
Rossii then will reduce the rate by another 75 basis points, to
7 percent next year, Hauner said. At next week’s policy meeting,
rates will remain on hold, according to Hauner.  Brazil  became the second emerging market to lower rates to
support growth after Turkey’s central bank cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low 5.75 percent after an unscheduled
meeting Aug. 4. Turkey will reduce rates another 75 basis points
this year as policy makers are “scrambling to stem a decline in
growth below potential,” Hauner wrote.  While Hungary also has room to cut rates, the central bank
will refrain from reductions until the second half of 2012 to
wait for a resolution of the euro-region debt crisis. Polish
policy makers will put off rate reductions until inflation slows
toward its target, according to Bank of America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  