-- 
Saad Group Investment Unit Sues Founder Al-Sanea in London Court

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-02T10:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/saad-group-investment-unit-sues-founder-al-sanea-in-london-court.html
The investment unit of  Saad Group , a
Saudi company whose businesses range from construction to health
care, sued its billionaire founder Maan al-Sanea, one of Saudi
Arabia’s richest men, in a U.K. court.  Saad Investments Company Ltd. filed the complaint yesterday
in the High Court in London and details of the allegations in
the suit weren’t immediately available. Tim Robertson of Cardew
Group, Saad’s external U.K. spokesman, declined to immediately
comment when reached today by phone.  Al-Sanea also faces global litigation with Saudi Arabia’s
Algosaibi family and their Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co.,
another group of companies spanning multiple industries.
Algosaibi has sued al-Sanea, who had married into the family, in
the  Cayman Islands , Saudi Arabia and  New York , accusing him of
heaping debt on the company by taking out fraudulent loans. Both
groups defaulted in 2009 after borrowing about $15.7 billion
from more than 80 banks.  Saad Investments was placed under a court-appointed
liquidator in the Cayman Islands in July 2009.  Algosaibi & Brothers was ordered by a U.K. judge in July to
disclose the company’s assets after it admitted liability in a
lawsuit filed by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and four other banks. The
company blamed the default on al-Sanea, who has regularly denied
the allegations.  That case, stemming from the largest Saudi default to come
out of the credit crunch, included an $85 million claim by HSBC,
British Arab Commercial Bank’s $19 million claim, two Arab
Banking Corp. claims totaling $140 million and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) ’s $6 million claim.  The case is Saad Investments Company Ltd. v. Maan
Abdulwahed Abulmajeed Al-Sanea, 2011-1037, High Court of Justice
(London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  