-- 
SABMiller Queries Foster’s Financial Statement

-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-02T08:53:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/sabmiller-questions-foster-s-financial-reports.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , which has made a
hostile $10 billion bid for  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) , questioned the
Australian brewer’s statements on its financial performance and
net debt in a submission to the country’s Takeover Panel.  The Australian government agency received the application
from SABMiller, according to a  statement  on the panel’s website.
A panel hasn’t been appointed and no decision has been made to
conduct proceedings, the government agency said.  SABMiller argues there is “no reasonable basis for several
forward-looking statements” in Foster’s fiscal 2011 results
presentation, according to the statement. The world’s second-
largest brewer by volume sought an order that Foster’s clarify
“misleading and deceptive” remarks.  Andrew Butcher, an external spokesman for Foster’s at
Butcher & Co. in  Melbourne , declined to comment on the
statements to the agency when reached by phone today.  Nigel Fairbrass , a London-based spokesman for SABMiller, declined to
comment beyond the statement.  “SAB is attempting to turn the temperature up,” Bernstein
Research analyst  Trevor Stirling  said by phone. “The objection
may have some technical merit but it doesn’t appear they have
found a black hole in Foster’s accounts.” Stirling has an
“outperform” rating on SAB.  ‘Sensible’ Bid  Foster’s closed unchanged at A$4.86, while the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index declined 1.5 percent. SABMiller shares fell as
much as 1.2 percent in London trading, and were down 10.5 pence,
or 0.5 percent, at 2,262 pence at 9:51 a.m.  Foster’s,  Australia ’s biggest brewer, has said it’s open to
discussing a “sensible” bid with SABMiller after rejecting an
A$4.90 per share offer as too low. SABMiller took its A$9.5
billion ($10 billion) bid directly to shareholders on Aug. 17.  “No information is provided to allow shareholders to test
the basis” of Foster’s forward-looking statements, SABMiller
said in the statement. The pro forma net debt number of A$887
million in the presentation is “inconsistent with Australian
accounting standards,” it said.  SABMiller asked for an interim order prohibiting Foster’s
from making similar statements while its application is
considered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  