-- 
Samsung Electronics Would ‘Never’ Pursue Purchase of WebOS, Says CEO Choi

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-02T07:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/samsung-electronics-says-it-won-t-pursue-hp-s-webos.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
second-largest maker of mobile phones, rejected speculation it
may buy  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s WebOS software used in handsets
and tablet computers.  The South Korean company will “never” pursue such a deal,
Chief Executive Officer Choi Gee Sung said in Berlin, where he’s
attending the IFA consumer electronics fair. The comment, made
to reporters in response to questions about analysts’
speculation of a possible purchase, was confirmed by Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Samsung in Seoul.  “It’s not right that acquiring an operating system is
becoming a fashion,” Choi said. Samsung, which has its own
mobile operating system called Bada, is working to boost its
software capability “harder than people outside think.”  Industry researchers including IDC had said Samsung may be
interested in acquiring WebOS to boost software assets, after
Hewlett-Packard announced a decision last month to stop making
products using the operating system.  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Facebook Inc.
may also be interested in buying the software, according to an
Aug. 22 note from research firm Ovum Ltd.  Both HTC and Facebook declined to comment in e-mailed
responses to queries. Clare Wareing, a Singapore-based public
relations official at Hewlett-Packard, wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  Hewlett-Packard’s plan to stop using WebOS in its products
is part of a shakeup that includes a possible spinoff of its
personal-computer division. The announcement fueled speculation
that Samsung may seek an acquisition of the PC business, which
the South Korean electronics maker also denied last month.  Licensing Deals  Hewlett-Packard gained WebOS in last year’s $1.2 billion
purchase of Palm Inc. The company plans to produce a final run
of its TouchPad tablet computer after a price cut to $99 from
$499 led to a surge in demand.  Hewlett-Packard is still considering partnerships and
licensing deals with manufacturers that may use the WebOS
software in their devices, Senior Vice President Stephen DeWitt
said last month. Samsung Electronics held talks to use WebOS in
its smartphones, according to three people with knowledge of the
discussions.  The U.S. company probably won’t find a partner because the
software offers little benefit compared with rival operating
systems, Ovum said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  