-- 
Sandvik Chief Delivers Deadline to Laggards in Company Revamp

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-09-02T08:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/sandvik-chief-delivers-deadline-to-laggards-in-company-revamp.html
Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest
maker of metal-cutting tools, said it will overhaul its
corporate structure and may sell its two least-profitable
divisions if they continue to underperform.  Sandvik will reorganize into five business areas from
three, the Sandviken, Sweden-based company said in a statement.
Construction and materials-technology divisions, whose products
include furnace and heating materials, will be divested unless
their profitability improves “significantly” over the next two
to three years, it said.  The restructuring is the first major move by Chief
Executive Officer Olof Faxander, who joined from Swedish
steelmaker SSAB on Feb. 1. Sandvik shares have plunged 35
percent this year prior to today, twice the drop for the OMX
Stockholm 30 Index, as some divisions struggled to lift margins.  “We need to act as one company and make sure that we
allocate resources and capital to the businesses where we get
the best return,” Faxander said in the statement. "Sandvik will
always have ambitious targets but there also has to be strong
commitment to reaching these targets."  Sandvik rose as much as 4.6 percent and was up 1.1 percent
at 86.7 kronor as of 9:30 a.m. in  Stockholm .  The materials technology unit had sales of 15.7 billion
kronor last year and an operating margin of 8 percent, the same
level of profitability as the construction subsidiary, which had
8 billion kronor in sales, accorded to figures provided by
Sandvik. Combined, the two units employ about 10,600 people.  The new organization, effective Jan. 1, also includes the
sale of parts of a medical-technology business. This is expected
to cost the company 1.2 billion kronor ($187 million) in
goodwill writedowns in the third quarter, it said.  Sandvik is also reshaping its management team from the
start of 2012 and relocated its headoffice to Stockholm. New
members include Tomas Nordahl, head of IT, sourcing and
strategy, and Gary Hughes, president of the mining division, it
said in a separate statement.  At SSAB, Faxander orchestrated the $7.7 billion purchase of
Ipso Inc., doubling the company’s output.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockhom at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  