-- 
SAP-Oracle, AT&T, Comcast-NBC, Goldman Sachs in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-09-02T10:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/sap-oracle-google-at-t-comcast-nbc-goldman-sachs-bofa-in-court-news.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, won its bid to overturn a jury’s
$1.3 billion award to Oracle Corp. in a copyright-infringement
lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
California, yesterday called the award “grossly excessive” and
granted SAP’s motion to throw it out. She ruled that SAP should
get a new trial for damages if Oracle rejects her decision to
reduce the amount to $272 million, which she said should be the
maximum in damages based on the evidence at trial.  “The verdict grossly exceeded the actual harm to Oracle,”
Hamilton said in the ruling. The jury verdict “was contrary to
the weight of the evidence, and was grossly excessive.”  The jury award in November was the largest ever for
copyright infringement. In the 11-day trial, Oracle accused
SAP’s TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit of making hundreds
of thousands of illegal downloads and several thousand copies of
Oracle’s software to avoid paying licensing fees in an effort to
steal customers.  “There was voluminous evidence regarding the massive scope
of the theft, clear involvement of SAP management in the
misconduct and the tremendous value of the IP stolen,”  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.
“We believe the jury got it right and we intend to pursue the
full measure of damages that we believe are owed to Oracle.”  SAP and Redwood City, California-based Oracle, the second-
biggest maker of business software, are competitors in the
market for programs that businesses use to automate payroll,
human resources, accounting and other tasks.  SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, didn’t contest that it was
liable for the infringement by TomorrowNow, which it closed in
2008. Jurors based their award on the value of a hypothetical
license that SAP would have needed to use Oracle’s software.  Such a license would never have existed between two fierce
competitors, so the damage award should have been based on
profits that Oracle lost and SAP gained as a result of the
infringement, SAP said in court filings. That amount was $28
million to $407.8 million, SAP said.  “We are very gratified with the court’s decision,” Jim
Dever, an SAP spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail. “We
believe the jury’s verdict was wrong and are pleased at the
significant reduction in damages.”  The case is  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  v.  SAP AG (SAP) , 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Google Wins Dismissal of Price-Shopping Site’s Antitrust Case  Google Inc., the biggest Internet search company, won the
dismissal of antitrust claims filed against it by a price-
comparison website that accused it of anticompetitive practices.  MyTriggers.com Inc. had responded to a 2009 Google lawsuit
seeking $335,000 in advertising payments by accusing the
Mountain View, California-based company of raising the minimum
price for keywords that would lead Google users to
MyTriggers.com, effectively eliminating it as a possible
competitor.  Judge John P. Bessey in Columbus rejected the countersuit
in a 14-page ruling Aug. 31.  “The counterclaim only alleges harm to MyTriggers
itself,” Bessey wrote, noting the company concedes Google does
business with other price-comparison websites. “Such an
allegation undercuts MyTriggers’ argument that competition as a
whole within the relevant market is being injured,” the judge
said.  MyTriggers’ legal team was aided by Charles F. “Rick” Rule, who has represented  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , and its claims were
supported by Ohio’s then-Attorney General Richard Cordray, who
recently became the head of the new U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  Neither Rule, who leads the antitrust practice group at New
York-based Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP, nor Cincinnati
attorney Stanley M. Chesley, who also represented MyTriggers,
immediately returned calls seeking comment on the decision.  Google’s media office didn’t immediately reply to an e-
mailed request for comment.  The case is Google Inc. v. MyTriggers.com Inc., 09-
cvh-10-14836, Franklin County, Ohio, Court of Common Pleas
(Columbus).  Agency May Have Violated Law With Microsoft Contract, Judge Says  A federal agency may have violated U.S. procurement laws
when it selected Microsoft Corp.’s products over  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
without full competition for a planned $59.3 million e-mail
services contract, a judge said.  Google, vying with Microsoft to gain a foothold in the $20
billion government cloud-computing market, sued the U.S.
Interior Department in October over the contract. In a complaint
filed in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, lawyers
for Google said the agency didn’t fully consider the company’s
“Google Apps for Government” product.  “There is a justifiable basis for me to find” violations
of procurement laws, Judge Susan Braden said yesterday at a
hearing.  Braden said she had written a 41-page opinion and will
issue it next week after deciding whether to require the agency
to hire an independent expert. That expert would evaluate
whether Google’s products meet the agency’s security needs, she
said.  “The public interest would be well-served by doing that,”
she said.  Braden ordered the Interior in January to hold off on
making an award while she considered the case.  Andrew Kovacs, a Google spokesman, declined to comment
after the hearing.  The case is Google Inc. v. U.S., 10-743, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  For more, click here.  Comcast-NBC Universal Merger Wins Approval From U.S. Judge  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s takeover of NBC Universal was approved by a
federal judge with conditions that will maintain the court’s
oversight of the deal for two more years.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon ruled yesterday in
Washington that the Justice Department and the combined company
must report to him on arbitration actions initiated by online
video distributors and the outcome of those proceedings.  “Since neither the court nor the parties has a crystal
ball to forecast” how the final judgment will work out, the
additional steps are needed to protect the public interest, Leon
wrote.  Comcast’s proposed acquisition of NBC Universal won
approval Jan. 18 from U.S. regulators under an agreement with
the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice
Department. Its terms, which needed court approval, imposed
conditions designed to protect the emerging online-video market.  Comcast is “pleased the court approved the consent
decree,” Sena Fitzmaurice, a spokeswoman for the Philadelphia-
based company, said in an e-mail.  Jessica Smith, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that the department also was pleased Leon ruled the
settlement “to be in the public interest.”  The case is U.S. v. Comcast, 11-cv-00106, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Goldman Trader Tourre Says Abacus Deal Done by Jersey Firms  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader  Fabrice Tourre , accused of
misleading investors in a collateralized debt obligation, said
in a court filing that  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB) ’s alleged
$150 million investment was actually made by two Jersey-based
companies.  Tourre wants to take testimony of witnesses at Loreley
Financing (Jersey) No. 29 Ltd. and Loreley Financing (Jersey)
No. 30 Ltd., according to the filing Aug. 31 in federal court in
Manhattan. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has said
Duesseldorf, Germany-based IKB made the investment in the CDO,
Abacus 2007-AC1.  “Discovery in this matter thus far has shown, however,
that IKB’s alleged $150 million investment was, in fact, made
by” the Jersey-based companies, Tourre’s lawyers wrote in the
filing.  On June 10, U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan
declined to dismiss the case against Tourre. The judge said the
SEC had met its burden for pursuing a claim that Tourre violated
a securities law designed to prevent fraudulent sales of
securities and should stand trial.  John Nester, an SEC spokesman; Jorg Chittka, an IKB
spokesman; and David Esseks, a lawyer for Tourre at Allen &
Overy LLP in  New York , declined to comment on the filing. Pamela Rogers Chepiga, another lawyer representing Tourre, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail after business hours
inquiring about the Jersey-based companies’ investments.  IKB advised Loreley on the investment, according to
Tourre’s filing.  The SEC initially sued the London-based trader in April
2010, saying he defrauded investors by not disclosing that hedge
fund Paulson & Co. had helped pick the underlying securities for
the CDO and planned to bet against them. After reaching a $550
million settlement with New York-based Goldman Sachs, the SEC
filed a new claim against Tourre, saying he gave the company
“substantial assistance” as it misled investors.  The SEC said IKB wouldn’t have invested if it had known of
Paulson’s involvement in the portfolio selection, according to
this week’s filing.  “IKB’s role was apparently limited to that of investment
adviser to the Loreley companies, in which capacity IKB could
only recommend to the directors of the Loreley companies that
they enter into securities transactions,” according to the
filing.  Yet the “factual record” in the case contains almost no
evidence of the Loreley companies, according to the filing.  Citing last year’s U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Morrison v.
National Australia Bank, Jones, in June, threw out some claims
involving IKB, which allegedly lost almost all of its $150
million investment, and ABN Amro Bank NV, which assumed the
credit risk associated with a portion of Abacus.  In Morrison, the high court ruled that U.S. securities laws
don’t protect foreign investors who buy stocks on overseas
exchanges.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  BofA Settlement Should Return to State Court, Judge Told  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  asked a federal judge to
return  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-
bond settlement to the New York state court where it had been
submitted for approval.  A group of bond investors moved the case to federal court
in Manhattan on Aug. 26, arguing that that court has
jurisdiction under federal class-action laws.  BNY Mellon, the trustee for 530 securitization trusts that
hold loans underlying the bonds asked U.S. District Judge
William Pauley yesterday to send the case back to state court in
Manhattan. Countrywide Financial, which originated the loans,
was acquired by Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
in 2008.  “There is no basis for removal” to federal court, Matthew
Ingber, a lawyer for BNY Mellon, told Pauley at yesterday’s
scheduling hearing. The judge said he will hear arguments on the
question on Sept. 21.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, pension funds and other investors have objected
to the settlement, saying they need more information to
determine whether it’s fair. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  has also protested the settlement, claiming the
state may have claims against Bank of America.  The $8.5 billion settlement, which was negotiated with a
group of institutional investors, including BlackRock Inc. and
Pacific Investment Management Co., would apply to all the
investors if approved.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  T-Mobile Antitrust Challenge Gives AT&T Little Recourse  AT&T Inc. (T)  wouldn’t have much luck trying to salvage its
proposed $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. through
negotiation with the U.S. Justice Department, leaving a court
fight as its only recourse, lawyers said.  The combination of the country’s second- and fourth-largest
wireless carriers would violate antitrust law and
“substantially lessen competition,” the U.S. said in a lawsuit
filed Aug. 31 in federal court in Washington. The Justice
Department asked U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to
block the deal, the largest announced acquisition of the year
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson in March
announced the proposed purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-
Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  If the transaction falls
apart, Dallas-based AT&T would owe the German carrier a breakup
fee and concessions worth as much as $7 billion.  “Given the size of the cancellation fee that was
negotiated into this agreement, AT&T has the incentive to
fight,” said Andrew Gavil, who teaches antitrust law at Howard
University in Washington. “The fact that the Justice Department
is challenging the deal doesn’t mean they won’t negotiate a
resolution at some point.”  Huvelle, the judge assigned to the case, has ruled against
the Justice Department in antitrust matters before. In 2001, the
judge allowed SunGard Data Systems Inc. to acquire Comdisco
Inc.’s disaster recovery business for $825 million, rejecting
U.S. arguments that the deal would hurt competition.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Sued by HSH Nordbank Over Mortgage Securities  HSH Nordbank AG sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to recover
damages it incurred after buying $159 million in mortgage-backed
securities from the New York bank that allegedly were less safe
an investment than advertised.  Mortgage loans underlying the securities posed a greater
credit risk and were more prone to default than represented,
Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank said in a summons filed yesterday in
New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan. Offering materials
contained “misrepresentations and omissions” regarding
underwriting standards for the loans, it said.  “The securities have performed worse than expected due to
the poorer-quality collateral, and defendants’ wrongdoing has
led directly to the plaintiffs’ damages,” said the German
lender, which was bailed out during the financial crisis.  HSH Nordbank said it’s seeking damages of at least $42
million.  Tasha Pelio, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is HSH Nordbank AG v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA,
652416-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Barclays Sued by Madoff Trustee Picard for $67.4 Million  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was sued for $67.4 million by the trustee
liquidating the money management firm of convicted Ponzi scheme
mastermind  Bernard Madoff , according to court records.  Trustee Irving Picard, who is seeking to recover money
transferred from Madoff’s company, also sued Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Holdings Inc. for $54.3 million,  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  for
$33.6 million, Cathay Life Insurance Co. for $41.7 million,
Banque Privee Espirito Santo SA for $11.4 million and  Banca
Carige SpA (CRG)  for $10.5 million.  All the transfers to the entities sued were derived from
investment made with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
by Fairfield Sentry, a Madoff feeder fund run by Fairfield
Greenwich Group, Picard said.  The funds the trustee seeks to recover from Barclays were
“transfers of customer property collectively made to the
Barclays defendants,” Picard wrote in the complaint against the
London-based bank.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence for running
the biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  The cases are Picard v. Barclays Bank (Suisse) SA, 11-
ap-2569, Picard v. Cathay Life Insurance Co., 11-ap-2568, Picard
v. Banca Carige SpA, 11-ap-2570, Picard v. Banque Privee
Espirito Santo SA, 11-ap-2571, Picard v. Korea Exchange Bank,
11-ap-2572, Picard v. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc., 11-
ap-2573, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Microsoft Sued by Woman Saying Company Tracks Phone Location  Microsoft Corp. was sued by a mobile phone user claiming
the company illegally tracks location information from mobile
devices in violation of state and federal privacy laws.  The company has designed its mobile operating software
Windows Phone 7 to track users’ location deceptively even after
users choose to disable the feature, according to a complaint
filed in federal court in Seattle yesterday. The software is in
mobile devices made by Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , and transfers the location data to company
server computers, the complaint shows.  Michigan resident Rebecca Cousineau filed the lawsuit on
behalf of tens of thousands of consumers who use phones with the
Microsoft software and had their location data tracked after
they disabled the feature. The complaint seeks a court order
barring the company from tracking users’ phone locations, $1,000
for each violation, and unspecified punitive damages.  Kevin Kutz , a Microsoft spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment about the lawsuit.  The case is Cousineau v. Microsoft, 11-1438, U.S. District
Court, District of Washington (Seattle).  Trials/Appeals  U.S. Seeks to Vacate ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Ruling as Moot  The U.S. asked a federal appeals court to vacate as moot
the ruling by a federal judge last year that the military’s
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” ban on openly gay and lesbian service
members is unconstitutional.  A panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals heard the government’s
arguments yesterday in Pasadena, California. The judges last
month asked President Barack Obama’s administration to explain
why the appeal shouldn’t be dismissed after Congress repealed
the 1993 law last year.  Obama, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Navy Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on July 22 signed
the certification attesting that the U.S. Defense Department is
prepared to repeal the ban. That certification ends enforcement
of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” as of Sept. 20.  U.S. District Judge Virginia Phillips in Riverside,
California, ruled last year that the law establishing the policy
violated constitutionally protected rights to due process and
free speech. The appeals court delayed enforcement of the
judge’s order while the administration appealed her decision.  The U.S. said in a July 14 filing with the appeals court
that once repeal takes effect, there are no remaining
controversies in the lawsuit and the case becomes moot.  The Log Cabin Republicans, who brought the suit challenging
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” have said Phillips’s ruling should
not be lifted because it sets a precedent.  “It is mind-boggling that throughout this case, the Obama
administration has said repeatedly that it favors open military
service, yet it has fought us every step of the way and is now
appealing the court’s judgment in our client’s favor,” Dan Woods, a lawyer for the group, said Aug. 31 in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 10-56634, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 