-- 
Sarkozy Sees ‘Titanic Battle’ to Maintain Jobs in Tough Economy

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-02T12:29:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/sarkozy-sees-titanic-battle-to-maintain-jobs-in-tough-economy.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , facing
re-election in nine months, said the global economic slowdown is
making it harder to maintain  France ’s social safety net model
and create jobs.  “Clearly we are facing today an absolutely titanic battle
to maintain France as a land of production,” Sarkozy said today
at a round table with workers in Sainte-Marguerite in the
mountainous Vosges region in the East. “The last quarter’s job
figures are not good, but how could it be any different in the
current global financial and economic crisis,” he said after
visiting a company producing solar panels.  Growth in France,  Europe ’s second-largest economy, stalled
in the second quarter and Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  last
week cut growth forecasts for this year and 2012 to less than 2
percent. He also announced tax increases and spending cuts to
help avert a downgrade of France’s top credit rating.  Sarkozy pledged today to show “tenacity” as he balances
his re-election bid against the need to fix the nation’s
finances.  France, the second-biggest contributor to euro bailout
funds, now pays a premium of 75 basis points over  Germany  to
borrow for 10 years, up from 64 basis points when Fillon
announced the budget measures on Aug. 24.  Rising Joblessness  The total of unemployed people looking for work climbed to
2.8 million in July, wiping out an improvement in jobless claims
earlier in the year. Unemployment has risen during Sarkozy’s
presidency to 9.6 percent in the second quarter from 8.4 percent
when he took office in May 2007.  Sarkozy said today that while France had created 120,000
jobs since the start of the year, 150,000 people had entered the
labor market, pushing the number of jobseekers close to the
highest in a decade.  The president’s popularity has been stagnating near record
low  for more than a year . His popularity fell 3 percentage
points between July and August to 33 percent, according to an
 Ifop institute  survey for the Journal du Dimanche newspaper
published Aug. 19. That’s just 3 points above his lowest score
in March 2010.  Sarkozy said he wanted to protect both jobs and “our
social model” in the Aug. 24 plan that increased taxes on
companies and the wealthiest individuals. Successive French
governments have built up a system of broad-based welfare
benefits which has seen state spending rise to around half of
total economic output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Sainte-Marguerite, France, at   hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  