-- 
Senegal Plans Offshore Oil Drilling in 2012 as West African Output Grows

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-09-02T09:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/senegal-plans-offshore-oil-drilling-in-2012-as-west-african-output-grows.html
Energy companies operating in
 Senegal  will drill three offshore wells next year as the West
African nation vies to join a growing group of regional crude
producers, according to the state-owned  oil company ,  Petrosen .  Senegalese officials held talks with more than 10  oil
companies  this year in attempts to lure investors to its  energy
industry , said Joseph Medou, Petrosen’s geologist, in an
interview in Dakar Aug. 25.  “If we make comparisons to what is happening in  Ghana  and
 Ivory Coast , to  Sierra Leone , we think we have the same kind of
plays,” he said.  Senegal’s drive for oil investments comes after the start
of production at the offshore Jubilee field in December, which
made Ghana the continent’s newest oil exporter. Sierra Leone,
Liberia and Guinea are among other states that border the Gulf
of Guinea and are in stages of offshore exploration. Also in
West Africa is  Nigeria , the continent’s biggest oil producer,
and Ivory Coast, which exported 234,679 metric tons of crude in
July.  Seismic studies show one block, under exploration by First
Australian Resources Ltd., may contain as much as 1 billion
barrels of crude, Medou said. The Subiaco, Australia-based
company is also planning to drill a second site that may hold
another 200 million barrels, he said.  Presidential Approval  First Australian is waiting for approval from Senegalese
President Abdoulaye Wade before drilling the wells, according to
an e-mailed document from the company. No information on
potential reserves was provided.  A third bloc, jointly controlled by Senegal and Guinea-
Bissau, is being explored by London-based Ophir Energy Plc and
 Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  of Houston, according to a Petrosen document.  “Within three to five years, I think we will have at least
something, a field that can produce, maybe even a big one,”
Medou said.  Production of offshore oil would be “an enormous project,”
requiring the expansion of Senegal’s Dakar port and improvements
at the country’s lone refinery, Societe Africaine de Raffinage,
said Senior Port Planner Chris Matson at  Moffatt and Nichol , a
Long Beach, California-based company that plans and develops
infrastructure projects including ports and railways. Matson met
with Senegalese mining ministry officials on Aug. 2.  “In the long term, having all this construction is going to
help the country provide skilled labor and good jobs,” he said
by phone Aug. 29.  Senegal , which suffers from regular power cuts that led to
violent street protests in June, is also hoping to find reserves
of natural gas that can be used for electricity generation, said
Medou.  Africa Fortesa Corp. of Houston will drill an exploration
well to expand output at a bloc known to hold at least 13
billion cubic feet of natural gas, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 