-- 
Shanghai to Expand Storage for Copper, Aluminum to Boost Trade-Hub Status

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-02T05:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/shanghai-to-expand-storage-for-copper-aluminum-to-boost-trade-hub-status.html
Shanghai  will increase storage for
metals at bonded warehouses as much as fivefold, lowering costs
for commodity trading and potentially boosting shipments into
the world’s largest consumer of copper.  “As we expand our physical and futures-related trading
businesses, it’s likely to become a globally influential price-
forming center for certain commodities” when trading volumes
become large enough, said Wang Xinling, vice chairman of the
Shanghai Free Trade Zones Administration.  Increased bonded warehousing space in Shanghai, the world’s
busiest container port, may help  China ’s metals trading hub
bring prices more in line with international rates as shipments
are exempt from  import duties . Demand from the world’s second-
largest economy has helped fuel a rally in metal prices since
2003, with increased trading in  Asia  prompting the London Metal
Exchange, where benchmark prices are settled, to offer futures
products in Singapore.  “Bonded warehouse storage facilitates exports and helps us
to avoid currency risks, so it’ll be easier for overall
international trade as we exploit arbitrage opportunities,”
said Su Li, president of Jiangxi Copper International Trading
Co. The company is a unit of China’s largest copper producer.  The area for storing metals in Shanghai’s free trade areas
will increase to 200,000 square meters to 250,000 square meters
next year from 50,000 square meters, according to Eric Ni, a
business development manager at Shanghai Free Trade Zones United
Development Co.  More Space  “The exchange may consider expanding the pilot program to
other commodities as well, and this is also what we want to
do,” Wang said. “Ten major industry players, including
Trafigura, Citi, Jiangxi Copper and  Xi’an Maike , have registered
within the free trade zone, and we believe their participation
will bring more industry players.”  The administration manages free-trade zones in Shanghai’s
Yangshan, Waigaoqiao and Pudong Airport. Two warehouses in
 Yangshan  started in March offering delivery services for copper
and aluminum futures traded on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.
Metals stored there are exempt from a 17 percent value-added tax
and import tariffs, bringing prices more into line with those
traded in London and  New York .  Receipt financing services and an electronic trading
platform for companies within the zone are also being
considered, Wang said.  Tough Competition  Shanghai Futures Exchange , one of the three commodity
bourses in China, trades refined copper, aluminum, zinc, lead,
gold, fuel oil, natural rubber and steel futures in yuan, and is
off-limits to investors outside of China.  The S&P GSCI Index, which tracks 24 commodities, has more
than doubled since the end of 2002 and copper in  London  has
gained sixfold as average annual economic growth of more than 10
percent in China during the same period spurred demand for raw
materials.  Increased focus on trading during Asian hours has prompted
the London Metal Exchange to start smaller-sized copper,
aluminum and zinc futures jointly with Singapore Exchange Ltd.
on Feb. 15. The LME also started unofficial three-month futures
prices for copper, aluminum and zinc, the so-called Asian
benchmark reference prices, starting from Jan. 24.  The influence of Shanghai prices has already exceeded those
on New York’s Comex exchange and has made the London bourse
uneasy, Wang Zhouyi, an analyst at Shanghai CIFCO Futures Co.,
said by phone. “That’s perhaps how the new products came into
being,” said Wang, referring to the LME’s  Singapore  futures.  Foreign Restrictions  China has prohibited foreign futures exchanges from
establishing warehouses in the country for the physical delivery
of commodity products against contracts, according to a
statement from the China Securities Regulatory Commission in
August 2008. The move denied Chinese investors the opportunity
to more easily trade futures on the London Metal Exchange.  Importers and traders rely instead on LME storage
facilities at Asian ports that already have approval including
Busan and Incheon in  South Korea , and Singapore.  Trading volumes climbed by 43 percent last year on the
Shanghai exchange, bourse data show. Volume increased by 7.4
percent on the London Metal Exchange, it has said.  Still, “Shanghai still has a long way to go to have a
bigger influence as there are lots of policy innovations
needed,” CIFCO’s Wang said.  Global players must be allowed to trade in these markets if
China’s futures are to become more important benchmarks, Nick
Ronalds, executive director of Futures Industry Association
Asia, said in April.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  