-- 
Short Selling Against S&P 500 Index Rises to Highest Level Since November

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-09-02T14:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/short-selling-against-s-p-500-companies-surges-to-highest-since-november.html
Bearish bets against the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose to a nine-month high as short sellers
increased speculation stocks may decline amid concerns over the
strength of global economic growth.  The proportion of  S&P 500  shares outstanding sold short on
Aug. 29 rose to 3.03 percent, the most since the end of November
and up from 2.37 percent at the beginning of August, according
to New York-based  Data Explorers , which provides research on
short sales and  stock lending . Short selling of the gauge
reached a three-year high of 5.52 percent in August 2008, before
the worst financial crisis since the 1930s drove the  stock index 
to a 12-year low in March 2009.  Short selling increased in August after S&P downgraded the
U.S. government’s credit rating and yields on Greek debt surged
to record highs, spurring concern the debt crisis in  Europe 
isn’t contained. Investors made bearish wagers on equities and
shifted holdings to havens such as Treasuries, which posted the
highest returns since December 2008.  “We’ve had inadequate policy responses to the problem of
too much debt, and that makes people concerned,” Mark Travis,
chief executive officer of Jacksonville Beach, Florida-based
Intrepid Capital Management Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“Investors and advisers are doing more now on the short side to
protect their capital and they’re trying to find alternatives to
flat market returns,” said Travis, who manages $1.3 billion and
uses short selling as an investment strategy.  S&P 500’s Performance  The S&P 500 lost as much as 13 percent last month before
trimming its retreat to 5.7 percent after the  Federal Reserve 
will take action to spur growth. The ratio of bullish to bearish
investments in U.S. equities has dropped to 10.7 from this
year’s peak of 13.2 in May, according to Data Explorers. The
measure sank to 6.5 in September 2008 after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy spurred the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s. A lower number indicates investors are getting
relatively more short on equities.  Bearish bets by investors using futures contracts on the
 S&P 500 Index (SPX)  increased to the highest level in almost four
years in the week ended Aug. 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Short
selling involves the sale of securities borrowed from the owner,
and generates profit when the trader repurchases them at a lower
price and returns them to the owner.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators hold a net 84,492
futures contracts wagering that the S&P 500 will decrease in
value. The short position is the highest since September 2007
when bearish bets reached a record of 127,473 contracts in
September 2007, a month before the benchmark equity reached an
all-time high, according to Bloomberg data going back to 1997.  Market Proxy  “A lot of people are using the S&P 500 as a proxy for the
market to hedge their long positions,” Bill Fleckenstein,
president of Fleckenstein Capital Inc. in  Seattle , said in a
telephone interview. “If you’re short the market, then you’ve
reduced your risk and you’re not dependent on finding the
variables that are going to take this stock or that stock down,
which is harder.”  GameStop Corp. (GME) , the world’s largest video-game retailer,
and  SuperValu Inc. (SVU)  are the most shorted in the S&P 500,
according to Data Explorers. Bearish bets against GameStop
amount to 32 percent of shares outstanding, while the owner of
Save-A-Lot and Cub Foods grocery stores has a short interest of
27 percent.  “It’s very difficult to say with certainty whether being
long or short right now is a good idea because things can
quickly change,” Eden Chen, portfolio manager at Los Angeles-
based Lightmark Capital, wrote in an e-mail. “Because of this
dynamic, in the short term, traders have to take on a reactive
policy and hedge their positions using shorts until we see some
form of stabilization or confidence in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  