-- 
Silvercorp Says Accounting-Fraud Allegation in Anonymous Letter Is False

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-02T21:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/silvercorp-says-accounting-fraud-allegation-in-anonymous-letter-is-false.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , which mines
the metal in China, said an allegation of accounting fraud
contained in an anonymous letter addressed to Canadian
regulators is false.  The letter circulated by e-mail alleges Silvercorp reported
a profit in calendar 2010 to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission while posting a loss to regulators in China,
Vancouver-based Silvercorp said yesterday in a statement. The
letter was addressed to the Ontario Securities Commission, the
company’s auditors and various media outlets, Silvercorp said.  Silvercorp, which fell as much as 16 percent in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading, closed down 80 cents, or 9.7 percent, at
C$7.43 as on 4 p.m. yesterday. The shares have declined 42
percent this year.  Allegations of fraud against Sino-Forest Corp., a Hong
Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based tree-farm operator in
 China , have heightened investors’ concern about other North
America-based companies with operations in the world’s most
populous country. Sino-Forest’s Canadian shares have plunged 67
percent since short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC
published a June 2 report alleging that the company overstated
its timber holdings. Sino-Forest has denied the allegations.  The allegations against Silvercorp are “entirely bogus,”
Lorne Waldman, a Silvercorp spokesman, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “If we didn’t have assets in China this
wouldn’t be happening.”  Not Reverse Takeover  Waldman denied the mining company was created in a so-
called reverse takeover, as was Sino-Forest. He said that
Silvercorp’s auditor is Ernst & Young LLP, the same firm that
audited Sino-Forest’s financial statements.  In a reverse takeover, a closely held firm goes public by
purchasing a shell company that already trades.  Silvercorp also said that the anonymous author said that
his firm held a short position in the company’s shares and
intended to make his concerns known through Internet postings.
The company cited yesterday a “dramatic” increase in the short
position of its shares. Silvercorp said it hasn’t confirmed
whether the letter actually was sent to the OSC or any other
organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 