-- 
Canadian Regulator to Consider Extending Sino-Forest Share Halt This Week

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/sino-forest-hearing-on-trading-ban-set-for-sept-8-canada-regulator-says.html
The Ontario Securities Commission
will hold a hearing this week to consider extending a temporary
order that has suspended trading in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) ’s shares
and prevented five executives from buying or selling securities.  The cease-trade order on Sino-Forest shares may be extended
to Nov. 23 and the order on securities trading by  Allen Chan ,
Albert Ip, Alfred C.T. Hung, George Ho and Simon Yeung may be
lengthened to Jan. 25,  Canada ’s main securities watchdog said
Sept. 2 in a  notice  on its website.  The OSC said Aug. 26 that officers and directors of Hong
Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest may have
engaged in acts “related to its securities” that they “knew
or should have known” perpetuated a fraud. The agency also
suspended the company’s Toronto shares from trading for 15 days.  Sino-Forest’s stock has plunged 67 percent since short
seller Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC published a June 2 report
alleging that the company overstated its timber holdings. Sino-
Forest has denied Muddy Waters’ allegations and has assigned an
independent committee to investigate the claims, hiring
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.  The OSC on Aug. 26 ordered the five executives to resign,
before rescinding the move later the same day. The regulator
said it needs to hold a hearing first. Chan resigned as chairman
and chief executive officer of Sino-Forest on Aug. 28.  The OSC hearing to extend the temporary orders will be held
on Thursday, Sept. 8, at 9:30 a.m. at OSC headquarters at 20
Queen Street West in Toronto, according to the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 