-- 
SNB May Have to Buy Euros to Stem Franc Heading for Record Weekly Advance

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-02T14:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/snb-may-have-to-buy-euros-to-stem-franc-heading-for-record-weekly-advance.html
The Swiss central bank may need to
ready its “nuclear weapon” of buying euros as the franc heads
for the biggest weekly advance on record against  Europe ’s single
currency.  While the  Swiss National Bank  has so far avoided currency
purchases in its latest bid to keep a lid on the franc, it may
soon have no alternative but to follow through on its threat to
intervene, economists and strategists said.  “The SNB will fire its nuclear weapon and start
interventions if the franc reaches parity,” said You-Na Park, a
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The current franc
levels really hurt the economy.”  The SNB, led by Philipp Hildebrand, is under pressure from
executives including  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  Chief Executive Nick Hayek
and lawmakers such as Swiss People’s Party Vice President
 Christoph Blocher  to weaken the franc to keep companies from
cutting jobs and moving production sites abroad. The currency’s
16 percent ascent against the euro over the past year is hurting
exports and raising the risk of an economic recession.  While the franc has weakened against the euro since Aug. 3,
when the SNB cut borrowing costs to zero and boosted liquidity
to the money market to fight the currency’s appreciation, it has
reversed losses over the past three days.  Debt Crisis  The franc, considered a haven in times of global turmoil,
has gained 6.4 percent against the euro since Aug. 30, putting
it on track for the biggest weekly gain since the introduction
of the single currency in 1999. It was at 1.1133 at 4:46 p.m. in
Zurich, up 1.9 percent on the day.  “Pressure on the franc remains as long as the euro area’s
fiscal problems drag on,” said Cornelia Luchsinger, an
economist at Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich. “Should the
currency strengthen to 1.10 or less versus the euro, the SNB
might feel obliged to intervene.”  The franc reached a record 1.0075 on Aug. 9.  Switzerland ’s
currency is 39 percent overvalued against the euro, based on
purchasing power parity as calculated by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The SNB will intervene in times of low trading volumes to
have the biggest possible impact,” said Ursina Kubli, an
economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “That could be Sept. 5, as
it’s a holiday in the U.S.” and markets are closed.  SNB ‘Options’  The Zurich-based SNB in June 2010 abandoned 15 months of
intervention efforts after quadrupling its currency holdings.
The policy led to a record loss of $21 billion last year and
sparked lawmaker calls for Hildebrand to resign.  Since then, politicians have called on the SNB to step up
efforts. The Swiss government pledged on Aug. 31 to spend 870
million francs ($1.1 billion) on an economic stimulus package to
help counter the impact of the franc’s strength.  At a meeting in Bern today, the government and leaders of
all five ruling-coalition parties welcomed the SNB’s measures to
weaken the franc, according to an e-mailed  statement . Economy
Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann informed participants about the
economic situation and called the  exchange rate  volatile.  For its part, the SNB has refrained from stepping up
efforts after boosting liquidity over three consecutive weeks.
Vice President Thomas Jordan has said the bank is assessing “a
whole range of options” to weaken the franc and remains ready
to act if needed.  Exports Slump  A slump in exports and company spending sparked an economic
slowdown in the second quarter, with gross domestic product
rising 0.4 percent, down from 0.6 percent in the previous three
months. That’s the worst performance since the economy emerged
from a recession in 2009. Foreign sales account for about half
of Swiss GDP.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power-transmission
gear, has called the strong franc a “headache” and responded
by buying more parts from euro-region suppliers to feed its
Swiss factories.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement
maker, said on Aug. 18 currency effects shaved 203 million
francs off operating profit in the second quarter.  “If the franc appreciates and remains at parity for a
while, a severe recession would be inevitable,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “They can’t
let this happen because once you decide to move a plant to the
 euro zone , it’s unlikely that it will ever come back.”  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in
London, said the SNB may consider setting a floor of 1.10 or
1.15 against the euro. While some economists expect SNB council
members to take additional measures when they meet for their
quarterly assessment on Sept. 15, Geoff Kendrick, head of
European currency strategy at Nomura International Plc in
 London , disagrees.  “I don’t expect the SNB to come in,” he said. “Their
optimal strategy is to keep talking. That works quite nicely for
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  