-- 
Solarworld Closing Plant in Renewable Energy ‘War’ With China

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-09-02T21:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/solarworld-stops-california-production-transforms-to-cut-costs.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s largest
module maker, is closing a factory to reduce costs and compete
against Chinese companies that its chief executive officer says
are subsidized by the state.  Solarworld will shutter a manufacturing plant in  California 
and some production lines in Germany, the Bonn-based company
said today in a statement. The move was needed to boost
efficiency and cut costs as Chinese rivals have helped drive
down solar-cell prices by 42 percent this year, CEO Frank Asbeck
said.  Competing against Chinese producers that receive financial
assistance from the government isn’t “fair,” Asbeck said, such
as two loan facilities worth $713 million that GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. received today from state-run  China  Development
Bank Corp. The GCL-Poly financing and Solarworld’s retrenching
plan illustrate the trends that are propelling Chinese
manufacturers to the top of the solar industry.  “It’s not about a free market or good products anymore,
it’s about who gets the most political protection,” Asbeck said
today in an interview. “That’s not even industrial politics
anymore. That’s war.”  Loans such as the one GCL received are “direct subsidies”
from the Chinese government, Asbeck said. “These guys get money
practically for free.”  GCL-Poly, China’s largest polysilicon maker, did not
disclose the terms of the loans. The company did not reply to e-
mailed questions today. Chinese lenders have offered $34.4
billion to support the country’s solar companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Polysilicon is
the main raw material of solar cells.  Three Failures  Three U.S. solar companies have failed in the past month
while Solarworld and its German peers including  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and
Solon SE are struggling. Slumping prices and slowing demand are
driving a wave of consolidation within the industry as weaker
companies fail or get acquired, said Aaron Chew, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York.  “It’s not like this hasn’t been developing for a while,”
Chew said today in an interview. Many companies that manufacture
solar products in the U.S. and  Europe  are finding it difficult
to compete on price with China. “Everyone could see the writing
on the wall.”  Some Chinese companies are also lagging, Chew said. “Let’s
not forget, Suntech isn’t competitive either because their
inefficient plant was built in 2008.” Suntech Power Holdings
Co. of Jiangsu, China, has lost 42 percent of its value this
year.  “I’m all for competition, but it has to be fair,” Asbeck
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  