-- 
South Africa’s Ruling ANC Rejects Malema Bid to Drop Disciplinary Action

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-09-02T10:23:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-rejects-malema-bid-to-drop-disciplinary-action.html
South Africa ’s  African National
Congress  rejected an application from youth wing leader  Julius Malema  to drop disciplinary charges against him, undermining his
political power within the ruling party as he faces expulsion.  Malema, 30, who has led a campaign to nationalize the
country’s mines, was accused by the ANC of undermining the party
by calling for the ousting of Botswana’s government and
criticizing ANC leaders. The outcome of the disciplinary action
may determine the political future of President  Jacob Zuma , who
has lost the support of the ANC Youth League after it helped to
sweep him into power as the head of the ANC in 2007.  “It’s a great setback for Malema,” Frans Cronje, deputy
chief executive officer of the South African Institute of Race
Relations, said in a telephone interview today from Johannesburg
today. “This is a battle for the short-term future of the ANC.
If Malema loses, Zuma may well win a second-term as ANC
president next year.”  The disciplinary hearing will resume on Sept. 5, the ANC
said in an e-mailed statement today. The ANC is due to elect its
new leadership at a centenary conference in December 2012, with
the party’s leader becoming its presidential candidate in the
nation’s elections in 2014.  Overthrow Botswana  The ANC took steps to discipline Malema after he told
reporters on July 31 that Botswana’s government is a threat to
regional security and the league would help opposition parties
in that country to oust the “puppet” administration of
President Ian Khama. ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe said
on Aug. 3 the comments were a “serious transgression.”  Malema’s lawyers tried unsuccessfully on Aug. 30 to have
three members of the disciplinary committee removed, including
its chairman Derek Hanekom, the deputy minister of science and
technology, and Mines Minister Susan Shabangu. Malema has
criticized Shabangu and Hanekom publicly in the past for not
supporting the Youth League’s push to nationalize the country’s
mines and expropriate land without compensation.  Lawyers for Malema argued that the charges should be
dropped because the ANC’s rules were unreasonable, confusing and
didn’t govern what members can say, the disciplinary committee
said in its statement today. The charges weren’t clear and
didn’t disclose what rule had been breached, Malema’s
application said, according to the ANC.  Malema is already under a suspended sentence, after he
admitted in May last year to violating party rules by dividing
the ANC and undermining Zuma’s authority. He was warned that he
faced suspension from the party if he was found guilty of
breaching its codes again within two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  