-- 
South African Vehicle Sales Growth Gains as Rental Car Companies Restock

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-02T09:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/south-african-vehicle-sales-growth-gains-as-rental-car-companies-restock.html
South African vehicle sales growth
accelerated in August as rental companies renewed their fleets
ahead of the December tourist season, an industry group said.  Sales gained 11.1 percent to 51,436 vehicles compared with
the same month a year earlier, the National Association of
Automobile Manufacturers of  South Africa  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The car rental market accounted for one-in-five
sales, compared with an average 7.5 percent contribution, Naamsa
director Nico Vermeulen said in a phone interview.  “The car rental contribution is incredible,” Vermeulen
said. “It’s a major contributing factor.”  Carmakers have benefited from an increase in  consumer
spending  after the  Reserve Bank  cut  interest rates  in Africa’s
biggest economy to the lowest in 30 years. While vehicles sales
are rising, production in the wider manufacturing industry has
faltered, falling an annualized 7 percent in the second quarter,
with the purchasing managers’ index indicating a contraction in
July and August.  Passenger car sales rose 8 percent from a year ago to
36,197 in August, while purchases of light commercial vehicles,
such as pick-up trucks and minivans, jumped 19.8 percent to
12,933, it said.  Exports surged an annual 27 percent to 24,835 in August and
will probably reach a record 300,000 this year, Naamsa said.  Vehicle sales growth for the rest of the year may moderate
as consumers reduce spending due to higher electricity and fuel
costs, Naamsa said.  “The domestic macro environment going forward is likely to
become less supportive,” it said. “Recent low numbers in the
purchasing managers’ index suggests a slower pace of expansion
over the medium term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 