-- 
Spanish Lawmakers Approve Constitutional Budget Amendment Amid Protests

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-02T11:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/spanish-lawmakers-approve-constitutional-budget-amendment-amid-protests.html
Spain ’s parliament approved the
inclusion of budget rules in the constitution as demonstrators
gathered in  Madrid  to protest the measure the government hopes
will reassure investors and cut its borrowing costs.  The amendment, only the second in the charter’s 30-year
history, was backed by 316 lawmakers and rejected by five, while
29 deputies stayed away from the vote, parliament Speaker Jose Bono said. The measure will bind all levels of government,
including the regions, while central and local administrations
will need lawmakers’ approval to issue debt.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish bonds
rather than German equivalents rose to the most in almost a
month as lawmakers debated the measure to enshrine the
“principle of budget stability” in the constitution without
setting numerical limits. The amendment has drawn criticism from
members of Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s party three months before a general election.  The spread on Spanish 10-year bonds compared with German
equivalents rose to 300 basis points today for the first time
since Aug. 8, when the  European Central Bank  began buying
Spanish debt in a bid to stem the sovereign-debt crisis. The
spread reached a euro-era intraday record of 418 basis points on
Aug. 5.  More detailed rules, including a numerical limit to the
“structural deficit” to be implemented from 2020, will be laid
out in a separate law to be adopted by June 30, 2012, according
to the amendment. Exceptions can be made to the debt and deficit
limits in the case of natural catastrophe, recession or
“extraordinary emergency.”  Walkout  The constitutional amendment has won praise from Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  of  Germany , which has included its own “debt
brake” in the constitution. France and  Italy  are planning
similar moves as part of their efforts to protect the euro
region from the spreading debt crisis.  At least nine lawmakers walked out of the assembly before
the vote as a sign of protest while demonstrators gathered in
the Plaza de Neptuno square near parliament to demand a
referendum on the amendment.  The measure has angered Zapatero’s traditional allies in
the unions as well as members of his own party, which polls
suggest will lose the Nov. 20 election. Antonio Gutierrez, a
Socialist lawmaker and former union leader, said on Aug. 25 the
amendment amounted to “political suicide” for the party.  Zapatero isn’t running for re-election and will be replaced
as candidate for premier by Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, who is
trying to woo supporters angered by the Socialists’ wage cuts,
pensions freeze, tax increases and bank bailouts. Rubalcaba, who
negotiated to make the terms of the amendment less specific, has
pledged a tax on the wealthy and on banks as he tries to narrow
the PP’s lead in opinion polls.  The  People’s Party  would win 47.6 percent of the vote if
the election were held now, compared with 35 percent for the
Socialists, according to a poll by ABC newspaper on Aug. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  