-- 
Sperling Says Obama Jobs Plan Can Have ‘Significant’ Impact

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-02T14:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/sperling-says-obama-jobs-plan-can-have-significant-impact-1-.html
Gene Sperling , director of the White
House National Economic Council, said President Barack Obama
will propose tax and spending initiatives next week that would
have a “significant” impact on growth and creating jobs.  “There’s no question we need stronger jobs growth,
stronger growth overall,” Sperling said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  The Labor Department reported today that U.S. employers
didn’t add any new jobs to their payrolls in August, suggesting
large companies and small businesses are less confident in
economic recovery. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists was for a rise of 65,000 jobs.  The  unemployment rate  was unchanged at 9.1 percent, the
department said.  The figures raise political pressure on Obama as he
prepares to lay out his plan to boost hiring and economic growth
in a Sept. 8 address to Congress.  “Nothing’s good in this report,”  Gus Faucher , economist
and director of Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a telephone interview. “It raises the stakes but I’m
not sure what the administration can do at this point. I think
any full-bore stimulus is dead in the water.”  Obama is leaving Washington this afternoon for the
presidential retreat at Camp David. He isn’t scheduled to make
any statements before departing. He’s set to view damage from
 Hurricane Irene  in Paterson,  New Jersey , on Sept. 4 and speak to
workers in Detroit on Sept. 5, the U.S. Labor Day holiday.  Target for Growth  The economy must add at least 130,000 jobs each month to
keep up with growth in the adult population, according to  Peter Morici , an economics professor at the Robert H. Smith School of
Business at the University of  Maryland  in  College Park . The
economy must add 13.7 million jobs over the next three years, or
381,000 each month, to bring unemployment down to 6 percent, he
said in a statement.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and show little change next year
with an average of 9 percent. It won’t fall below 6 percent
until 2016, the OMB said.  Katharine Abraham, acting chairwoman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers, said that while payrolls were flat
in August, the economy has added private-sector jobs for 18
straight months, for a total of 2.4 million new jobs.  Faster Growth  “Clearly, faster growth is needed to replace the jobs lost
in the downturn,” she wrote on the White House blog. The
numbers reinforce Obama’s call for an extension of a
transportation bill to maintain construction jobs highway,
bridge, mass transit and related projects, she said.  Sperling, without giving details, said that if Obama’s
proposals pass in Congress they would have a “significant
impact on both job growth and overall growth over the next 16
months.”  The president will propose initiatives he’s been
highlighting over the past several months, including extending a
temporary  payroll tax  cut for workers and more infrastructure
spending, and he’s considering new ideas such as a cut in the
employer portion of the payroll tax and a job-training program.  Mix of Proposals  He will propose “a mix of tax, infrastructure and other
spending” to boost the economy and create jobs, Jack Lew,
director of the Office of Management and Budget, told reporters
yesterday in a conference call.  Republicans, who control the House and have enough votes in
the Senate to block legislation, have vowed to oppose new
spending that would add to the deficit, which the administration
has forecast will hit $1.3 trillion this year.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said via
Twitter today that U.S. job growth is “still undermined by
threat of tax hikes, more spending, excessive regulations.”  Repeating an administration theme, Sperling said the U.S.
can’t afford to “allow the normal politics and partisanship”
stand in the way of measures to spur the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  