-- 
Strong Growth to Drive Foreign Flows into India, Way2Wealth Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-02T08:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/strong-growth-to-drive-foreign-flows-into-india-way2wealth-says.html
Ambareesh Baliga, chief operating
officer at Way2Wealth Brokers Pvt., comments on the outlook for
Indian stocks. Baliga spoke by phone from Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 0.9 percent
to 16,824.70 at 1:16 p.m. Mumbai time. The gauge declined for a
fifth week last week, its longest run of losses since October
2008. Companies on the Sensex trade at 14.1 times estimated
earnings, near the lowest level since April 2009, and down from
21.5 times last March.  Trading resumed today after a two-day holiday.  On markets:  “There is a decent bounce-back. The markets were oversold
and valuations seem attractive. We are seeing value buying and a
lot of short-covering. Markets are better off than where we left
off on Tuesday.  ‘‘We don’t expect a major crack in the European markets. We
don’t expect U.S. jobs data to be too negative for the markets
to really crack further from here. Most markets are at extremely
good support levels. Nifty is close to about 4,800, from where
we have bounced back twice.”  “The slowing U.S. growth and the euro zone concerns may
still be a worry. Domestic inflation, which has been shooting
up, is a concern. People were expecting food costs would start
going down once we have a good monsoon. In spite of that, it’s
gone to double digits. We’ll find out what kind of effect this
has on rate hikes during  Reserve Bank  of India’s announcement on
Sept. 16.”  On  interest rates :  “RBI could raise interest rates, though food costs can’t
be controlled by raising rates. Looking at the hawkish stand
they have been taking, we won’t be surprised if they raise it by
25 basis points.”  On overseas fund flows:  “The positive side is the number of foreign institutional
investors that have already sold off. The question is how much
more selling will come in at these levels because the negatives
are factored in.”  “There could be a pain for a while. You might not see the
markets going anywhere. There’s possibility markets will fall
further in case of adverse news. Once money starts looking for
better returns, that is a time when investors start looking at
emerging markets. Once they start looking at emerging markets,
 India  will stand out because even at a slower pace of growth,
like 7.5 percent, it would be higher than any developed markets
and good compared with peers.”  “We’re advising investors to buy capital goods, autos and
bank stocks as these sectors usually drive the economy.”  Foreign funds sold a net $2.34 billion of local equities
between Aug. 1 and Aug. 25, on pace for the biggest outflow
since Oct. 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  On U.S. stimulus:  “If QE3 happens, that will mean more flow of liquidity,
which means commodity prices will go up and equity prices will
move up immediately. Usually when that happens, you should
utilize it to reduce your positions in equity.”  “If QE3 does not happen, then there will be pain the
short-term, but gains in the long term. The QE3 effect does not
last more than a couple of months to a year and then you have a
bigger problem than what we have seen recently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  