-- 
Study on CEO Pay Disputed By Some Companies Identified in Report

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-02T15:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/study-on-ceo-pay-disputed-by-some-companies-identified-in-report.html
Some companies highlighted in a
 report  that concluded well-paid U.S. executives earned more than
their corporations paid in federal income tax are disputing the
findings, maintaining the study distorts the U.S. corporate tax
burden.  The report, released Aug. 31 by the Institute for Policy
Studies, found that 25 of the most highly compensated chief
executive officers in the U.S. received more in compensation
than the companies’ federal income tax expenses as reported in
2010 public filings.  CEO pay and the amount of taxes paid by corporations are
sensitive topics. The institute, a non-profit Washington group
whose studies have been critical of corporations, said its
findings underscore the need for an overhaul of the U.S. tax
code that would reduce the number of tax strategies available to
corporations.  EBay Inc., one of the companies identified in the study,
was listed as paying CEO John J. Donahoe $12.4 million while the
company received a $131 million federal tax benefit. The  San
Jose , California-based online trading company said the report
doesn’t take into account the full menu of taxes it pays.  A tax benefit is an accounting measure that can include
refunds, as well as multi-year activity such as tax deferral
that can affect tax payments in a given year. The tax expense
reported in annual financial statements can differ from actual
tax payments, which are confidential, for a variety of reasons.  EBay’s Taxes  “EBay Inc. paid $646 million in taxes in 2010 globally,
the majority in the U.S.,” the company said in a statement
yesterday. “IPS has misrepresented our financial reports, and
made no attempt to verify the facts with us before publishing
inaccurate information.”  The companies’ response prompted the institute to issue a
 statement  today maintaining that it “did not investigate or
make any claims about the taxes corporations paid to state,
local, or foreign governments.” The study, it said, was focused
on U.S. corporate taxes because “our intent was to call into
question whether corporations are paying their fair share toward
the cost of government.”  Chuck Collins, one of the study’s authors, said the group
has examined executive pay in relation to a variety of topics
including other occupations, employee layoffs and bank bailouts
over the past 18 years. Adverse reaction to this year’s report
has been unusually strong, he said.  Collins said in a telephone interview yesterday that he
thinks that reaction occurred because “this is the first time
we’ve looked at the intersection of CEO pay and corporate
taxation. It’s hit a nerve.”  ‘Lot at Stake’  “My sense is that the companies understand that there’s a
lot at stake,” he said. “The public is concerned about
aggressive  tax avoidance  at a time we’re trying to reduce the
deficit.”  The institute reported that Verizon Communications Inc.
Chairman  Ivan Seidenberg , who was CEO during the period covered
by the study, was paid $18.1 million while the company received
a $705 million tax benefit. Seidenberg retired as CEO on August
1.  New York-based Verizon acknowledged the negative tax
liability. The company, in a statement, said in 2010 “we also
incurred $2.9 billion in federal tax liabilities. These are
taxes that must be paid, but at a later date.”  In its statement, the institute said that “we have been
clear in our report that we are focused on the current taxes as
the best approximation of the net result of what corporations
actually paid in a given year.” It noted that “some forms of
deferred taxes can be put off indefinitely.”  ‘Political Agenda’  Verizon spokesman Robert Varettoni said in a telephone
interview yesterday that the institute’s report is similar to a
study released in May by Citizens for Tax Justice, a labor-
funded research group based in Washington. That study identified
11 U.S. corporations that reported $62 billion in U.S. profits
while paying a negative 3.6 percent tax rate in 2010.  “I think there’s a political agenda to both of those
studies,” Varettoni said. “They’re trying to set a false tone
in the debate on corporate  tax reform .”  Another company identified in the institute’s study,
Chicago-based Boeing Co., was listed as paying CEO Jim McNerney
$13.8 million in 2010 while paying $13 million in corporate
income tax.  Boeing spokesman Charles Bickers said in a statement that
the aircraft maker “adheres to the tax rules” and that the
study is “misleading.” Boeing paid $360 million in 2010 income
tax, including federal, state, international and local taxes and
“a significant amount of that was federal,” Bickers said.  Neither Verizon nor EBay disclosed how much they paid in
U.S. corporate income tax in 2010. Verizon said it paid “$430
million in state and federal taxes, net of refunds in 2010.”  Corporate Taxes  Verizon spokesman Varettoni said he couldn’t say how much
of that total represented federal income tax because the company
doesn’t disclose it that way.  “We combine the federal and the state,” he said.  In its statement, EBay said “the company does not break
down cash paid for income taxes by jurisdiction.”  The lack of detailed information about taxes paid by U.S.
companies underscores the need for requirements to break out
such information, the institute said.  “There is obviously an enormous public appetite for more
and clearer information on what corporations actually pay in
taxes each year,” according to the institute’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  