-- 
Sudanese Armed Forces Clash With Opposition Fighters in Blue Nile Province

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-02T13:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/sudanese-army-bombs-home-of-blue-nile-state-governor-spla-military-sites.html
Sudanese government forces and
members of the northern branch of the ruling party in
neighboring South  Sudan  clashed in the capital of Blue Nile
state, the governor and an army spokesman said.  State Governor Malik Agar said government forces attacked
members of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North, of
which he is chairman. “When our forces shot back at them, they
just heavily bombarded my house and all sites” of the SPLM-N in
the state capital, Al-Damazin, he said.  Al-Sawarmi Khaled, a Sudanese army spokesman, said SPLM-N
forces attacked first at the southern entrance to Al-Damazin.
Sudanese government troops are now in “full control” of the
area, he said by phone today from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital.
“We’re now carrying out military operations to chase remnants
of rebels in Blue Nile.”  Sudan’s government has been trying to disarm members of the
SPLM-N in the border states of Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan
who fought with the forces of South Sudan during the two-decade
civil war that ended in 2005. South Sudan gained independence on
July 9. Sudanese government soldiers have clashed with SPLM-N
fighters since June 5 in Southern Kordofan.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir announced a cease-fire in
Southern Kordofan last week.  Southern Kordofan  Amnesty International  and  Human Rights Watch  said in an
Aug. 30 statement that the government continued to bomb civilian
areas in Southern Kordofan after the declaration of the cease-
fire. Khaled denied the allegation.  “Now the real aim behind the cease-fire in Southern
Kordofan was uncovered: just paving the political and military
situation for attacks on Blue Nile,”  Yasser Arman , the SPLM-N
secretary-general, said today in an e-mailed statement.  More than 300 vehicles carrying residents fleeing Al-
Damazin were heading today to Wed Al-Nile, a town 86 kilometers
(53 miles) north of Al-Damazin, Esmail Mohamed, a member of
Ummah, Sudan’s biggest opposition party, said by phone as he
travelled in the convoy.  “The situation is very serious in Blue Nile,” he said.
“Some 4,000 people are being evacuated from the city” by the
Sudanese army.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 