-- 
SunTrust, M&T Customers Win Court Ruling on Overdraft Fees

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-09-02T20:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/suntrust-m-t-customers-can-contest-overdraft-fees-in-court-judge-says.html
Customers of  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,
 M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  and two other banks can use the federal courts
rather than arbitration to pursue claims they were gouged on
overdraft fees, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami said
customers with debit cards attached to checking accounts aren’t
compelled to use arbitration rather than class-action lawsuits,
as the banks argued. A U.S. Supreme Court decision in April on
arbitration agreements for AT&T Inc. wireless customers must be
applied case by case, the judge said.  Arbitration agreements for SunTrust, M&T,  Regions Financial
Corp. (RF)  and  Branch Banking & Trust Co . are “unconscionable” and
can’t be enforced, King said in an opinion made public today. He
said the Supreme Court ruling in AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion
didn’t require arbitration in every case.  “Concepcion only said that you don’t knock out arbitration
automatically,” Aaron Podhurst, the lead plaintiffs’ lawyer,
said in an interview. “Concepcion said it’s a fact issue, so
Judge King applied the facts. We have Judge King finding that in
four different states, the arbitration agreements are
unconscionable.”  The litigation before King involves customers at more than
30 banks that were sued over their overdraft-fee policies. The
customers said the banks reorder debit-card transactions in
their computers to maximize overdraft fees. They say such fees
are processed from highest dollar amount to lowest, rather than
in chronological order of purchases.  Bank Spokesmen  Mike McCoy, a spokesman for Atlanta-based SunTrust,
declined to comment about the ruling. An attorney for Buffalo,
New York-based M&T, James Dunbar, declined to comment.  “The court’s order represents a tremendous victory for
consumers in litigation of national significance and at a time
when the ability of consumers to stop corporate misconduct has
been placed in question by the Concepcion decision,”
plaintiffs’ attorney Michael Sobol of Lieff Cabraser Hiemann &
Bernstein LLP said in a statement.  The plaintiffs’ lawyers argued that forcing customers into
arbitration would effectively bar millions of them from pursuing
claims individually because they aren’t worth the effort.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest  U.S. bank , in February agreed to
pay $410 million without admitting liability to settle overdraft
litigation.  King previously ruled that none of the banks could force
customers into arbitration. A federal appeals court told the
judge to reconsider in light of the Concepcion decision.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-cv-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami
at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 