-- 
Swiss Franc Surges a Third Day on U.S. Job Stagnation, Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-09-02T15:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/swiss-franc-heads-for-record-weekly-gain-versus-euro-on-u-s-jobs-concern.html
The  Swiss franc  strengthened for a
third day versus all its major peers, and headed for a record
weekly gain against the euro, as signs global growth is slowing
boosted demand for the relative safety of the nation’s currency.  The franc climbed to a three-week high versus the 17-nation
euro after a U.S. report showed job growth stalled last month
and data yesterday show European manufacturing contracted more
than earlier estimated. The Swiss government said today all five
ruling-coalition parties support measures taken by the central
bank to weaken the franc and protect the economy.  “The lack of employment growth in the U.S. and the
headwinds on the euro side of the agenda that we’ve seen this
week continue to play back into the safe-haven benefits of the
Swiss franc,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in  London . “It’s pretty much been the worst-case scenario for
the  Swiss National Bank  over the last couple of days.”  The franc appreciated 1.4 percent to 1.11823 per euro at
4:24 p.m. in London, after earlier rising as much as 3 percent.
The currency has gained 4.6 percent against the euro this week,
the most since the single currency was introduced in 1999. The
franc rose 1.6 percent to 78.27 centimes per dollar. The Swiss
currency has gained 3.5 percent to 1.2753 per pound this week.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 2.7 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.6 percent.  U.S. Jobs  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month and the jobless
rate held at 9.1 percent as employers became less confident in
the strength of the recovery, the Labor Department said in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was
for an increase of 68,000 workers.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the euro region fell to 49 in August from 50.4 in
July, London-based Markit Economics said yesterday. That’s below
an initial estimate of 49.7 published on Aug. 23.  Greek two-year yields rose as much as 4.27 percentage
points to a euro-era record of 47.2 percent today after the Ta
Nea newspaper reported a review of the country’s progress toward
budget targets set to win outside aid was suspended, without
saying how it got the information.  “That’s why the  euro zone  is under pressure,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. in London. That is “why euro-Swiss franc, the natural
reflection of concerns about the euro zone, is doing what it’s
doing.”  Investors are concerned a collapse in the talks could
derail a 159 billion euro aid package that was agreed for  Greece 
in July and still has to be ratified.  Greek ‘Fear’  “The fear is that the next tranche of money doesn’t get
approved,” Derrick said. “Part of that’s to do with what’s
happening domestically in Greece -- that tax collection still
isn’t what it should be.”  The franc also rallied after the New York Times, citing
people familiar with the matter, said the U.S. federal
government may sue banks for misrepresenting the quality of
securities backed by home loans.  While the SNB has so far avoided currency purchases, it may
soon have no alternative but to follow through on its threat to
intervene, said You-Na Park, a strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt .  The SNB may turn to the “nuclear” option of buying euros
as it bids to stem the franc’s advance, she said. “The SNB will
fire its nuclear weapon and start interventions if the franc
reaches parity. The current franc levels really hurt the
economy.”  Switzerland ’s currency has risen 13 percent this year, the
best performer among a basket of 10 developed-market currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Swiss  government bonds  rose, pushing the 10-year yield down
nine basis points to 0.971 percent. Five-year yields dropped 10
basis points to 0.46 percent.  To contact the writer on the story:
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  