-- 
U.K. Construction Expands at Slowest Pace in Eight Months as Demand Ebbed

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-02T09:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u-k-construction-expands-at-slowest-pace-in-eight-months-as-demand-ebbed.html
U.K. construction grew at the
slowest pace in eight months in August as demand weakened and
homebuilding contracted further.  A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers slipped to 52.6 from 53.5 in July, Markit
Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today in a report in  London . A reading above 50
indicates expansion. A measure of new orders fell to the lowest
since January.  The deepest government spending cuts since World War II and
banks’ rationing of credit are weighing on  consumer confidence 
and the housing market. A separate report today from the  Office
for National Statistics  showed new construction orders plunged
16 percent in the second quarter to the lowest level since 1980.  “Reality is continuing to bite in the U.K. construction
sector, as worries over wider economic conditions contribute to
a slower rate of output growth,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer
 David Noble  said in a statement. “Though overall activity is
still in growth territory, there may be some question about
whether this will continue for much longer.”  Commercial building strengthened in August, while growth
slowed in civil engineering, Markit said. Housing continued to
shrink. The report also showed that confidence among
construction executives was at its lowest in eight months.  The Markit report also showed that input-cost inflation for
builders was at a three-month high due to increased prices for
fuel and raw materials.  ‘Slightly Lower’  Marshalls Plc (MSLH) , the U.K.’s largest maker of natural stone
and concrete landscaping products, said on Aug. 26 that it
expected trading volumes to be “slightly lower” in the second
half compared with a year earlier as demand from government-
related clients in Britain falls.  U.K. manufacturing shrank the most in more than two years
in August as demand from domestic and overseas customers
weakened, according to a report yesterday by Markit and CIPS. A
survey due to be published on Sept. 5 will show services growth
slowed, according to the median forecast of eight economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  As the economic recovery shows signs of faltering,  Bank of
England  policy makers will keep their benchmark  interest rate  at
a record low of 0.5 percent on Sept. 8, according to all 40
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Officials will also keep their
bond plan at 200 billion pounds ($324 billion), said all 26
economists in a separate poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  