-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper, Sugar Drop; Corn Advances

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-02T11:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-sugar-drop-corn-advances.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Shanghai  Plans Fivefold Increase in Metal Bonded Warehousing (1)  Shanghai will increase storage for metals at bonded
warehouses as much as fivefold, lowering costs for commodity
trading and potentially boosting shipments into the world’s
largest consumer of copper.  GDF Suez Weighing Bid for Stake in Portugal’s EDP, CEO Says (1)  GDF Suez SA Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said
the company is considering a bid for the Portuguese government’s
stake in EDP-Energias de Portugal SA.  Energoni to Spend $1.1 Billion on Wind, Solar Parks (2)  Energoni AD, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange’s biggest company
by market capitalization, plans to build wind and solar parks
worth 1.5 billion lev ($1.1 billion) in the next 15 years,
Chairman Maxim Dimov said.  Ghana  Starts Second Round of Cocoa-Disease Prevention Program  Ghana, the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, started
its campaign to spray chemicals against diseases and pests that
hinder output amid hopes for a harvest that may reach a second
straight record.  Senegal  Plans Offshore Oil Drilling as West Africa Output Grows  Energy companies operating in Senegal will drill three
offshore wells next year as the West African nation vies to join
a growing group of regional crude producers, according to the
state-owned  oil company , Petrosen.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls Before Figures That May Show Slower U.S. Hiring  Copper fell for a second day in London before a report that
may show hiring slowed in the U.S., fueling concern demand is
set to slide as economies weaken.  Rusal’s Irish Unit Targets 6% Gain in Alumina Output Next Year  Rusal Aughinish, the Irish unit of the world’s largest
aluminum producer, may increase alumina output by 6 percent next
year, parent United Co. Rusal said in an e-mailed statement.  MINING:  Baosteel Group Pays $1.95 Billion for Stake in Niobium Miner (1)  Baosteel Group Corp. and CITIC Group teamed up with three
Chinese companies to pay $1.95 billion for a 15 percent stake in
the world’s biggest niobium producer as demand for the raw
material grows.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Gains for Second Day as Equities Drop on Growth Concern  Gold gained for a second day in  London  as concern about
slowing growth drove equities lower and boosted demand for the
metal as an alternative investment.  Gold May Advance on Concern About Slowing Growth, Survey Shows  Gold may gain as concern that slowing growth will prompt
further monetary easing in the U.S. spurs demand for the metal
as a protection of wealth, a survey found.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Rallies After Biggest Drop in Two Months Spurs Purchases  Corn rallied after declining the most in two months
yesterday, as forecasts of lower yields in the U.S., the world’s
largest grower, prompted purchases amid expectations of further
price increases.  Cotton South Africa Reduces Crop Forecast by 2% to 88,316 Bales  Cotton  South Africa , an industry body, cut its forecast for
the amount of the fiber its members will produce this season by
2 percent to 88,316 lint bales.  Sugar Falls as Global Supply May Exceed Demand; Coffee Slides  Sugar fell for a fourth day in London on speculation world
supply will top demand as production is set to increase to a
record. Coffee slid.  Palm Oil  Gains as Widening Discount to  Soybean Oil  Lures Buyers  Palm oil advanced after a three-day break in trading, as a
widening discount to the price of soybean oil attracted buyers
to the cheaper cooking oil.  Ukraine’s Corn Exports Surge Capping Price Rally as U.S. Bakes  Corn exports from Ukraine will almost double in the 12
months from July 1, easing a shortage of the grain and capping a
67 percent price rally in the past year as heat erodes prospects
for the U.S. crop, the world’s biggest.  SHIPPING:  Supertanker Outlook Is ‘Poor’ for Up to Five Years, Braemar Says  Lower prices for supertankers, which haul about a fifth of
the world’s oil, signal a “poor” earnings outlook for the
fleet for as long as five years, shipbroker Braemar Shipping
Services Plc said.  Australian Weekly Iron Ore Exports Fall 23%, Tracking Data Show  Iron ore exports from  Australia  declined about 23 percent
for the week ended Sept. 1, with 27 bulk carriers leaving  Port
Hedland  and Dampier, according to vessel tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg.  U.S. Gulf Tropical Depression Wind Speed Unchanged, NHC Says  A tropical depression in the  Gulf of Mexico  that has shut
almost 6 percent of the region’s oil production is keeping wind
speeds unchanged, according to the National Hurricane Center.  ECONOMIES:  ‘Hot Money’ Concerns Mount as Yield Premium Jumps: China Credit  Chinese government bonds’ yield advantage over  U.S.
Treasuries  increased in August by the most since November 2008,
raising concern among officials that inflows of speculative
funds will pick up.  Global Manufacturing Slump May Cause Central Bank Stimulus (1)  Manufacturing slumped in  Europe  and  Asia , adding to signs
of slowing global growth that may keep a lid on inflation and
encourage some central banks to step up stimulus measures.  U.S. Payroll Gains Probably Slowed as Confidence Declined (1)  Hiring probably slowed in August as American companies
became less optimistic about the strength of the recovery,
economists said before a report today.  Economists Call on ECB to Cut Interest Rates as Growth Slows (1)  The  European Central Bank  should reverse this year’s rate
increases to prevent the euro-area economy from slipping back
into recession, members of the so- called shadow ECB council
said.  SNB May Use ‘Nuclear Weapon’ as Franc Resumes Euro Advance (2)  The Swiss central bank may need to ready its “nuclear
weapon” of buying euros as the franc heads for the biggest
weekly advance on record against Europe’s single currency.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Decline, Gold Rises Before U.S. Jobs; Swiss Franc Gains  Stocks in Europe and Asia declined, U.S. futures fell and
gold advanced before a U.S. jobs report that may show companies
added fewer workers in August. The Swiss franc headed for its
biggest weekly gain against the euro on record, while oil and
industrial metals retreated.  Asia Stocks Drop, Ending Six-Day Climb; Copper, Nickel Decline  Asian stocks declined, paring the biggest weekly gain since
March, and U.S. futures fell ahead of an American jobs report
that may show unemployment exceeds 9 percent. Copper slid for a
second day and grains rose.  Franc Surges on Safety Bid Before U.S. Job Report; Yen Advances  The Swiss franc rose against all its major counterparts,
and headed for the biggest weekly gain versus the euro since the
single currency’s introduction, before a report forecast to show
U.S. job growth slowed last month.  Oil Drops Before U.S. Jobs Data; Gulf Rigs Shut as Storm Builds  Oil dropped in  New York , trimming a second weekly gain, on
speculation that slower jobs growth in the U.S. may curtail fuel
consumption in the world’s largest economy.  Bond Rout Easing as ‘Stall Speed’ Lures Pimco: Credit Markets  The market for corporate bonds from the U.S. to Europe and
Asia is strengthening after the worst month in almost three
years as speculation grows that the global economy will avoid a
recession and inflation slows.  SPORTS:  Sneijder Wasn’t Tempted by Move to  Manchester United : Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Super Rugby Will Take Three-Week Break in 2012 for Test Matches  The 2012 Super Rugby competition will take a three-week
break in June to accommodate international Test matches,
tournament organizers said.  Tiger Woods  Should Visit Duvall’s ‘Utopia’; Unsexy ‘Orgy’: Film  Tiger Woods doesn’t need a new swing coach or a new caddie
to regain his championship form. He needs Johnny Crawford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  