-- 
U.S. Company Bond Sales Tumble in August to Least in 15 Months

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-02T12:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u-s-company-bond-sales-tumble-in-august-to-least-in-15-months.html
U.S. company bond sales fell 40
percent this week, capping the slowest month of issuance since
May 2010, as signs mount the economic recovery is faltering.  Offerings of $3.98 billion declined from $6.65 billion in
the five days ended Aug. 26, marking the slowest week this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. August sales of $51.4
billion were the least for a month since May 2010 as
speculative-grade borrowers were largely shut out of markets.  Relative yields on U.S. corporate debt jumped by the most
since October 2008 as  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit
rating to AA+ from AAA,  consumer confidence  slumped to the
lowest level in more than two years and economists cut growth
forecasts. Markets remained open for companies with some of the
highest credit grades, including  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and soft-drink maker PepsiCo Inc., while high-
yield, high-risk borrowers like window and door-maker Jeld-Wen
Inc. delayed plans to sell bonds, Bloomberg data show.  “S&P’s downgrade of the U.S. sent investors on a flight to
quality, foregoing additional yields in riskier ventures to
protect against fears of a potential double-dip recession,”
Jody Lurie, a credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, wrote in a Sept. 1 note. Bond sales may revive
“when either spreads calm down or the quarter ends, whichever
comes first,” she said in an e-mail.  Spreads Widen  Spreads on all corporate bonds expanded 77 basis points to
331 in August, the biggest jump since the 209 basis point
increase to 795 in October 2008, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Relative yields narrowed 2 basis
points to 329 basis points yesterday.  Overall yields on corporate bonds rose to 4.80 percent from
4.50 percent during August and fell six basis points yesterday
to 4.74 percent, the index data show.  America Movil SAB, the wireless carrier controlled by
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , dominated issuance this week
with a $2.75 billion dollar bond sale on Aug. 31, its first
international offering in 14 months, Bloomberg data show.  PepsiCo Inc., the world’s biggest snack-food maker, sold
$1.25 billion of debt on Aug. 22, Bloomberg data show. The
Purchase, New York-based company is rated Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and A by S&P. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire,
graded Aa2 by Moody’s and AA+ by S&P, issued $2 billion of bonds
on Aug. 10, Bloomberg data show.  Sales of high-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt tumbled to
$930 million, the least since December 2008, the data show. The
securities, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by
S&P, lost 4 percent in August, the worst performance since
November 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Jeld-Wen is waiting to sell bonds due to “soft” markets,
according to Teri Cline, a spokeswoman at the Klamath Falls,
Oregon-based company.  S&P assigned a preliminary issue-level rating of CCC+ on
the company, according to an Aug. 3 note.  “We’re just delaying it for a short period of time until we
think it is more beneficial,” she said in a voice mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  