-- 
Payroll Gains in U.S. Probably Slowed as Slumping Stocks Hurt Confidence

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-02T09:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u-s-payroll-gains-probably-slowed-in-august.html
Hiring probably slowed in August as
American companies became less optimistic about the strength of
the recovery, economists said before a report today.  Payrolls climbed by 68,000 workers after a 117,000 increase
in July, according to the median forecast of 86 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before a Labor Department report. The
unemployment rate probably held at 9.1 percent, marking 26 out
of the last 28 months where it has been at or above 9 percent.  The first credit downgrade in U.S. history, political
squabbling over debt reduction and fear of a default in  Europe 
caused the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to plummet 17 percent
from July 22 to Aug. 8, probably prompting companies to cut
back. The lack of hiring is one reason Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  last week said the central bank still has tools
available to stimulate growth.  “We’ve seen employers ratchet down the pace of hiring,”
 John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston , said before the report. “We’re
concerned about the possibility of unemployment drifting higher.
We’ve had a choppy and uneven recovery.”  The Labor Department’s figures are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ payroll forecasts ranged from a decrease
of 20,000 to a gain of 160,000.  Stocks and U.S. index futures fell on concern the
employment report will indicate economic growth is slowing. The
MSCI All-Country World Index lost 1.1 percent as of 9:58 a.m. in
 London . Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.8
percent.  Labor Dispute  Treasuries were little changed, with benchmark 10-year
yields trading at 2.13 percent.  U.S. debt  was the best-
performing asset class in August as bond investors ignored S&P’s
decision to strip the U.S. of its AAA rating on Aug. 5.
Treasuries returned 2.8 percent, while the global  bond market 
gained 1.99 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  A labor dispute at  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , affecting
about 45,000 workers, may have contributed to the slowdown in
payroll gains, according to economists like  Stephen Stanley  at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. Those striking
workers were probably eliminated from the company’s headcount
last month, leading to a comparable reduction in total
employment, said Stanley, who forecasts a 55,000 gain.  Non-Government Jobs  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, rose by
95,000 after a gain of 154,000 in the prior month, economists
forecast the report will also show.  Today’s data are likely to reflect the return of about
23,000 state government employees in  Minnesota  who were laid off
during a three-week shutdown that ended July 21.  The economy expanded at a 1 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, the Commerce Department reported last month.
 Consumer spending  grew 0.4 percent, the least since the last
three months of 2009.  “Obviously, the economy is pretty weak,” said Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC in Boulder,
 Colorado . “Getting the unemployment rate lower is going to be
difficult.”  The projected gain in total payrolls would bring the
average from May through August to 71,000, down from 179,000 in
the first four months of the year.  Hiring Slowdown  Sustained increases of around 150,000 a month are needed to
bring unemployment down about half a percentage point over a
year, according to  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “200,000 is the
speed the economy needs to really cut into the jobless rate,”
he said.  Through July, the economy had recovered about 1.94 million
of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  “Economic growth has, for the most part, been at rates
insufficient to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment,”
Bernanke said Aug. 26 at the  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, central bank
symposium. “It is clear that the recovery from the crisis has
been much less robust than we had hoped.”  Investors have also become less confident. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has slumped, exacerbated by S&P’s downgrade of
U.S. debt on Aug. 5 after weeks of political wrangling over
deficit-cutting measures and amid rising concern of a euro zone
default.  Obama Delay  “The macroeconomic environment has remained difficult for
consumers who continue to face high unemployment rates, high
gasoline and high food costs,” Richard Dreiling, chairman and
chief executive officer at Dollar General Corp., said on an Aug.
30 teleconference with analysts. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-
based company is the biggest dollar discount chain in the U.S.  Banks have been among companies announcing dismissals.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, will eliminate about
3,500 jobs this quarter to focus “on what we can control” amid
market turmoil, said Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
on Aug. 19.  President Barack Obama this week agreed to delay by one day
to Sept. 8 a presentation of his jobs agenda to a joint session
of Congress after House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican,
delivered an unprecedented rebuff to his request to speak a day
earlier, when a Republican presidential debate is scheduled. The
bickering may foreshadow further gridlock when a joint deficit-
cutting committee meets begins meeting this month.  Among the provisions Obama has been considering for his
jobs agenda are more infrastructure spending, tax incentives to
spur hiring, a reduction in the employer portion of the payroll
tax and changes to  unemployment insurance  to subsidize worker
retraining, according to people familiar with discussions.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  