-- 
U.S. House to Consider Trade Preferences Renewal on Sept. 7

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-09-02T19:03:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u-s-house-to-consider-trade-preferences-renewal-on-sept-7-1-.html
The U.S. House of Representatives on
Sept. 7 will consider a bill to renew tariff preferences for
 developing countries , a step that may ease the way for passing
free-trade agreements with South  Korea , Colombia and Panama.  Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, outlined plans for the House vote
next week in an e-mail today.  Congress and the Obama administration have been in a
stalemate over passing the trade deals because President  Barack
Obama  wants a guarantee Republicans also will pass an extension
of U.S. aid to workers who lose their jobs to global
competition. The trade preferences expired at the end of last
year.  House approval of a program known as the Generalized System
of Preferences would let the Senate use the measure as a vehicle
for action to renew aid for workers, known as Trade Adjustment
Assistance, according to Frank Vargo, vice president for
international economic affairs at the  National Association of
Manufacturers  in Washington. The Senate would send the combined
package back to the House.  “Then they can have the White House send the” trade deals
“up and they can be voted on,” Vargo said in an interview Aug.
31. “There are a lot of different routes,” for passing the
package, he said.  Such a plan would let the Senate have the first vote on the
worker-benefits program, which would otherwise need to originate
in the House because all revenue bills start in that chamber.  The administration in July signaled that it planned to
combine the worker aid and Korea trade deal into a single bill,
and Republicans objected, demanding a chance to vote separately
on each component.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  