-- 
U.S. Set to Sue Biggest Banks Over Sales of Mortgage Securities, NYT Says

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-02T03:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u-s-set-to-sue-banks-over-mortgage-securities-n-y-times-says.html
More than a dozen large banks may be
sued by the U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency for
misrepresenting the quality of mortgage securities sold at the
height of the housing bubble, the New York Times said.  The agency, which oversees mortgage finance companies
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , is likely to file the lawsuits in
coming days and will seek billions of dollars in compensation,
the newspaper said, citing three people briefed on the matter
that it didn’t identify.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among firms that will be
targeted by the suits, which stems from subpoenas issued by the
agency a year ago, according to the Times report. The agency
will argue that the banks failed to perform the due diligence
required under securities law while assembling and selling the
mortgage securities, and missed signs that borrowers’ incomes
were inflated or falsified, the newspaper said.  The lawsuits may be filed today or on Sept. 6, before a
deadline expires for the housing agency to file claims, the
Times reported. Rather than demanding that firms buy back the
original loans, the agency is seeking reimbursement for losses
on the securities held by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, it said.  Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan declined to
comment, the Times said. Frank Kelly, a spokesman for Deutsche
Bank, told the newspaper the bank can’t comment on a suit it
hasn’t seen or hasn’t been filed, according to the report.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  A call to the federal agency after U.S. business hours
wasn’t immediately returned.  Mark Bennewith, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in  Singapore ,
Rob Stewart, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Bank of America and
Edward Naylor, a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  