-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Employment Data Fuels Recession Concerns

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-09-03T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u-s-stocks-retreat-after-august-employment-data-fuel-recession-concerns.html
U.S. stocks fell this week as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its biggest monthly decline
in more than a year and a report showing employment stagnated in
August fueled concern the economy may slip into a recession.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost at
least 4.4 percent as the Federal Housing Finance Agency sued
lenders over residential mortgage-backed securities.  AT&T Inc. (T) 
declined 3.4 percent after the government sued to prevent its
planned purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  dropped
11 percent after the  International Energy Agency  said the price
of solar power may fall.  The S&P 500 fell 0.2 percent to 1,173.97 this week as a 2.5
percent slide on the last day wiped out gains from earlier in
the week. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 44.28
points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,240.26. Both gauges posted their
biggest monthly losses since May 2010 in August.  “There’s a lot of emotion in the market,” William Fries,
the  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based manager of the $26 billion
Thornburg International Value Fund, said in a telephone
interview. “The employment numbers were not encouraging. I’m
not ready to concede that we have a double dip but we’re
certainly heading into a period of slower growth and that’s not
good for stocks.”  This week’s retreat was triggered by government data
showing U.S. payrolls were unchanged in August, the weakest
reading since September 2010. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey called for an increase of 68,000. Hourly earnings
and hours worked both declined. The August data included a
48,000 drop in information industry jobs, mostly reflecting
striking Verizon Communications Inc. workers.  ‘Everyone Is Worried’  “Everyone is worried about the state of the economy and
whether we entered a recession in August, and data like this
will lead some to believe that we did,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief
global strategist at BTIG LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “That of course bodes ill for equity prices.”  The  S&P 500  slid as much as 18 percent from a three-year
high on April 29 amid concern the economy was weakening. Stocks
rebounded at the end of the month as Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said in an Aug. 26 speech in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, that the central bank has tools to stimulate growth
without signaling he will use them. He echoed comments from
dissenting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  who said
data aren’t pointing to a recession.  Concern that the S&P 500 will plunge amid slowing earnings
growth are overblown, according to Liz Ann Sonders of  Charles
Schwab  Corp.  ‘Fall Out of Bed’  “There is this misperception that the minute the peak of
earnings happens, the market is going to fall out of bed,”
Sonders, New York-based chief investment strategist at Charles
Schwab, said in a radio interview this week on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The market tends to continue to
fare pretty well unless you get some sort of massive collapse in
earnings, which I don’t think is in the cards this time.”  Equities climbed earlier this week, including a 2.8 percent
surge in the S&P 500 on Aug. 29, after reports showed Americans’
spending increased more than economists forecast and incomes
grew at the projected pace. Benchmark gauges also rose as two
Greek banks, EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA and Alpha Bank SA,
discussed merging.  Financial and telephone stocks were the worst performers
out of 10 groups in the S&P 500, with each group losing at least
1.5 percent. Gauges of utility, health-care and consumer-staples
companies climbed at least 0.6 percent for the best
performances.  Bank Suits  Bank of America lost 6.6 percent to $7.25 and JPMorgan
retreated 4.4 percent to $34.63 as reports of pending federal
lawsuits triggered the stocks’ biggest losses of the week on
Sept. 2. The two banks and Citigroup Inc. were among the 17
lenders sued by the Federal Housing Finance Agency for allegedly
misleading  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  about billions of dollars
of residential mortgage-backed securities.  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks slid 2.9 percent this week.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America also
declined earlier this week after the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. objected to the lender’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-
bond settlement with investors.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  slumped 4.2 percent to $107.06
after also agreeing to pay future Federal Reserve penalties and
write down $53 million of  mortgage loans  in New York to gain
approval for its sale of Litton Loan Servicing LP. The Fed
ordered Goldman Sachs to conduct an independent review of
Litton’s foreclosures in 2009 and 2010 to address a “pattern of
misconduct and negligence,” the regulator said in a statement.  AT&T Slumps  AT&T slumped 3.4 percent to $28.05. The U.S. government
sued to block the Dallas-based company’s proposed $39 billion
acquisition of T-Mobile, saying the deal would “substantially
lessen competition” in the wireless market. The purchase would
combine the second- and fourth-largest mobile-phone carriers in
the country.  First Solar lost 11 percent to $90.10, the biggest weekly
decline in the S&P 500. The price of solar power may fall to
about $100 per megawatt-hour by 2030, the IEA said.  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  retreated 10 percent to $12.94. The defense
contractor reported fiscal second-quarter earnings that were
below analysts’ estimates and cut its revenue forecast for the
year ending Jan. 31, 2012, to no more than $11 billion from as
much as $11.5 billion, on a slowdown in U.S. government
contracts.  VIX Retreats  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
benchmark measure of U.S. equity derivatives, fell 4.7 percent
to 33.92 this week following a fourth straight monthly increase.
The VIX, as the measure is known, jumped 50 percent to 48 on
Aug. 8 for the biggest jump since February 2007. The VIX has
averaged about 20.44 over its 21-year history.  “I don’t think the market can find a stable floor until we
see some turn in the areas of greatest uncertainty,” Eric Teal,
chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc.,
which manages $4 billion in Raleigh,  North Carolina , said in a
telephone interview. “It continues to be extremely volatile as
issues, including housing, unemployment, the European debt
crisis and the U.S. deficit issues, don’t get resolved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  