-- 
Bono Defends Steve Jobs After Criticism About Apple Ex-CEO’s Philanthropy

-- B y   M a k o t o   M i y a z a k i
-- 
2011-09-02T06:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/u2-s-bono-defends-jobs-after-criticism-about-his-philanthropy.html
Bono, U2 rock band’s lead singer,
defended  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder  Steve Jobs  after a New York Times
columnist wrote the former chief executive wasn’t a prominent
philanthropist.  Jobs said there was “nothing better than the chance to
save lives,” when Bono approached him about a campaign to fight
AIDS in  Africa , according to a letter the singer wrote to the
 New York Times  yesterday. Through the sale of red-colored
products, Apple was (Product) RED’s largest contributor to the
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, giving tens
of millions of dollars, Bono wrote.  “I’m proud to know him,” Bono wrote about Jobs. “He’s a
poetic fellow, an artist and a businessman. Just because he’s
been extremely busy, that doesn’t mean that he and his wife,
Laurene, haven’t been thinking about these things.”  The participation was “invaluable” and helped transform
the lives of more than 2 million Africans, Bono wrote. Bono sent
the letter after Andrew Ross Sorkin wrote in a column that Jobs
wasn’t a  “prominent philanthropist”  even after accumulating
$8.3 billion through his holdings in Apple and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   There was no public record of Jobs giving money to charity
and he wasn’t a member of the Giving Pledge, founded by  Warren
Buffett  and  Bill Gates  to persuade America’s rich to give away
at least half their wealth, Sorkin wrote.  The lack of public giving by Jobs is “curious,” Sorkin
wrote. In 1986, Jobs started the Steven P. Jobs Foundation and
closed it a little over a year later, Sorkin wrote.  Apple gives a portion of the purchase price from consumers
choosing  (Product) RED  special edition iPod models and iTunes
gift cards toward the Global Fund to fight AIDS in Africa,
according to the company’s Website.  Jobs resigned last week as the chief executive officer of
Apple, a company he co-founded. Jobs, who will become chairman,
had been on medical leave since Jan. 17, following a 2003 cancer
diagnosis and a  liver transplant  in 2009.  Bono is co-founder of the (Product) RED group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makoto Miyazaki in Tokyo at 
 mmiyazaki8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 