-- 
UAW Relies on GM to Set Pattern for Auto Agreement

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/uaw-said-to-select-gm-to-set-financial-pattern-in-talks-with-automakers.html
The  United Auto Workers , bargaining
a new contract for U.S. automakers, is turning to  General Motors
Co. (GM)  to set the pattern for wages and benefits for the U.S.
industry, said three people familiar with the discussions.  UAW bargainers are seeking a large signing bonus and new
work in U.S. factories in exchange for not increasing fixed
labor costs at GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified as revealing
internal discussions. Negotiations at GM are farthest along and
will continue through the weekend, the people said.  The union’s contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM, Ford
and Chrysler expire Sept. 14. UAW President  Bob King  still hopes
to have deals at all three companies around the deadline, so
talks will continue at Ford and Chrysler next week, the person
said. Detroit-based GM is offering buyouts in hopes that senior
workers retire, making room for new hires who are paid half as
much, said two people familiar with the proposal.  “GM makes the most sense as the lead company because it
remains the largest, it has shown renewed health and a
willingness to work with the UAW,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley. “GM is
the company that is demonstrating that they want to get a
deal.”  Michele Martin , a spokewoman for the UAW, denied that the
union had selected GM. “That’s not accurate,” she said
last night, declining to comment further.  Signing Bonuses  The size of the signing bonuses the union is seeking isn’t
known, the people said. Such bonuses totaled $3,000 for workers
at GM, Ford and Chrysler in the last contract talks in 2007.  The Detroit-based UAW traditionally picks one automaker to
create a deal it uses as a template with the other two. Such
pattern bargaining has kept wages and benefits close to parity
among the three carmakers, Shaiken said.  Though Ford is the most profitable, the union isn’t seeking
to set the pattern with the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker.
Ford lacks a no-strike pledge workers agreed to at GM and
Chrysler as part of their U.S.-backed bankruptcies in 2009. A
deal the union might get at Ford could be rejected at GM and
Chrysler, leaving the UAW with no recourse to insure that
pattern would be preserved, the person said.  No economic proposals have been discussed so far in the
Ford contract talks, which have been suspended for the U.S.
Labor Day holiday weekend, said two people familiar with the
situation. GM and Chrysler will continue negotiating through the
weekend, said two people familiar with those discussions.  “Ford going first might be counterproductive because they
could wind up with a situation where there’s turbulence in the
industry,” Shaiken said. “And that’s not what they want.”  ‘Equality of Sacrifice’  If Ford goes last, the union might work out a deal to get
its 41,000 hourly workers an extra payout to resolve a so-called
“equality of sacrifice” dispute over salaried workers
receiving raises and bonuses last year, said Art Schwartz,
president of Labor & Economics Associates, a consulting firm in
 Ann Arbor , Michigan. Ford is the only one of the three to avoid
a government bailout and bankruptcy.  “A deal at GM and Chrysler first and Ford last would
benefit the UAW,” said Schwartz, a former GM labor negotiator.
“It would enable the union to give people at Ford a little more
money.”  Marcey Evans , a spokeswoman for Ford, declined to comment,
as did Gualberto Ranieri, a Chrysler spokesman.  Kim Carpenter , a
GM spokeswoman, said negotiations are continuing, without
elaborating.  UAW Leader’s Comments  The UAW’s King said Aug. 29 he is seeking raises for entry-
level workers, who now are paid about $14 an hour, half what
senior production employees make.  For senior workers, King has said he’s open to compensation
that won’t raise the companies’ fixed costs. That compensation
may include a mix of profit sharing and performance bonuses
based on achieving productivity and quality goals, King has
said.  “We are going to make sure the companies are competitive
coming out of these agreements,” King said in an Aug. 29 speech
to the Detroit Economic Club. “We are not going to disadvantage
the companies we work with. Heck, we all want a wage increase,
but is that the best way?”  King has said the union won’t make concessions while
keeping labor costs competitive. King has said workers must be
rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they each gave
since 2005 to help the U.S. automakers survive.  Previous concessions included surrendering raises, bonuses
and cost-of-living adjustments as well as agreeing to the two-
tier wage system.  Buyout Proposals  GM’s proposed buyouts are aimed at paring the ranks of
senior employees and skilled-trades workers, who receive the
highest pay, said the people familiar with the offer. New
workers, even with a higher hourly rate than $14, would lower
overall labor costs for the automakers, the people said.  “We’re very concerned about the entry-level workers having
a middle-class standard of living, which I would argue they
don’t at the current rate,” King said following the Detroit
speech. “So I would say that’s the highest priority.”  With a path to lower labor costs, the companies are willing
to put more work in U.S. plants, rather than in low-wage
countries such as  Mexico , the people said.  Fiat SpA (F) , which controls  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler, is considering building Jeep and Alfa Romeo models in
 North America , rather than at its Mirafiori plant in Turin,
 Italy , as it had previously planned. The automaker is
considering the change because of the high value of the euro,
said a person familiar with the situation.  A deal involving mostly lump sum payments to workers in
exchange for more investment in U.S. factories is a departure
from past agreements that added to labor costs with raises and
other benefits, Shaiken said.  “The workers have been through hell and back and they want
to see successful companies,” Shaiken said. “This is a very
different direction. Does it have risks? Yes, but what is far
riskier is the status quo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  