-- 
UBS Reduces Asian Stock-Index Target on Slowing Economy, Policy Concerns

-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-02T03:36:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/ubs-cuts-asia-stock-target-on-slowdown.html
UBS AG cut its estimate for a gauge
of Asian stocks, excluding  Japan , as equities remain “broadly
out of favor” amid slowing economic growth and a lack of easier
monetary policies.  The MSCI  Asia  excluding Japan Index’s year-end target was
cut to 580 from 670, Niall MacLeod and Aakash Rawat, analysts at
UBS, wrote in a report dated today. They said they prefer China
and  India  because global growth weakness should help ease
inflation concerns, while they kept an “underweight” rating on
Taiwan and South Korea.  “We still expect weak data, little relief from central
banks in terms of major fresh policy action, but that ultimately
the weak patch in data will ease into the fourth quarter,” the
analysts wrote.  MSCI’s Asia ex-Japan measure lost 0.9 percent to 510.76 at
11:32 a.m. in Hong Kong, snapping a four-day, 5.5 percent
increase. The gauge slumped 10 percent last month, the most
since October 2008, amid concern global economic growth is
slowing as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis spreads and after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on  U.S. debt .  “Against our base case of no global recession, albeit
ongoing weak data, and no global financial crisis, we think
equities can still deliver returns of 10 percent or so in the
final part of the year,” the UBS analysts wrote.  Chinese export orders fell for the first time in two years
in August, and manufacturing in South Korea and Taiwan
contracted, underscoring signs of slowing growth that may help
dissipate Asian inflation pressures.  Manufacturing Gauges  An index of Chinese manufacturing was at 50.9, near a 29-
month low, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
reported yesterday. Similar gauges for  South Korea  and Taiwan
were at 49.7 and 45.2, below the expansion-contraction point of
50, data compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed.  The UBS analysts don’t expect the U.S. Federal Reserve
meeting that starts on Sept. 20 to spark a rally in Asian shares
through a new round of quantitative easing.  “We are not expecting dramatic changes in policy like last
year with QE,” the analysts wrote. “While there is some
excitement around the two-day Fed meeting later in September, we
still doubt that the Fed will do anything that will as
dramatically ignite share prices in Asia as happened with QE
last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  