-- 
Ukraine Seeks to Annul Russian Gas Accord; Gazprom Wants Merger

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-09-02T14:32:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/ukraine-seeks-to-annul-russian-gas-accord-gazprom-wants-merger.html
The restructuring of Ukraine’s state
energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy being proposed by the
country’s president would annul gas supply contracts with
 Russia , Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said.  “Naftogaz will cease existing as a judicial entity,”
Azarov said today in Kiev in televised remarks. “After a
certain time entirely new companies will operate in this
market,” he said. Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych 
proposed a break-up of Naftogaz in July.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, would be open to
revising the gas supply contracts if Ukraine would consider
merging Naftogaz with Gazprom, its Chief Executive Officer
Alexei Miller said today in an e-mailed statement.  Ukraine has no plans to merge Naftogaz with Gazprom, Azarov
said today in a statement posted on the Ukrainian government
website, reiterating statements made yesterday by Yuriy Boyko,
the country’s coal and energy minister, and by Yanukovych in
July.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  first proposed
uniting state-run Gazprom with Ukraine’s Naftogaz in April 2010.
Five months later Prime Minister Azarov said that Ukraine was
willing to set up a joint venture between Naftogaz and Gazprom
and give Russia joint control of its pipelines carrying gas to
European customers in exchange for access to gas supplies.  IMF Bail-Out  Ukraine, which depends on Russia for more than half of its
energy needs, wants to pay less for Russian natural gas
deliveries to reduce Naftogaz’s losses. That is one of the key
requirements of the International Monetary Fund’s $15.6 billion
bail-out loan. Ukraine wants to reduce amount of Russian imports
by nearly three times by 2017, Energy and Coal Minister Yuriy Boyko said last week.  Ukraine must buy no less than 33 billion cubic meters of
Russian natural gas a year under existing ten-year contracts,
 Alexei Miller  said on Aug. 31.  Ukraine paid $355 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas in the
current quarter, Naftogaz said last month. Yanukovych said in
May he wanted the price to be cut to $240 per 1,000 cubic
meters.  On July 8, Yanukovych said Naftogaz will be restructured
and divided into several units focusing on extraction,
transportation and delivery, with a view to selling stakes in
the new businesses. The president urged the Cabinet and
parliament today to prepare legislation for Naftogaz
restructuring by Oct. 1.  The 2009 natural gas supply agreements “are in place and
signed,” said Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko. “It is
very difficult to revise the agreements one-sidedly.” Shmatko
added later: “It is impossible.”  President Yanukovych is to meet his Russian counterpart
Dmitry Medvedev today in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, for gas talks,
Azarov said today, according to the Ukrainian government
website. Prime Minister Azarov said he has written a letter to
Russian premier Vladimir Putin suggesting the parties revert to
government-level agreements made in 2004 on gas deliveries,
according to the government website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Moscow at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  