-- 
Ukraine’s Corn Exports Surge Capping Price Rally as Heat Erodes U.S. Crop

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-09-02T16:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/ukraine-s-corn-exports-surge-capping-price-rally-as-heat-erodes-u-s-crop.html
Corn exports from  Ukraine  will
almost double in the 12 months from July 1, easing a shortage of
the grain and capping a 67 percent price rally in the past year
as heat erodes prospects for the U.S. crop, the world’s biggest.  Ukraine is poised to overtake  Brazil  as the third-largest
corn exporter after the U.S. and  Argentina , shipping abroad 9.25
million metric tons of the grain this season, 81 percent more
than last year, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts
and traders surveyed by Bloomberg News. Ukraine exported 5.1
million tons of corn in 2010-11, making it the fourth-biggest
supplier, according to the International Grains Council.  “The market hasn’t priced in yet the coming crop in
Ukraine, which would be a record high,” said Pierre Begoc,
general director of the Kiev branch of Agritel, a Paris-based
consultant to 2,000 farmers. “Once we get closer to the
harvest, with confirmation of this potential yield in Ukraine,
it could limit the upside of the U.S. corn, if there is any
upside left.”  Corn prices surged as U.S. crop conditions fell to the
lowest level since 2005 after the hottest summer since 1955 in
Iowa and  Illinois . Corn for December delivery climbed 22.25
cents, or 3 percent, to $7.6075 a bushel by 4:25 p.m. London
time on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Crop Size  Ukraine’s corn crop will come to 16.8 million tons this
season after farmers planted more seeds and favorable weather
boosted yields, according to the median of 12 estimates in the
Bloomberg survey. Last year’s 11.9 million tons is Ukraine’s
record, according to the  national  State Statistics Office.  About 54 percent of the U.S. crop was in good or excellent
condition as of Aug. 28, the lowest for any week since September
2005, according to the government data. Corn crops continue to
be affected by dry weather in the Midwest, the U.S.’s largest
growing region, with rains below normal, Telvent DTN Inc. said
in a bulletin on Aug. 30.  U.S. corn exports will be 45 million tons this season, the
IGC said last month, lowering its estimate from 49 million tons
in July. The estimate for Ukraine’s exports was raised by 1
million tons to 8 million tons in the IGC report.  Corn production in the U.S. may total 328 million tons, 4.1
percent below its July estimate, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said Aug. 11. Rabobank International forecasts a
18.7 million-ton global shortage this season.  Pricing in Ukraine  “The corn market potentially wouldn’t be as tight as many
people think,” said Peter Biermann, general manager of export
operations at grain trader Aston FFI in Lausanne,  Switzerland ,
who forecasts exports may be as high as 14 million tons.  “The market isn’t pricing in Ukraine yet, and there is a
good corn crop in  Romania , too. These two suppliers can absorb a
lot of demand which normally goes to the U.S. and  South
America .”  Romania may export about 1.7 million tons of corn in the
current marketing year, while Russian deliveries may be about
850,000 tons, and sales from Ukraine 9.6 million tons, according
to Kiev-based agriculture researcher UkrAgroConsult. Additional
supplies from the  Black Sea region  may meet demand from  Egypt 
and north  Africa , Biermann said.  Ukraine’s  Agriculture Ministry  estimates the corn harvest
at 18 million to 20 million tons.  ‘Very Favorable’ Conditions  “Conditions are very favorable for corn this year,”
Anatoliy Rozgon, head of the ministry’s agriculture markets
department, said by phone yesterday. “The main concern is that
rains do not affect harvesting and quality, while there are also
issues with drying, storing and exporting the grain.”  While a 20 million-ton crop allows for 12 million tons of
exportable surplus, the country’s tax on exports may undercut
sales, according to Nikolay Vernitsky, director of the Kiev-
based agriculture researcher ProAgro. Ukraine started taxing its
grain exports on July 1 to boost budget revenues by $220 million
this year. The tax, 12 percent for corn, 9 percent for wheat and
14 percent for barley, is in force through Dec. 31. Ukrainian
grain exports fell to a record in July.  Still, with prices for the new crop in Ukraine expected to
be about 25 percent below global levels, exports will be
profitable even with the government’s 12 percent tax, according
to Vernitsky.  Corn in Ukraine is usually harvested from late August
through the end of September. With silos filled by wheat and
barley harvested earlier, storage for corn will be limited,
forcing exports early in the season, according to Agritel’s
Begoc.  “With the corn coming in, there won’t be enough storing
and drying capacity for corn, which means we are going to get a
lot of corn on the market during the harvest,” Begoc said.
“There is no time to lose to export in Ukraine.”  -- Editors: Sharon Lindores, Dan Weeks  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 