-- 
Uncaged Inflation, a Beast Easy to Free, Hard to Control: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-02T00:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/uncaged-inflation-is-a-beast-that-s-easy-to-free-hard-to-control-view.html
Inflation? No, thank you.  We just endured and survived a major political crisis over
the possibility that the U.S. government might default on its
debts. Most people -- other than a few high-stakes poker players
on the right wing of the  Republican Party  -- agreed that this
would be a terrible thing. But now, a growing number of voices,
mainly on the left wing of the  Democratic Party  but also in the
 Federal Reserve , are calling for what is in effect default in
slow motion. It goes by the name of inflation.  Inflation decreases the value of debts, like the $14
trillion owed by the federal government to lenders such as the
government of  China  (and a lot of ordinary American savers,
too), and it increases the value of assets, like houses. Thus it
helps all debtors, from the federal government to individual
homeowners who can’t pay their mortgages. Inflation has been
running at an average of 2.4 percent over the past decade. After
a couple of years of, say, 6 percent inflation, that $14
trillion would be worth closer to $12 trillion in current
dollars. A $400,000 mortgage would be worth about $350,000.  The U.S. government is going to be trying a tricky maneuver
over the next couple of years. First, it wants to give the
still-sickly economy another kick in the pants. That requires a
larger federal deficit -- not as an unfortunate side effect, but
because that’s how a stimulus works. Then, the government must
perform a U-turn and concentrate on seriously reducing the
deficit for our long-term economic health. A bit of inflation
could help grease the wheels, by eroding the value of debt and
debt-service payments.  Leading Economists Say  As it happens, a couple of years of 6 percent inflation is
exactly what the leading economist advocating this approach --
 Kenneth Rogoff  at Harvard --  recommends . He is joined by  Paul Krugman  and by a growing number of economic journalists and
commentators. Some of these people have been saying that
inflation is no threat worth worrying about, because it has not
appeared despite circumstances that ordinarily would have
produced it. Now they say inflation is no threat because a
little of it would actually be a good thing.  At Bloomberg View, we think that doing anything to
encourage increased inflation is a very bad idea. People who
advocate it are either too young or too old to remember our last
adventure with inflation, in 1979 and 1980.  Self-Feeding Problem  You can’t easily pencil in two years of 6 percent inflation
and then go on your merry way. Inflation is self-feeding and
takes on a life of its own. And it works only by surprise. If
lenders all know that the government is going to induce or at
least tolerate something like 6 percent inflation, they will
demand something like 8 percent interest from borrowers. There
goes the grease on the wheels. And it’s not just lenders: Labor
negotiators will have their backs stiffened if they know that
any dollar figure they negotiate will buy less and less.
Manufacturers who know their inputs are going to be getting more
expensive, in dollar terms, will raise their prices in
anticipation, thus making inflation a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Long-term planning becomes difficult to impossible.  It’s not just the economy. Inflation erodes the social
fabric. Stable prices make for a stable currency, which is a
cornerstone of a stable society. Inflation drives people into
warring interest groups competing to stay ahead of the game. The
ground beneath your feet becomes unsteady, as if in an
earthquake. Like Alice in “Through the Looking-Glass,” you
have to run faster and faster just to stay in the same place.  Deep Recession  Back in the early 1980s, it took a deep recession to break
inflation’s back, after it cost a Democratic president,  Jimmy Carter , his job. It’s true that the inflation of 1979 peaked at
an annual rate of 13.3 percent, more than double what Rogoff has
in mind for our next round. But inflation is not a beast you can
easily control once it is out of its cage.  It is true that inflation, on balance, hurts lenders and
helps borrowers, and that, on average, borrowers tend to have
lower incomes and to be suffering more from the effects of our
current economic condition. But inflation is such a scourge that
avoiding it leaves everyone better off in absolute terms.  We hope this lesson is not one that every generation has to
learn for itself.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 