-- 
Hungary to Consider New Help for Franc Borrowers, Orban Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-02T11:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/hungary-to-consider-new-help-for-franc-borrowers-orban-says.html
Hungary’s government will consider
new steps to help borrowers struggling to repay foreign-currency
mortgage loans as measures approved so far only offer a
“temporary solution,” Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  Proposals will be discussed at a three-day meeting of the
ruling party next week, Orban told a joint news conference with
President Pal Schmitt today in Budapest.  Hungarian households are struggling to repay mortgages,
with two-thirds of loans denominated in Swiss francs, this
year’s best-performing currency. The franc has surged 41 percent
against the forint in the past three years, increasing
homeowners’ monthly payments.  “There is no chance that in the next 8 to 10 years the
Swiss franc’s rate will return to even close to the level at
which the loans were taken out,” Orban said. “Therefore
people’s request for the government to offer a permanent
solution beyond a temporary one is justified.”  The forint traded at 248 per franc at 11:04 a.m. in
Budapest after touching a record low of 272.624 on Aug. 10.
Borrowers took out loans in the Swiss currency before the global
economic crisis to take advantage of lower  interest rates , with
exchange rates at the time about 160 forints per franc or lower.  The government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint until the end of
2014. The difference between the fixed-rate payments and those
that would have resulted under actual exchange rates will be
recorded in separate forint accounts to be settled at a future
date.  “I agree that this is a temporary solution but it’s still
a serious one,” Orban said. “It’s also true that this doesn’t
solve the problems of foreign-currency borrowers.”  Part of the answer may be for banks to share some of the
costs incurred by exchange-rate swings, Orban told TV2 in an
interview yesterday without elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  