-- 
Turkey Suspends Israel Military Ties, Will Downgrade Diplomatic Relations

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-02T14:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/turkey-halts-israel-military-accords.html
Turkey  suspended military relations
with Israel and will downgrade diplomatic ties barring an
apology for the killing of Turkish activists on a flotilla to
Gaza last year, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said.  Diplomatic relations between the two countries will be cut
to second-secretary level and military accords are on hold,
Davutoglu said at a news conference in Ankara today. All higher-
ranking officials, including the ambassador, will return to
their countries by Sept. 7, he said.  Turkey, a NATO member, is severing ties with its once
closest ally in the Middle East before a United Nations report
on Israel’s raid in May last year on vessels attempting to
breach the blockade of the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip . The UN
said  Israel ’s naval blockage is legal and that the country is
entitled to enforce it while adding that its effort to stop the
flotilla was “excessive and unreasonable,” according to the
105-page  report  obtained by the New York Times and posted on its
 website .  “Israel has wasted all the chances it was given,”
Davutoglu said. “Now, the Israeli government needs to face and
pay for its illegal measures, and the first cost for seeing
itself above international laws and disregarding the human
conscience is Turkey’s friendship.”  No Apology  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has said his
country’s response to the flotilla was justified. The UN report
said “an appropriate statement of regret should be made by
Israel,” whereas Turkey demands an outright apology.  Israel won’t apologize for the deaths as its soldiers acted
in self defense, said a government official in  Jerusalem 
who declined to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly on the matter. Israel regrets the loss of life
and hopes to find a way to resolve clashes with Turkey, he said.  Gaby Levy, Israel’s ambassador in Ankara, said he will quit
his post mid-September for personal reasons and because it’s
becoming increasingly difficult for him to work in Turkey,
state-run Anatolia news agency reported Aug. on 23.  Turkey withdrew its ambassador after the raid and Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  demanded an apology, compensation
and lifting of the naval blockade before relations are fully
restored. The attack prompted UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
to call the blockade “unsustainable and wrong.”  Less than a month after the confrontation, Israel loosened
its land blockade with Gaza with the aim of allowing more food
in and keeping weapons and items with a possible military use
out.  Egypt  opened its border crossing with the Gaza Strip on May
28, easing its own four-year blockade of the territory.  ‘Severe Situation’  “This is a severe situation, bad for Israel and Turkey,
especially if it is now spilling over into economic and trade
ties, which had remained stable during this whole period of
diplomatic tension,” said Jonathan Spyer, political scientist
at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya outside  Tel Aviv .  “While Turkey could have received the UN report more
positively given that it hardly lets Israel off the hook, it’s
clear now that Erdogan wants to maintain a certain level of
tension in the relationship, as it suits his strategy to raise
Turkey’s profile in the region,” he said.  Political tensions haven’t significantly affected economic
ties. Turkey remains Israel’s biggest commercial partner in the
region. Shipments from Turkey to Israel from January to June
increased to $695 million from $600 million a year earlier and
Israeli exports to Turkey rose to $662 million from $420
million.  Soldiers Attacked  Among companies that did business with Turkey were Israel
Aerospace Industries Ltd. and Elbit Ltd., which traded arms. The
day after the May 31 raid, the shekel weakened to an almost 10-
month low while the benchmark TA-25 stock index posted a two-day
drop of 2.6 percent amid concern that criticism over the raid
would spur investors to sell.  Israel has said that in the confrontation, which followed
numerous warnings for the ships to change course, its soldiers
were attacked with knives and clubs after boarding the Mavi
Marmara, one of six vessels in the flotilla, and seven were
wounded, including by gunfire after volunteers aboard the ship
managed to grab Israeli firearms.  The report cited forensic evidence indicating that the dead
were shot “multiple times,” including in the back or at close
range. The findings also said Israeli soldiers faced
“significant, organized and violent resistance” from a group
of passengers on the vessel.  ‘Breakdown in Relations’  The release of the report, which has been held back, may do
little to heal relations between nations. Turkey’s position is
that both the Israeli maritime blockade of Gaza and the attack
on the aid flotilla were unlawful.  Davutoglu called some findings in the report “political.”
Netanyahu had agreed with Turkey on the means to normalize
relations after four rounds of meetings between officials of the
two countries, Davutoglu said. The Israeli Cabinet then blocked
the agreement, he said.  “This kind of breakdown in relations is very serious at a
very sensitive moment,” Yossi Mekelberg, an associate fellow at
 Chatham House  and a  Middle East  and Israel expert at Regent’s
College in  London . “It is an example how two governments
climbed up a high tree and have no idea how to climb down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  