-- 
Turkish Stocks Climb After Citi Upgrades to ‘Overweight’ from ‘Neutral’

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-02T15:49:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/turkish-stocks-climb-after-citi-upgrades-to-overweight-from-neutral-.html
Turkish stocks climbed to the
highest level in four weeks on the first day of trading in three
days after Citigroup Inc. recommended buying the country’s
shares.  The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  advanced 1,429.19, or 2.7
percent, to 55,375.28, the strongest since Aug. 5, at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Istanbul.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ,
the biggest listed bank by market value, jumped 3.8 percent. The
stock market re-opened today after trading was halted mid-day on
Aug. 29 for a public holiday.  Turkish equities were raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at Citigroup, which citing “severe”
underperformance and easing inflation pressures. The Istanbul
index has dropped 16 percent this year, the biggest decline
among major emerging markets after  India , as the country’s
current-account deficit swelled to a record.  “The Citigroup upgrade could drive Turkish stocks even
higher next week,” Ata Doganoglu, a trader at broker Ekspres
Invest in Istanbul, said in response to Bloomberg questions via
instant message.  Turkish shares trimmed their gains after a report showed
hiring in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August as employers
became less confident in the strength of the recovery of the
world’s largest economy. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped
1.4 percent, trimming this week’s rally to 4.9 percent. Today’s
gain in  Turkey ’s benchmark index left the gauge up 3.1 percent
in the week.  Turkey ‘Oversold’  Turkish assets looked “oversold,” Geoffrey Dennis,
Citigroup’s strategist in  New York , wrote in a report dated Aug.
30. Turkey, which imports almost all the energy it consumes, is
also set to benefit from the recent decline in  oil prices  more
than most of its peers, he said.  Oil slipped 1.9 percent to $87.07 a barrel in New York,
down 24 percent from this year’s high of $114.83 on May 2.  The retreat in oil prices helped ease pressure on the
country’s inflation, the central bank said last month. The rate,
which increased to 6.3 percent in July from 6.2 percent in June,
will end this year closer to the bank’s 5.5 percent goal than a
forecast of 6.9 percent that it made in July, governor Erdem Basci said on Aug 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  