-- 
Lira Depreciates Most in Three Weeks; Bonds Advance on Rate Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-02T15:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/turkish-lira-weakens-for-2nd-day-as-stock-bond-trading-resumes.html
The lira depreciated the most in
more than three weeks as traders bought dollars after  Turkey ’s
currency climbed to a month high and a report showed U.S. hiring
stagnated. Bonds rose as trading restarted after a holiday.  Turkey’s currency slipped 1.7 percent to 1.7519 per dollar
at 5:40 p.m. in Istanbul, reversing this week’s gains to leave
the currency less than 0.1 percent lower on the week. The lira
appreciated to 1.7089 yesterday, the strongest in a month.  “Corporate clients who had postponed their foreign-
exchange buying because of the holiday are buying now as they
see the lira at a stronger level,” Baris Karaayvaz, a currency
trader at Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, said by telephone. Foreign
currencies were “oversold when locals were not around and
people with long positions could not find buyers in a shallow
market,” he said.  The lira fell to the lows of the day after a report showed
hiring in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August as employers
became less confident in the strength of the recovery of the
world’s largest economy.  Bonds gained, sending two-year yields to a seven-month low
on speculation the central bank will cut rates to bolster the
economy. The yield fell 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage
point, to 7.80 percent, the lowest closing level since Jan. 25,
according to a Royal Bank of Scotland index.  Turkish business conditions worsened in August to the
lowest level since April 2009, with the purchasing managers
index declining to 48.8 from 52.3 in July, HSBC Holdings Plc
said in a report today, citing data compiled by London-based
Markit Economics. Any reading above 50 represents an expansion
and below 50 a contraction.  “Unsurprisingly, Turkish bond markets were further
‘inspired’ by the manufacturing PMI print, assuming this builds
into further rate easing,” said Tim Ash, the chief economist
for emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London .  Turkey’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low of 5.75 percent on Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  