-- 
Hurricane Irene Damage Forces FEMA to Re-certify Claim Adjusters

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-02T22:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/hurricane-irene-damage-forces-fema-to-re-certify-claim-adjusters.html
A shortage of insurance claims
adjusters to handle damage from  Hurricane Irene  has forced the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency  to re-certify workers who
let their credentials lapse.  James A. Sadler, FEMA’s director of claims, outlined the
temporary reauthorizations in an Aug. 31 letter to insurance
companies and agents who administer policies through the
agency’s  National Flood Insurance Program , according to a copy
of the letter obtained by Bloomberg News. The authorization lets
the adjusters work until June 1 of next year.  “FEMA welcomes these adjusters back to the NFIP and
encourages them to spend time with their supervisor catching up
with current procedures,” Sadler wrote in the letter, in which
he predicted “many adjusting challenges.”  The adjusters may be enlisted to inspect the aftermath of
Irene’s journey along the U.S. Eastern Seaboard, which left
damage estimated at $12.4 billion by Kinetic Analysis Corp. The
storm, which made landfall on Aug. 27, cut a path of destruction
that left 45 people dead and 6.69 million homes and businesses
without power from the Carolinas to  New England .  The agency’s brief notice, covering adjusters whose
credentials have lapsed since June 1, 2009, suggests an
emergency action for a shortage that the industry has struggled
with before, said Ben McKay, senior vice president of federal
government relations for the  Property Casualty Insurers
Association of America . In this case, FEMA is “not giving a
very substantial justification” for its decision, he said.  Hurricane Katrina  FEMA, which didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment, issued the letter to insurers along with a series of
bulletins dating back to 2008, giving rusty adjusters advice on
how to investigate flood damage. The emergency agency was widely
criticized over its 2005 response to  Hurricane Katrina , which
also put it about $18 billion in debt.  “There’s certainly a lot of damage to homes, to
businesses” from Irene, said Neil Kahn, executive vice
president at Goodman-Gable-Gould/Adjusters International, a
Baltimore-based firm that which represents policyholders.  Customers of the federal flood program should be given an
extension beyond the 60 days they normally have to prove their
damage claims, because it’s going to be especially difficult to
find people to assess that damage, Kahn said. “FEMA themselves
have now admitted that they’re going to great lengths to try to
find staff to handle claims,” he said.  Insurers and reinsurers will probably cover about $4.9
billion of the damages, according to Kinetic, a  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based firm that predicts the expense of disasters  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  