-- 
Vermont’s Second-Home Owners Trek to Check on Flooded Property

-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-02T16:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/vermont-s-vacation-home-owners-navigate-gulches-roads-to-check-property.html
Julie Gelgauda parked in front of a
ravine yesterday and peered almost 20 feet down to where the
Rock River had washed away a road near South Newfane,  Vermont ,
in the wake of  Hurricane Irene .  She paused a few minutes, then scrambled along a muddy path
by the side of the 120-foot (37 meter) gulch, clinging to shrubs
for balance. Her destination? Like hundreds of people, Gelgauda,
a resident of Wallingford, Connecticut, was trying to reach her
vacation cabin. The state, submerged by flooding over the
weekend, is bracing for an influx of vacation homeowners anxious
to check on cabins, cottages, and ski condominiums.  Vermont is second only to  Maine  in its percentage of
vacation homes, according to the 2010 Census. In Dover, the home
of Mount Snow, Vermont’s ski resort closest to  Boston  and  New
York , 87 percent of property tax bills go to out-of-state
residents, according to the town clerk’s office. Most homes in
Dover, population 1,124, are owned by people in New York,  New
Jersey , Connecticut and  Massachusetts .  Many have been calling. Michelle Mann, a dispatcher at the
Dover Police Department, estimated the force has received 50
calls every hour since Aug. 29. Andrew McLean, the town clerk,
said phones “have been ringing. Nonstop.”  Please Stay Home  Citing dangerous roads and limited services, officials who
usually promote Vermont as a four-season destination are
discouraging tourists and homeowners from visiting during the
Labor Day weekend.  Large parts of the Deerfield Valley, home to the Mount Snow
Ski Resort owned by Peak Resorts Inc., have been isolated since
Irene tore through Wilmington and Dover on Aug. 28. Miles of
roads and bridges were washed away by flooding along a pair of
rivers. Dozens of mountainside and riverfront houses were
destroyed. The Deerfield River topped its banks, killing a 20-
year-old woman and inundating downtown Wilmington.  “We will need you to visit, and visit often,” Laura
Sibilia, executive director of the Mount Snow Valley Chamber of
Commerce, wrote in a letter yesterday. “We will need you to
bring your friends. We will need you to buy local, dine in our
restaurants, and utilize area contractors and service providers.  “But not yet,” she wrote. “As harsh as it may sound,
right now we need you to stay where you are.’’  The Dover Board of Selectmen also voted to ask people to
stay away. Colby Dix, a member, wrote that it would be
“irresponsible to come to the area without absolute need.”  In The Wake  Damage in Dover was mostly confined to roads. Neighboring
South Newfane took the storm’s brunt. A well-tended vegetable
garden appeared unscathed, tomatoes hanging heavy on the vines.
A garage less than 50 feet away was shredded, a basketball hoop
hanging askew. The remains of a barn tilted over the river at a
45-degree angle. Day lilies bloomed across the driveway.  A covered bridge was deemed intact, allowing some residents
to travel east to Brattleboro, the region’s largest town. To the
west, 300-foot stretches of road were washed away completely.
The flattened remnants of a house lay in the middle of the
river, crushed by a bridge covered by fallen trees. Dozens of
power and telephone poles slid down hills, creating obstacles
for all-terrain vehicles shuttling food and water to the town.  In neighboring Williamsville, cases of water, granola bars,
and garden vegetables were left in front of the town meeting
hall, where residents with gardens or electricity are providing
meals.  Looting in Reverse  A roadside bench offered a sort of reverse looting, with
people leaving items found along the river, such as a child’s
chair, antique license plate and camera film.  Gelgauda, director of the Agency on Aging of South Central
 Connecticut ’s homecare program in  New Haven , said she’d bought
her cabin along the river about nine months ago. She returned
over the washed-out road after a couple of hours, timing her
ravine crossing to avoid a swinging backhoe bucket.  Gelgauda said she felt guilty; her cabin’s damage was
limited to four inches of water in the basement, as well as a
deposit of sand and gravel on her land.  “And I’ve got a new beach,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in East Dover, Vermont, at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  