-- 
Vermont Leaf-Peeping Season May Fall Victim to Images of Floods

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-09-02T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/vermont-leaf-peeping-season-may-fall-victim-to-images-of-irene-s-flooding.html
Vermont country store proprietor
Marilyn Distelberg is worried. Not about getting local cheddar
cheese or maple syrup: She has plenty. It’s the news coverage of
 Hurricane Irene  that may be telling leaf peepers to stay home.  “Some people will see all the images of the damage and
figure there’s no sense making the trip,” said Distelberg, who
runs the  Newfane Country Store  with her husband, Bob.  Owners of country stores, inns, bus companies, cider mills
and syrup farms that depend on the state’s colorful autumn
foliage are growing anxious as the season is set to begin in
three weeks. Innkeepers are already fielding cancellation calls
while state officials strategize on ways to minimize damage to
Vermont’s $1.4 billion-a-year tourist industry.  “We will suffer,” said Megan Smith, state commissioner of
tourism and marketing and a former innkeeper for 14 years. “But
I also think we can recover a lot, especially if we have good
weather.”  Irene blew through the Green Mountain State on Aug. 28 with
eight inches of rain, shutting down 260 roads and scores of
bridges, leaving three dead and thousands temporarily stranded
in what Governor Peter Shumlin called the  worst flooding  in 75
years. The sunny weather since has helped speed recovery. Towns
cut off by the storm have been opened, rivers have crested and
some are receding, said Susan Allen, a spokeswoman for Shumlin.  Mixed Feelings  Still, serious infrastructure disruptions remain, according
to the governor. Passage through popular foliage roads such as
the east-west Route 4 may hamper rebuilding, said Chris Nyberg,
president of Killington/Pico Ski Resort Partners LLC.  Predicting how quickly things will get back to normal is
nerve-wracking, said resort owner Jimmy LeSage.  “One minute, I want to close up and head for  Florida ,”
said LeSage, 60, the owner of the  New Life Hiking Spa  in
Killington. “The next I want to keep a great thing going.”  The storm, which stranded thousands in the Killington
region for three days until a road was opened, resulted in mass
cancellations for LeSage. His average of 40 to 50 daily guests
had dropped yesterday to one Texas woman “who came in anyway
because she was sick of the heat down there,” he said.  Bruce Pfander, who runs the  Four Columns Inn  in Newfane,
said he’s most concerned about would-be visitors themselves hit
hard by Irene in core markets like  Massachusetts  and  New York .
One man who called to cancel reservations had been living
without electricity for the past week.  “He was grouchy, in no mood to go anywhere,” Pfander
said.  Coping With Cancellations  Distelberg, the country store owner, said Newfane saw
little or no damage, save some backyard flooding. In neighboring
South Newfane, the surging Rock River destroyed at least a dozen
homes. She said the problem for her business is negative
publicity by association.  The  Waybury Inn  in East Middlebury, which served as the
exterior of the fictitious Stratford Inn in Bob Newhart’s TV
sitcom, was also unscathed. The Middlebury River behind the inn
overflowed and caused some basement flooding without serious
damage, according to owner Joe Sutton, who’s already had six
cancellations.  The weekend before Columbus Day on Oct. 10, traditionally
the height of the fall foliage season, was fully booked, and
Sutton hopes it will stay that way.  “The concern is how long those images of  Vermont  are going
to live in people’s minds,” he said.  Crucial Period  While August and February are Vermont’s busiest months, the
three weeks of prime foliage season beginning in the last week
of September are the most crucial for smaller businesses like
inns and country stores. That’s when fully half of Vermont’s
autumn tourists show up, according to J. Gregory Gerdel,
research and operations chief for the  Department of Tourism &
Marketing.   From September through November 2009, 3.6 million visitors
spent $332 million, or 23 percent of the $1.4 billion annual
total, according to the latest state data. That generated
$200 million in tax and fee revenue and employed 33,530,
representing 11.5 percent of all jobs in the state, the data
show.  For Labor Day weekend, which begins tomorrow, Vermont’s
tourist effort will remain low-key, Smith said, in recognition
of “the folks who are still suffering.” Her counterparts in
 New Orleans  and  Memphis , cities that have also endured recent
natural catastrophes, have told her “you can’t be heard above
the noise of cable TV” -- the disaster coverage showing ruined
homes, washed-out roads and broken spirits.  On Sept. 6, the state will begin an ad campaign, said
Smith, who wouldn’t disclose the cost. Pubs, motels and others
have been offering free meals and cut-rate lodging to
vacationers and others stranded by Irene.  “Those are the stories that will help us the most,” Smith
said. “Our story is going to be, ‘Hey, we’re open for business
and we need you to come and enjoy.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in  Boston  at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor respnsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  