-- 
Wheat Climbs Most in Week as Dry U.S. Great Plains May Cut Winter Crops

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-09-02T19:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/wheat-climbs-most-in-week-as-dry-u-s-great-plains-may-cut-winter-crops.html
Wheat futures rose the most in more
than a week on speculation that persistent dry weather in the
U.S. Great Plains will curb winter-crop planting.  Parts of southern  Kansas  and western  Oklahoma  have had less
than half of the normal  rainfall  this year, while areas of  Texas 
had 25 percent or less, according to the  National Weather
Service . Farmers usually plant hard, red winter wheat, the
variety grown in the Plains that’s used to make bread, in
September and October. Crops sown in dry soil may not emerge
from the ground before the winter dormancy period.  “In a lot of areas of Oklahoma and Texas, and some areas
in southwest Kansas, they probably couldn’t get any wheat up at
this time,”  Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag, said by
telephone from Quinter, Kansas. “There’s been talk about some
moisture for the Plains states. Some will help, but they really
need a lot.”  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 14.5 cents, or 1.9
percent, to settle at $7.755 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, capping the biggest gain since Aug. 23.
The most-active contract still dropped 2.7 percent this week,
the first decline in six weeks, on speculation that U.S. exports
might slow after the earlier price rally.  The central and southern Plains will be mostly dry in the
next seven days, “with only light showers,” according to a
Telvent DTN forecast.  The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter of wheat, the
fourth-largest domestic crop, valued at $13 billion in 2010,
behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 