-- 
Yankees Beat Red Sox to Win Series, Trail AL East Leader by a Half Game

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-09-02T04:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-02/yankees-beat-red-sox-to-win-series-trail-al-east-leader-by-a-half-game.html
Mariano Rivera  struck out Adrian Gonzalez with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning
to ensure the  New York Yankees  beat the  Boston  Red Sox 4-2.  The Yankees (82-53) won the Major League Baseball series at
Fenway Park in Boston by two games to one to move within one-
half game of the American League East-leading Red Sox (83-53).  Rivera gave up a single and two walks to load the bases
before facing Gonzalez, who leads the majors with a .341 batting
average. Rivera got his 36th save and Cory Wade (3-0) took the
win after pitching a perfect one-third inning.  “It definitely was a tough matchup right there, but we
have our best out there and it went pretty well,” Yankees
catcher  Russell Martin  said in a televised interview about the
ninth inning last night. “He made a perfect pitch down and
away.”  Robinson Cano scored  Curtis Granderson  with a double in the
first inning. Boston responded in the fourth to take the lead on
a two-run homer by Dustin Pedroia, his 18th home run of the
season, off starter A.J. Burnett.  Martin got a two-run double in the seventh and then reached
home on Eric Chavez’s single to close out the scoring.  “It was a battle,” said Martin, who went 2-for-5. “It’s
two great teams going at it and we just got the better of
them.”  Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira left the game in the
seventh inning with a bruised knee.  Alex Rodriguez  was again
absent from the lineup with a thumb injury.  Alfredo Aceves (9-2) gave up two runs on two hits and
struck out one in 1 1/3 innings for the loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  