-- 
‘Dangerous to Presume’ Sugar Will Drop as Nations Restock, ED & F Man Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-13T05:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/-dangerous-to-presume-sugar-to-decline-as-surplus-allows-china-to-restock.html
Sugar-importing nations including
 China , the second-biggest consumer after  India , may take
advantage of a rising global surplus to rebuild stockpiles,
potentially supporting prices, ED & F Man Holdings Ltd. said.  “It’s dangerous to presume that the market is now on a
downward trajectory because of the surplus,” said Farideh Bromfield, head of commodities research at ED & F Man. “There’s
renewed interest from a number of importers,” said Bromfield,
who’s studied sugar and biofuels for more than two decades.  Sugar has been this year’s worst-performing commodity on
prospects for increased supply. Global output may beat demand
for a second year, more than quadrupling the surplus to 10.575
million metric tons in 2011-2012 and possibly driving prices
lower through to October, broker Kingsman SA forecast yesterday.  “China is evolving to be a price-maker, rather than a
price-taker,”  Michael Coleman , managing director at Aisling
Analytics Pte, said yesterday in Singapore, referring to the
nation’s strategy of entering the market when prices slump.  Raw sugar has dropped 21 percent this year on the Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Index, the biggest drop among the gauge’s 24
commodities. Prices have fallen from a three-decade high of
36.08 cents per pound on Feb. 2 and ended at 21.33 cents in  New
York  yesterday.  The price may decline further to 20 cents before rebounding
to as much as 30 cents, driven in part by restocking by China
and other importers, Alan Winney, chairman of Queensland Sugar
Ltd., said in an interview in Singapore today. Futures last
traded at less than 20 cents in September.  China’s Stockpiling  The forecast from Lausanne-based Kingsman would be the
biggest surplus since 2006-2007, said John Stansfield, a senior
analyst at Olam Europe Ltd. Olam International Ltd. trades farm
commodities including sugar. About 2.5 million tons of next
season’s surplus may go to China for stockpiling, Kingsman
Managing Director  Jonathan Kingsman  said yesterday.  China, which doesn’t make enough sugar to meet demand, has
been selling from state reserves to cool local prices that are
higher than global rates and curb inflation. China’s output may
drop to 10.5 million tons this year, down for a third year, the
China Sugar Association said last month. Demand may be more than
13.5 million tons, according to the Guangdong Sugar Association.  Inflation is “the most pressing problem” facing China,
Vice Premier Wang Qishan said at talks in  Washington  this week.
Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in April from a year earlier,
exceeding the government’s full-year target for a fourth month.  Deficit to Surplus  The sugar market’s transition from two years of global
deficits to two years of surpluses “will provide an opportunity
for countries to rebuild stockpiles, including China,”
Bromfield said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.  China may raise its import quota by 200,000 tons from 1.9
million tons, Bromfield said. That, plus purchases from Cuba of
350,000 to 400,000 tons under a bilateral pact, may push imports
to 2.5 million tons in the year to Sept. 30, she said.  China’s imports will rise to 2.5 million tons in the year
to Sept. 30, said Pierre-Henri Dietz, an analyst at Sucres et
Denrees SA. That’s 39 percent more than the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimate of 1.8 million tons. In 2011-2012, China
may buy 1.5 million to 3 million tons depending on the outcome
of the next cane and beet crop, Dietz said.  “Historically, China buys very well,” waiting for prices
to go down, ED & F Man’s Bromfield said. Her forecast for
China’s imports this year compares with Olam’s Stansfield’s call
of 2.3 million tons. Paul Deane, an analyst at Australia New
Zealand Banking Group, said May 9 that China may buy 2 million
tons in 2010-2011 and 2.7 million tons in 2011-2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  