-- 
‘Desperate’ Libya Rebels Fly Out of Washington With Encouragement, No Cash

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T22:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/-desperate-libya-rebels-fly-out-of-washington-with-encouragement-no-cash.html
After three days in  Washington 
seeking financial help, the Libyan rebels’ finance minister is
heading back to Benghazi with little to show for his effort
other than expressions of  “overwhelming support and
sympathy.”  Such encouragement won’t pay for food, fuel and other
necessities which are running short in the rebel-held part of
Libya, Ali Tarhouni said in an interview.  “I am desperate,” said Tarhouni, who gave up his job
teaching microeconomics at the  University of Washington  to
return to his homeland to raise cash for the opposition. “I can
repay you with really good interest and in a few weeks also.”  The U.S. has frozen about $34 billion in Libyan assets,
part of the more than $165 billion in frozen Libyan assets
worldwide. That money is, for now, beyond the reach of the
rebels.  “While it is relatively common to freeze assets, it is
rare for frozen assets to be confiscated and then reallocated,”
 Stuart Levey , who left in February as the Treasury Department’s
under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence.  Tarhouni said he favors a financing method that would keep
most Libyan assets frozen until a new, post-Qaddafi government
is in place and can ensure the money is used responsibly for the
benefit of all Libyans.  As an alternative to asking to tap those assets, he said he
pressed U.S. officials for a credit line or loan, perhaps
secured by a portion of the frozen assets.  No Options  Tarhouni says he was told neither was an option yet, as he
visited officials at the Treasury, in Congress and at the White
House in an effort with Mahmoud Jibril, a leader of the
Transitional National Council.  Even political recognition of the opposition council, a
step that could facilitate access to funds, is not on the table,
he said he was told.  As a practical matter, most of the frozen $34 billion is
tied up in complicated property interests, including ownership
interests in non-publicly traded companies or real estate, Levey
said yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  has the power to free the money
under limited conditions set by the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act. That rarely used tool, last invoked in 2003
involving  Saddam Hussein ’s  Iraq , requires that the U.S. be
either engaged in “armed hostilities” with or “under attack”
from the country in question.  That provision may not be met in the case of the limited
military involvement in Libya, where the U.S. is part of a NATO-
led and United Nations-sanctioned mission to protect civilians.  Tarhouni and Jibril met with Tom Donilon, Obama’s national
security adviser, as well Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts
Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, and Treasury officials. They were told the U.S. wants
to help, Tarhouni said.  Legal Wrangles  Tarhouni described how at Treasury he asked if he could
submit a list of food and medicine that the U.S. administration
could buy and then deduct from the frozen assets. He said he was
told U.S. authorities could not legally do that.  Kerry said he will draft legislation that will clear the
way for the transfer of $180 million from Libyan assets. While
that is better than nothing, that amount won’t last more 10 days
and may not arrive fast enough, Tarhouni said.  It not clear how quickly Congress can move on this measure,
Tarhouni said. In any event, the council has said it needs at
least $3 billion to provide basic needs for Libyans for the next
six months.  ‘At War’  “The problem with me is time,” Tarhouni said in an
interview in Washington. “We are at war. People are dying. It’s
not a question of waiting it out a month or two. I need money
yesterday, I need it a week ago.”  Ahead of the meetings, the U.S. agreed in April to give $25
million in non-military aid to  Libya ’s opposition, drawing on
existing Defense Department stocks. That money is being used for
food, medical supplies, uniforms and other non-lethal supplies.  On May 4, the State Department raised its humanitarian aid
to Libya to $53.5 million. The additional $6.5 million, given to
the  International Organization  for Migration, will help fund
evacuations of migrants stranded in Misrata.  The council also didn’t get far in its search for political
recognition from the U.S. Mark Toner, State Department
spokesman, said it’s “not an end in and of itself.” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said such a step would be
“premature.”  ‘Protocol Decision’  “At the end of the day it’s really a protocol decision”
and the “two issues of recognition and assets are
intertwined,” Tarhouni said.  France, Italy and Qatar are among countries that have
already taken that step, making Doha his next destination.  There is no doubting Tarhouni when says he will do almost
anything to try and get money. In Benghazi, he issued an order
to break into the vault of the central bank’s branch, which
disappointingly contained less than $500 million, to help meet
payrolls and pay for food, energy and other expenses.  “War required desperate measures,” he said in a
television interview with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”  “Basically, the vault had three keys and we only had two
of them. And we had to find a way to access to that. It turned
out there wasn’t really much there,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at  fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  