-- 
Lactalis Gets Italy Regulator Approval for Parmalat Bid Document

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-05-13T12:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/lactalis-gets-italy-regulator-approval-for-parmalat-bid-document.html
Groupe Lactalis said Italian stock-
market regulator Consob approved its offer document for  Parmalat
SpA (PLT) , paving the way for a 3.38 billion-euro ($4.8 billion) bid
which may create the world’s largest dairy company.  Lactalis, which already owns 29 percent of Parmalat, will
start buying shares on May 23 and the offer will run through
July 8, the Laval, France-based company said in a stock-exchange
statement today.  Lactalis, the maker of President cheese, on April 26
announced an unsolicited bid for the 71 percent of Parmalat it
doesn’t own.  Parmalat was waiting for Consob’s decision before
evaluating the offer, executives from the Italian company said
on a conference call yesterday. Parmalat isn’t seeking other
offers, they said. The dairy company also hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to give it a “fairness opinion” on Lactalis’s 2.60
euro-a-share bid.  Parmalat has advanced 28 percent this year in Milan trading
amid the battle for the company. The shares slipped as much as
0.9 percent and traded at 2.63 euros, down 0.5 percent, at 2:31
p.m., giving the company a market value of 4.6 billion euros.  Lactalis first disclosed it had bought Parmalat stock and
equity swaps on the shares on March 17. Five days later,
Lactalis said it would buy an additional 15.3 percent stake held
by a group of activist investors.  Following a French-Italian summit on April 26, a month
after Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government sought to
block Lactalis from gaining management control of Parmalat, the
Italian premier said he didn’t consider Lactalis’s bid hostile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  