-- 
AIG Fights Derivatives-Unit Bonus Disclosure in Sex-Discrimination Lawsuit

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-13T11:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/aig-fights-derivatives-unit-bonus-disclosure-in-sex-discrimination-lawsuit.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
citing abuse directed against traders who got bonuses after the
company’s bailout, is fighting to keep pay records private from
ex-employees seeking the data in a sex-discrimination lawsuit.  “Confidential treatment of this information is crucial to
safeguard Financial Products’ employees’ safety and security,
which has been jeopardized in the past,” lawyers for AIG said
in a filing at U.S. District Court in  New Haven ,  Connecticut ,
dated April 29. “Previous disclosures resulted not only in the
personal harassment of employees and their families at their
homes, but also threats of physical violence.”  Susan Potter, 58, and Deonna Taylor, 63, ex-vice presidents
at AIG Financial Products, sued the company last year claiming
the firm promoted a “boys club” culture that discriminated
against older women. Their lawyer is demanding to know the
salary, bonus and deferred compensation for each AIG FP employee
since 2000, including dates of birth and gender, according to
court filings last month.  AIG executives received death threats, including one that
said executives and their families should be “executed with
piano wire around their necks,” after the firm doled out $165
million in bonuses following a federal bailout in 2008, then-
Chief Executive Officer  Edward Liddy  said in a March 2009
congressional hearing.  Deborah McKenna, an attorney for Potter and Taylor,
declined to comment, as did AIG spokesman Mark Herr.  AIG executives agreed to forfeit portions of their awards
under pressure from officials including then-New York Attorney
General  Andrew Cuomo  who got the names of the bonus recipients
and said there was no “public interest” in identifying those
who returned money.  Cassano’s Pay  Joseph Cassano  was paid more than $40 million in both 2003
and in 2006 for leading the Financial Products unit, according
to a  document  posted on the website of the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission in February. Cassano stepped down in 2008
after AIG reported a $5.29 billion quarterly loss fueled by his
unit’s bets on subprime mortgages through credit-default swaps.  Cassano “generally promoted a ‘boys club’ atmosphere and
frequently made discriminatory statements about the staff,”
Taylor and Potter said in the complaint in which they are
seeking back pay, benefits and unspecified damages. Herr said
last year that the company prohibits discrimination. Cassano
treated staff fairly, his lawyer has said.  Attorneys’ Eyes  The plaintiffs’ requests, which include pay information
“from the janitor in  Tokyo  to the CEO of the company,” go too
far, AIG said in the April 29 filing. The company has already
produced a “substantial amount” of information and has offered
to provide additional data on an “attorneys’ and experts’ eyes
only” basis, according to AIG’s court filing.  Potter and Taylor “simply refuse to accept any limitations
on their ability to review such information out of morbid
curiosity,” AIG said.  Taylor, a former vice president for the Wilton,
Connecticut-based unit, was a director of research, providing
data for energy, commodities and credit groups, according to the
suit. Potter, who joined the company as a receptionist in 1987,
rose to vice president responsible for managing Wilton
facilities.  Potter lost her job in July 2009 as the unit was being
dismantled in the wake of the $182.3 billion U.S. bailout that
protected banks from losses on contracts they had with AIG,
according to the lawsuit. Taylor was dismissed in October 2008.
The Financial Products unit has fewer than 200 employees,
compared with more than 400 before the bailout, as AIG winds
down derivative contracts to focus on insurance.  The case is Potter v.  AIG Financial Products  Corp., 3:10-
cv-00250, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  