-- 
Majestic Star Casino Fights $19 Million Property Tax in Bankruptcy Court

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-13T15:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/majestic-star-casino-fights-19-million-property-tax-in-bankruptcy-court.html
Majestic Star Casino LLC , a riverboat
casino owner preparing to exit bankruptcy, is fighting a
$19 million property tax bill that may cause it to reconsider
the company’s court-approved reorganization plan.  The company is scheduled to finish three days of testimony
today in Wilmington,  Delaware , about the value of its riverboat
casinos in Gary, Indiana, in order to calculate current and past
property taxes.  Majestic Star claimed in court papers that it is owed a
$6 million  tax refund  based on its estimate of the value. The
county claims Majestic owes $19 million in back taxes, mostly
based on its estimate of what the casinos are worth.  Depending on the outcome of the fight, the company and the
senior creditors who would be Majestic Star’s new owners should
the reorganization plan become final, may “request that the
Court reconsider the feasibility of the plan.”  In March, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross approved
Majestic Star’s reorganization plan, which would give two groups
of noteholders owed $581.5 million ownership of the company in
exchange for wiping out their debt, according to court records.
That plan has not yet been implemented.  Gross will decide the tax dispute after both sides file
additional legal papers and return to court next month to make
their final arguments.  The case is In re Majestic Star Casino LLC, 09-14136, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 