-- 
Takeda Declines Most in Six Weeks on Nycomed Buyout Report

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-05-13T08:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/takeda-declines-most-in-six-weeks-on-nycomed-buyout-report-3-.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.,  Asia ’s
largest drugmaker, fell the most in six weeks in  Tokyo  trading
after three people familiar with the situation said the company
approached Swiss competitor Nycomed about a takeover.  No agreement on an acquisition has been reached, Osaka-
based Takeda said in a statement today. The shares fell 2.1
percent to 3,790 yen as of the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, the most since March 29. The benchmark Topix index
slid 1.1 percent.  Takeda may pay more than 8 billion euros ($11.4 billion),
said one person, while Nycomed may seek more than 10 billion
euros, according to another. The negotiations are at an advanced
stage, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private. Takeda’s credit rating may fall
depending on the method of financing, said Shinsuke Tanimoto, a
credit analyst at Moody’s Corp. in Tokyo.  For an acquisition of this size, “an option would be to
borrow money and use cash in hand,” Tanimoto said by telephone
today. “Takeda is very credible. It has a strong financial base
with ample cash, high profitability and a high level of  cash
flow .”  The Japanese drugmaker had 874.2 billion yen ($10.8
billion) in cash, deposits and short-term investments as of
March 31. It’s rated Aa1 by Moody’s, the second highest of 10
investment grades, Tanimoto said. The outlook on Takeda is
“negative” because Actos diabetes drug, its best-selling
medicine, will face generic competition from next year, he said.  Next Week  A deal may be announced as soon as next week, according to
one of the people. Deutsche Bank AG is advising Takeda, another
person said. Talks could still fail, they said.  Takeda expects profit to fall to a 13-year low by 2014,
dragged by generic competition of its Actos drug. The company
will focus on new markets as blockbuster pills become harder to
find and may seek acquisitions to spur growth, President
Yasuchika Hasegawa said on May 11 when it reported earnings.
Takeda sells most of its drugs in Japan and the U.S.  Nycomed, a Zurich-based company  controlled  by  Nordic
Capital  and Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-equity unit, would
broaden Takeda’s reach in emerging markets and add products for
heartburn and smokers’ cough.  An acquisition at 8 billion euros or more would be Takeda’s
biggest ever and the largest for a Japanese pharmaceutical
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drugmaker,
which traces its origins to a medicine wholesale business in
 Osaka  in 1781, bought Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $8.9
billion in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  