-- 
Yahoo Falls for Third Day Amid Escalating Tension With Alibaba in China

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-13T20:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/alibaba-was-compensated-for-alipay-transfer-spokesman-says.html
Yahoo! Inc. fell for a third day as
signs of tension with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. raised
speculation it may benefit less from part ownership of  China ’s
largest e-commerce provider.  Concerns surfaced after a May 10 Yahoo filing that said
Alibaba Group spun off the lucrative Alipay online-payments
business, and then deepened the next two days amid conflicting
statements from Yahoo and Alibaba over Alibaba Group’s
disclosure of the transfer.  “The acute lack of clarity around the Alipay issue is
calling into question the value and monetization potential of
Yahoo’s Chinese assets in general,” Youssef Squali, an analyst
at Jefferies & Co., wrote in a research note today.  Through its stake in Alibaba Group, Yahoo is able to
benefit from rising Internet demand in China, where restrictions
on Web content make it hard for U.S. companies to do business on
their own. The two companies have clashed in the past over
Chinese censorship rules, and investors fretted that the Alipay
transfer will only add to the strain.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , fell 62 cents, or
3.6 percent, to 16.55 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. It has lost 11 percent since May 10, when the
company said the entire equity of Alipay had been transferred to
a business controlled by Alibaba Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma. The spinoff, to comply with People’s Bank of China’s
restrictions on foreign ownership of payment services, fueled 
speculation that Yahoo’s stake would be worth less without the 
payment unit.  Transfer Disclosure  Alibaba Group, Yahoo and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , another part-owner
of Alibaba Group, are in talks to ensure that Alibaba Group is
compensated for the transfer. Alibaba Group and Yahoo, its
biggest shareholder, have issued differing statements over how
early Alibaba Group disclosed its plans. Investors are looking
for assurances that Yahoo will continue to benefit from its
holdings in China, Squali said.  Alibaba Group was compensated for the spinoff, a Hong Kong-
based Alibaba spokesman, John Spelich, said by phone today. He
declined to disclose the compensation amount.  A transfer of Alipay equity in August 2010 wasn’t disclosed
to Yahoo and Alibaba’s second-biggest investor, Softbank, until
March 31, the U.S. shareholder said yesterday. Alibaba today
said its board, which includes Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang and
Softbank President Masayoshi Son, was told in July 2009 that the
majority of Alipay’s shareholding was transferred to a Chinese
owner.  Yahoo later stood by its May 12 statement that it was
informed of the transfer in March.  ‘Constructive Negotiations’  “Yahoo is in active and constructive negotiations with
Softbank and Alibaba Group to preserve the integrity of this
investment and maximize  shareholder value ,” Yahoo said today.  Alibaba was paid about 300 million yuan ($46 million) for
Alipay by a company controlled by Ma, Caing.com reported today,
citing public company registry data. Alibaba’s Spelich declined
to comment on the report.  Alipay has a value of $5 billion, Brett Harriss, an analyst
at Gabelli & Co., wrote in a report yesterday.  The action over Alipay, taken to comply with Chinese
regulations on online payment services, was “in the best
interests” of Alibaba and its shareholders, Spelich said today.
It’s “essential” to continue Alipay’s operations in order to
support other Alibaba businesses such as Taobao.com, he said.  Taobao.com is China’s biggest online retailer. Alibaba
Group also owns Alibaba.com, a commerce site for businesses, and
operates the local Yahoo website in China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  