-- 
Hall-of-Famer Harmon Killebrew Plans to Enter Hospice as Cancer Progresses

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T15:31:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/hall-of-famer-harmon-killebrew-plans-to-enter-hospice-as-cancer-progresses.html
Baseball Hall of Fame member Harmon Killebrew says his almost five-month bout with esophageal cancer
has “progressed beyond my doctors’ expectation of cure,” and
that he will enter hospice care.  “It is with profound sadness that I share with you that my
continued battle with esophageal cancer is coming to an end,”
Killebrew, 74, said in a statement released by the  Minnesota
Twins . “With the continued love and support of my wife, Nita, I
have exhausted all options with respect to controlling this
awful disease.”  Killebrew, whose 573 home runs are the 11th most in Major
League Baseball history, disclosed the diagnosis in late
December. He was inducted into the Cooperstown, New York-based
 National Baseball Hall of Fame  in 1984 following a 22-year
major-league career.  Killebrew said he had been promoting hospice care for the
last decade. He disclosed his cancer diagnosis in December,
saying he was facing “perhaps the most difficult battle of my
life.”  “I am very comfortable taking this next step and
experiencing the compassionate care that hospice provides,” he
said. “I am comforted by the fact that I am surrounded by my
family and friends.”  Killebrew, the 1969 American League Most Valuable Player,
played 21 seasons for the Washington Senators and Twins, who
moved to  Minnesota  for the 1961 season. He finished his career
in 1975 with the  Kansas City Royals .  Killebrew played first base, third base and outfield. He
led the AL in home runs six times, and had a .256 career batting
average and 1,584 runs batted in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 