-- 
Hana Financial Tumbles as Regulator Delays Approval of KEB Takeover Bid

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-05-13T08:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/hana-financial-tumbles-as-regulator-delays-approval-of-keb-takeover-bid.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  tumbled the
most since its listing in December 2005 after Chairman Kim Seung Yu expressed concern his $4.3 billion bid for  Korea  Exchange
Bank may fail as regulators delay approval.  Hana,  South Korea ’s fourth-largest financial company by
assets, plunged by the daily 15 percent limit to close at 37,850
won in Seoul, while Korea Exchange Bank rose 13 percent to 9,950
won. Hana will seek an extension from  Lone Star Funds  on a May
24 deadline to complete the transaction and consider buying back
shares, Kim told reporters in Seoul today.  The lender aims to alleviate investors’ concern that its
failure to buy Lone Star’s stake in  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  may
hobble its bid to close the gap with larger rivals including
Woori Finance Holdings Co. The regulator will delay discussing
the acquisition until court cases involving the U.S. buyout fund
are resolved, Vice Chairman Shin Je Yoon said yesterday.  “No takeover means no growth potential for Hana,” said
Song I Jin, head of equity at HI Asset Management Co. in Seoul,
which oversees about $2.9 billion in assets. “Investors had
anticipated Hana will overcome its handicap of being small scale
by buying KEB. If the deal falls through, it’ll remain a minor
player.”  The Seoul-based lender had assets of 207 trillion won ($191
billion) as of March 31, trailing Woori Finance’s 346 trillion
won, KB Financial Group Inc.’s 345 trillion won and Shinhan
Financial Group Co.’s 329 trillion won, according to data from
the companies.  Failed Sale Attempts  Hana’s board met today to discuss future plans and the
company will contact Dallas-based  Lone Star  to extend the
deadline on the takeover, Kim said. Hana and Lone Star have the
option of abandoning the transaction, which has been pending for
almost six months, if it isn’t completed by May 24.  The Financial Services Commission’s “decision was quite
unexpected,” Kim said. “We’ll do all we can to make this deal
happen.”  Lone Star, which bought Korea Exchange Bank in 2003, has
been trying to sell its stake for almost five years. Its holding
in the lender came into question following a probe that began in
2006 into allegations the U.S. fund paid artificially low prices
for the stake. Korea’s top court last year cleared the fund in
that case.  Still, the  Supreme Court  in March overturned a 2008 ruling
that had cleared Lone Star and its former local chief Paul Yoo
of stock price-manipulation charges. The court on March 10 asked
the Seoul High Court to reconsider whether Yoo, Korea Exchange
Bank and Lone Star’s local unit broke trading rules or evaded
taxes.  ‘Shocked’ Investors  Lone Star had to scrap an attempt to sell the stake to HSBC
Holdings Plc in 2008 following the regulator’s delay in ruling
on the fund’s eligibility to hold the stake. Kookmin Bank, now
part of KB Financial, walked away from talks to buy control of
Korea Exchange Bank in November 2006.  “Investors are shocked by the regulator’s inability to
make a decision,” said Chang In Whan, president at KTB Asset
Management Co., which manages about $2 billion of assets in
Seoul. “The market seems to betting that the deal is
practically over, clouding Hana’s outlook.”  The lender may consider buying back stock to raise
 shareholder value  or acquire overseas lenders with the funds
raised to pay for Korea Exchange Bank if the takeover fails, the
chairman said today.  Hana sold 1.33 trillion won worth of new shares and 1.15
trillion won of bonds to fund the purchase. It also received
more than 2 trillion won in dividends from units.  “This is a costly delay for Hana given all the funds it
already raised,” said Kim Young Joon, head of equities at NH-CA
Asset Management Co., which manages about $4.3 billion. “The
situation’s getting more and more uncertain and now no one can
expect when this deal might be completed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  