-- 
Mancini Asks Silva to Help Lure Fabregas to City, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-13T11:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/mancini-asks-silva-to-help-lure-fabregas-to-city-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Helping Hand  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  has asked striker
David Silva for help in bringing Cesc Fabregas to Eastlands, the
 Sun reported .  Mancini believes Fabregas is the key to City’s winning the
Premier League title and has made him his top summer target, the
Sun said. He’s spoken to Silva, a close friend and Spanish
national squad teammate of the Arsenal captain, about launching
a 40 million-pound ($65 million) move and asked for any input he
can give, the newspaper said.  Fabregas has been linked with a transfer to Barcelona the
past few years and Real Madrid is also interested. Arsenal boss
Arsene Wenger is adamant the midfielder will not leave, but
another season without a trophy may lead to his departure, the
Sun said.  Big Payday  Manchester United will offer to double  Javier Hernandez ’s
contract after the Mexican’s big debut season, the  Daily Mirror 
said.  Hernandez has scored 20 goals in helping United to the
Champions League final and the verge of a record 19th English
league title. He signed a four-year deal for about 25,000 pounds
a week after joining United from Chivas Guadalajara for 7
million pounds.  Closing on Klose?  Sunderland manager Steve Bruce wants to sign  Germany 
international Miroslav Klose, the  Daily Mail  said.  The 32-year-old Bayern Munich striker, who makes 120,000
pounds per week, is available on a free transfer. Bruce is
desperate to wisely spend the 24 million pounds he got by
selling Darren Bent and has made the first inquiries to Bayern
and Klose’s agents, the Mail said.  Ready to Move  City’s on-loan striker Emmanuel Adebayor said he’s ready to
move to Tottenham even though he’s suffered verbal abuse from
the fans at White Hart Lane, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The former Arsenal striker was the target of Tottenham
supporters when Real Madrid faced Spurs during the Champions
League quarterfinals.  “I would go there and sign for them and listen to what
they have to say to me,” Adebayor, who is available for about
15 million pounds, was quoted as saying.  Green Fears  England  manager  Fabio Capello  has major concerns goalkeeper
 Robert Green  will retire from international soccer, following
Ben Foster’s decision this week to take an indefinite leave from
playing for his country, the  Independent  said.  Green, 31, told the staff following an exhibition against
Ghana in March, where he was an unused substitute, that he no
longer wanted to be selected, the Independent said. Capello is
hopeful that Foster’s withdrawal will convince Green he has a
future as the backup to  Joe Hart , the newspaper said.  Back to England?  Ruud van Nistelrooy has issued a “come and get me” plea
to Premier League clubs in hopes of returning to England, the
 Daily Mail  said.  Van Nistelrooy’s contract with Hamburg runs out after the
season with Tottenham and Blackburn interested. The 34-year-old
striker, who scored 150 goals in almost five years at  Manchester
United , is available on a free transfer, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 