-- 
Harvard Fund Bought Emerging-Market Funds in First Quarter

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-05-13T21:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/harvard-fund-bought-emerging-market-funds-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Harvard University , the nation’s
richest school, bought shares of exchange-traded funds that
track emerging markets in the first quarter.  The value of U.S.-listed shares held by Harvard Management
Co., the Boston-based company that oversees the school’s $27.6
billion endowment, rose 24 percent to $1.39 billion as of March
31, from $1.12 billion three months earlier, according to a
filing today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Harvard’s biggest ETF purchases were shares tracking
 Brazil ,  India  and  Russia , the filing shows. The MSCI EM Index of
emerging markets returned 1.9 percent in the period. The fund
bought $35.3 million in shares of Ladish Co., which was acquired
by specialty metals company Allegheny Technologies Inc. in a
deal completed this week, and $80.6 million of Alcon Inc., the
world’s largest maker of eye-care products, whose purchase by
Novartis AG was wrapped up in April.  John Longbrake, a spokesman for the university in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said the filing “represents only a
small fraction of the overall endowment.”  Managers who oversee more than $100 million in equities
must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s end to
list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible bonds.
The filings don’t show non-U.S.-listed securities or how much
cash the firms hold. Much of Harvard’s endowment is managed by
external firms.  Harvard’s investments rose 11 percent in the year ended
June 30, beating the school’s own benchmark while trailing the
average return of a broad group of institutions. The fund
recouped some of its record losses from the previous year, when
investments dropped 27 percent. Following the loss, Jane Mendillo, chief executive officer of Harvard Management, moved
to reduce the influence of independent firms that oversee two-
thirds of the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  