-- 
Kutcher to Replace Fired Sheen on CBS’s ‘Two and a Half Men’

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-13T17:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/ashton-kutcher-said-to-be-near-deal-to-replace-sheen-on-cbs-s-men-comedy.html
Actor  Ashton Kutcher  will replace
 Charlie Sheen , the fired star of CBS’s “Two and a Half Men,”
allowing the network’s top-rated comedy to continue for a ninth
season.  Kutcher, who first gained fame as a star of the TV sitcom
“That 70’s Show,” will earn $1 million an episode, said a
person with knowledge of the deal who declined to be named
because the talks are private. He joins a cast that includes Jon
Cryer and Angus T. Jones, CBS and Warner Bros. Television, which
produces the show, said in a statement today.  Bringing on Kutcher fills a hole in the  CBS Corp (CBS) .-owned
network’s lineup ahead of May 18 meetings with advertisers to
promote next season’s shows. Warner Bros. fired Sheen on March 7
after he criticized the show’s creator and executive producer,
 Chuck Lorre , in interviews. Sheen, 45, filed a lawsuit against
the  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  unit on March 10 seeking $100 million.  “I can’t replace Charlie Sheen but I’m going to work my
ass off to entertain the hell out of people!” Kutcher said in
the statement.  Kutcher, 33, was selected after British actor Hugh Grant
decided against taking the role, according to the Wall Street
Journal, which reported Kutcher’s selection along with
Broadcasting & Cable yesterday. Lorre had considered bringing
back the show without replacing Sheen.  CBS, owner of the most-watched television network, fell 38
cents to $26.11 at 1:37 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares had risen 39 percent this year
before today. Time Warner, based in  New York , lost 27 cents to
$35.96 and had climbed 13 percent year-to-date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  