-- 
Asian Stocks Advance on Speculation China Will Limit Interest Rate Gains

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-13T09:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-on-japan-earnings-nikon-rises.html
Asian stocks rose, led by markets in
 Hong Kong  and  Shanghai , as speculation mounted that  China  will
limit interest-rate rises. Japanese shares sank amid
disappointing earnings following the nation’s worst earthquake.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. led gains among
lenders in Shanghai. Sino Land Co., a Hong Kong developer
controlled by billionaire Robert Ng, rose 2 percent in Hong Kong
after the government sold residential sites for more than
analysts expected.  Japan  Steel Works Ltd. slid 4.9 percent after
forecasting a drop in profit. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, fell 3.8
percent as the country’s chief cabinet secretary said lenders
may have to waive some loans to Tokyo Electric Power Co.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.2 percent to 136.57 as
of 6:29 p.m. in  Tokyo , even as the index moved toward its second
straight weekly drop. About the same number of stocks advanced
as fell on the gauge, which yesterday dropped the most since
markets slumped in the wake of Japan’s March 11 earthquake, as
China announced it will raise banks’ reserve requirements.  “China’s reserve ratio requirement rise has been seen by
some investors as adding to the risks of a hard landing, but in
my view this perception is mistaken,” said  Shane Oliver , head
of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages $98 billion in Sydney. “Earnings downgrades in Japan
will continue for a while yet and there will be a rough ride for
Japanese shares for some time to come.”  Japanese Banks  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank 0.7 percent, the most
among benchmark measures in the Asia-Pacific region, to the
lowest level since April 26. Losses deepened as Japanese banks
dropped after the government said public pressure may force
lenders to forgive loans to Tokyo Electric Power Co., the
operator of a nuclear plant crippled by the earthquake and
resulting tsunami.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index declined 0.1 percent in Seoul,
where the central bank left  interest rates  unchanged today,
rather than raising them as some economists had expected. The
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 1 percent and Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index rose 0.9 percent amid optimism that China will limit
interest-rate rises after yesterday ordering banks to set aside
more reserves for a fifth time this year.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2
percent. The index gained 0.5 percent yesterday as the dollar
fell and commodities rebounded.  China, Hong Kong  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  gained 2 percent to
4.58 yuan and China Construction Bank Corp. rose 1 percent to
5.12 yuan, leading lenders higher in Shanghai after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said the increase in China’s reserve
requirements will have a limited effect on net interest margins.  Sino Land gained 2 percent to HK$13.62 in Hong Kong after
the government yesterday sold three residential sites for more
than analysts predicted, boosting confidence that property curbs
haven’t damped demand. Henderson Land Development Co., the
builder controlled by billionaire Lee Shau-kee, rose 1.5 percent
to HK$52.60.  “We believe this sends a stronger positive sentiment
signal than the previous land auction given the diversity of
sites and buyers,” Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report
dated today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 7.2 percent by the  S&P
500  and 2.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 13.4 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 11.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Earthquake Damage  In Tokyo, Japan Steel Works lost 4.9 percent to 606 yen in
Tokyo. The maker of machinery for castings said it expects net
income to drop 30 percent in the year ending March 2012. Taiyo
Yuden Co., an electronic-parts maker, tumbled 6.8 percent to
1,023 yen after reporting a loss that was twice as wide as
forecast.  Tohoku Electric Power Co. sank 6.9 percent to 1,120 yen
after booking a 109.3 billion yen ($1.3 billion) charge related
to earthquake damage.  Tokyo Electric  Power dropped 5.4 percent
to 453 yen after  Kyodo News  reported that it had found holes in
the bottom of a reactor pressure vessel.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial, Japan’s second-biggest bank by
market value, fell 3.8 percent to 2,452 yen and bigger rival
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. dropped 2.8 percent to 383
yen after Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told
reporters that “people won’t support” using taxpayer funds for
Tokyo Electric unless banks waive some loans made before the
March 11 earthquake.  “The whole financial market would see substantial, adverse
impact if those banks go ahead and accept forgiveness of loans
to Tepco,” said Yoshifumi Kikuchi, head of dealing at Nissan
Century Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Foxconn, Hana  In Hong Kong, Foxconn International Holdings Ltd., the
world’s largest contract maker of mobile phones, sank 3 percent
to HK$4.26 after Hang Seng Indexes Co., the city’s stock market
index compiler, said it decided to drop the stock from its main
index.  In  Seoul , Hana Financial Group Inc. tumbled 15 percent to
37,850 won in Seoul amid delays to a decision on its proposed
Korea Exchange Bank takeover. Chairman Kim Seung Yu expressed
concern that his bid for Korea Exchange Bank may fail as the
nation’s financial regulator further delays approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 