-- 
Asian Currencies Complete Weekly Drop, led by Won, on Europe’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-05-13T09:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/asia-currencies-set-for-weekly-drop-led-by-rupee-on-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
Asian currencies completed a weekly
loss, led by South  Korea ’s won and India’s rupee, as concern
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen bolstered demand for dollars.  The won dropped to a three-week low after Bank of Korea
unexpectedly left  interest rates  unchanged today. The yuan had
its sharpest weekly decline in two months as China raised
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios for the fifth time this year
and government data showed industrial output moderated in April.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional stocks was headed for a
weekly loss on concern global economic growth will slow.  “This week there was a commodity sell-off and concern on
 Greece ’s debt crisis,” said Joanna Tan, a Singapore-based
regional economist at Forecast Singapore Pte. “The underlying
sentiment in Asian currencies is caution with  Europe ’s problems
still ongoing and worries about commodities.”  The won declined 0.3 percent for the week to 1,086.80 per
dollar as of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee fell 0.2 percent to 44.865,
Singapore’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent to S$1.2391 and the yuan
retreated 0.06 percent to 6.4977.  Euro-region finance ministers will meet next week to
discuss more support for Greece, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group, said yesterday. The nation has
already been granted a 110 billion-euro ($158 billion) bailout,
while Ireland and Portugal have also received financial aid from
the European Union.  Greek Risk Remains  “The Greece situation remains a big risk in the
background,” said Nik M. Khairul, a treasury dealer at Asian
Finance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “Commodity prices and
 China ’s economic activity are pointing down, which creates
question marks on future rate increases in Asia.”  The Bank of Korea kept its seven-day repurchase rate at 3
percent, a move predicted by two of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Twelve forecast a quarter of a percentage point rise
to curb inflation. Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark rate at
6.75 percent yesterday, a decision predicted by all 10
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Expectations for a rate increase had been limiting
declines in the won this week,” said Yun Se Min, a currency
dealer at Busan Bank in Seoul. The currency closed 0.2 percent
weaker today after earlier dropping as much as 0.7 percent.  Thailand’s baht rose 0.1 percent this week and 0.4 percent
today. The currency rebounded from its biggest one-day decline
in four months yesterday after  Fitch Ratings  raised the outlook
on Thailand’s local-currency credit rating to stable from
negative, citing an earlier-than-expected stabilization of the
nation’s finances.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso declined 0.1 percent this
week to 43.14 per dollar. Taiwan’s dollar and Malaysia’s ringgit
were little changed at NT$28.788 and 3.0013, respectively.
Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.4 percent to 8,543, while Vietnam’s
dong was little changed at 20,570.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  