-- 
Assad Blocks UN Intervention in Syria, Security Council Split

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-13T19:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/assad-blocks-un-intervention-in-syria-security-council-split.html
Efforts to press Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad to halt attacks on anti-government protesters
are stalled at the  United Nations , diplomats and officials said
as the crackdown intensified today.  Assad has rejected Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s request
to send a humanitarian assessment team to Syria and hasn’t
responded to the UN  Human Rights Council ’s call for a fact-
finding mission. Assad agreed last week to allow UN aid workers
into the country, and then reneged on that pledge, UN spokesman
 Martin Nesirky  said.  British and French efforts this week to build support for
 Security Council  action haven’t won the required backing of nine
of the 15 members, diplomats said after meeting today. Informal
talks on a resolution condemning attacks on protesters and
threatening sanctions haven’t generated a text.  “I don’t see that there are the votes there presently,”
U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said.  The Security Council “cannot stay silent,” Britain’s
Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said. “I expressed concern about
the deteriorating situation, the report of now well over 800
civilians killed and more than 8,000 people arrested.”  Syrian security forces killed two protesters in the central
city of Homs today, one in the southern city of Daraa and
another near Barzeh, a suburb of the capital, Damascus, Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab Organization for Human Rights and Ammar Qurabi, head of the National Organization for Human Rights, said
in telephone interviews.  New Protests  Protests also erupted in Hama, Banias, Aleppo and Idlib,
while in Daraa people were barred from attending Friday prayers.
There were “tanks outside every mosque,” Qurabi said.  The suppression of pro-democracy protests in  Syria  began in
mid-March after popular revolts ousted longtime leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia . The uprising drew initial pledges of change from
Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place since 1963 and
announced a new government. He hasn’t repeated the assurances in
recent weeks, as security forces stepped up their assaults.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and  Vitaly Churkin ,
the nation’s UN ambassador, opposed the bid by Western nations
to intervene.  “Dialogue” between the government and its opponents
“must not be interrupted,” Lavrov said today in the Kazakhstan
capital Almaty, the German Press Agency reported. “We must not
create a situation similar to  Libya .”  Churkin, who backed imposition of UN sanctions on Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime and abstained from the vote to
authorize military action against his security forces, told
reporters the situation in Syria was “completely different.”  Asked whether his government would back Security Council
action,  China ’s Ambassador Li Baodong stated a preference for
Ban’s pressure on Assad.  “‘We support the secretary-general’s efforts to play a
very important role and negotiate with the Syrian government to
see whether a solution can be found,” Li said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  