-- 
Banks Push Consumer Bureau to Keep U.S. Complaint Line Private

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-13T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/banks-push-consumer-bureau-to-keep-u-s-complaint-line-private.html
The new U.S. consumer agency, which
has yet to begin formal operations or write a rule, is already
being squeezed between banks and advocacy groups over how to set
up a complaint hotline.  Under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau must establish a way for banking
customers to submit reports about their problems with products
and services. At issue is what happens after they’re filed.  Nonprofit groups such as  Consumers Union  and the  Sunlight
Foundation  are pushing for an open system that would allow
anyone to scan the raw submissions. Industry groups including
the  American Bankers Association  argue that making them public
could allow frivolous complaints to damage reputable brands.  “The point of banking supervision is to get the system
working properly, not to air dirty laundry and scare capital
away from banks,” Richard Riese, senior vice president at the
bankers association’s  Center for Regulatory Compliance , said in
an interview.  The hotline has become a focal point of a philosophical
debate about the bureau’s role -- whether it should aim to
improve consumer financial products primarily by working
directly with companies or by bringing public attention to
unfair practices.  Bureau officials plan to open the hotline by accepting
consumer complaints about credit cards starting on July 21,
according to a person involved in the work.  ‘Timely Response’  Dodd-Frank requires the bureau to log complaints in a
database and route them to the appropriate federal or state
agency. A separate provision says the bureau and other
regulators must create procedures to ensure that financial firms
provide “a timely response” to consumers.  The agency is working with five of the largest credit-card
issuers --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  American Express Co. (AXP) , Discover
Financial Services,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  -- to make certain they can begin receiving
complaint referrals in July, said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the process isn’t public.  Credit-card complaints will be accepted first because they
deal with the most common form of consumer finance, the person
said. The complaints could also inform the bureau’s enforcement
actions, and its supervision of banks and non-bank lenders,
another person involved in the process said.  While the bureau has not decided what information related
to consumer complaints will be public, previous comments by
 Elizabeth Warren , the White House and Treasury adviser who is
setting up the agency, suggest a preference for wide
distribution.  Crowd-Sourcing  Warren has said that a public database would allow
consumers to look for patterns -- a process known as “crowd-
sourcing” -- and make their decisions accordingly.  “Through crowd-sourcing technology, consumers can deal
collectively with those who would take advantage of them -- and
can reward those who provide excellent products and services,”
Warren said in a  speech  on Oct. 28.  The debate over the hotline echoes one involving the U.S.
Consumer Product Safety Commission. In November that agency
approved the creation of a public consumer complaint database
over objections from business groups. The web-based system,
which also accepts complaints via phone, fax or letter, went
live on March 11.  Banking lobbyists are asking the consumer financial bureau
to limit the information in the database to other banking
regulators and the consumer who made the complaint, according to
a Feb. 8 letter from the ABA and four other finance groups.  ‘Suitable Notice’  “Any expansion of the use of or access to the database
should be determined through a formal rulemaking process that
involves a suitable notice and comment period,” the ABA said in
the letter, which was also signed by  The Clearing House , the
 Consumer Bankers Association , the  Financial Services Roundtable 
and the  Housing Policy Council .  Consumers Union , which publishes  Consumer Reports magazine ,
wrote the bureau in a Sept. 3 memo that the new agency should
make public “all complaints from receipt” and not a subset
that has been vetted by the bureau.  “Consumers can benefit from learning that a financial
services provider is doing something that makes its customers
unhappy even if that activity is not illegal,”  Consumers Union 
and 15 other groups wrote.  A contact person for the letter was Gail Hillebrand, a
former senior attorney with Consumers Union. She has since been
hired as the consumer bureau’s associate director of consumer
education and engagement.  Open Government  The creation of the complaint system is being overseen by
Catherine West, the chief operating officer at the consumer
bureau. West is a former COO at J.C. Penney Co. Inc. and former
senior executive at Capital One, one of the banks cooperating with
the system test.  Warren addressed the consumer complaint system at an April
6 meeting with groups that campaign for more open government,
according to a blog post on the agency’s website. The groups
urged Warren to make the complaints public despite bank
objections, said Angela Canterbury, director of public policy at
the  Project on Government Oversight , a watchdog group.  “These concerns about consumer complaints on the part of
industry reflect an old-fashioned sensibility,” Tom Lee,
director of Sunlight Labs at the  Sunlight Foundation , said in an
interview.  Lee, who attended the meeting, pointed out that  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  publishes unedited consumer complaints about products on
its website “and global capitalism has not ground to a halt.”  Simulated Complaints  The consumer bureau plans to accept complaints through a
form on its website, by e-mail, by telephone or by letter. To
test the system, officials have been passing along simulated
complaints to the credit-card issuers.  “We want to be a part of any opportunity that helps us
better understand the concerns of our customers,” Paul Hartwick, a spokesman for Chase Card Services, said in an e-
mail. “We believe we can help the CFPB develop a robust process
for capturing, cataloguing and analyzing complaints, questions
and inquiries that come from American consumers and their
families.”  Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for Discover, and Leah
Gerstner, a spokeswoman for American Express, said they welcomed
the chance to work with the consumer bureau. Spokesmen for Bank
of America and Capital One did not respond to requests for
comment.  NHTSA Database  The history of another government complaint database, at
the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, shows
industry concerns may eventually recede. Since 1966, the agency
has collected reports of possible safety defects in automobiles.
The database is public and searchable by model year and make on
the agency’s website.  “The only way you can persuade the agency to do an
investigation and get a potential recall is if you show examples
of the problem,” Joan Claybrook, a former director of the
agency, said in an interview.  Wade Newton, a spokesman for the  Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers , said the companies have few complaints about the
system.  “We compete on consumer satisfaction,” Newton said in an
interview. “The idea that we have a channel to get feedback
from our customers is a good thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 