-- 
Bank of Korea Keeps Rate Unchanged

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-13T04:57:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/bank-of-korea-unexpectedly-maintains-rate-to-judge-won-s-gain-on-inflation.html
The Bank of  Korea  unexpectedly kept
interest rates unchanged after two increases this year, opting
to judge whether gains in the won will contribute to a slowdown
in inflation.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and the policy board left the
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate at 3 percent after boosting
it by a quarter of percentage point each in January and March,
the central bank said in a statement in  Seoul  today. The
decision was predicted by two of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The decision wasn’t unanimous, Kim said.  The won fell to a three-week low and South Korean bonds
rose after the central bank refrained from raising rates even as
inflation exceeded its 4 percent ceiling for four straight
months. Governor Kim said he wanted to monitor factors such as
the European debt crisis,  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and oil
price swings, while also noting that inflation hasn’t stabilized.  “The pause is reflective of general central bank caution in
raising rates quickly,” said Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “It was hard to
say whether BOK would pause one or two meetings. They opted for
the latter,” he said, adding he expects an interest rate
increase in June.  Won Weakens  The won declined 0.5 percent at 1:25 p.m. in Seoul, after
falling as low as 1,092.38 to the dollar earlier, the weakest
level since April 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi stock index fell 0.53 percent. The yield on the
benchmark three-year bond fell seven basis points to 3.6 percent,
the biggest decline since April 1. The won has strengthened
about 3 percent so far this year.  This was the sixth time in the last 12 months that the
central bank’s decision was different from consensus economist
predictions. Kim told reporters that when he said the bank will
take “baby-step” moves to “normalize”  interest rates , he didn’t
necessarily mean the bank would raise rates every two months.  While South Korea’s inflation hasn’t stabilized, about half
of the price increase is the result of higher supply costs,
which are beyond the central bank’s control, Kim said. The won’s
appreciation can help curb price gains, he said.  ‘Adverse’ Environment  Samsung Electronics Co. expects an “adverse” business
environment due to a possible global slowdown to continue in the
second quarter, Robert Yi, vice president of  investor relations ,
said on April 29. The world’s largest maker of TVs and flat-
screen panels reported a drop in first-quarter profit that day.  “The Bank of Korea may want to wait and see how  oil prices 
and other external factors will change,” Jun Min Kyoo, an
economist at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said
before the announcement. “Fears of further gains in the won due
to a rate hike would have been another reason to stand pat.”  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent in April from a year
earlier, the fourth month in a row the pace of growth surpassed
the central bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012.
The Bank of Korea expects consumer prices to rise 3.9 percent
this year and for the economy to grow 4.5 percent.  President  Lee Myung Bak  declared “war” on inflation in
January, and the government imposed price controls and tolerated
currency appreciation to tame price increases.  Approval Rating Halved  Lee’s approval rating has halved to 33 percent since he
took office in February 2008, according to an April 18-22 poll
by Seoul-based Realmeter. A general legislative vote will be
held next April and the next presidential election is in
December 2012.  Crude oil traded near $100 a barrel today, and has climbed
about 8 percent this year.  South Korea  relies entirely on
imported oil.  Strengthening exports and recovering domestic demand last
year drove the fastest growth since 2002 in South Korea, stoking
inflation pressure and prompting the central bank to raise
interest rates from a record-low 2 percent since early July.  The nation’s exports climbed 26.6 percent from a year
earlier to a record in April as exporters weathered the won’s
gains. The  unemployment rate  fell to a three-month low last
month, underscoring the tight labor conditions in South Korea
and pointing to pressure to raise wages, said Wai Ho Leong, a
senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Singapore .  In another sign of inflationary pressure, South Korea’s
bank lending to households rose to a record for the third
straight month in April as people took out more mortgages,  Bank
of Korea  data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  