-- 
Bats Files for IPO as Exchange Seeks Currency Amid Deals

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-05-13T19:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/bats-global-files-for-an-ipo-as-u-s-exchange-operator-seeks-to-raise-cash.html
Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-
largest U.S. stock exchange operator, filed for an initial
public offering as it seeks cash to compete amid the busiest
period for industry takeovers.  The electronic platform, which began trading shares listed
on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market about five years ago with two
customers, aims to become a public company like its bigger
rivals NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   Bats is expanding in  Europe , paying $305.4 million to buy
Chi-X Europe Ltd., the region’s largest alternative trading
venue. The planned IPO by Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats follows
about $20 billion in exchange takeovers announced since October.
Deutsche Boerse AG of Frankfurt is buying New York-based NYSE
Euronext to create the world’s largest market operator.  “They’ve grown from having virtually no trading in early
2006 to becoming a major player, not just in the U.S. markets
but in the global execution business,” said  Larry Tabb , founder
of New York-based research firm Tabb Group LLC. “This gives
them currency so if they want to make more acquisitions down the
road, they have stock they can use.”  Bats executed about  11 percent  of equities trading volume
in the U.S. last month, and almost 6 percent in Europe, the
company said. For U.S. options, Bats had market share of 3.4
percent in April, according to Chicago-based OCC.  Worth $1 Billion  Revenue at Bats fell 8.1 percent to $834.8 million in 2010
after surging 32 percent in 2009 and almost threefold in 2008.
Based on the historical median price-to-sales ratio for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the two largest U.S. equity
exchange operators, Bats would be valued at $1.14 billion to
$1.51 billion as a public company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Net income at Bats totaled $19.8 million last year, giving
it a profit margin of 2.4 percent, according to a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing today. The figure was 2.7 percent in
2009 and 1 percent in 2008, the data show.  Bats reported net revenue of $99.2 million in 2010 after
deducting fees such as payments to traders and routing costs,
giving a net margin of 20 percent. On the same basis, NYSE
Euronext and Nasdaq OMX had 2010 net margins of 23 percent and
26 percent, respectively, on net revenue of $2.51 billion and
$1.52 billion.  Bankers, Owners  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
are managing the IPO. Bats is owned by 11 firms including Bank
of America Corp. in Charlotte,  North Carolina ; Citigroup and
Morgan Stanley in  New York ; Getco LLC in  Chicago ; and Zurich-
based Credit Suisse.  The company was started in 2005 by Dave Cummings, the
founder of Tradebot Systems Inc., a computerized trading firm
whose buy and sell orders accounted for as much as 10 percent of
U.S. equity volume on some days last year. Bats has 114
employees.  “Their owners, which include investment banks, want to be
able to liquify their positions,” Tabb said.  Direct Edge Holdings LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , the
fourth-largest U.S. exchange operator, is considering an IPO,
Chief Executive Officer William O’Brien said last year. It’s
also owned by brokers, including  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citadel LLC. The  International
Securities Exchange , the third-largest U.S. options market in
April, owns almost 32 percent of Direct Edge.  Trading From Owners  Almost 32 percent of Bats’ revenue in 2010 came from its
owners, up from 23 percent in 2008, according to today’s filing.
“None of our customers is contractually or otherwise obligated
to continue to use our services,” Bats said.  Revenue from transaction fees totaled 80 percent of the
company’s sales last year, down from 93 percent two years
earlier. An affiliate of one of its owners received 31 percent
of the total  rebates  Bats paid in 2010 to firms that provide
bids and offers to meet customers’ trading requests. In 2008,
that firm, which wasn’t identified, received 51 percent of the
rebates paid, according to the filing.  Bats will have two classes of shares, one owned by public
shareholders and another by the strategic investors, the filing
said. Pending SEC approval, the Class A shares will be listed on
the company’s BZX exchange under the symbol “BATS.”  Left Tradebot  Bats CEO and President Joe Ratterman was one of the
employees Cummings brought from Tradebot to start Bats as a
rival to the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. He took  control 
of the company in July 2007 when Cummings returned to Tradebot.
Before joining the automated trading firm in 2004 to focus on
business development, Ratterman oversaw 650 people as chief
technology officer at Bridge Information Systems Inc.  “Due to regulatory changes and consolidation in the
securities industry, there’s more pressure before and after
exchange consolidation for innovation,” said Matthew Andresen,
former co-chief executive officer of Chicago-based Citadel LLC’s
market-making business, who earlier ran the Island ECN that
helped pioneer electronic equities trading. “Bats filing for an
IPO is a recognition of the success that you can still have
innovating in the exchange industry.”  Andresen is co-chief executive officer at Headlands
Technologies Inc., a quantitative trading firm in Chicago and
 San Francisco . Bats, like Island, started out as an electronic
communications system, a public market that competes with
exchanges, before becoming a registered U.S. exchange.  Measured in Microseconds  Traditional exchanges that once operated monopolies now
face challenges from electronic venues that offer high-speed
investors faster and more efficient trading. Bats said today
that it has cut average latency, or the amount of time it takes
the company to process order messages, to about 140 microseconds
from 930 microseconds in January 2007. Regulatory changes over
the past decade in the U.S. and Europe have allowed alternative
trading systems to gain market share from established exchanges.  “As exchange market competition continues to heat up,
having enough financial resources to compete in the market
becomes that much more important,” said Sang Lee, co-founder
and managing partner at Aite Group LLC in Boston. “Bats going
through this process was inevitable.”  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , which runs the Chicago Board Options
Exchange, the first and largest venue for U.S. equity
derivatives trading, was the most-recent U.S. market operator to
go public, conducting its IPO last year.  Listings Business  Bats  said in March  it will begin listing public companies
in the U.S. in the fourth quarter in a bid to compete with the
New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, NYSE Amex and NYSE Arca, the
only venues deemed primary U.S. exchanges because of their
listings businesses. It  told  participants earlier this week to
be prepared to support trading in Bats-listed companies by Sept.
1. The firm is also considering listing stocks in Europe.  Bats’ expanded European unit, which will be called Bats
Chi-X Europe, expects to enter derivatives trading and augment
its distribution of market data, Mark Hemsley, CEO of Bats
Europe, said on Feb. 18. A European futures and equity options
market could be built on the technology that supports the Bats
U.S. options trading system, he said. That deal is expected to
close by mid-year.  “Our goal is to grow our markets to a critical-mass level
so they have good momentum and trajectory,” Ratterman said on
Feb. 18. “This is a rare instance where an acquisition made
sense on lots of fronts and accelerates our business plans in
Europe.”  Bats is working with Sao Paulo-based asset manager Claritas
Investments to introduce a new exchange to trade Brazilian
stocks that would compete with  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the fourth-
largest market operator based on market capitalization.
BM&FBovespa is in Sao Paulo.  “It’s a natural evolution. They are now a global player,”
said London-based Steve Grob, director of group strategy at
Fidessa Group Plc, a developer of financial software. “From a
funding point of view, it gives them opportunity to be a
consolidator rather than be bought by another player.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  