-- 
Bayou Group Estate Wins $13 Million From Hedge Funds for Fraud Investors

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-05-13T01:08:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/bayou-group-estate-wins-13-million-from-hedge-funds-for-fraud-investors.html
The estate of hedge-fund firm Bayou
Group LLC, which turned out to be a  Ponzi scheme , won a jury
verdict requiring hedge funds that redeemed their money before
Bayou collapsed to pay investors $13 million, a lawyer said.  Today’s victory in federal court in Manhattan follows the
estate’s previous recovery of $5.4 million in “fictitious
profits,” bringing the total recouped to more than $60 million,
said Gary Mennitt, a lawyer representing the estate for the
benefit of its investors.  The estate sued to recover the amounts withdrawn by hedge
funds Redwood Growth Partners and Heritage Hedged Equity,
investment company D. Canale & Co., two trusts and an endowment
fund, Mennitt said in a phone interview. The jury found the
funds failed to prove that they had, in good faith, conducted a
diligent investigation of the Bayou fraud before withdrawing
their principal investment, he said.  “This is first time that a Ponzi scheme estate has been
successful at trial in defeating an investor’s good-faith
defense and thus recovering the full principal, or amount paid
to the redeeming investor,” the lawyer said.  David Baum, a lawyer representing the defendant hedge
funds, said in a phone interview he was disappointed by the
verdict and that the funds will appeal.  In 2009, Samuel  Israel , the convicted founder of Bayou
Group LLC, was sentenced to two additional years in prison for
faking his suicide and running away the day he was to begin a
20-year term for a $400 million fraud.  Israel founded Bayou in 1995 with James Marquez. After the
company lost money in 1998, Marquez and finance chief Daniel Marino created a sham accounting firm to serve as the company’s
external auditor, Israel admitted. Rather than disclose modest
losses, Bayou reported profits, Israel said. Bayou filed for
bankruptcy in May 2006.  The estate recovery case is In Re Bayou Group, LLC, 09-
2313, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ). The Bayou fraud case is U.S. v. Israel, 1:05-cr-
01039, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  