-- 
Beef-Buying Koreans Fuel Record Meat Rally in U.S. Groceries

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-13T20:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/beef-buying-koreans-fuel-record-meat-rally-in-u-s-supermarkets.html
Food shoppers in South Korea,  Mexico 
and  Japan  are fueling a surge in U.S. beef prices just as demand
is set to reach a seasonal peak this month and retailers
including Sam’s Club promote the meat in stores.  Retail beef rose to a record $4.453 a pound in April, up 11
percent from a year earlier, after all-time highs the previous
four months, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today.
Supplies have tightened as South Korea tripled imports of U.S.
beef in the first quarter from a year earlier, and Japan’s
purchases rose 63 percent, data show.  Costs are gaining at a time when consumers usually boost
purchases by 25 percent from April 1 to the end of May, when
warmer weather encourages grilling outdoors, the National
Cattlemen’s Beef Association said, citing data from FreshLook
Marketing Group LLC. The three-day weekend that includes the
Memorial Day holiday on May 30 this year is usually the busiest
for sales, the Livestock Marketing Information Center estimates.  “We’re probably going to have records in each of the first
six months of 2011,” said  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at
the  University of Missouri  in Columbia who has been studying the
industry for three decades. “It’s a tight meat supply and
especially tight beef supply, and so we’ve got record prices.”  Meat prices are forecast to rise faster than overall U.S.
food costs, which the USDA  says  may jump as much as 4 percent
this year, the most since 2008. Global food costs rose in April
for the ninth time in 10 months, including an all-time high in
February, according to the  United Nations .  Tightening Supply  Per-capita  supplies of U.S. beef may drop 4.1 percent in
2012, after the domestic cattle herd on Jan. 1 was the smallest
for that date since 1958, USDA data show.  U.S. exporters shipped 633.3 million pounds (287.3 million
kilograms) of beef in the first three months of 2011, up 32
percent from the same period a year ago, the latest government
data show.  South Korea  is the biggest buyer, after the nation’s worst
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease curbed meat supplies,
according to the USDA. Mexico ranks second, followed by Japan,
which boosted purchases after a nuclear disaster sparked concern
that domestic food supplies were unsafe.  “We’ve had the tight supply situation, and we’ve had very
strong export demand, which has further supported the price
side,” said Erica Rosa, an economist at the Livestock Marketing
Information Center in Denver.  Cattle Futures  Cattle futures reached a record $1.21625 a pound on April
4, and prices are up 17 percent in the past year. Cattle for
August delivery fell 0.8 percent to settle at $1.1055 today on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. On April 5, wholesale beef sold
by meat processors reached $1.9196 a pound, the highest since at
least 2004.  Rising costs may discourage purchases of higher-priced cuts
in favor of ground beef or other meats, including chicken or
pork, said Trevor Amen, marketing manager at the  National
Cattlemen’s Beef Association  in Denver. U.S. shoppers may pay as
much as 8 percent more for beef this year, while poultry may
increase 3.5 percent, the government has  forecast .  “Consumers tend to, within the beef category, trade down
to the mid-price to lower-priced items, and ground demand has
been very strong,” Amen said. “They’re either trading down or
they’re trading out to other commodities. What we see retailers
doing is featuring less beef and featuring more of those lower-
priced items, and chicken, pork and maybe even produce, to
remain competitive.”  Consumers May Balk  There are signs that consumers are balking at the higher
prices. Retail sales of beef fell 4.2 percent in the 52 weeks
ended March 27, as average prices jumped 7.4 percent, Amen said,
citing sales data compiled by  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based
FreshLook.  To help spur sales, retailers can offer smaller portions to
reduce the cost per package, or reduce prices for bulk purchases
and include labels  instructing  consumers how to cut the meat
into steaks and roasts, according to the NCBA.  Grocers including Sam’s Club, a unit of Bentonville,
Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest
retailer, have increased promotions of cheaper bulk purchases as
meat rose during the past year, said Abel Pulido, who is
responsible for beef buying for all Sam’s Clubs in the U.S. that
have fresh-meat departments.  “As the economy is tight, there is some savings out
there,” Pulido said. “You just have to be willing and know
that you’re buying more weight at a lower price per pound.”  At Sam’s, a pack of four tenderloin steaks, a high-value
cut of meat, sells for about $10.88 to $11.88 a pound, while an
eight-to-12-steak package costs $8.88 to $9.88 a pound. A case
of the meat, typically 70 pounds to 75 pounds and targeted at
buyers for restaurants, the price is $8.50 to $8.70 a pound.  The USDA’s average beef price is a composite that includes
choice beef, other beef and hamburger values. In today’s report,
the department lowered its estimate of the average price for
March to $4.44.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  