-- 
Beverly Hills Lures Wealthy Investors Seeking Trophy Apartments

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/beverly-hills-apartments-lure-wealthy-investors-seeking-trophy-buildings.html
Beverly Hills, the  California  enclave
known for its celebrity residents and Rodeo Drive boutiques, is
luring wealthy individuals seeking real estate investments,
driving up prices for trophy apartment buildings in the city.  A 24-unit multifamily complex, located one block from the
 Four Seasons Hotel Los Angeles at Beverly Hills , sold in March
for $7.5 million, giving its buyer a lower return than similar
buildings in the U.S. The property is a mile (1.6 kilometers)
from the home of Doug Ellin, creator of  HBO ’s “Entourage,” and
two miles from actor Billy Bob Thornton’s house.  Buyers with high net worths are accepting lower and lower
capitalization rates, a measure of yield in the real estate
industry, for rental apartments in the  Los Angeles  area’s
wealthiest neighborhoods. The Beverly Hills investor accepted an
annual cap rate of 4.5 percent, more than two percentage points
below the national average, said  Hamid Soroudi , senior managing
director at Los Angeles-based real estate firm  Charles Dunn .  “It seems almost a privilege to own these multifamily
units in these areas because they’re not replaceable and seldom
on the market,” said  Christopher Cooper , Charles Dunn’s chief
executive officer.“When these assets do come on the market,
there is a bit of a feeding frenzy.”  Nationwide, the average cap rate for apartment buildings
slipped to 6.6 percent in the latter half of 2010 from 6.9
percent in the first six months, according to New York-based
research company Real Capital Analytics Inc. The cap rate is a
property’s annual income divided by the purchase price.  Platinum Triangle  A 29-unit apartment building in Bel Air -- part of the
Platinum Triangle of wealthy neighborhoods along with  Beverly
Hills  and Holmby Hills -- sold in March for $7.2 million. That
gave it a cap rate of 4.6 percent, according to Soroudi. The
average rate in the Los Angeles area’s richest enclaves slipped
to about 4 percent during the first quarter from 5 percent in
mid-2010, he said.  Multifamily property prices have soared as much as 30
percent in the most affluent parts of Los Angeles over the past
18 months, said Hessam Nadji, managing director of research at
 Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services Inc.  in
Walnut Creek, California. Values have risen even as California’s
jobless rate stood at  12 percent  in March, higher than the U.S.
average of 8.8 percent. The state’s credit rating from  Standard
& Poor’s  is the lowest in the U.S., and Governor  Jerry Brown  is
struggling to close a $15 billion  budget deficit .  Values in high-end neighborhoods have been driven up in
part by demand for multifamily properties priced at $20 million
or more. The dollar volume of such transactions jumped 202
percent last year in Los Angeles County, more than the
nationwide increase of 179 percent, Nadji said.  ‘Monopoly Game’  “Real estate is not hard to understand and there’s a lot
of pride in owning any kind of home or apartment building,”
said Ken Chong, regional director at Los Angeles-based
Commercial Investment Brokerage Corp. “It’s pride of ownership
as compared to stocks or bonds, which is a piece of paper -- if
that. It’s this Monopoly game that rich people like to play.”  Michael Hakim , a Beverly Hills resident who has been
investing in multifamily properties in Los Angeles for a decade,
last year bought a 25-unit Beverly Hills building near the
luxury  SLS Hotel at Beverly Hills . He declined to say how much
he paid. Hakim said tenant demand is growing for apartments in
such neighborhoods, which are becoming “small Manhattans”
where people work, live and socialize.  Echo Boomers  Building tenants in wealthy neighborhoods “are the so-
called echo boomers -- the sons and daughters of rich  baby
boomers ,” said Mark Crawford, president of  Crawford Park
Financial Inc. , a Beverly Hills-based real estate investment
firm. “You combine those with a growing and upcoming immigrant
population and you have set the stage for a tremendous run in
the apartment business.”  U.S. apartment vacancies declined to the lowest in almost
three years in the first quarter as the weak homebuying market
fueled rental demand, New York-based research firm  Reis Inc. (REIS) 
said last month.  Cap rates for apartment buildings also are dropping in
Manhattan and  Connecticut , including such wealthy areas as
Greenwich. In those areas, they declined to 6.7 percent in the
first quarter from 6.9 percent in July 2010, Real Capital said.  In  Southern California , the search for safe investments is
driving high-net-worth individuals to buy multifamily properties
in upscale neighborhoods, said Jason Thomas, Los Angeles-based
chief investment officer for wealth management firm  Aspiriant .  Nervous Investors  “The interest in these areas is less driven by the
valuations, which in fact are high, but by the fact that they
are nervous about any other investment,” he said. “They are
excited by the yields relative to fixed income, and they are
focused on the tax advantages. Plus you can walk down the street
and look at it.”  Buying apartment buildings in affluent neighborhoods is an
investment strategy that can take years to pay off, said  David
Cohen , president of Los Angeles-based apartment investor  Karlin
Asset Management . It’s “a great investment strategy -- if you
have patient capital,” he said.  A rebound in the real estate market may boost buyer
confidence and spur investors to focus less on wealthy
neighborhoods and more on “class B assets or mid-tier areas,”
Nadji said. An economic recovery also will lead to price
appreciation in upscale neighborhoods, diminishing demand.  “Prices that are happening at the moment are incredibly
high in respect to a year ago,” said Soroudi of Charles Dunn.
“In another six months, the market may get too hot for many of
these buyers.”  ‘Looking to Buy’  Hakim, who says he owns “a handful” of buildings in Los
Angeles, isn’t deterred. He’s now looking at two adjacent
buildings with a combined 33 units in the Brentwood area of West
Los Angeles. The seller wants $10 million, and the property is
likely to need $20 million to $30 million in renovations and
upgrades, Hakim said. He is considering forming a joint venture
with the current owner to share the costs.  “If somebody is selling at the beach, I’m looking to
buy,” said Hakim, who ran unsuccessfully for a seat on the
 Beverly Hills City Council  two years ago. “The Westside is very
competitive. There’s a lot of commerce, it’s a lovely atmosphere
and everybody likes to go to the beach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  