-- 
Bikini Waxing Painful to Tombini Fight Against Brazil Inflation

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-05-13T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/bikini-waxing-painful-to-tombini-as-services-drive-brazil-inflation-higher.html
If you’re getting a bikini wax in
 Brazil , you’re likely to find that the cost is rising. And if
you’re an economic policy maker, that’s a problem.  As with more prosaic services ranging from car repair to
dentistry, the price of waxing is rising faster than most
components of the nation’s economy. That’s pushing inflation
above the government’s target and may force central bank
President Alexandre Tombini to prolong interest-rate increases
this year.  Price increases for services, which make up 24.1 percent of
Brazil’s benchmark inflation index, outpaced all other
categories in the past two months, according to data released
May 11 by the bank. They rose 8.57 percent in the year through
April, the fastest pace in at least 15 years.  “Services will continue to be the main villain of
inflation and may prevent prices from slowing to target next
year,” Fernando Fix, chief economist of Votorantim Wealth
Management, said in an interview from  Sao Paulo . “Domestic
demand is too strong.”  That includes a bikini wax, which in Brazil is often seen
as a necessity rather than a luxury, said Elzimar Siqueira,
former owner of a beauty shop and head of administrative affairs
at the Syndicate of Women’s Beauty and Hairdressing Institutes
of  Rio de Janeiro .  ‘Summer All Year’  “We have one of the highest demands for waxing in the
world because of our climate,” Siqueira said in a telephone
interview. “We have summer all year, we’re always wearing
bikinis and miniskirts.”  One community listings website in Sao Paulo,  Sampa Online ,
shows more than 90 waxing establishments.  At the Imaculada Hair and Makeup beauty shop in Brasilia,
owner Alessandra Rita de Arruda Lopes says she’s raised the
price to 35 reais ($21.63) from 30 reais because “all my costs
are going up.” The average price of the depilation procedure
rose 12.4 percent in the year through April, the national
statistics agency said last week.  Consumer price increases in  Latin America ’s biggest 
economy breached the government’s 6.5 percent target ceiling in 
the year through April for the first time since June 2005. In a 
bid to cool inflation, policy makers have raised the benchmark 
Selic rate by 1.25 percentage points this year, to 12 percent. 
Brazil will increase  interest rates  for a “sufficiently 
prolonged” period of time to ensure inflation slows to 4.5 
percent next year, Tombini said May 11.  Benchmark Rate  Analysts covering Brazil expect the central bank to boost
the Selic to 12.5 percent by year-end, a survey of about 100
economists published this week showed. The real will end the
year at 1.62 per dollar, little changed from 1.6198 today.  Some analysts predict a higher rate. “Inflation will
continue to make itself felt,” Paulo Leme, managing director
for emerging markets at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a
telephone interview from Miami. He forecasts the Selic will rise
to 13.25 percent at the end of 2011.  Brazil’s GDP per capita reached a record $10,813 last year,
after the economy grew 7.5 percent, the fastest pace in more
than two decades. The  Finance Ministry  predicts growth of 4.5
percent in 2011.  Mexico , Latin America’s second-biggest economy,
saw gross domestic product grow 5.5 percent last year, and
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens on May 12 forecast
expansion of 4 percent to 5 percent in 2011.  Labor Market  Brazil’s growth has helped increase demand and drive up
prices for services. Also contributing is a tight labor market,
which has caused a shortage of workers in some industries and
may in turn result in real wage increases in collective
bargaining this year and next, said Constantin Jancso, an
economic analyst at Sao Paulo-based HSBC Bank Brasil SA.  “Negotiations with metalworkers and bankers begin in the
third quarter,” Jancso said. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see
increases of 10 percent, which will feed demand a little more.”  Brazil’s unemployment rate has remained below 7 percent
since June and reached a record low 5.7 percent in December
before rising to 6.5 percent in March, according to the national
statistics agency.  The Brazilian economy may generate 3 million government-
registered jobs this year after net creation of 2.5 million jobs
last year, Labor Minister Carlos Lupi said May 11.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index was outpaced by both the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index and the Standard and Poor’s 500-stock
index in the 12 months through April.  Commodity Prices  Inflation is accelerating in other emerging and developed
economies such as  China ,  India , and the  euro zone , largely
spurred by rising commodity prices. Brazil’s inflation is being
fueled by more than just commodities, Tombini, 47, said
yesterday.  Prices of 20 of 41 services monitored by the central bank
accelerated in April from March, led by recreation, parking and
car maintenance. In the year through April, 26 services
accelerated above the government’s target.  Oil changes and car cleaning prices rose 18.25 percent in
the year through April, outpacing the 6.51 percent increase in
the benchmark inflation rate. Hotels and dressmakers increased
prices by 14.03 percent, according to the agency.  Service prices have outpaced benchmark inflation in Brazil
since March 2004, rising at an annual average of 6.45 percent
through February 2011, while the inflation rate averaged 5.32
percent, the report showed.  Durable Goods  The cost of services accelerated faster than the other four
categories in the inflation report: durable, semi-durable and
nondurable goods, and monitored prices such as public transport
and utilities.  Price increases in Brazil, especially for services, are
spurred by a process known as indexation, under which past
inflation is used as a benchmark for raising prices again.
Brazilian rents, for example, are annually adjusted based on the
wholesale IGP-M index, which rose 11.32 percent last year.  Former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  also indexed the
minimum wage, which helps determine government pension payments.
He signed a deal with unions in 2006 to boost the wage annually
by a percentage adding the previous year’s inflation to economic
growth from two years back. In 2012 that formula is likely to
yield a minimum wage increase of more than 13 percent.  Higher wages are one reason Brasilia beauty shop owner
Alessandra Lopes is raising all her prices. Meal vouchers,
cosmetics, and the cost of “depi rolls,” which are used to
spread the wax for depilation, are also going up, she said.  “Some clients are coming less frequently for haircuts
because of the higher price,” Lopes said. “But not for waxing.
Brazilian women might let their hair grow longer, but they’ll
never stop getting waxed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  