-- 
Bin Laden Pulled Al-Qaeda ‘Levers,’ Targeted U.S. Officials, Holder Says

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/bin-laden-documents-taken-in-raid-show-intent-to-kill-obama-official-says.html
Osama bin Laden  was “pulling the
levers” of al-Qaeda and wanted to target senior U.S. officials,
said Attorney General  Eric Holder .  Intelligence collected by U.S. Navy SEALs from their raid
on bin Laden’s compound in  Pakistan  indicates that President
Barack Obama was among those bin Laden wanted to kill, said a
U.S. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity and wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  The U.S. is continuing to review intelligence collected by
the SEALs, who killed the al-Qaeda leader, Holder said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “We’re still in the process of going through this material
to get a better sense of what it is we might expect in the short
term and over the long term,” the attorney general said.  U.S. authorities also have questioned  bin Laden ’s wives as
part of their investigation, said a second U.S. official who
also spoke on condition of anonymity.  The materials taken from bin Laden’s compound included
computer drives and bin Laden’s handwritten journal, U.S.
officials have said. The materials suggested bin Laden wanted to
harm people around the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks,
Holder said.  Holder said he’s especially concerned about “lone wolves”
who want to make a statement by avenging bin Laden’s death. He
said they are hard to track and could act spontaneously in the
U.S. or other countries.  ‘Core al-Qaeda’  While “core al-Qaeda” has been weakened, Holder said one
person he remains especially concerned about is Anwar al-Awlaki,
who has been tied to several terrorist attacks, including a
Nigerian suspected of trying to blow up a Detroit-bound plane in
2009.  Intelligence collected by the U.S. didn’t indicate plots
were close to being carried out, Holder said. Intelligence
collected from the operation showed that bin Laden was playing a
key role, he said.  “He was clearly a person who was still pulling the levers
in the al-Qaeda organization,” Holder said.  Asked whether harsh interrogation techniques helped locate
bin Laden, Holder said: “It’s not clear to me, at least, that
the information that we got from those enhanced interrogation
techniques is what ultimately led to bin Laden.”  Holder said the  Justice Department  has “made a lot of
progress” on its investigation into whether there was
wrongdoing by Central Intelligence Agency employees in the
interrogation of terrorism suspects during the administration of
 George W. Bush .  The attorney general said the department is weeks away from
concluding a “substantial portion” of its investigation.  Holder also defended the Justice Department’s performance
on investigating potential crimes related to the U.S. financial
crisis. He said investigations are continuing and that
prosecutors will be “extremely aggressive” and try to make
cases where they can.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  