-- 
Borders Group Said to Find No Bidder Willing to Buy Entire U.S. Bookseller

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-14T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/borders-group-said-to-find-no-bidder-willing-to-buy-entire-u-s-bookseller.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the bankrupt U.S.
bookstore operator looking to reorganize, has so far failed to
find a bidder for the entire chain, according to four people
familiar with the matter.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , Borders’s larger rival, offered to buy
about 10 stores, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the process isn’t public. Other parties also
bid for parts of the business, the people said.  The deadline for so-called going-concern bids that would
keep the company operating was May 6, four of the people said.
Borders and its advisers are still negotiating with a party that
has put in an expression of interest for the company that would
retain more than 200 stores, one person said.  The expression of interest is non-binding and requires due
diligence by the interested party so talks could fall through at
any time, said this person. The company hopes to find a buyer
for some or all of the business in the next few weeks, two
people said.  The lack of offers for the whole chain may spell the end
for  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Borders, founded 40 years ago as a
single used bookstore in  Michigan . The company filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in February after losing sales to digital
devices such as Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle reader.  Borders, which is closing about one-third of its stores,
posted an operating loss of $24.3 million in March, according to
court papers. Before seeking protection, Borders had posted
sales declines for five straight years, from a peak of more than
$4 billion in 2006.  ‘Evaluate Interest’  “We are focused on moving forward with the execution of
our business plan,”  Mary Davis , a Borders spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail yesterday. “We are continuing to evaluate interest in
the company as expressed through the ongoing Chapter 11
process.”  Mary Ellen Keating , a Barnes & Noble spokeswoman, yesterday
said she couldn’t confirm whether the company had bid on any
stores. Andrew Glenn, a bankruptcy lawyer for Borders, declined
to comment.  Brothers Tom and Louis Borders started the company in 1971,
building the chain to almost 20 stores before selling to Kmart
Corp. in 1992. Three years later, the retailer spun off the
business, which had locations under the Borders, Waldenbooks and
Planet Music brands.  Lawyers for the company said April 14 that it would
consider a sale of assets along with a stand-alone
reorganization. Any sale would require bankruptcy court
approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  