-- 
Brazil Weighs Fuel Tax Cut to Slow Inflation, Augustin Says

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-05-13T18:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/brazil-weighs-fuel-tax-cut-to-slow-inflation-augustin-says.html
Brazil  is considering cuts to a fuel
tax as inflation exceeds the government’s target range for the
first time in six years, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said.  “The government has tools to control fuel prices and avoid
a negative impact,” Augustin said in an interview today in
Brasilia, citing a tax known in Brazil as Cide. “Whatever the
international scenario we have ways to avoid damaging the
Brazilian economy. We have Cide and we can use it.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is weighing
cutting taxes on electricity as well, a person familiar with the
discussions said yesterday. The person declined to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly about the issue.  Brazil’s annual inflation rate rose to 6.51 percent in the
year through April, the first time the benchmark IPCA index has
exceeded the upper limit of the target range since 2005. The
central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus
two percentage points.  The government is relying on a mix of higher  interest
rates , measures to curb credit and spending cuts in its effort
to contain inflation. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini
yesterday said that policy makers will increase the overnight
rate for a “sufficiently prolonged” period to ensure inflation
slows to target next year.  Benchmark Rate  The central bank increased the benchmark interest rate to
12 percent from 11.75 percent in April, after lifting it by half
a percentage point at each of its two previous meetings.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the Brazilian state-owned  oil
company , yesterday said its fuel distribution unit is cutting
gasoline prices by 6 percent.  Brazil’s policy of financing industry via the subsidized
long-term interest rate offered by the state development bank
known as BNDES helps fight inflation, Augustin said. BNDES
lending doesn’t hinder monetary policy, he added.  August said the appreciating real is a “extremely big
worry” for  Latin America ’s biggest economy. The real has
strengthened 41 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since the start
of 2009, the most among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The real fell 0.8 percent at 1:37 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  