-- 
Brevan Howard, Jamison Hedge Funds Said to Advance During Commodities Rout

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-05-13T10:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/brevan-howard-jamison-hedge-funds-said-to-advance-during-commodities-rout.html
Hedge funds  run by Brevan Howard
Asset Management LLP and Jamison Capital Partners LLC rose last
week during the biggest commodities rout in two years, according
to a report to investors and people familiar with the figures.  The Brevan Howard Commodities Strategies Master Fund Ltd.,
which managed $368 million as of March 31, gained 1.1 percent in
the first week of May, an investor report obtained by Bloomberg
showed. Jamison’s Koppenberg Macro Commodity Fund Ltd., which
manages more than $600 million, advanced about 4 percent, said
two people with direct knowledge of the matter, declining to be
identified because the information is private.  Stephen Jamison, founder and chief investment officer of
New York-based Jamison Capital, declined to comment when
contacted by phone. Nagi Kawkabani, co-chief executive officer
of Brevan Howard, said the fund had been cutting positions in
energy, judging this year’s 25 percent gain in prices excessive.  “It seemed everybody was long,” Kawkabani said by phone
May 11. “It was just our view that the positioning, the almost
universal bullishness and seeming inevitability of ever-rising
commodity prices, was a little bit disturbing.”  Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar for five
consecutive months through the end of April, the longest run in
at least 14 years. That reversed as economic reports showing
slower growth in U.S. service industries and fewer German
manufacturing orders increased investors’ concern about growth
and drove the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
down 11 percent in a week, the most since December 2008.  Clive Capital  “The thing that stuck out to us was that volatility was
relatively cheap, and it made sense to hedge given the moves in
prices that had occurred,” Kawkabani said.  Speculators cut their net-long position, or bets on higher
prices, in U.S. commodity futures by 2.4 percent in the week
ended May 3, two days into the rout. The next data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission are set for later today.  Clive Capital LLP’s commodity hedge fund, which managed
$5.1 billion as of May 1, lost 8.9 percent last week mostly
because of bullish bets on oil, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. The Clive Fund Ltd.’s Class B shares
returned a compounded 20 percent annually since they started in
May 2008, according to an investor report obtained by Bloomberg.  Thirty percent of 1,263 investors surveyed in the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll this month said they intend to reduce
investments in commodities over the next six months and almost
one in three of those questioned say they will hold more cash.  The Brevan Howard Commodities Strategies Master Fund is
managed by Geneva-based Stephane Nicolas, the head of Brevan
Howard’s commodities desk. He joined the firm in 2004 and became
a partner in 2007. Prior to that, Nicolas ran the energy options
desk for Bank of America Corp. from 2001 to 2004.  Jamison previously worked for Blenheim Capital Management
LLC, joining Morgan Stanley in 1995. He left the bank in 2008.  The S&P GSCI gauge climbed 0.8 percent as of 11:17 a.m.
 London  time today, heading for a weekly increase of 1.9 percent.  The commodities market is going through “a rough patch”
on weakness in macroeconomic data that will begin to subside
next month,  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s head of
commodity research, said today in an interview in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  