-- 
German Yield Spread Narrows as European GDP Growth Accelerates

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T14:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/bunds-pare-week-s-gain-as-german-french-economic-growth-beat-predictions.html
German 10-year bunds’ yield premium
over two-year notes narrowed to the least in almost 2 1/2 years
as data showed  Europe ’s economy expanded faster than economists
predicted, bolstering the case for higher  interest rates .  Two-year notes fell, heading for a weekly decline. Gross
domestic product in the euro area rose 0.8 percent from the
fourth quarter, European Union statistics showed today.
Economists forecast a 0.6 percent expansion, according to the
median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Greek two-year
notes rose as EU leaders rejected speculation about a debt
default and the Mediterranean nation’s economy returned to
growth in the first quarter. Italian bonds fell as demand waned
at a debt auction.  “The data does emphasize the strength and dynamism of the
German economy at the moment, and it’s reassuring for  France ,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. “There’s not a lot of downside in
yield terms. What are you trying to chase? We know the ECB will
carry on raising rates.”  The spread between German two- and 10-year securities
narrowed three basis points to 131 basis points at 2:48 p.m. in
London, the least since Jan. 2, 2009. The narrowing spread
signals investors are reducing holdings of the shorter-maturity
notes, which are more sensitive to prospects for rate increases
from the European Central Bank. Longer-dated bonds react more to
inflation expectations.  French Yields  Yields on German two-year notes advanced two basis points
to 1.79 percent, while those on the 10-year bund, Europe’s
benchmark government security, was at 3.10 percent, down seven
basis points this week. The 1.75 percent security due in June
2013 fell 0.035, or 35 euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,425) face
amount, to 99.92. The two-year yield rose three basis points
this week, according to Bloomberg generic prices.  The French 10-year yield fell one basis point to 3.43
percent after rising by as much as four basis points to 3.44
percent. The two-year note yield jumped two basis points to 1.75
percent, trimming its weekly drop to two basis points.  German bonds have handed investors a 0.7 percent loss this
year, compared with a 1.7 percent return for Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. French securities
lost 0.5 percent.  Bunds rose last week as the  European Central Bank  left the
refinancing rate at 1.25 percent and its president,  Jean-Claude Trichet , signaled the ECB may not raise rates again until after
June, prompting traders to scale-back bets on higher borrowing
costs from the Frankfurt-based central bank.  Euribor futures fell today, with the implied yield on the
December contract rising four basis points to 2.01 percent, an
indication that investors increased wagers on rate increases.  Italian Sale  German GDP jumped 5.2 percent in the first three months
from a year earlier, beating a forecast for a 4.5 percent gain
in a Bloomberg survey, while France’s economy rose 1 percent
from the previous period, expanding at the fastest pace in
almost five years, the nations’ governments said today.  The Italian 30-year yield climbed three basis points to
5.48 percent after the nation auctioned 5.16 billion euros of
securities maturing in 2016 and 2040. Spanish bonds also dropped
after the nation said it will sell 30-year debt as well as 10-
year securities next week.  The 30-year Italian bonds sold today fetched an average
yield of 5.43 percent and attracted bids equivalent to 1.29
times the securities on offer, the  Bank of Italy  said, compared
with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.06 times at an auction
on Feb. 14. The 2016 notes attracted bids equal to 1.45 times
the amount on sale, compared with 1.25 times at a sale in April.  Bond Supply  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds increased four basis
points to 151 basis points. The yield spread between bunds and
Spanish 10-year securities widened six basis points.  “The biggest driver will be the supply next week,” said
Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam. “Especially for the 30-years, it’s not so easy to
find buyers. Spain and  Italy  are still the countries that can
suffer from any bad news coming from the distressed periphery.”  Greek two-year notes rose for a second day, pushing the
yield down eight basis points to 24.84 percent. Eighty-five
percent of international investors surveyed by Bloomberg this
week said  Greece  probably will default on its debt. The yield
climbed to a record 26.77 percent yesterday as speculation that
the country might restructure its obligations intensified.  Ministers Meet  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  ruled out a Greek
restructuring, saying on the British Broadcasting Corp. late
yesterday that austerity measures have begun to work. Any new
aid for Greece would come by extending current bilateral loans
rather than making use of the EU bailout fund used to rescue
 Portugal , she said.  European finance ministers meet in Brussels on May 16-17
and will discuss Greece.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund , which is also
financing the EU bailouts, will attend. ECB Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi described the option of Greece
defaulting on its debt as “political suicide, which leads many
into poverty.”  Greek GDP expanded 0.8 percent from the previous quarter,
when it shrank 2.8 percent, the EU said. The economy contracted
4.8 percent from the first quarter of 2010.  Irish two-year notes fell, pushing the yield up seven basis
points to 12.42 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  