-- 
California to Shut 70 State Parks

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-05-14T00:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/california-to-shut-70-state-parks.html
California will close a fourth of its
parks to save $33 million over the next two years as leaders of
the most-populous state work to close a $15.4 billion  budget
deficit .  The Parks and Recreation Department  said  it would  close 70 
of 278 sites from the redwoods of the northern coast to the
deserts of the southeast. The Governor’s Mansion in  Sacramento ,
no longer a residence, also will be shut. Those facilities draw
8 percent of park attendance.  “We regret closing any park,” Ruth Coleman, the  state
parks  director, said in a statement. “But with the proposed
budget reductions over the next two years, we can no longer
afford to operate all parks.”  The closings were mandated by a  bill  that Governor Jerry Brown signed in March as part of a series of budget cuts that
amounted to $12.5 billion. The measures reduced the state’s
budget deficit from $26.6 billion.  In May 2009, then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  proposed
shuttering three-quarters of state parks as a way to solve a $24
billion budget deficit. Lawmakers refused.  In deciding which parks to shut, parks officials said they
wanted to preserve the most significant natural and cultural
resources, maintain public access as much as practicable, and
keep the closed parks in a condition good enough to be used by
potential partners.  Eliminate 220 Jobs  The closures will eliminate 220 positions within the 2,400-
employee parks department, although no workers will lose their
jobs since there are 500 vacancies, spokesman Roy Stearns said.
Seasonal workers aren’t included in that total, he said by
telephone.  The California Republican Party criticized the closures,
saying Brown could have cut other areas without affecting parks.  “If California families are such a priority to  Jerry
Brown , then why close down the public services that families
enjoy the most?” party spokesman Mark Standriff said in a
written  statement .  Brown said he had little choice.  “We are experiencing turbulent times that necessitate deep
-- almost unthinkable --- cuts to public services,” the
governor said in a statement.  In addition to the parks shutdowns, Brown proposed
to dispense with the Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board today.
The panel hears unemployment and disability disputes with the
Employment Development Department. Eliminating it would save as
much as $1.2 million a year in salary and travel costs, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 