-- 
Campari CEO Expects as Much as 30% of Company’s Sales in Emerging Markets

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-05-13T09:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/campari-ceo-expects-as-much-as-30-of-sales-in-emerging-markets-in-5-yrs.html
Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR) , the maker
of Wild Turkey bourbon, expects as much as 30 percent of its
sales to come from emerging markets within five years.  Campari wants to expand in  Latin America , eastern  Europe ,
the Pacific region and  Africa , Chief Executive Officer Bob Kunze-Concewitz today said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The company, which also owns the Skyy Vodka brand, has
doubled sales in emerging markets over the past 10 years to
about 18 percent of its total revenue, the executive said from
Milan, where the company is based. The proportion of sales in
Italy, Campari’s biggest market, declined to 38 percent in the
first quarter from 45 percent a year earlier.  Campari, which has said it has more than 500 million euros
($715 million) to spend on acquisitions, is in “takeover
mode,” Kunze-Concewitz said.  “We’re in position to make substantial acquisitions,” the
executive said. “Campari is focused on increasing or generating
critical mass in the markets where we compete.” The company has
made more than 18 acquisitions in the past 16 years, he said.  Campari, which gets three quarters of sales from spirits,
has said its “growth engines” are aperitifs in Europe and
 South America , vodka in the Americas and the bourbon range in
the U.S. and  Australia .  The shares rose as much 2.8 percent in Milan and traded up
2.4 percent at 5.20 euros, the highest price since the company’s
2001 initial public offering. Campari has a market value of 3
billion euros.  The CEO said commodity costs aren’t a concern as the
company is “well hedged.” Changes to legislation affecting
excise duties or limitations to advertising would be a concern
to the industry, he said.  Campari yesterday reported a 15 percent gain in first-
quarter revenue and a 17 percent increase in pretax profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  