-- 
Canada’s Tuscany Seeks Colombia Listing to Tap Pension Funds

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-05-13T17:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/canada-s-tuscany-seeks-colombia-listing-to-tap-pension-funds-1-.html
Tuscany International Drilling Inc. (TID) ,
a Canadian oil and gas company, plans to list shares on
Colombia’s stock exchange to tap demand from pension funds,
Chief Financial Officer Matt Moorman said.  Tuscany, which has operations in Colombia and Ecuador, will
file for a listing May 17 in Bogota and plans for shares to
begin trading by the end of next month.  Colombian pension funds manage 97.9 trillion pesos ($54.4
billion) and can invest only a portion in non-Colombian
equities. The limits have pushed up the value of Colombia’s
stock exchange. It trades at 16 times estimated earnings,
compared to  Brazil ’s Bovespa at 10.1 times and  Mexico ’s IPC
index at 14.3 times. Chile’s IPSA index trades at 17.6 times.  “The driver will be the institutional investors,” Moorman
said in a telephone interview from Calgary. “We’ll decide the
size of the Colombia float after we do our marketing and get a
sense of the interest.”  Tuscany rose 1.7 percent to C$1.23 on the Toronto Stock
Exchange at 12:17 p.m. New York time after rising as much as 8.3
percent earlier. Tuscany plans to move shares worth about C$50
million ($51.4 million) to Colombia, leaving equity of about
C$190 million in  Canada , Moorman said.  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) , an oil and gas exploration company
that also trades on the Toronto exchange, expects to list shares
in Colombia in as soon as one month, Tannya Morales, vice-
president of finance for the company, said yesterday.  Canadian Companies  Tuscany and Petrominerales are among as many as 11 Canadian
energy and precious metals companies that may seek to be listed
on the Colombian exchange, said  Andres Jimenez , head of
international sales for brokerage Interbolsa SA.  These companies offer a less expensive means to invest in
Colombia, an economy that may grow as much as 6 percent in 2011,
said Brian Chase, head of Latin American equity research at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Chase cited the example of  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s state-
run oil company, which accounts for 21 percent of the Bogota
exchange’s IGBC index and trades at 14.2 times forward earnings
compared to 10.4 times for Tuscany and 7.8 times for
Petrominerales, according to Bloomberg data.  “Petrominerales is a company that is considerably cheaper
than something like Ecopetrol,” Chase said in an interview from
Santiago. “These off-index companies tend to be very under-
owned by Latin American-dedicated investors, so the minute they
move on index, it’s a big opportunity for investors.”  Regional Operations  Tuscany shipped and installed 11 oil and gas exploration
rigs to  South America  last year, increasing its total in the
region to 17, Moorman said. At present, 12 rigs are operating in
Colombia, Guyana, Ecuador and Brazil. Shipping costs were the
main reason the company lost $19.7 million in 2010 on revenue of
$19.4 million, he said.  Moorman said Tuscany will report positive earnings in the
first quarter before interest, taxes, amortization and
depreciation.  “It was a lost year from a financial perspective, but it
was a crucial year as we established our business in South
America,” he said. “The listing will help us build the company
and get better known.”  Canadian energy companies that may list on the Colombia
exchange this year include  Gran Tierra Energy Inc. (GTE) ,  Parex
Resources Inc. (PXT)  and  C&C Energia Ltd. (CZE) , Jimenez said. In an April
14 statement,  Houston American Energy Corp. (HUSA)  said it expects to
be listed on the Colombian exchange in the fall.  Colombia’s central bank last month revised its 2011
economic growth forecast to 4 percent to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  