-- 
Canada March New Motor Vehicle Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-13T12:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/canada-march-new-motor-vehicle-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada ’s new motor vehicles sales report for March
released by  Statistics Canada .  The number of new motor vehicles sold in March increased 2.0% to
135,261 units. Passenger car and truck sales were both up, led
by stronger sales of North American-built cars.  Preliminary industry data indicate that the number of new motor
vehicles sold in April decreased by 1%.  Overseas-built passenger car sales at their lowest point in six
years
Passenger car sales rose 2.7% in March, a second consecutive
month of gains. Sales of North American-built passenger cars
accounted for the increase, rising 8.9%. North American-built
passenger car sales have been rising since the middle of 2010.  Overseas-built passenger car sales declined 7.0%, reaching their
lowest point in six years. Sales of overseas-built passenger
cars have been declining since late 2010.  Sales of trucks (which include minivans, sport-utility vehicles,
light and heavy trucks, vans and buses) increased 1.4% to 75,583
units in March, more than offsetting the losses reported in
February.  Sales up in most provinces
The number of new motor vehicles sold increased in eight
provinces in March, led by Alberta and Ontario.  Sales of new motor vehicles increased in Alberta and Ontario for
the third consecutive month in March, rising by 4.2% and 1.4%
respectively.  New Brunswick  (+13.5%) reported the largest percentage sales
increase in March, which more than erased losses reported in
February.  Sales edged down in the region formed by British Columbia and
the Territories (-0.2%), as well as in Newfoundland and Labrador
(-0.3%).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  