-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: TMX Group, Enerplus Report Earnings

-- B y   K e v i n   B e l l
-- 
2011-05-13T05:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/canada-daybook-tmx-group-enerplus-report-earnings.html
TMX Group Ltd. and Enerplus Corp. are
among companies scheduled to report first-quarter financial
results.  EVENTS:
*TMX Group Ltd., the owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange, is set
to report first-quarter earnings at 6 a.m. The average profit
estimate among six analysts in a Bloomberg survey is 84 Canadian
cents a share, excluding certain items. An analysts’ conference
call is scheduled for 8 a.m.
*Enerplus Corp., a western Canadian oil and gas producer, is
scheduled to release first-quarter financial results at 4 a.m.
in Calgary. Analysts forecast the company will report cash flow
of C$1 a share, according to the average of 10 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.
*Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. is scheduled to release first-quarter
earnings after the Toronto market closes. The Vancouver-based
metals explorer may report a loss, excluding one-time items, of
5.5 cents a share, based on the average estimate of three
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
* Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) ,  Canada ’s largest fast-food chain, will hold
its  annual meeting  at 10:30 a.m. in Toronto. *Power Corp. of
Canada will hold its annual meeting of shareholders at 11 a.m.
in  Montreal . *Shopping-center owner  First Capital Realty Inc. (FCR) 
will release first-quarter financial results. Six analysts
surveyed estimate funds from operations of 25 Canadian cents a
share, on average.  MARKETS: *The S&P/TSX dropped for a third day, slipping 0.2
percent to 13,389.42.
*Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds rose 1 basis
point to 1.71 percent.
*The Canadian dollar weakened to 96.29 cents per  U.S. dollar  at
3:50 p.m. yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Bell  in Toronto at 
 Kbell2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 