-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Rises on Signs of U.S. Economic Recovery

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-13T16:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/canadian-natural-gas-rises-on-signs-of-u-s-economic-recovery.html
Canadian natural gas rose after
confidence among U.S. consumers grew more than forecast in May,
a signal that industrial gas use is poised to increase.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index rose to 72.4, a three-month high, from
a final reading of 69.8 in April, the group reported today. The
consumer-price index rose 0.4. percent in April, matching the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The economic fundamentals are improving,” said Jason Schenker, an economist and president of Prestige Economics in
Austin,  Texas . “That support could easily be breached by a
seasonal slump in demand.”  Alberta  gas for June delivery rose 3 cents to C$3.52 per
gigajoule ($3.44 per million British thermal units) as of noon
New York time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet market. Gas
traded on the exchange goes to users in  Canada  and the U.S. and
is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 3.4 cents to $4.16 per million Btu.  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16 billion cubic
feet as of 11 a.m. in  New York , 198 million below its target
level.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.89 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.795 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.49 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.42 billion cubic feet today, about 49
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.77
billion cubic feet at 10:50 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 