-- 
Chile, Peru Raise Rates to Two-Year High to Tame Demand, Damp Inflation

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-13T19:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/chile-peru-raise-rates-to-two-year-high-to-tame-demand-damp-inflation.html
Policy makers in  Chile  and Peru
yesterday raised their benchmark lending rates to two-year highs
on concern that domestic demand and rising global prices may
cause inflation rates and expectations to spiral out of control.  Chile’s central bank raised its benchmark rate more than
expected to 5 percent from 4.5 percent. Four of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecasted a half-point increase, while 14
predicted a 0.25-point increase. Peru’s seven-member board
raised lending costs by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent,
matching 13 of 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Peru’s economy in 2011 will lead growth in  South America  by
expanding 7.5 percent while Chile will post the third-fastest
growth at 5.9 percent, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
May 3 report. Yesterday’s rate increases -- the fourth straight
for Chile and fifth straight for Peru -- seek to head off any
quickening in consumer prices as economists in both countries
still see inflation ending 2011 above target.  “Both countries are classified as economies that are
either overheating or very close to overheating,”  Alfredo Coutino , Latin America director for Moody’s Analytics, said in a
telephone interview from  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “The main
reason for central banks in both countries to continue to
tighten monetary policy is because they want to fight demand
pressure, which is pushing up inflation.”  ‘Hawkish Side’  Chile’s central bank, led by its president, Jose De Gregorio, has raised the benchmark rate from 0.5 percent
beginning last June, including three half-point increases over
its last three meetings.  “By surprising the market on the hawkish side, they
clearly have the advantage,” Marcelo Salomon, chief economist
for  Brazil  at Barclays Plc in  New York , said in an e-mailed
research note. Barclays now sees a quarter-point increase in
June and expects Chile’s central bank “to continue tightening
if inflation and activity conditions demand such action.”  Chile’s economy expanded 5.2 percent last year and could
grow as much as 6.5 percent in 2011, which would be its fastest
annual growth in more than a decade, according to central bank
forecasts.  Economic activity grew a faster-than-estimated 6.8 percent
in January, 7.2 percent in February and 15.2 percent in March
from the previous year, according to central bank data.  Inflation Threat  Chile’s economic expansion poses a threat to inflation, De
Gregorio told senators in Santiago on April 4.  “It can’t be ruled out that activity and demand could
evolve above expectations,”  De Gregorio  said in Santiago. That
could create “higher-than-anticipated inflationary pressures.”  Chile’s peso weakened 0.3 percent to 467.56 per U.S dollar
at 3:14 p.m. in New York, from 466.35 yesterday.  The Peruvian sol advanced 0.5 percent to 2.7609 per dollar
from 2.7760 yesterday.  Peru’s government expects gross domestic product to rise
6.5 percent this year, less than its previous forecast of 7.5
percent, Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said May 3.  Peru’s GDP rose 8.5 percent in February from a year
earlier, after surging 10 percent in January.  Peru’s central bank, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
has raised its benchmark rate from 1.25 percent last May.  Delicate Balance  The bank in its statement repeated language from last
month, saying their decisions at their upcoming meetings would
depend on economic data.  “Unless core and inflation excluding food and fuels gets
out of hand, the central bank should opt for keeping interest
rate hikes at a quarter point,” Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
 Latin America  economists Joaquin A. Cottani and Camilo Gonzalez
said in a research note e-mailed to investors.  Monthly inflation in Chile slowed to 0.3 percent in April
from 0.8 percent in March while the annual rate eased to 3.2
percent in April from 3.4 percent the previous month, the
National Statistics Institute said in a report last week.  Food and beverage prices led the increase in annual
inflation last month, while utility and transportation costs
also contributed to rising prices, the institute said.  Annual inflation will rise to 3.9 percent in 12 months,
easing to 3.5 percent in two years, according to the median
estimate of 53 traders in a May 11 central bank survey. Chile’s
central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus 1 percentage point over a 24-month horizon.  “Excess demand in Chile is the highest in Latin America,”
Coutino said in a telephone interview. “That excess demand is
being accommodated in two ways: inflation and imports.”  ‘Might Reaccelerate’  Food prices in  Peru  have risen more than expected in 2011,
and the government will eventually have to raise gasoline prices
that have been frozen since February to reflect higher crude  oil
prices , Hugo Perea, chief economist at  BBVA Banco Continental  in
 Lima , said in a telephone interview.  Consumer prices in Peru rose 3.34 percent in April from a
year earlier and 0.68 percent from March, beating analysts’
estimates. Food prices jumped 1.2 percent and clothing costs
climbed 1 percent during the month. Peru’s central bank targets
annual inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  The price of some foods including fish and rice have fallen
this month, suggesting the inflation rate in May should be
slower than in previous months, said Adrian Armas, the Peruvian
central bank’s research director, during a conference call with
reporters from Lima today.  “Inflation in Peru might reaccelerate in coming months,
particularly because the economy has been widening the excess
demand,” Coutino said. “That is the most dangerous problem for
an economy when it enters the overheating zone.”  Aside from economic growth, global food and energy prices
are contributing to higher inflation rates and estimates in the
two countries, Coutino said.  Bloomberg’s global commodity index, which calculates the
mean of indexes including energy, grains, food, precious metals
and livestock, has gained 2.8 percent so far this year.  West Texas Intermediate crude has risen 5.5 percent in the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net 
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  