-- 
China-U.S. Defense Hotline Shows Gulf Between Nations

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-13T20:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/china-u-s-defense-hotline-shows-gulf.html
A U.S.- China  defense hotline set up
three years ago may illustrate the hurdles to improving military
relations between the two global powers. It’s been used only
four times.  Navy Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, will try to advance military cooperation between the
two countries when he hosts the chief of staff of the  People’s
Liberation Army , Chen Bingde, May 15-22. Chen will tour U.S.
military installations, attend meetings at the Pentagon and hear
a joint concert by the U.S. Army and People’s Liberation Army
bands.  The hotline was rarely used even in a period marked by two
naval confrontations in 2009, friction over U.S. arms sales to
Taiwan, and U.S. overtures to the exiled Tibetan spiritual
leader, the  Dalai Lama . One of the four calls was from Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  to congratulate his newly promoted
Chinese counterpart in April 2008.  “We have yet to test it in a crisis,” said Bonnie Glaser,
a senior fellow in the China program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington and an adviser to the
U.S. government on East Asia. “It remains to be seen which
senior Chinese leader would be ready to use it.”  The visit from Chen is the first by a chief of general
staff of China’s People’s Liberation Army since 2004 and the
latest effort to propel military cooperation to the same level
as political and economic dialogue between the two sides.
Military ties usually are the first to take the hit when China
seeks to express displeasure over moves such as the January 2010
announcement of another U.S. arms sale to Taiwan.  Chinese Delegation  Chen will be among eight senior military officers, part of
a 24-member Chinese delegation, visiting the U.S., according to
a senior defense official who briefed reporters today at the
Defense Department.  Gates visited China in January, laying groundwork for a
fuller relationship in advance of a state visit later that month
from President  Hu Jintao  to the White House.  That was followed this week by an annual strategic and
economic dialogue in Washington that for the first time included
a specific session uniting military and civilian leaders on both
sides for a discussion of security issues.  Improve Communications  The U.S. had worked for two years to set up the strategic
security talks that came to fruition this week, Glaser said. The
main aim was to get Chinese military and civilian leaders in the
same room to communicate with each other as well as with their
U.S. counterparts, to reduce miscommunication all around, she
said.  Gates cited the internal Chinese disconnect between their
military and civilian officials during his visit in January. He
said Hu and the civilian leadership seemed to be unaware that
its military was carrying out a test flight on Jan. 11 of a new
jet fighter that may have stealth capabilities, a move seen as a
possible affront to Gates.  U.S. officials think it is important to establish a more
regular process" of using the direct telephone link to help
maintain open communications. “We expect we will discuss ways
to enhance our use of the DTL,” said Navy Commander Leslie
Hull-Ryde, a Defense Department spokesman.  Three ‘Obstacles’  China this week reiterated the standard three “obstacles”
it sees to better military relations. Chen will raise the issues
of American arms sales to  Taiwan , U.S. air and sea
reconnaissance missions in China’s exclusive economic zone 200
nautical miles from its coast, and American laws limiting armed-
forces exchanges with the Asian nation, the official Xinhua News
Agency said May 12.  The Chinese military chief will be looking for a “new
type” of military relations based on “mutual respect and
reciprocal beneficial cooperation,” Xinhua said, citing Qian
Lihua, director of the defense ministry’s Foreign Affairs
Office.  The U.S. expects to discuss Taiwan arms sales, as well as
nuclear, cyber, space and maritime issues, according to the
senior U.S. defense official.  The two sides aren’t likely to make progress on the three
core issues just yet, Glaser said.  Officials in  Washington  and Beijing are working on a
document of guiding principles for the relationship that aims to
better define what terms such as “mutual respect” mean in
relation to conundrums such as U.S. weapons transfers to Taiwan.  China wanted to finish the agreement in time for next
week’s visit, Glaser said. The goalpost now has been moved to
next year.  Tour Plans  Mullen has been personally involved in planning the trip,
the senior U.S. defense official said. He and Chen are scheduled
to hold a news conference May 17 at the Pentagon, the official
said. Chen will give an hour-long speech on U.S.-China military
relations 2 p.m. May 18 at the National Defense University at
Fort McNair in Washington, D.C.  The Chinese are slated to tour surface warfare ships and
watch a flight demonstration at Naval Station Norfolk, Virginia;
observe a live-fire Army exercise at Fort Stewart,  Georgia ; see
fighter jets at Nellis Air Force Base,  Nevada ; and watch a
large-scale ground exercise at the National Training Center and
Fort Irwin,  California , the official said.  The Chinese had requested to tour an  aircraft carrier , and
opted not to visit one made available in Bremerton, Washington,
due to scheduling difficulties, the official said.  A joint concert by the U.S. Army and People’s Liberation
Army bands scheduled for May 16 at the Kennedy Center in
Washington, D.C., will mark the PLA band’s first ever
performance in the U.S., the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 