-- 
China’s Stocks Rise Most in a Month, Led By Banks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-16T07:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/china-s-stocks-advance-spurring-rebound-from-3-month-low.html
(Corrects index’s weekly gain in fourth paragraph of the
story published May 13.)  China’s stocks rose, driving the
benchmark index to its biggest gain in a month, on speculation
the government may limit interest-rate increases after ordering
banks to set aside more reserves for a fifth time this year.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (601939)  led gains for lenders after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said the increase in  reserve requirements  will
have a limited effect on net interest margins. China Shenhua
Energy Co. jumped the most in three weeks after the Securities
Times reported coal prices surged to the highest in 2 1/2 years.
Jiangxi Copper Co. climbed 2.9 percent as the Conference Board
said the risk of a severe economic slowdown is easing.  “The reserve-ratio requirement increase isn’t necessarily
bad news for the market,” said Hao Kang, a portfolio manager at
ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co., which oversees $9.2
billion. “It will ease speculation there will be further
tightening measures like interest-rate increases in the near
term. Some investors may see this as a buying opportunity amid
weak  market sentiment .”  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 26.95 points, or 1
percent, to 2,871.03 at the 3 p.m. close, its steepest gain
since April 13. The measure rose 0.3 percent this week, its
first advance in four weeks. The CSI 300 Index added 0.9 percent
to 3,128.09.  The People’s Bank of China raised banks’ reserve
requirements by half a percentage point after data this week
showed inflation and lending exceeded economists’ estimates in
April. The Shanghai Composite has retreated 6.1 percent from a
five-month high on April 18 amid concern the PBOC will add to
four increases in  interest rates  since early last year to cool
inflation. The gauge has advanced 2.2 percent this year.  Banks Rally  The increase in reserve requirements takes effect May 18
and will boost levels for the nation’s biggest lenders to a
record 21 percent. The move locked up about 370 billion yuan
($57 billion), according to  Barclays Capital .  ICBC, the nation’s biggest lender, climbed 2 percent to
4.58 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the second biggest,
added 1 percent to 5.12 yuan. Bank of China Ltd., the third
largest, rose 0.6 percent to 3.38 yuan.  Goldman Sachs is staying “positive” on Chinese bank
stocks, analysts led by Ning Ma wrote in a report. Yesterday’s
move was “within expectations” that the central bank will
continue its tightening policy through the second quarter and is
a “modest incremental tightening amid still high liquidity,”
they wrote.  ‘ Hard Landing ’  A leading indicator rose 1 percent in March to 157, the New
York-based Conference Board said on its website today. The
“large” increase in the leading index, combined with a gain in
a separate measure used by the Conference Board, “suggest the
risk of a hard landing for  China ’s economy in 2011 may be
easing,” said the organization’s Beijing-based economist  Bill Adams .  Jim O’Neill , who chairs Goldman Sachs Asset Management and
coined the acronym BRIC for the economies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India  and China, said yesterday that China’s inflation “won’t
be a problem” in the second half of this year. Stocks may have
a “big rally” as price gains moderate and tightening ends, he
told reporters in  Hong Kong .  Policy makers will raise borrowing costs only once more
this year, after four increases in the past seven months,
Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank AG predicted yesterday. Calls
from within the government to avoid policy “over-tightening”
may influence interest-rate decisions, according to  Ma Jun , a
Hong Kong-based economist at Deutsche Bank.  Window for Rates  China may end its policy tightening measures aimed at
controlling inflation earlier than other emerging markets,
according to Citigroup Inc. The inflation rate may approach 6
percent by the middle of the year and the “window” for an
increase in rates is around June or July, Shuang Ding, economist
at Citigroup, said in an interview in Hong Kong.  A gauge tracking energy companies in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
increased 2.1 percent, the most among 10 industry groups.
Shenhua, the listed unit of China’s biggest coal producer, rose
2.2 percent to 28.08 yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the nation’s
second-largest coal producer, added 2.3 percent to 31.62 yuan.  Coal Prices  Coal prices at Qinhuangdao port, a benchmark in China,
climbed for the eighth week to the highest level in more than 2
1/2 years as inventories of the fuel fell, the Securities Times
reported today, citing unidentified data. Prices rose by an
average 5 yuan per metric ton in the week ended May 11, the
newspaper said.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
gained 2.9 percent to 33.56 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.,
the listed unit of nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight
metal and also called Chalco, added 1.8 percent to 10.22 yuan.  Power producer dropped on concern higher coal costs will
erode earnings.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) , the listed
unit of China’s largest power group, dropped 2.8 percent to 6.34
yuan. GD Power Development Co. declined 1.8 percent to 3.32 yuan.  China plans to introduce a program “as soon as possible”
to let its financial companies in Hong Kong start yuan funds
that will invest in mainland stocks, an official at the
securities regulator said.  The plan forms part of a so-called mini-QFII program, said
Wang Lin, director-general of the department of fund supervision
at the China Securities Regulatory Commission, referring to the
nation’s qualified foreign institutional investor.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  