-- 
Christie Says Horse Racing Will Continue at Meadowlands, Monmouth Park

-- B y   P e t e   Y o u n g   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-05-13T18:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/christie-says-deals-will-preserve-racing-at-meadowlands-monmouth-park.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
reached agreements with investors to take over the state’s
Meadowlands and Monmouth Park horse tracks. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  Jeff Gural, chairman of Newmark Knight Frank real estate,
will assume control of the Meadowlands on June 1, Christie said
yesterday in a statement. Morris Bailey, a New York property
developer, agreed to lease Monmouth Park in Oceanport, according
to the governor’s office.  “We’re saving a New Jersey tradition with the continuation
of live horse racing at the Meadowlands and Monmouth Park,”
Christie, 48, said in the statement.  Racing at the Meadowlands, which the governor has called
the “world headquarters of harness racing,” was set to end
because it was costing taxpayers about $25 million a year,
Christie said in December.  Gural, who owns the  Tioga Downs  and  Vernon Downs  tracks in
upstate  New York , will take over the East Rutherford course from
the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which has run
the Meadowlands since it opened in 1976. Gural plans to invest
more than $90 million to build a new grandstand and develop an
off-track betting venue in Bayonne, according to the statement
from Christie’s office.  Along with the Monmouth track, Bailey also will take over
an off-site wagering operation in Woodbridge, according to the
statement. It said Bailey would work with Gural to develop more
betting locations.  $1.1 Billion Industry  The tracks are key to New Jersey’s horse industry, which
generates $1.1 billion a year, according to a Rutgers University
report in 2007. Racing accounted for $780.5 million.  Of 42,500 horses kept in the state, almost a third are
standardbreds and thoroughbreds involved in racing, according to
the study from the New Brunswick school. The animals, living in
the most densely populated U.S. state, help to keep 176,000
acres undeveloped, and their upkeep helps to employ more than
3,800 people in racing alone.  Then-Governor Brendan T. Byrne named the  horse  the state
animal in 1977. Monmouth’s most prestigious event is the Haskell
Invitational, with a $1 million purse.  Neither track has avoided the years-long attendance slump
that has beset racing venues around the country as fans found
other ways to gamble, sometimes on the Internet or at casinos.  Subsidized Purses  Racehorse owners and breeders in New Jersey successfully
lobbied governors and legislators to fatten purses with state
funds to make track events more attractive to entrants. However,
the losses continued.  Monmouth Park was projected to lose $6.6 million, and the
Meadowlands, $11 million, according to a November letter to
Christie from the state Advisory Commission on Gaming, Sports
and Entertainment. The panel recommended selling the tracks.  “Neither the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority
nor the taxpayers of New Jersey have the wherewithal to support
two money-losing racetrack operations,” the letter said.  Christie, a Republican in his first term, has criticized
the subsidies since taking office in January 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pete Young in  San Francisco  at 
 pyoung13@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in New York at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  