-- 
Citadel’s Ken Griffin Says U.S. Must Act ‘Fast’ on Deficit

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-05-13T23:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/citadel-s-ken-griffin-says-u-s-must-act-fast-to-break-deficit-impasse-.html
Ken Griffin , founder of hedge fund
Citadel LLC, said the U.S. must act “fast” to balance its
budget before the country reaches a “point of no return.”  Asset managers are “gravely concerned” that the U.S. may
enter a decade of fiscal instability, Griffin said today at the
SALT, or SkyBridge Alternatives, conference in  Las Vegas .  Griffin, 42, whose Chicago-based firm manages $11 billion,
said that the asset-management industry was “frustrated” with
the expansion of government under President  George W. Bush . By
embracing the Democrats in 2008, the industry was betting on a
return to the fiscal conservatism and restraint under President
 Bill Clinton , Griffin said.  “The frustration with the Obama administration is that we
have taken the spending levels of the Bush era and multiplied
them,” Griffin said.  Spending was needed to revive the economy, said  David Axelrod , a former senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  who
was also on the panel.  “We were greeted with the deepest economic and financial
crisis since the Great Depression,” Axelrod said. “The last
thing that any of us had planned on or would under normal
circumstances would have been a $787 billion stimulus program,
or a TARP program, or an auto intervention. That was the
farthest thing from our minds, but it had to be done in order to
stabilize our economy.”  ‘Required’ Steps  Axelrod said the moves “weren’t politically popular, but
the president did them because the country required it, and as a
result, things are much different today than they would have
been.”  The U.S. needs to rewrite its social contracts, bring
budgets into balance, provide a safety net for the elderly and
provide children with education, Griffin said.  “We need to do this quickly,” he said. “We’d love to see
the President initiate change.”  The hedge-fund industry recognizes that the increase in
spending came after the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, Griffin said. Still, the rhetoric from the
government “says you aren’t listening” to concerns that
spending is getting out of control, Griffin added, addressing
his remarks to Axelrod.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  