-- 
Coca-Cola Invests $10 Million to Set Up New Bottling Plant in Somaliland

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-31T10:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/coca-cola-plans-to-spend-62-million-in-kenya-to-boost-output-njonjo-says.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, plans to set-up a bottling plant in the
breakaway republic of Somaliland, saying its stability and
economic growth provide “conducive” conditions for investment.  Somaliland Beverage Industries, owned by local businessman
Ahmed Osman Guelleh, was awarded a license to operate the
factory that’s under construction and expected to start
operating by the end of September, Ndema Rukandema, Coca-Cola’s
franchise general manager for the Horn, Islands and Middle
Africa, said yesterday. Coca-Cola has so far invested $10
million to build the facility in Hargeisa, the capital.  Somaliland declared independence from Somalia two decades
ago, after the fall of dictator Mohammed Siad Barre. While no
country officially recognizes Somaliland’s sovereignty, it has
remained largely free of the clan warfare, kidnappings and
assassinations that plague Somalia, to the southeast.  Coca-Cola enters an economy that the government says is
almost entirely reliant on remittances sent home from citizens
living abroad and the proceeds of camel, cattle, sheep and goat
exports to the  Middle East  and North Africa. Output from the
plant is meant to substitute sales from Coca-Cola beverages
currently imported from the Middle East, Rukandema said.  “Somaliland is a growing economy, made buoyant by the level
of trading activity in the country,” Rukandema said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “The stability that the country
has enjoyed over the last several years is a positive indication
of a conducive business environment.”  Coca-Cola’s agreement with  United Bottling Co. , its partner
in Somalia’s capital of Mogadishu where Africa Union troops and
government forces are trying to drive out Islamic rebels, is
“not in effect,” and production has been halted, he said.  Somalia’s government has been battling Islamist insurgents,
including al-Shabaab, since 2007. The rebels control most of
southern and central Somalia. The U.S. accuses al-Shabaab of
having links to al-Qaeda, which has said it aims to establish a
caliphate, or Islamic government, in the Horn of Africa country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  