-- 
Cocktail Gala Opens Five-Day Booze Party With Lakshmi, Rum Bus

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-05-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/cocktail-gala-kicks-off-five-day-booze-party-with-padma-lakshmi-rum-bus.html
Lesley Townsend found out in a  New
York  minute just how popular her first  Manhattan Cocktail
Classic  was when 2,000 tickets for the second one went on sale
on April 1 at midnight.  They were all gone before 12:01 a.m.  Townsend added tickets for Friday’s gala, the main event of
a cocktail festival that runs through May 17. It includes more
than 75 events and has become a hot ticket worldwide. Last year
it lured hundreds of bartenders, leading spirit makers and
thirsty types from Europe and  Asia . The additional tickets are
also sold out.  “Anyone I had ever met socially was calling in for favors,
which got a little difficult,” said Townsend, 32, talking in a
phone interview about last year’s event. “I don’t like saying
no to people.”  The gala, at the  New York Public Library ’s main branch,
featured about 110 vendors pouring drinks ranging from classic
cocktails to the more exotic, such as Just Got Paid, Byzantine
Julep, Bison Republic and Milagro Agua Horchata.  “We’re trying to bring awareness to the art and craft of
the cocktail to people who might not otherwise allocate such a
significant part of their disposable income to fancy drinking,”
said Townsend, a Fort Worth, Texas, native.  She rented 44,000 cocktail glasses to make sure that
everyone samples several drinks in proper glassware, because a
plastic glass “compromises the cocktail experience,” said
Townsend. “It’s like drinking a Pinot Noir out of a paper
cup.”  From Saturday to Tuesday, the festival offers  seminars  such
as “Make Mine with Rye,” “The Science of Citrus,”
“Discovering Le Cognac,” “Women & Whiskies: Drams for
Dames,” and “The Rum Bus,” a journey from New York’s Astor
Center to Williamsburg,  Brooklyn , where Venezuelan music and rum
awaits participants.  For Charity  Townsend, who owns the Cocktail Classic through a for-
profit company, is offering sponsors the opportunity to give
some of their proceeds to charity. The festival will match as
much as 50 percent of their contribution. Sponsors include
including Campari, Patron Spirits Co. and Bacardi Corp.  In one of the charity events that sold out quickly Campari
will have mixologists make drinks inspired by the Bravo “Top
Chef All-Stars” host Padma Lakshmi. The event will benefit the
 Endometriosis Foundation of America , which Lakshmi co-founded.  “Until the festival gets to the point where we could make
a really serious contribution, doing it like this is the next
best thing,” Townsend said.  Harvard,  New Zealand   Townsend graduated from  Harvard College  with a degree in
ancient Chinese history, and then went to New Zealand to study
digital video post-production. After various jobs and travels,
she worked at  Astor Center , a space in New York for food and
wine events. It was there that she realized the extent to which
the cocktail had been unfairly neglected.  “There are a lot of festivals out there for everything
else,” Townsend said. “So I’m just rounding things out.”  (The second annual Manhattan Cocktail Classic festival
begins tonight. Information and list of events:
 http://tickets.manhattancocktailclassic.com )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 