-- 
Colombia Forecasts Less Rainfall for Major Coal Producers

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-05-13T16:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/colombia-sees-less-rainfall-this-year-for-major-coal-provinces.html
Colombia , South America’s largest
coal producer, said major mines on the nation’s northern coast
will get less rainfall through November compared with 2010, when
downpours hampered exports.  Northern Colombia’s Caribbean coast is beginning a six-
month rainy season that will likely produce less precipitation
compared with the same period a year ago, Maria Teresa Martinez,
chief forecaster at the state-run Institute of Hydrology,
Meteorology and Environmental Studies, said in an interview. The
area is the nation’s largest source of coal.  Rainfall will be “nothing compared with what happened last
year,” she said yesterday by telephone in Bogota.  Storms have curbed coal production in the past year from
Colombia to  Australia , where flooding shuttered mines and buoyed
prices. Glencore International AG’s Prodeco group, Drummond
Corp. and a venture owned by  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  own the largest coal mines in Colombia.  The mines near Colombia’s northern coast produced most of
the nation’s output of 74.4 million tons of coal last year.  About 95 percent of production in  Colombia  is thermal coal
used by power utilities. In December, exports of thermal coal
fell 28 percent from a year earlier amid rainstorms, before
rebounding in January, according to government figures.  Colombia had record storms last year because of the La Nina
weather pattern, which is now diminishing, Martinez said.  Colombia also produces metallurgical coal used for steel
production. In the mountainous provinces of Colombia farther
south where metallurgical coal is produced, rainfall is
increasing the risk of mudslides, she said.  The forecast doesn’t include the effect of the  Atlantic
hurricane season , which runs from June until November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  