-- 
Commercial Real Estate CDO Delinquencies, Losses Rise in April

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-13T15:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/commercial-real-estate-cdo-delinquencies-losses-rise-in-april.html
Late payments on commercial property
loans packaged into collateralized debt obligations climbed 0.7
basis points to 14.8 percent last month, according to  Fitch
Ratings .  Losses on the debt pools were about $164 million in April,
compared with $73 million the prior month, Fitch said in a
report today. Delinquencies will likely “fluctuate” between 13
percent and 16 percent for the rest of the year, according to
the New York-based rating company.  Late payments within CDOs, which pool assets and slice then
into securities of varying risk, have surged from below 1
percent in April 2008 as borrowers struggled to refinance after
property values plunged. The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property
Price Index down is down about 44.6 percent from the peak of
October 2007.  The largest loss in the securities last month occurred
after a senior lender took a “deed in lieu,” or voluntary
dispossession, on land located near the  Las Vegas Strip , which
led investors in two CDOs to write their investment to zero,
Fitch said.  “Many of the realized losses stemmed from foreclosure or
deed in lieu of foreclosure actions that wiped out subordinate
positions,” held by some CDOs, Fitch analyst Stacey McGovern
said in the report.  Sales of CDOs linked to commercial real estate debt climbed
to $35 billion in 2006 from $16.1 billion in 2005, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG data. Another $35 billion was sold in
2007, the data show. Offerings plummeted after the financial
crisis. There have been no newly issued CDOs linked to
commercial property loans since 2007, according to Credit
Suisse.  CDOs tied to home loans have been the focus of Securities
and Exchange Commission investigations into how banks bundled
and sold investments backed by risky mortgages. Such debt helped
trigger a seizure in credit markets that has led to $2 trillion
in credit losses and writedowns at financial institutions
worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  