-- 
Connecticut’s Malloy Signs Labor Deal

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-05-13T19:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/connecticut-s-malloy-signs-labor-deal.html
Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy,
who signed the biggest-ever state tax increase last week,
announced an agreement with employee unions that will save
$1.6 billion over two years.  The accord falls short of his savings goal, leaving a $400
million gap that will be closed with spending cuts or additional
revenue to balance the biennial budget, Malloy, 55, said today
in a briefing in Hartford.  The agreement will save the state $21.5 billion over the
next 20 years, said Malloy, a Democrat in his first term. The
state got concessions in health care, pensions and wages, he
said, without providing details. The governor said he had agreed
to a request from labor leaders to refrain from disclosing
specific terms until they had a chance to inform their members.  “In return for all the sacrifices they have made, state
employees have received  job security ,” Malloy said. “I intend
to reduce the number of state employees, but rather than doing
that by layoffs, we will do it by attrition and by eliminating
managerial positions.”  Malloy began sending dismissal notices to almost 5,000
workers this week as he pushed for union concessions. He said
today that he has rescinded those notices. The two-year $40.1
billion  budget  required him to produce a labor deal by May 31 or
make cuts to cover a remaining deficit.  Matt O’Connor, a spokesman for the  State Employees
Bargaining Agent Coalition , which negotiated the accord, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call or e-mail seeking
comment.  The agreement doesn’t include furloughs or cuts in the 40-
hour workweek, and it doesn’t include further tax increases,
Malloy said. It needs to be ratified by union members and
approved by the Legislature to take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  