-- 
Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Climbed in April as Food, Fuel Costs Rose

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-climbed-in-april-as-food-fuel-costs-rose.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose in April, led by gains in food and fuel prices
that are beginning to filter through to other goods and
services, economists said before a report today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent after a 0.5
percent gain in March, according to the median forecast of 76
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a Labor Department
report. The so-called core measure, which excludes more volatile
food and energy costs, may have increased 0.2 percent.  Improving job prospects are helping sustain  consumer
spending  even as grocery and energy bills climb, which may make
it easier for companies like  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  to pass
rising costs on to customers. The pickup in inflation has yet to
alarm some Federal Reserve policy makers, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who predict the acceleration will be temporary.  “Companies are testing the water” with price increases,
said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank
in New York. Consumers are “not going to be willing to absorb
significant price increases, but there will be more willingness
than earlier in the recovery.”  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates of the economists surveyed range from
gains of 0.3 percent to 0.7 percent.  The projected April increase would mean prices climbed 3.1
percent over the past 12 months, the biggest year-to-year gain
since October 2008.  Core Prices  The increase in core prices would follow a 0.1 percent
advance in March, according to the Bloomberg survey. The 1.3
percent projected advance from a year ago would be the biggest
since February 2010.  Increasing food and energy costs reflect growing unrest in
the Middle East and faster global growth. The cost of a gallon
of regular gasoline at the pump averaged $3.81 in April, up from
$3.54 the prior month, according to data from AAA, the nation’s
largest automotive group.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the producer-
 price index  in April increased 0.8 percent and the cost of goods
excluding fuel and food rose 0.3 percent, both more than
forecast. The cost of goods imported into the U.S., also
reported this week, rose 2.2 percent from the prior month,
higher than the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Raising Prices  Some U.S. companies say customers aren’t cutting back on
purchases even amid price increases. Ian Cook, chief executive
officer of Colgate-Palmolive, said yesterday that the New York-
based toothpaste maker is not seeing consumers resist higher
pricing. Cook spoke at a conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  Commodity prices have retreated since the end of April, on
concern rising  interest rates  in countries from  China  to  India 
will slow the global economic recovery. Crude oil has dropped 13
percent so far this month on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The declines may be bearing out Bernanke’s views on
inflation. The Fed chairman and some of his colleagues,
including Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and Federal Reserve Bank of
New York President William C. Dudley, have said in recent
speeches that the threat from accelerating prices will prove
“transitory.”  Bernanke’s View  “Measures of underlying inflation, though having increased
modestly in recent months, remain subdued, and longer-term
inflation expectations have remained stable,” Bernanke said
last month at a press conference in Washington.  The crosscurrents of rising fuel costs and an improving job
market have caused  consumer confidence  to stagnate. Economists
project the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for May will be little changed at
70, compared with 69.8 in April, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  The gauge, due at 9:55 a.m.  New York  time, averaged 89 in
the five years leading up to the 18-month recession that began
in December 2007.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  