-- 
Copper in Shanghai’s Bonded Warehouses Drops on Destocking, Rising Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-13T09:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/copper-in-shanghai-s-bonded-warehouses-drops-on-destocking-rising-demand.html
Copper stockpiles at bonded
warehouses in  Shanghai  have fallen from a record since the
beginning of May as consumers in the world’s largest user of the
metal draw down inventories.  “Following the shrinking of imports, the bonded stocks now
have to be drawn down to meet demand from traders and consumers,
whose inventories are at very low levels,” said  Pang Ying , an
analyst at trading house Shenzhen Rongtuo Trading Co. “I’ve
heard from market participants that 10,000 tons to 20,000 tons
has been sold from bonded warehouses to the spot market.”  Shrinking bonded stockpiles, following a decline at local
exchange warehouses, may signal a pick-up in Chinese demand and
a return to the import market. Stockpiles held in bonded
warehouses in Shanghai climbed to a record of 650,000 metric
tons from 550,000 tons in late February, Standard Chartered Plc.
said in a research report on April 28.  “Bonded stocks have dropped thanks to a pick-up of
seasonal demand,” Peng Qiang, an analyst at Cofco Futures Co.,
said by phone from Beijing. “There has been much more copper
from the bonded warehouses offered on the spot market recently
than earlier this year.”  Bonded warehouse stocks have been anecdotally reported to
have fallen by close to 50,000 tons by the end of April,
Nicholas Snowdon, an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said in a
research note on May 11. The houses located in Shanghai’s so-
called “free-trade zones” are used to store arrivals that
haven’t cleared customs. There is no official data available on
warehouse levels.  Imports Drop  Imports of unwrought copper and products tumbled 23 percent
in the first four months of this year to 1.17 million tons,
according to China’s  General Administration of Customs .
Inventories at Shanghai Futures Exchange warehouses fell for the
eighth consecutive week to a seven-month low of 105,465 tons,
the bourse said today.  The premium paid by the buyers to sellers of the bonded
stocks rose to around 80 yuan ($12) a ton this week, compared
with the April low of 30 yuan to 40 yuan, according to Shenzhen
Rongtuo’s Pang.  Copper futures traded on the Shanghai bourse in late April
moved into a backwardation, with prices of nearby contracts
higher than forward ones, indicating a tightening in the  spot
market . The most-active contract in Shanghai dropped 4.7 percent
last week.  “The price slide at the beginning of the month helped to
lure buyers enter into the market, and accelerated the
destocking process,” said Wang Zhouyi, an analyst at Shanghai
CIFCO Futures Co.  Lower Price  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange declined 5.3 percent in the first week of May, and
traded at $8,865 a ton at 4:47 p.m. Shanghai time, 13 percent
lower than the record $10,190 in February.  The metal used in cable and wiring traded on Changjiang,
Shanghai’s largest nonferrous metals sport market, was quoted at
about 66,700 yuan a ton today, indicating the LME cash contract
and Shanghai prices are about level.  “Once the arbitrage starts to move in favor of imports,
the material could quickly be customs cleared and sold on the
physical market,” said analysts led by Bonnie Liu at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in a report on April 18. The bank estimated the
bonded stocks stood at 550,000 tons, and said the inventories,
which usually averaged at 200,000-300,000 tons before 2010,
totaled 400,000 tons at the end of last year.  More than half of the bonded stocks belong to trading
houses using copper imports as a method to get cheaper
financing, according to the report.  Financing Deals  China  has raised banks’ reserve requirement ratio eight
times and  interest rates  four times since October last year. The
tight credit has forced companies to seek alternative ways to
finance their daily operations.  China’s  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  said on
March 30 that the foreign exchange income from Chinese companies
which re-export the metal shall be deposited to an account, and
will be frozen until the final payment for the imports is made.  “The policy change had some impact on the financing deals,
but the impact is limited, as there are plenty of other ways to
use copper as a financing tool,” said Cofco’s Peng.  Trading companies receive a letter of credit for copper
imports and then get a window of three to 12 months of cheap
credit. When Shanghai prices are at a discount to those in
 London , importers can avoid losses by reselling the materials to
third parties in the bonded area and receive a net-cash inflow,
according to Macquarie.  -- Helen Sun . Editors:  Matthew Oakley ,  Richard Dobson   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  