-- 
Corn Rises as Rains May Prompt U.S. Farmers to Scrap Seeding; Wheat Gains

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-05-13T12:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/corn-wheat-rebound-as-poor-global-weather-may-delay-planting-amid-demand.html
Corn rebounded on speculation that
wet weather in the U.S. Midwest will cause farmers to abandon
plans to seed the grain. Wheat and soybeans also rose.  About 40 percent of U.S. corn was seeded as of May 8, down
from 80 percent at the same time a year earlier and a five-year
average of 59 percent, U.S. Department of Agriculture  data show. 
About 3 million acres in  Louisiana  will be under water because
of Mississippi River floods, Governor Bobby Jindal said on May
11. Corn is up 84 percent in the past year.  “If we don’t get the corn planted, the majority of that is
going to go into soybeans,”  William Adams , a  fund manager  at
Resilience AG in Zurich, said by phone. “It looks like we’re
going to lose a lot more acres of corn.”  Corn futures for July-delivery gained 6.5 cents, or 1
percent, to $6.87 a bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price is little changed this week
after tumbling by the limit of 30 cents on May 11 on a U.S.
report saying inventories will be bigger than analysts forecast.  “We still have concerns on supply and weather, in
particular the window closing for planting corn,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty. in
Sydney. Demand still looks positive, especially from  China , he
said.  U.S. export sales of corn jumped 61 percent from a week
earlier and soybean shipments almost tripled in the week ended
May 5, government data show. U.S. farm exports climbed to an
all-time high of $75 billion during the first half of the 2011
fiscal year, the USDA said May 11.  Chinese Imports  Corn imports by China, the world’s second-largest user, may
climb to 10 million metric tons this year as demand expands,
according to Aisling Analytics Pte. That would be a record,
according to U.S. government data.  The jump may change the dynamics of the market, making it
“China-centric,” and push prices higher, Aisling Managing
Director  Michael Coleman  said yesterday at a conference in
 Singapore . China’s imports will be 1.5 million tons in 2010-
2011, according to an estimate from the USDA.  Wheat rose as dry weather in the U.S. southern Great Plains
where winter varieties are grown and in France,  Germany  and the
U.K.,  Europe ’s biggest producers, damages plants. About 42
percent of the U.S. crop was rated poor or very poor, up from 8
percent a year ago, USDA data show. No rain is expected in
France or England through May 15, the U.K. Met Office said.  Wheat for July delivery gained 8.5 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $7.44 a bushel in Chicago. The contract is down 2
percent this week, the third straight week of losses, after the
government forecast stockpiles in 2012 higher than expected.  Soybeans for July delivery added 9 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $13.5175 a bushel in  Chicago  after climbing 0.8 percent
yesterday. The oilseed has advanced 1.9 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net , or
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  