-- 
Credit Agricole First-Quarter Net Doubles on Investment Bank

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-05-13T12:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/credit-agricole-first-quarter-profit-doubles-on-investment-bank.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-
largest bank by market value, reported a doubling in first-
quarter profit, helped by higher revenue at its investment bank
and lower provisions for doubtful loans.  Credit Agricole rose as much as 2.6 percent in Paris
trading after saying first-quarter net income jumped to 1
billion euros ($1.42 billion) from 470 million euros a year
earlier, matching the average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, who took over
last year, is aiming to reach between 6 billion euros and 7
billion euros of net income in 2014, helped by a turnaround at
the international consumer-banking business. Earnings at the
corporate and investment bank doubled to 330 million euros,
helped by higher fixed-income revenue and lower provisions on
assets the bank is winding down.  “The house-cleaning at the investment bank is done,” said
Valerie Cazaban, who helps manage 100 million euros at Paris-
based Stratege Finance. “They are performing not too badly.”  Credit Agricole  rose 13 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 11.21
euros by 1:17 a.m. in Paris. The stock has gained 18 percent
this year, compared with the 1.1 percent increase of the 48-
company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  ‘Less Adventurous’  Italy’s second-largest bank, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, reported
a 4 percent decline in first-quarter profit today, hurt by a
higher  tax rate  and lower income from its insurance business.
The shares slumped as much as 2 percent in Milan. UniCredit,
Italy’s biggest bank, advanced as much as 4.1 percent after
surpassing analysts’ estimates with a 56 percent jump in
earnings.  Chifflet, 61, said in December that Credit Agricole’s
strategy over the next 10 years will be “less adventurous”
than in the past decade. The bank lost 33 million euros in the
quarter from risky assets it’s unwinding, compared with a 222
million-euro net loss a year earlier.  “I don’t see any significant impact of discontinuing
activities going forward,” Chief Financial Officer Bertrand Badre said on a conference call with analysts. The level of
first-quarter losses on the risky assets should set the
“trend” for coming quarters, Chifflet said on a call with
journalists.  The assets Credit Agricole is seeking to wind down include
unhedged super-senior collaterized debt obligations linked to
U.S. residential mortgages, according to the bank’s website.  Capital Rules  To help meet the 2014 profit goal, the bank said March 17
it plans to post earnings of more than 900 million euros at the
international-banking unit after a loss of 928 million euros
last year, as it opens more branches in countries such as  Italy .  The bank expects overall revenue to total more than 25
billion euros in 2014, while return on equity, a measure of
profitability, may reach 10 percent to 12 percent in the period.  Chifflet reiterated the bank won’t need to sell new shares
to comply with Basel III capital rules. The bank aims to have a
Tier 1 common equity ratio, a measure of financial strength, of
more than 8.75 percent in 2014, it said in March. Basel rules
begin taking effect in 2013 and will be fully implemented in
2019.  Credit Agricole Group sees “no problems” from any future
too-big-to-fail capital rules, Chifflet said.  BNP Paribas (BNP) , France’s largest bank, reported last week a 15
percent jump in first-quarter profit to 2.62 billion euros,
beating estimates.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-largest
bank by market value, said on May 5 that net income fell 14
percent in the period, hurt by a charge tied to its own debt and
provisions resulting from political turmoil in  Egypt .  Italy, Greece  In Italy, Credit Agricole’s largest market by staff outside
of France, the company plans to add 50 branches and 150,000
retail clients by 2014. It already has about 1.7 million
customers and 960 branches in Italy.  The consumer-banking business outside France, including
Athens-based Emporiki Bank of Greece SA, had a quarterly net
loss of 59 million euros, compared with a 97 million-euro loss a
year earlier, the company said. The Greek bank has lost more
than 2 billion euros since 2008.  Emporiki posted an 11th straight quarterly loss in the
three months through March. Emporiki, which holds about 100
million euros of Greek sovereign debt, still aims to return to
profit in 2012, Alain Strub, CEO of the Greek division, said
last week.  Profit from the regional banks’ French retail network was
374 million euros, up from 333 million euros a year earlier. The
LCL French consumer-banking network had 195 million euros of
profit, compared with 151 million euros a year earlier.  Citic Talks  Overall provisions for doubtful loans fell to 822 million
euros in the quarter from 1.07 billion euros a year earlier.  Earnings at the asset management, insurance and private
banking division rose 27 percent to 443 million euros.  Credit Agricole and  China ’s Citic Securities Co. in
December extended until June 30 a deadline for talks to combine
investment-banking assets. The talks are continuing ‘without any
new element, no interruption,” Chifflet said today.  The bonus pool for 837 employees including “risk takers”
at Credit Agricole’s corporate and investment bank was 109
million euros for 2010, the bank said in a separate statement.
On average per employee, bonuses fell about 15 percent from a
year earlier, Chifflet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 