-- 
Crude Oil Futures Advance for a Second Day as European Growth Accelerates

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-13T20:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/crude-oil-futures-advance-for-a-second-day-as-european-growth-accelerates.html
Crude oil climbed for a second day as
stronger-than-forecast economic growth in the euro zone signaled
that European fuel consumption will increase.  Futures rose 0.7 percent after the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said gross domestic product in
the 17-nation region accelerated to 0.8 percent from 0.3
percent, beating the 0.6 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. The rising waters of the  Mississippi River  threaten
to flood refineries and oil wells in  Louisiana .  “Strong European numbers show that economic growth is back
on track,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New York.  Crude oil for June delivery increased 68 cents to $99.65 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices advanced 2.5
percent this week and are up 34 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for June settlement rose 85 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $113.83 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Oil in New York climbed as much as 1.8 percent and dropped
as much as 1.9 percent today. The contract has traded in a
$20.20 range over the last two weeks.  “The market is going to continue trading on either side of
$100 until we get a strong sign that will push prices out of the
range,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New York.  ‘Structurally Bullish’  The oil market is “still structurally bullish,”  Jeffrey Currie , the London-based head of commodity research at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said today. Volatility in  oil prices  will
begin to stabilize next month and prices are likely to be higher
in 12 months, he said.  Germany and  France  powered economic growth in the euro area
in the first quarter as booming exports fueled domestic spending
in the bloc’s core, offsetting turmoil sparked by sovereign debt
concern in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  German GDP jumped 1.5 percent from the fourth quarter and
the French GDP rose 1 percent, exceeding economists’ median
forecasts of 0.9 percent and 0.6 percent respectively. Austria’s
economy grew by 1 percent and the Netherlands’ by 0.9 percent.  “Overnight we had stronger-than-expected economic data
from  Europe ,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago . “The recovery there is broad-based, with
many countries experiencing growth.”  Morganza Spillway  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said it is “extremely
likely” the Morganza spillway will be opened in the next 48
hours, inundating the Atchafalaya River basin.  The Mississippi River Commission hasn’t made an official
announcement. Jindal said at a press conference in Baton Rouge
that “we are proceeding on the assumption that the spillway is
going to be opened tomorrow or Sunday.”  Opening the spillway may affect 2,264 oil wells that
produce 19,278 barrels a day, said Matt Ross, communications
director for the Louisiana Oil & Gas Association. About 150
companies are preparing for an onslaught of water should the
spillway be opened, Ross said. The work includes removing lease
equipment and adding markers to wells.  Crude oil retreated from the day’s highs as U.S. equities
fell and the dollar advanced against the euro, reducing the
appeal of commodities to investors.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,338.58, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 104.11
points to 12,591.81 at 3:25 p.m.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, climbed 0.7 percent to 75.776 after
touching 75.949, the highest level since April 5. The dollar
surged 1.1 percent to $1.4096 per euro, and touched $1.4067, the
highest level April 1.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is probably no longer in
Tripoli and may be injured, Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said, as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
extended its bombardment of the regime’s military. Rebels
claimed to have taken control of Misrata and made advances on
the strategic oil town of Brega along the central coast.  “The Libyan rebels are advancing, which may signal they
are headed for victory,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“Once the Libyan conflict comes to an end, there will be less
risk premium in the oil price.”  Crude oil has climbed as much as 26 percent in  New York 
this year as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa toppled
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and spread to  Libya , Algeria,
Bahrain, Iran, Syria and Yemen.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 585,870
contracts as of 3:37 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 978,223
million yesterday, 34 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest slipped to 1.663 million contracts,
down from a record 1.664 million the prior day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 