-- 
Czech Rate Path Moved ‘Only Slightly Higher,’ Minutes Show

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-13T07:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/czech-rate-path-moved-only-slightly-higher-bank-minutes-show.html
The expected path of Czech  interest
rates  has moved “only slightly higher’ in the central bank’s
forecast compared with the previous prediction, according to the
minutes from a May 5 monetary policy meeting.  The board of the Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka last week
voted 5-2 to keep the benchmark two-week repurchase rate at a
record-low 0.75 percent, half a point below the  European Central
Bank ’s main rate. Board members  Eva Zamrazilova  and Kamil Janacek backed a quarter-point increase, the minutes released
today showed.  Czech policy makers have kept the main rate unchanged for a
year as inflation holds below the bank’s 2 percent target. The
timing of a likely rate increase moved forward to the fourth
quarter from the first quarter in 2012, reflecting expectations
of more monetary tightening in the euro area, according to the
quarterly update of central bank forecasts published last week.  “The path of market interest rates lies only slightly
higher than in the previous forecast,” the bank said in the
minutes published on its website.  Monetary authorities around the world are struggling to
contain inflation caused by higher oil and food prices. Several
countries in east  Europe , including Hungary, Poland and  Russia ,
started raising interest rates to slow inflation.  ‘Well-Anchored’  The prevailing view among policy makers was that risks to
monetary-policy inflation are balanced and that inflation
expectations are “well-anchored,” the bank said in the
minutes.  The inflation rate fell to 1.6 percent in April, the lowest
in 10 months, from 1.7 percent in March. Price growth has slowed
from a 21-month high of 2.3 percent in December and has held
below the central bank’s target for four months as a firming
koruna and weak consumer demand tamed the impact of higher oil
and food costs.  The Czech koruna weakened 0.2 percent to 24.372 to the euro
as of 9:26 a.m. in  Prague  today. It has gained 2.6 percent
against the euro this year, which has helped limit inflation
pressures with the fourth-best performance among the 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The policy debate featured a view that current domestic
inflation pressures are insignificant and the only source of
higher inflation is commodity prices, according to the minutes.  Inflation Views  “It was said that corporations had room to absorb cost-
push inflation pressures to the detriment of their margins,
which were gradually renewing, and that inflation pressures from
higher commodity prices would not affect consumer prices,” the
minutes showed, without revealing individual views of the board.  The Czech economy isn’t generating inflation pressures as
consumer demand remains subdued, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said after the rate decision last week as the bank cut
its forecast for growth in gross domestic product to 1.5 percent
for 2011 from 1.6 percent. The 2012 forecast was reduced to 2.8
percent from 3 percent.  The central bank also cut its forecast for the 2011 public
finance deficit to 4 percent of gross domestic product, from the
previous estimate of 4.3 percent, the bank said in a report
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  