-- 
Czech Economic Growth Slows as Government Reduces Spending

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-13T08:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/czech-first-quarter-economic-growth-slows-on-domestic-demand.html
Czech annual economic growth slowed
in the first quarter as  government spending  cuts curtailed
domestic demand.  Gross domestic product rose 2.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 2.6 percent in the final quarter of 2010,
according to a preliminary estimate published by the Prague-
based Czech Statistics Office on its website today. The figure
matched the median estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Seasonally adjusted quarterly growth was 0.6 percent
after 0.3 percent in the October-December period.  "The Czech economy continued in growth at the beginning of
the year, but it was nothing particularly remarkable and it
lagged behind large European economies such as Germany or
France,"  Pavel Sobisek , chief economist at UniCredit SpA in
 Prague , said in a report.  Germany and  France  powered euro-area growth in the first
quarter, growing 1.5 percent and 1 percent from the previous
three months, respectively. The Czech economy, in which exports
account for about 70 percent of GDP, is driven by demand for its
goods including Skoda Auto AS cars. Czech companies also supply
parts to German manufacturers, which then sell their products
outside the European Union.  The koruna weakened 0.2 percent to 24.361 to the euro as of
9.50 a.m. in Prague. It has gained 2.7 percent since the
beginning of the year, the fourth-best performance among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in that period.  Government Spending  Government spending in final consumption was lower than in
the same period of last year, curbing the effect of rising
exports, the statistics office said. It didn’t publish a further
breakdown of the GDP data and will release detailed figures on
June 9.  "It is likely that export dynamics, which was the main
driver of growth in the first quarter, is beyond its peak,"
Sobisek said. "Comments from the statistics office suggest that
weaker economic growth may have been caused by a notable decline
in government consumption."  The foreign-trade surplus widened to 52.9 billion koruna
($3.1 billion) in the first three months, from 47.3 billion
koruna in the same period of last year. Industrial output
expanded 12.7 percent in the first quarter.  The central bank in Prague last week cut its GDP forecast
for 2011 to 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent as government spending
cuts to reduce the  budget deficit  constrain growth. The  Finance
Ministry  lowered its estimate to 1.9 percent from 2.2 percent.  The economy isn’t generating inflation pressures as
consumer demand remains subdued, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said after the bank left the benchmark interest rate at
record-low 0.75 percent for a 12th month on May 5. Czech retail
sales growth slowed to 2.1 percent in March, from 6.5 percent in
the previous month  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  