-- 
Daimler, Rolls-Royce Said to Have Submitted $3.4 Billion Offer for Tognum

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-05-15T15:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/daimler-rolls-royce-offer-to-raise-tognum-bid-to-eu26-per-share.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) 
submitted their 2.4 billion-euro ($3.4 billion) offer for  Tognum
AG (TGM)  in writing and may hear as soon as today whether the German
engine-maker’s management backs the increased bid, according to
people familiar with the matter.  The suitors offered to raise their bid by 8.3 percent to 26
euros a share on May 13, provided Tognum’s board supports it.
Friedrichshafen, Germany-based Tognum may respond to the bid 
later today or tomorrow, said two of the people, who declined 
to be identified because the talks are private.  Tognum shares have traded above the initial 24 euro-a-share 
bid since Stuttgart-based Daimler and London-based Rolls-Royce 
made the offer on March 9, closing at 26.05 euros on May 13. 
Daimler, the world’s third-biggest maker of luxury cars, and 
Rolls-Royce, the second-largest producer of engines, have 
received acceptances for just 0.02 percent of Tognum’s share 
capital, excluding Daimler’s existing holding.  “The executive board welcomes the willingness of the
bidder to consider an increased offer price,” Tognum said in a
May 13 statement. “As soon as the company has been provided
with the complete amended offer, the executive board and the
supervisory board will comment on it, after examination.”  Daimler has until May 17 to raise the offer on the tender
under German law. The offer can be amended until 24 hours in
advance of the expiry of the tender on May 18.  “It’s totally normal that discussions between the parties
are conducted at such a late stage of an offer,” Daimler
spokesman Florian Martens said yesterday via e-mail. “We will
again comment on the topic in due course.”  Shareholder Rejection  Tognum shares rose 15 cents, or 0.6 percent, at 26.05 euros
in Frankfurt trading on May 13, valuing the company at 3.42
billion euros. Daimler already owns a 28.4 percent stake in the
company.  Tognum is  worth  “significantly more” than 24 euros a
share because the company will benefit from research and
development investments after reducing net debt by 300 million
euros since its July 2007 initial public offering, Chief
Executive Officer Volker Heuer said on May 11.  Investors including  ING Groep NV (INGA) , First Eagle Investment
Management and Delta Lloyd Asset Management have backed Tognum’s
position. Overall, holders of about 30 percent of the
manufacturer’s shares have rejected the offer, a person familiar
with the situation said on April 8.  Engine Production  Daimler and Rolls-Royce started their tender on April 6 to
gain control of the world’s No. 2 manufacturer of high-speed
 diesel engines  for the marine, energy and defense industries,
after Caterpillar Inc. The original offer was 30 percent above
the stock price before the companies expressed interest.  Rolls-Royce, whose engines power Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
planes, plans to integrate Tognum into its Bergen business,
which makes engines for ships and power generators. Daimler’s
stake in Tognum allows it to block offers by other potential
suitors, because shareholders with more than 25 percent of any
German company have the power to veto major strategic moves.  Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, sold
Tognum, then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for 1.6 billion euros
to Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT Partners in March
2006 to help pay for reorganizing Chrysler, when it still owned
the U.S. carmaker.  After Tognum’s IPO at 24 euros a share, Daimler bought a 22
percent stake for 585 million euros in April 2008, raising the
holding to more than 25 percent three months later.  Daimler ranks third in building  luxury vehicles  after
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi division.
The VW brand overtook Mercedes-Benz in deliveries this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  