-- 
Debt May Exceed Size of Economies This Year for Greece, Portugal, Ireland

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-13T12:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/debt-may-exceed-size-of-economies-this-year-for-greece-portugal-ireland.html
Greece , Ireland and Portugal, the
euro region countries that needed 256 billion euros ($366
billion) in emergency aid to avoid default, may all see their
debt loads exceed the size of their economies this year.  Greece’s debt, already the biggest in the euro’s history at
143 percent of gross domestic product last year, will jump to
almost 158 percent this year and 166 percent in 2012, the
European Commission said today in Brussels. Portuguese debt will
surpass total economic output for the first time this year,
growing to 101.7 percent of GDP, while Irish debt will reach 112
percent, the forecasts show.  As European Union officials consider boosting aid for
Greece a year after its 110 billion-euro bailout, today’s report
shows little sign of debt levels becoming more manageable.
Soaring borrowing costs have left the three nations shut out of
financial markets with investors increasing bets that Greece
will become the first euro member to default.  “The market has realized that there are no short term
solutions particularly for Greece and  Portugal  and some kind of
restructuring is likely in the end,” said  Marco Valli , chief
euro-region economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.
 “The debt dynamics are very difficult to sustain.''  The cost of insuring Greece debt against default reached a
record 1,371 on May 9, and its two-year bonds now yield 24.7
percent, almost 10 percentage points more than its 10-year debt,
indicating investors may recover only a fraction of their
principal.  Deficit Forecasts  The European Commission also raised its deficit forecasts
for all three countries and predicted that the economies of both
Greece and Portugal will shrink this year as the austerity
measures choke growth needed to finance  deficit reduction .
Greece’s economy did expand 0.8 percent in the first quarter,
snapping five straight contractions, separate data showed today.  After more than a year of austerity, which included higher
taxes and cuts in wages and pensions, Greece’s budget deficit
was still at 10.5 percent of GDP last year. The shortfall will
narrow to 9.5 percent of GDP this year and 9.3 percent next
year, still three times the EU limit of 3 percent.  “Greece is facing a very serious situation,” EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said at a briefing.
“Because of weaker growth last year than expected and the
burden of that, there’s a need to take additional measures of
fiscal consolidation.”  ‘Devastating Implications’  The European Commission and  European Central Bank  have
stepped up opposition to a restructuring of Greece’s debt. Rehn
warned on May 11 that such a move would have “devastating
implications” for the country and the euro area as a whole.
Euro-region finance chiefs meet in Brussels on May 16 and will
discuss additional aid for Greece that would allow it to avoid
trying to return to markets and sell 27 billion euros of debt
next year as envisioned under the bailout plan.  “Sooner or later Greece will have to restructure,”
Patrick Moonen, a senior equity strategist at ING Investment
Management, said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  At the same time,  Europe ’s donor nations insist that Greece
will need to meet tougher conditions than last year to win more
funds. An EU and IMF delegation is currently in  Athens ,
conducting the fourth quarterly review of the government’s
deficit-cutting program.  Irish Shortfall  Ireland’s deficit, the biggest in the history of the euro
region last year at more than 32 percent, is forecast to fall to
10.5 percent this year. Portugal, where the economy contracted
0.7 percent in the first three months, will have a 5.9 percent
deficit, the commission said.  Greece’s  Finance Ministry  blames the deeper-than-forecast
recession for the government’s failure to meet its 9.4 percent
deficit target last year and for a 1.9 billion-euro revenue
shortfall in the first four months of 2011. Record unemployment
of 15 percent and an inflation rate of almost 6 percent have
damped consumer and business spending.  Greek GDP contracted 4.5 percent last year. The economy is
forecast to shrink 3.5 percent this year, according to today’s
report.  The government next week will submit to parliament a 76
billion-euro package of spending cuts and asset sales to help
meet its fiscal targets. About 18,000 demonstrators attended
union-organized marches on May 11 to protest the measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  