-- 
Democratic Senator Herbert Kohl of Wisconsin Won’t Seek Re-Election in ’12

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-13T18:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/democratic-senator-herbert-kohl-of-wisconsin-won-t-seek-re-election-in-12.html
U.S. Senator Herbert Kohl, a
Wisconsin Democrat and the owner of the  Milwaukee Bucks 
professional basketball team, said he won’t seek re-election
next year.  “I have never believed this was my Senate seat,” Kohl,
76, said in a statement. “ I have decided that the time has
come to give someone else the opportunity to serve.”  Kohl was elected to the Senate in 1988 and won the race for
his fourth term in 2006 with 67 percent of the vote. He is the
fifth Democrat who has decided to retire rather than run in
2012. Senator  Joe Lieberman  of  Connecticut , an independent who
caucuses with Democrats, also is leaving the Senate.  A gain of at least four seats in next year’s elections by
Republicans would ensure their party’s control of the Senate,
and Kohl’s decision gives them a  greater chance  of prevailing,
analysts say.  “The Senate is in play,” said  Nathan Gonzales , political
editor of the nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political Report . “There
are enough open seats for Republicans to take the majority, but
we have to see what the political environment looks like next
year.”  The other retiring Democrats are Daniel Akaka of  Hawaii ,
Jeff Bingaman of  New Mexico ,  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota , and
Jim Webb of Virginia.  Republican Retirements  On the Republican side, Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas  and
Jon Kyl of Arizona made similar announcements earlier this year.
A spokesman for Kohl couldn’t be reached immediately for
comment.  Democrats have far more seats on the ballot next year than
their rival Republicans. Democrats must defend 23 seats in 2012,
while Republicans now control 10 seats that are up for re-
balloting.  Kohl’s decision comes as Wisconsin’s politics are in flux.
Republicans last year won the Senate seat held by Democrat Russ Feingold and saw their gubernatorial pick,  Scott Walker , win
with 52 percent of the vote. Republicans also control both
chambers of the state legislature.  Walker has proven a controversial governor, and his
policies are giving Democrats some hope of regaining lost
ground, said Gonzales.  Bargaining Issue  Walker earlier this year pushed through the state
legislature a measure curbing collective bargaining and
preventing mandatory collection of union dues, a measure that
affected some state employees and that he said was needed to
address  Wisconsin ’s budget gap. It ignited weeks of public
protests and millions of dollars in political ads from unions
and other advocacy groups opposing his efforts.  “Democrats are extremely energized,” Gonzales said.
“It’s a battleground state.”  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor for the nonpartisan  Cook
Political Report , said the list of possible candidates for
Kohl’s seat is long in both parties. Possible Democratic
candidates include Feingold, Milwaukee mayor and 2010
gubernatorial nominee Tom Barrett, Representative Tammy Baldwin,
and Representative Ron Kind.  On the Republican side, Duffy said, possible candidates
include House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, Wisconsin
Attorney General J. B. Van Hollen, and Tim Michels, a
businessman who was the party’s 2004 senatorial nominee and who
lost to Feingold.  In the Senate, Kohl serves on the Appropriations, Banking
and Judiciary panels.  Kohl formerly was part-owner of the department store chain
that carries his family’s name. He also is a part owner of the
Milwaukee Brewers professional baseball team.  Kohl drew upon his personal wealth in his campaigns. He
contributed $505,000 to his 2006 re-election bid and lent the
campaign an additional $6.25 million, according to the  Federal
Election Commission . In his 2000 race, the records show he
contributed $4.2 million and lent the campaign $500,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  