-- 
Diana Death Questioned in Cannes ‘Unlawful Killing’ Debut

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-13T17:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/diana-death-questioned-in-al-fayed-unlawful-killing-film-debut-at-cannes.html
The circumstances of the death of
Diana, Princess of  Wales , and Dodi al-Fayed were questioned
today in a documentary financed by 2.5 million pounds ($4
million) from al-Fayed’s father Mohammed al-Fayed.  “Unlawful Killing,” screened in Cannes on the sidelines
of the  film festival , set out to illustrate that evidence after
the fatal 1997 crash was covered up or deliberately ignored by
the British establishment and media. The documentary was
directed by U.K. actor and TV personality Keith Allen.  “I hope it shows people that nothing’s as it seems,”
Allen told reporters in a stuccoed hall of the Carlton Hotel,
Cannes. He referred to a “media-led campaign to disinform
people.”  “All I’m doing is trying to get people to talk about this
in a different way than they have done before,” said Allen, the
father of singer-songwriter  Lily Allen . “I don’t believe there
is too much that is new.”  A number of U.K. TV channels refused funding, so he turned
to Egyptian-born businessman al-Fayed for the money, Allen said.
Asked how much, Allen said he didn’t know; an al-Fayed
representative stepped in to give the figure.  The documentary details events up to and after the crash,
and highlights what it presents as suspicious elements, such as
the absence of CCTV images of the car driving the princess; the
never-identified driver of a Fiat Uno that was reported to have
followed closely behind; and the delay in getting the princess
to the hospital.  Tony Curtis  Interviewed on camera are actor Tony Curtis, a friend of
Dodi al-Fayed and biographer Kitty Kelley.  “The inquest has probably raised more questions than it
answered,” journalist-presenter  Piers Morgan  said in another
interview for the movie. The inquest was followed by a London
jury ruling in 2008 that the Princess was unlawfully killed.  Allen’s film also attacks the British royal family, and in
particular the Duke of Edinburgh, Diana’s onetime father-in-law.
It blames the British establishment for the “cover-up.”  “I’ve got a history of having suspicions about
establishment and government and court cases,” Allen said when
asked why he was so intrigued about Diana’s death.  Officials at  Buckingham Palace  have always refused comment
on claims by al-Fayed, the former owner of Harrods Ltd. The film
produced criticism in U.K. newspapers for a fleeting shot of a
black-and-white photo of Diana in the black Mercedes after it
crashed.  The 64th  Cannes Film Festival  runs through May 22.
Information:  http://www.festival-cannes.com .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 