-- 
Dish Network in Talks to Offer Premium Video Rental Service

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T20:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/dish-network-in-talks-to-offer-premium-video-rental-service.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, is considering a
video-on-demand service to offer Hollywood movies about eight
weeks after they’re released, an executive said.  The service would likely have terms “similar” to those of
DirecTV, including a price tag of about $30, Dish Executive Vice
President Tom Cullen said in an interview. DirecTV, the largest
satellite-TV operator, announced the debut of its Home Premiere
service last month, giving customers the option to purchase
certain movies for $29.99 eight weeks after theatrical release.  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, is negotiating with
Hollywood studios, and no final decision has been made on
whether to introduce the service, said Cullen, who oversees
programming, sales and marketing.  Studios are searching for ways to boost at-home revenue as
DVD sales shrink.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures,  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Twentieth Century Fox have agreed to offer movies on DirecTV’s
Home Premiere, including “Hall Pass,” starring Owen Wilson,
and “The Adjustment Bureau,” starring Matt Damon.  Several theater owners, including AMC Entertainment Inc.
and  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , have criticized studios for
shrinking the on-demand “window” from the traditional 12 to 16
weeks to eight weeks. The theater chains have threatened not to
play or promote movies that are pegged for early home release,
fearing customers may skip the theater to watch on demand.  Comcast said last month it was in discussions to offer on-
demand movies six to eight weeks after entering theaters. Both
Comcast and  DirecTV (DTV)  said pricing may be adjusted as the program
evolves.  Dish fell 39 cents to $28.81 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have risen 47 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  