-- 
Dish, NCR Fight for Rights to Blockbuster Brand in Movie-Rental Kiosks

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T22:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/dish-ncr-fight-for-rights-to-blockbuster-brand-in-movie-rental-kiosks.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the U.S.
satellite-TV provider that acquired  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  last month,
told  NCR Corp. (NCR)  that its contract to license the Blockbuster name
on movie-rental kiosks is invalid.  Dish rejected the contract as part of Blockbuster’s court-
ordered bankruptcy proceedings and sent NCR a termination
letter, expressing its intent on ending the pact, NCR spokesman
Jeff Dudash said. NCR disagrees with Dish’s conclusion that the
contract is void, and plans to continue to brand its movie
kiosks with the Blockbuster Express name, Dudash said.  “There will be legal proceedings to address this that will
come up at the end of the month,” Dudash said. No lawsuits have
been filed yet by either company.  NCR builds kiosks, often placed in grocery and convenience
stores, that allow customers to rent and drop off movies. The
company pays Blockbuster for the use of its brand and collects
all revenue from rentals. NCR says the  Blockbuster Express  name,
design and related trademarks are held by a trust that wasn’t
part of Blockbuster’s bankruptcy filing. Duluth, Georgia-based
NCR has branded more than 9,000 kiosks with the Blockbuster
name, Dudash said.  If Dish successfully voids the contract, the Englewood,
Colorado-based company will decide whether it wants to own the
kiosk business, renegotiate deal terms with NCR or find another
company that makes kiosks to license the name.  “Blockbuster continues to evaluate the kiosk-rental
business and the variety of ways we provide access to our
expansive inventory of family entertainment,” Marc Lumpkin, a
Dish spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Uniting the Blockbuster brand under the Dish umbrella isn’t
a priority for NCR, according to Dudash, who said NCR has become
comfortable licensing the name.  “It’s something we’ve been doing for several years,” said
Dudash. “The business falls in line with our strategic
priorities to use our expertise in self-service technologies to
deliver entertainment to consumers.”  Dish completed its $320 million acquisition of Blockbuster
on April 26. Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy in September with
5,600 stores, including 3,300 in the U.S.  Dish fell 39 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $28.81 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. NCR lost 25 cents to
$19.55 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  