-- 
Dodd-Frank Consumer Bureau Changes Approved by U.S. House Panel

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-13T13:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/dodd-frank-consumer-bureau-changes-approved-by-u-s-house-panel.html
Republicans on the House Financial
Services Committee advanced three bills today to reshape the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, turning the tables on
Democrats who approved the agency in party-line votes last year.  Lawmakers led by Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama
Republican who leads the panel, are pushing changes to the Dodd-
Frank Act, the regulatory overhaul they’ve targeted since taking
control of the House in January. The Republicans have proposed
about a dozen bills to revise the new rules, which they were
nearly unanimous in opposing when Dodd-Frank was passed in July.  The three bills approved today are “important pieces of
legislation, all of which will promote greater certainty for our
economy and job creators,” Bachus said yesterday.  After more than 10 hours of debate yesterday over the CFPB
measures and a bill to re-authorize the National Flood Insurance
Program, Bachus put off until May 24 consideration of an 18-
month delay of derivatives rules mandated by Dodd-Frank. The
bill would push implementation of rules for the $583 trillion
over-the-counter swaps market -- many of them due by July -- to
December 2012.  The Republican measures, even if they are approved by the
full House, are likely to face opposition from the Senate, which
remains in Democratic hands, and from President  Barack Obama ,
who initiated the regulatory overhaul in response to the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Republican Questions  The CFPB, which Obama proposed after financial firms were
accused of predatory practices in mortgage and credit-card
lending, has faced questions from Bachus and his colleagues over
its funding and potential reach. The Republican bills would
clamp down on the bureau by replacing its as-yet-unnamed
director with a bipartisan, five-member board, delaying its
scheduled July 21 start date and making it easier for bank
regulators to veto bureau rulemakings.  The proposals have been criticized by consumer groups as a
way for Republicans to gut the bureau and undermine  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard University law professor serving as an Obama
adviser to shape the agency she’s credited with conceiving.  “This legislation completely disregards and denies the
causes of the regulatory failures that led to the current
financial crisis,” a group of consumer groups and labor unions,
including the AFL-CIO and the National Community Reinvestment
Coalition, said in a May 3 letter to committee members.  Necessary Checks  Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West Virginia
Republican, said the bills are necessary checks on the power of
bureau that will play a large role in financial markets.  “Whether we like it or not, the bureau will likely be the
financial product regulator for the foreseeable future,” said
Capito, who leads the financial institutions subcommittee.  Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts  and the
committee’s Democrats have attacked the bills as delay tactics
aimed at weakening consumer protection. The Democrats offered
several amendments to change the measures, including one that
would require that the president appoint Warren as the chairman
should a commission be installed.  “Make no mistake, by expanding the ability for banking
regulators to veto the CFPB, I believe that my Republican
colleagues are far less concerned about the stability of the
banking system, and far more concerned about hurting bank
profitability,” Representative Maxine Waters, a California
Democrat, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  