-- 
Trump Failing With Investors in Poll Showing 68% Unfavorable

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-05-13T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/donald-trump-failing-with-investors-in-global-poll-showing-68-unfavorable.html
Donald Trump , the real estate
developer-turned-reality-television star who promotes his
business acumen as he ponders a U.S. presidential campaign, is a
bust with global investors.  By 68 percent to 14 percent, the billionaire is viewed
unfavorably by respondents in a Bloomberg Global Poll of
investors, analysts and traders. In the U.S., where Trump is
more widely known, his unfavorable rating climbs to 79 percent,
while those viewing him favorably rises to 17 percent.  “The last thing this country needs is an uber-political,
self-serving, egomaniacal media junkie whose all-sizzle-no-steak
approach to life and politics only distracts us all from the
real issues and problems of our country,” said poll respondent
Douglas Schoninger, 50, president of DJS Capital Management Inc.
in New York.  President  Barack Obama  was rated favorably by 55 percent of
respondents and unfavorably by 41 percent in the quarterly poll
taken May 9-10 of 1,263 Bloomberg customers. The numbers for two
other, less-known potential Republican challengers to Obama
weren’t as good as the president’s and weren’t as negative as
Trump’s. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney was rated
favorably by 25 percent of respondents, unfavorably by 28
percent. For Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , the
breakdown was 12 percent favorable, 27 percent unfavorable.  Birth Issue  Trump, 64, who boasts of his business success and wealth,
drew criticism from some poll respondents for reviving questions
about whether Obama was born in the U.S. In the wake of Trump
spotlighting the issue, Obama sought to settle it last month by
releasing a copy of the long-form of his birth certificate
showing he was born in  Hawaii .  Trump, the star of the NBC reality television show
“Celebrity Apprentice,” also has questioned the president’s
school grades, suggesting Obama may have gotten special
treatment to gain admission to colleges, including  Harvard Law
School .  “I don’t really want to see candidates trying to win
because of fringe arguments,” said poll respondent Michael Enriquez, 35, director of institutional equity trading at
National Alliance Capital Markets Group in Austin, Texas.  “In all his blubbering I never really saw him lay out a
plan for the future of this country, which I believe is on a
dire path due to the amount of debt,” Enriquez said. “There
are many other issues he could’ve engaged debate on with
President Obama.”  ‘Emphatically Disagree’  Michael Cohen , a spokesman for Trump, said, “I
emphatically disagree with any poll results that would question
the national or international value of the Trump mark.”  Cohen, an executive at the Trump Organization, said he is
working on business deals in several countries on behalf of
Trump and the organization’s associates. “How could you not
have a favorable opinion if, technically, we are being looked at
at every country in the world” for business deals, he said.  Trump has made the  U.S. economy ,  job creation  and debt the
mainstays of his discussions, Cohen said. Trump also has said
that as president he would stop China and the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries from taking advantage of the U.S.  “The birth certificate and other requests were secondary,
but pushed to the forefront by the media for sensationalistic
purposes,” Cohen said.  Trump said in a May 1 interview that he had decided “in my
mind” to run for president, though he wouldn’t make an official
announcement until after the May 22 season finale of his TV
show.  ‘Sideshow’  Poll respondent James T. Vanasek, 41, principal at VN
Capital Management LLC in  New York , called Trump’s presidential
exploration a “sideshow.”  “His so-called presidential bid is merely another way to
garner publicity ahead of his upcoming new season of the
‘Apprentice,’ and should not be taken seriously by anyone,”
Vanasek said.  Trump has an unfavorable rating of 62 percent with
investors, traders and analysts in  Europe . In  Asia , where he is
lesser known, it is 53 percent. The poll has a margin of error
for its entire sample group of plus or minus 2.8 percentage
points.  Referring to the birth certificate dispute, J. Ann Selzer,
president of Selzer & Co, the  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm that
conducted the poll, said, “Trump picked an issue to fight about
that could be verified in fact, and he didn’t come out on the
winning end.”  Favorable View  Among those who have a favorable opinion of Trump is poll
respondent Carl Frietsch, 52, senior vice president at American
Bank of  Texas  in Sherman, Texas.  “As he has the business acumen to manage big business, he
should certainly have the experience to manage the biggest of
business -- the USA,” he said.  A recent poll of Republican-leaning voters also showed
Trump’s popularity slipping. In the survey by  Public Policy
Polling , Trump dropped from first place in April to a tie for
fifth place this month among eight potential Republican
candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  