-- 
Dr. Reddy’s Seeking to Buy Russian Medicine Brands, CFO Says

-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-05-13T14:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/dr-reddy-s-seeking-to-buy-russian-medicine-brands-cfo-says.html
Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd.,
 India ’s second-biggest drugmaker by revenue, is looking to
acquire medicine brands in  Russia , Chief Financial Officer Umang Vohra said.  Russia, Dr. Reddy’s third-biggest market, generated sales
of $201 million in the year ended March 31, including
prescription medicines and over-the-counter remedies. The
company wants to increase sales from  over-the-counter 
medications, which account for half of Russia’s pharmaceutical
market, Vohra said at a press conference in the southern Indian
city of Hyderabad, where the drugmaker is based.  Dr. Reddy’s sells Senade laxative and Nise pain-relieving
gel without a prescription in Russia. The manufacturer may buy
Doktor Mom, a cough medicine brand in Russia, from Mumbai-based
J.B. Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd., the Business Standard
reported on May 10, citing people it didn’t identify.  The expansion may involve “brand acquisitions and in-
licensing,” Vohra said.  Dr. Reddy’s rose 3.3 percent, the most since Jan. 31, to
1,651.65 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. The
gain beat the 1.1 percent increase in the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Benchmark Sensitive Index.  Fiscal fourth-quarter net income doubled to 3.35 billion
rupees ($74.6 million) from 1.67 billion rupees a year earlier,
the company said today. Profit exceeded the 2.62 billion-rupee
average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 23 percent to 20.2 billion rupees on growth in Russia and
the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in  New Delhi  at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  