-- 
DSM Seeks M&A Chief to Lead Growth Program After Adding Investment Bankers

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-13T10:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/dsm-seeks-m-a-chief-to-lead-growth-program-after-adding-investment-bankers.html
Royal DSM NV, which has already
employed two former investment bankers for its takeovers team,
said it’s searching for a chief dealmaker to oversee a budget of
more than 2.5 billion euros ($3.6 billion).  The world’s largest maker of vitamins is looking internally
and externally for a candidate to head up the strategy and 
acquisitions team, Chief Financial Officer Rolf- Dieter Schwalb said in an interview in  Frankfurt . DSM is
preparing for the retirement of Hein Schreuder.  DSM is “actively” planning acquisitions and is at various
stages of assessing targets, said Schwalb. DSM, founded in 1902
as a Dutch state mining company, has emerged from a decade-long
transition from cyclical chemicals to technology-based additives
derived more from enzymes than oil. Assets are being sought in
nutritional supplements, high-performance plastics as well as
areas like biomedical materials, he said.  “The big portfolio transformation is over and now we are
looking for growth,” Schwalb said in the May 11 interview. “We
have created the company that we wanted to. We’ve a lot of cash
at the moment that we want to invest.”  The company, based in Heerlen, the Netherlands, plans no
pause in takeovers after the $1.09 billion-euro purchase of
Martek Biosciences Corp., a U.S. supplier of Omega 3 and baby
food ingredients, Schwalb said. Integration of that business is
going well, he said.  Pfizer  DSM has gained 12 percent in Amsterdam trading since it
announced the Martek deal on Dec. 21, boosting the company’s
market value to 8.5 billion euros. That compares with a 1.1
percent increase on Amsterdam’s benchmark AEX index.  “No skeletons have been found in Martek” and DSM is ready
for additional deals, Schwalb said. DSM’s war chest is being
replenished by disposals and a gain from a stake held in Danisco
A/S that are set to generate proceeds of about 780 million
euros, offsetting the expense of Martek.  The company could be a potential bidder for the nutritional
unit of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Cheuvreux analyst Martin Roediger wrote in
a March note. The U.S. company is in the midst of a strategic
review.  DSM would look at the Pfizer business as a matter of
course, given that it’s “wise” to monitor any auction
“started somewhere near our space,” Schwalb said. The reality
of the mergers and acquisitions scene is that most targets are
privately held firms that are less known, he said.  “Martek is really an exception,” the CFO said. “Our
acquisitions have been business parts of companies, who decided
like we decided three years ago to divest” or privately held
companies very often.  Ratings Proud  Large acquisitions are possible, yet DSM isn’t keen to
jeopardize its A3 and A credit ratings from Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s , according to Schwalb. The company
also has 13.4 million treasury shares that could be used to help
pay for a purchase, he said.  Acquisitions will supplement internal growth, which will
this year help drive DSM toward the lower end of its 2013
profit-target range, two years ahead of schedule.  DSM and partner Roquette Freres this week announced plans
to enter commercial production of succinic acid derived from
yeast, further highlighting its move away from a past steeped in
the cyclical markets of synthetic rubbers, nitrogen fertilizer
and melamines used in paint.  The transformation of the company has led to changes in its
shareholder base, with investors in the U.S. replacing the Dutch
as the biggest group. Schwalb said this shift doesn’t make the
company more of a target.  “They’re starting to deliver,” said Jean-Baptiste Devevey, a Paris-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, which has
an “outperform” rating on the stock. “The market initially
was a bit afraid of what DSM would do regarding M&A, but what
they’ve done so far is rather reassuring for the future and what
they’ll do with the cash they have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  