-- 
ECB Asks Court to Bar Greek Swap Disclosure, Cites Market-Disruption Risks

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-05-13T17:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/ecb-asks-court-to-bar-greek-swap-disclosure-cites-market-disruption-risks.html
The  European Central Bank  asked the
European Union’s General Court to dismiss a lawsuit seeking the
disclosure of documents showing how  Greece  used derivatives to
hide loans and triggered the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The ECB has complete discretion to decide what it should
publish in the public interest, according to its defense to a
lawsuit filed by Bloomberg News. Releasing the papers could
damage the commercial interests of the ECB’s counterparties,
hurt the region’s banks and markets, and undermine the economic
policy of Greece and the EU, the central bank said.  The documents don’t “provide information that would assist
in informing the public debate in any meaningful manner,” the
ECB said in its lawsuit. The files “contain ECB’s staff
assumptions and hypotheses which were intended to feed the
internal deliberations,” the ECB said in papers served today.
The notes “were as such made on the basis of partial elements
available at the time and not fully accurate information.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  is withholding the
documents as EU finance chiefs prepare to meet next week to
discuss additional support for Greece, which received a 110
billion-euro bailout ($155 billion) last year. More than four in
five institutional investors say Greece will probably default on
its debt, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll published today.  The documents should also be protected to safeguard the
effectiveness of the ECB decision-making process, the central
bank said. The ECB also challenged the Bloomberg suit on
technical grounds. The suit, which is based on the EU’s freedom
of information rules, was filed in Luxembourg in December. It
requested access to two internal papers drafted for the central
bank’s six-member executive board in  Frankfurt  last year.  ‘More Accountability’  “Greater transparency results in more accountability, and
the investing public has the right to know more about the roots
of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis,” said  Matthew Winkler ,
editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News. The company intends to file a
response.  Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office, last year provided
sufficient information on its doubts about the impact of swaps
on Greece’s debt, allowing the public to form their own opinion,
the ECB said in its filing. The off-market swaps, which Greece
hadn’t previously disclosed as debt, let the country increase
borrowings by 5.3 billion euros, Eurostat said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  