-- 
Euro-Region Expansion Beats Forecasts Driven By Germany, France

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-13T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/economy-powers-forward-in-euro-region-as-germany-france-exceed-forecasts.html
Euro-region economic growth
accelerated to the fastest pace since the second quarter of
2010, powered by forecast-topping expansion in  Germany  and
France that offset the impact of tougher austerity measures from
Ireland to Spain.  Gross domestic product in the 17-member euro area rose 0.8
percent from the fourth quarter, when it increased 0.3 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
statement today. Economists had forecast the economy to expand
0.6 percent, according to the median of 31 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. GDP rose 2.5 percent from a year ago.  European exporters have helped fuel economic growth as
fiscal belt-tightening and rising energy costs curbed consumer
demand.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, on May
4 raised its full-year profit forecast. Still, European economic
confidence weakened in April and German investors grew less
optimistic, suggesting the recovery is losing some momentum in
the current quarter.  “I’m rather optimistic for the euro-region outlook
overall, while periphery states remain a problem,” said
 Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Germany will remain the growth pillar. The second
quarter will show some weakening in growth after a buoyant first
quarter.”  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, GDP rose 1.5 percent
in the first quarter after increasing 0.4 percent in the
previous three months. That’s helping shield the euro region
from a debt crisis as peripheral countries struggle to restore
growth. In  Greece , the economy grew 0.8 percent, while  Portugal 
shrank 0.7 percent.  The European Commission will release its latest economic
forecasts at 11:15 a.m. in Brussels. The statistics office will
release a breakdown of first-quarter GDP next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  