-- 
Medicare Funds to Run Out in 2024 Without Fix, Faster Than U.S. Estimated

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-05-13T20:21:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/medicare-financing-to-run-out-in-2024-without-fix.html
Medicare, the U.S. health insurance
program for the elderly and disabled, and the Social Security
trust for the disabled and retirees are running out of money
sooner than the government had projected.  While Medicare won’t have sufficient funds to pay full
benefits starting in 2024, five years earlier than last year’s
estimate, Social Security’s cash to pay full benefits runs short
in 2036, a year sooner than the 2010 projection, the U.S.
government said today in an annual report.  Both forecasts were affected by a slower-than-anticipated
economic recovery, the government said. The estimates for
funding add urgency to talks between Democrats and Republicans
on ways to cut spending to reduce the U.S.  budget deficit .  “Projected long-run program costs for both Medicare and
Social Security are not sustainable under currently scheduled
financing, and will require legislative corrections if
disruptive consequences for beneficiaries and taxpayers are to
be avoided,” according to the report summary.  The 2010 health-care overhaul backed by Democrats extended
the life of Medicare, though a greater effort is needed to shore
up the program’s long-term funding, Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in a statement distributed with the report.  “If we do not do more to contain health-care costs, our
commitments will become unsustainable,” said Geithner, managing
trustee of Medicare and Social Security, in the statement.  Debt-Limit Deal  When Medicare and Social Security funds run short, they
will pay less in benefits rather than stop paying entirely.
Social Security would have to cut payments by 23 percent, while
Medicare would reduce by 10 percent what it pays hospitals and
other inpatient care providers.  Congress is debating potentially sweeping changes in the
federal budget as part of a deal to raise the government’s $14.3
trillion debt limit, which the Treasury Department said will be
needed by Aug. 2.  Two groups of lawmakers have held private meetings to
negotiate a deficit-reduction plan while President  Barack Obama 
met yesterday with Senate Republicans, a day after meeting with
their Democratic counterparts.  Republicans demanding that the U.S. cut its budget deficit
have proposed privatizing Medicare by giving individuals a
subsidy to buy coverage from private insurers. Lawmakers such as
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , Republican of
 Wisconsin , said today’s forecasts were justification for action.  “Leadership is required from both sides to ensure that
Medicare and Social Security are saved for current seniors and
strengthened to meet the need of future generations,” he said.  Time To Respond  Democrats, who have resisted changes to Social Security,
said the trustees’ analysis shows there’s time to respond.  “The current situation does not necessitate rushed or
severe action,” said Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , Democrat of  Montana . “We must continue to protect the
Social Security benefits our seniors count on.”  The Social Security trust fund that finances aid to about
10 million disabled Americans and their dependents will be the
first to dry up, with funding scheduled to run out in 2018,
according to the trustees.  The fund, when combined with a separate and much larger
trust fund paying benefits to seniors, has enough money to stay
solvent until 2036.  The new projections partly roll back last year’s trustees
analysis, which credited the 2010 health care overhaul with
expanding the life of the Medicare trust fund by 12 years.  Spending Law  Social Security law requires program spending to match
revenue, so a lack of action by lawmakers by that time will mean
benefits will have to be cut 23 percent -- or the Social
Security payroll tax increased to 16 percent, or a combination,
the report said. Congress has never allowed the program’s two
trust funds to be depleted.  Medicare, to stay solvent for the next 75 years, would have
to immediately raise payroll taxes by 24 percent, or cut current
benefit payments by 17 percent, Cori Uccello, a senior health
fellow with the  American Academy  of Actuaries in  Washington ,
said in a phone interview.  The longer the U.S. waits to address the coming shortages
in Medicare and Social Security, the more painful it may be,
said Uccello. A U.S. delay in extending Medicare’s fiscal life
may force cuts for current beneficiaries rather than diminishing
them for people who enter the program several years from now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 