-- 
Medvedev Says Over-Concentration of Power Is ‘Dangerous’

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-13T13:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/medvedev-says-over-concentration-of-power-is-dangerous-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said an excessive concentration of power is a “dangerous
thing” and he opposes building a political system tailored to
one individual.  “Excessive concentration of power is definitely a
dangerous thing that has happened repeatedly in our country,”
Medvedev told youth activists from opposition and pro-government
parties today in Kostroma, central Russia, in comments broadcast
on state television. “As a general rule, it has led to
stagnation or civil war.”  Medvedev has sought to reduce the government’s role in
state companies and attract foreign investment. The comments
today come after Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who stepped down
as president in 2008 because of a ban on serving more than two
consecutive terms, formed a nationwide coalition of supporters
who will field candidates in December parliamentary elections on
the ticket of the ruling United  Russia  party. The initiative may
be aimed at shoring up Putin’s position ahead of the March 2012
presidential elections, analysts say.  ‘Dangerous’  “Attempts to tailor the political system to one specific
individual are dangerous,” the president said.  Putin, 58, handed the presidency to Medvedev, a 45-year-old
lawyer from his hometown of  St. Petersburg . Neither Medvedev nor
Putin has ruled out running for president in 2012.  Medvedev said April 12 he was nearing a decision on whether
to seek re-election. A day later, Putin said it was too early to
decide which of the two of them would run.  The president has clashed with his mentor in recent months,
saying it was “unacceptable” for Putin to describe NATO-led
attacks on  Libya  as a “crusade.‘‘ He later ordered that eight
top government officials, many of them seen as Putin allies, be
removed from the boards of state-owned companies.  Putin, who served in the Soviet-era KGB, said last month
that Russia must avoid liberal ‘‘experiments’’ to ensure stable
economic growth and become one of the world’s top five economic
powers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  