-- 
Telefonica Quarterly Profit Slips 1.9%, Missing Estimates

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-13T07:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/telefonica-profit-misses-estimates-on-reduced-earnings-from-spanish-unit.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s second-largest
phone company, reported quarterly profit that missed analysts’ 
estimates as earnings from its Spanish home market shrank.  First-quarter net income fell 1.9 percent to 1.62 billion
euros ($2.3 billion), compared with the 1.74 billion-euro average
estimate of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Spanish 
division’s operating income before some items slumped 11 percent
to 1.93 billion euros, the Madrid-based company  said  today.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is slashing
Telefonica’s Spanish workforce by about 20 percent in the next
three years as he bets on  Latin America ’s economic growth to win
back investors discouraged by Spain’s unemployment rate, the
highest of the euro countries. While revenue from Latin America
rose 26 percent, profit margin slipped 0.5 percentage point to
36.2 percent in the period.  “The domestic year-on-year trend is still poor,” said
 Steve Malcolm , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. who has a
“sell” rating on the shares. “Latin American margins were also
disappointing.”  Telefonica fell as much as 15 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
16.82 euros and traded at 16.96 euros as of 9:30 a.m. in Madrid,
giving the company a market value of 77.4 billion euros.
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Europe’s biggest phone company by revenue,
added 0.6 percent to 10.69 euros in Frankfurt.  Budget Cuts  Spain is implementing the deepest budget cuts in at least
three decades and overhauling laws on labor, wages and pensions
as it tries to steer the economy back to growth after a three-
year slump.  First-quarter revenue climbed 11 percent to 15.4 billion
euros, helped by last year’s takeover of Vivo Participacoes SA,
Brazil’s largest wireless operator. Analysts had predicted 15.5
billion euros in sales.  Sales from Spain fell 5.6 percent to 4.37 billion euros, 
the company said. Spain’s weak economy encourages users to look
for cheaper phone tariffs and to switch to other operators 
including  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) 's Yoigo unit,  France Telecom SA (FTE) 's 
Orange and  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ)   Latin American revenue rose 26 percent to 7.01 billion
euros, while Oibda climbed 24 percent to 2.54 billion euros.  The company's operating costs climbed 13 percent to 
10.18 billion euros, Telefonica said.  Telefonica confirmed its full-year forecast. The company is
planning to sell shares in its Atento call center unit in an
initial public offering. The stock price will be set by about
June 9, according to terms of the sale.  “The biggest issue for Telefonica is its domestic market,
where it’s struggling through a mixture of increased
competition, austerity and a very poor macroeconomic climate,”
said Morten Singleton, an analyst at Investec Securities in
 London . “We haven’t seen any signs of a recovery yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  