-- 
Telefonica Approves Initial Public Offering for Atento Call-Center Unit

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-13T17:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/telefonica-approves-1-1-billion-ipo-for-its-atento-call-center-division.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s largest phone
company, approved the initial public offering of its Atento
Inversiones y Teleservicios call-center division.  Telefonica plans to sell more than 50 percent of Atento to
investors, the Madrid-based company said in a filing today. The
sale may raise about 800 million euros ($1.1 billion), giving
the division a valuation of about 1.5 billion euros, said two
people familiar with the plan, asking not to be identified
because the discussions are private.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, who had
tried to sell Atento as early as in 2007, is seeking to reduce
debt and focus on Latin America to offset declining domestic
market share. Telefonica today reported a 1.9 percent decline in
first-quarter net income to 1.62 billion euros, missing analyst
estimates, as earnings in the Spanish market shrank.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will manage the
IPO, along with Banco Santander SA, BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, according to
a term sheet. The stock price will be set by about June 9.  Atento’s revenue rose 26 percent last year to 1.66 billion
euros, with the largest part coming from  Brazil , according to
Telefonica’a annual report. Operating profit before depreciation
and amortization increased 23 percent to 190 million euros.  Telefonica plans to slash its Spanish workforce by about 20
percent over the next three years as it bets on Latin America’s
economic growth to win back investors discouraged by Spain’s
unemployment rate, the highest in  Europe . While revenue from
 Latin America  rose 26 percent, its profit margin in the region
slipped 0.5 percentage point to 36.2 percent in the period.  The shares slipped 0.8 percent to 16.84 euros in Madrid
today, valuing the company at 76.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  