-- 
Telmex Says Agency Has 24 Hours for TV Ruling After Notice

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T01:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/telmex-says-agency-has-24-hours-for-tv-ruling-after-notice-1-.html
Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB, the nation’s
largest phone carrier, said a court ordered the Mexican
government to decide on its request to offer TV service within
24 hours after receiving notification of the legal ruling.  Francisco Javier Rebolledo Pena, the sixth district judge
in administrative matters in Mexico City, ordered the 24-hour
deadline in portions of a court document published today on
Telmex’s  website . A Telmex official who can’t be named under
company policy said he didn’t know when the government had been
notified of the order, which he said was issued yesterday.  The order would give Mexico’s Communications and
Transportation Ministry less time than the 15 days the agency
expected to have to decide on Telmex’s request following a
separate court ruling yesterday. A ministry official who can’t
be named under the agency’s policy had no immediate comment.  Telmex is seeking permission to offer video service to keep
clients from switching to the pay-TV, Internet and phone
packages offered by cable carriers controlled by Grupo Televisa
SA. The phone carrier, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
America Movil SAB, lost 29,000 lines last quarter for a total of
15.6 million.  Telmex gained 53 centavos, or 5.1 percent, to 10.95 pesos
in Mexico City trading before disclosing the 24-hour order. The
gain was the biggest since May 31, coming after Telmex announced
late yesterday it had won a separate court order forcing the
government to decide on its TV request within 15 days.  Telmex has waited for a video license from the government
since 2006, when the communications ministry announced
regulations to allow companies to provide video, voice and
Internet services. In 2008, regulators issued rules to allow
consumers to switch telephone providers while keeping the same
phone number, and Telmex complied with the guidelines, a
requirement to get the video license.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  