-- 
Telmex Ruling Reduces Deadline for Agency Decision on Video to 24 Hours

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/telmex-ruling-cuts-deadline-for-agency-decision-on-video-dispute.html
Telefonos de Mexico SAB said a court
ruling imposed a 24-hour deadline for a government decision on
whether the nation’s largest phone carrier can offer video
services, shorter than the 15 days the government had expected.  The 24-hour time limit starts once the government receives
notification of the ruling, according to documents released
yesterday on the  website  of Telmex, as the Mexico City-based
company is known. A Telmex official who can’t be named under
company policy said he didn’t know when the government had been
notified of the order, which he said was issued May 11.  The ruling further pressures the Transportation and
Communications Ministry to resolve a dispute dating back to
2006. Telmex, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America
Movil SAB, wants to offer  pay television  to stem a loss of
customers to rival providers such as  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  that are
authorized to bundle cable, television and Internet.  The government has said Telmex hasn’t satisfied requirements
to begin offering TV service. Francisco Javier Rebolledo Pena,
the sixth district judge in administrative matters in Mexico
City, ordered the 24-hour deadline in portions of a court
document published yesterday on Telmex’s  website .  The government said it would maintain its legal
interpretation that it has 15 days to make a decision. The
24-hour rule used in the judge’s order only applies to cases
that by their nature can be addressed within a day, such as
releasing a person from jail, not for complex matters such as
the video license, said Gerardo Sanchez Henkel, the
communications ministry’s legal affairs chief, in an interview
broadcast on Mexico City’s Stereo Cien radio network yesterday.  Telmex lost 29,000 lines last quarter for a total of 15.6
million.  Stock Gains  Telmex advanced 53 centavos, or 5.1 percent, to 10.95 pesos
in Mexico City trading yesterday before disclosing the 24-hour
order. The gain was the biggest since May 31, coming after
Telmex announced May 11 it had won a separate court order
forcing the government to decide on its TV request within 15
days.  Telmex has waited for a video license from the government
since 2006, when the communications ministry announced
regulations to allow companies to provide video, voice and
Internet services. In 2008, regulators issued rules to allow
consumers to switch telephone providers while keeping the same
phone number, and Telmex complied with the guidelines, a
requirement to get the video license.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  