-- 
Tenet Healthcare Seeks Damages for Fending Off Community Health Buyout Bid

-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-05-13T17:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/tenet-healthcare-seeks-damages-for-fending-off-community-health-buyout-bid.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  will seek
damages for the cost of resisting  Community Health  Systems Inc.
now-terminated takeover bid, a Tenet lawyer said.  Community Health dropped a $7.3 billion offer to buy
Dallas-based Tenet on May 10 after Tenet had rejected a takeover
three times. Community Health, the second-largest U.S. hospital
operator, also withdrew a slate of 10 nominees for Tenet’s
board.  While fending off the offer, Tenet had sued Franklin,
Tennessee-based Community Health, alleging the hospital operator
systematically admitted patients for financial rather than
medical purposes and overcharged Medicare.  “They have withdrawn their slate of officers, so that issue
has gone away,” Rob Walters, the lawyer for Tenet, said after a
hearing in federal court today in  Dallas . “We still have the
costs and economic impacts associated with the effort they
made.”  Walters told U.S. District Judge Barbara M.G. Lynn that
Tenet will proceed with the lawsuit. He didn’t say how much the
company would seek in damages. Tenet has until May 16 to file an
amended complaint, according to an order issued by Lynn.  “The law did not support Tenet’s original complaint,” Peter
Duffy Doyle, a lawyer for Community Health, said after the
hearing. “There will be no basis for any further amended
complaint, and we will oppose any claims against Community
Health.”  The judge told the lawyers today that the suit had lost its
urgency once Community Health withdrew its bid.  “It’s gone from hot potato to the slow simmer pile,” she
said.  The case is Tenet Healthcare Corp. v.  Community Health
Systems Inc. (CYH) , 3:11-cv-00732, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  