-- 
Merck Wins FDA Backing for First Hepatitis C Drug in Decade

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T21:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/merck-wins-fda-backing-for-first-hepatitis-c-drug-in-decade-1-.html
Merck & Co. won U.S. approval for the
first hepatitis C drug in almost a decade after studies showed
it cured more patients than existing treatments.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared boceprevir to
treat people with chronic hepatitis C in combination with
interferon-based therapy, the agency said today in a  statement .
The drug will be sold under the name Victrelis.  Merck is competing with  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  to
become the first company since 2002 to market a new medicine for
the liver disease. The drugmakers are among about a dozen
companies seeking to offer hepatitis C treatments that cure more
patients than standard therapy with fewer side effects. Vertex,
based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , expects an FDA decision on
its drug by May 23.  “Victrelis is an important new advance for patients with
hepatitis C,” Edward Cox, director of the FDA’s Office of
Antimicrobial Products, said in the statement. “This new
medication provides an effective treatment for a serious
disease, and offers a greater chance of cure for some patients’
hepatitis C infection compared to currently available therapy.”  Merck plans to start shipping the drug to pharmacies within
a week, Pamela Eisele, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
The agency cleared the medicine for use in patients who still
have some liver function and failed previous drug therapies or
are new to treatment.  Sales Estimates  Sales of Victrelis may surpass $727 million in 2014,
according to the average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, rose 17 cents to
$37.25 at 5:26 p.m. in extended trading after declining 12 cents
to $37.08 at the close of New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Vertex lost 95 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $56.53 in
extended trading after falling 53 cents to $57.48 at the close
of Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  About  170 million  people worldwide, and 3.2 million in the
U.S., have chronic hepatitis C, a bloodborne disease that can
lead to liver cirrhosis and cancer, according to the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. No vaccine exists for
the virus, which is commonly spread through needle-sharing and
can be transmitted sexually in rare cases.  “Merck is deeply committed to innovation in bringing
forward new medicines that significantly address unmet medical
needs, and Victrelis is a shining example of our commitment
being realized,” Kenneth Frazier, Merck’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement.  Panel Recommendations  The current standard therapy for the most common strain of
hepatitis C requires 48 weeks of treatment and fails in about
half of patients, Debra Birnkrant, director of the FDA’s
Division of Antiviral Products, told outside advisers to the
agency who met last month to evaluate Merck’s boceprevir and
Vertex’s telaprevir. The 18-member panel recommended approval of
both drugs in unanimous votes.  Standard treatments combine the antiviral drug ribavirin
with peginterferon, an immune-boosting protein sold by Merck as
PegIntron and Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  as
Pegasys. The FDA approved PegIntron in 2001 and Pegasys in 2002.  Boceprevir and telaprevir are so-called protease inhibitors
that work by blocking an enzyme used by the hepatitis C virus to
copy itself.  The FDA agreed to evaluate both drugs under a six-month
priority-review program reserved for therapies that may provide
major advances. The agency typically takes at least 10 months to
rule on drug applications that aren’t granted  priority status .  Separate clinical trials on boceprevir and telaprevir
showed both drugs cured more patients in less time when used
with approved treatments. There haven’t been clinical studies
that compare whether one drug is more effective than the other.  Both drugs also are under review by the  European Medicines
Agency . Telaprevir would be marketed in  Europe  by Vertex and  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest seller of health products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  