-- 
EU Nations May Vote on Carbon Permit Trading Security Draft on May 19

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-13T11:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/eu-nations-may-vote-on-carbon-permit-trading-security-draft-on-may-19.html
European Union nations may decide
next week on a draft proposal to better protect the bloc’s
carbon-registry system from fraud after thieves stole emission
permits worth about 34 million euros ($49 million) in January.  The EU Climate Change Committee, composed of national
government representatives, is due to meet in Brussels on May
19. It may vote on the EU common registry  regulation  presented
last week by the European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s
regulatory arm, according to a meeting agenda obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Member states are also due to decide on an amendment to the
“carbon leakage” list, which includes 164 manufacturing
industries deemed prone to shifting production elsewhere because
of emission restrictions, the commission said. The EU runs the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas trading program, imposing CO2
limits on more than 11,000 companies.  “The commission is proposing a limited amendment of the
carbon leakage list, with a few sectors and subsectors,” the
commission said in an e-mail. “The potential scope of the
proposed change is only minor, representing at most around 0.3%
of emissions covered by the ETS.”  The proposed regulation on the EU common registry, which
will start operating next year, includes a 24-hour delay in the
transfer of emission permits that may be fraudulent, according
to a draft published today by the European Commission. The
region’s spot carbon market grounded to a halt for 15 days
earlier this year after computer hackers in January illegally
transferred around 2 million allowances. One allowance gives the
right to emit a metric ton of carbon dioxide.  ‘Pretty Good’  The International  Emissions Trading  Association said last
week the commission’s proposal, which includes establishment of
a harmonized alert mechanism in case of emergency, exchange of
information on suspected fraud and two-factor identification of
users, looked “pretty good.” Still, the IETA expresed
“doubts” about several elements, such as the prohibition of
disclosure of permits serial numbers to market participants.  The commission draft also provides for the creation of
trusted accounts lists in the EU registry. Accounts held by the
same holder should be automatically included on the trusted
lists. Transfer of allowances to an account not included in such
a list should be subject to approval by an additional
representative, according to the draft.  While most of the measures will be applicable to the EU
single registry, which will replace the current system of
national registries, some may become mandatory in the current
trading system from 2008 to 2012, Yvon Slingenberg, head of the
emissions unit at the commission, said in March.  Spot Market Control  The move to the single registry is designed to ensure
better control and uniform standards for recording transactions
in the six-year-old EU emissions trading system. Some member
states and firms neglected security rules in national
registries,  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at the
commission, said on Jan. 28.  The commission is also working to improve supervision of
the spot carbon market, which accounts for 10 percent to 15
percent of emissions trading in the EU. It plans to present a
draft regulation on the oversight later this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  