-- 
EU Raises Greek Deficit Forecasts a Calls for New Bailout Package Mount

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T13:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/eu-raises-greek-deficit-forecasts-a-calls-for-new-bailout-package-mount.html
Greece ’s budget deficit is forecast
to exceed the limit under a European Union-led bailout,
reinforcing calls for a new rescue package to stave off default
as EU finance ministers prepare to meet next week.  The fiscal shortfall is seen at 9.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, the European Commission in Brussels
said in an e-mailed statement today. That exceeds the 7.4
percent target adopted by the EU and International Monetary Fund
in reviews of last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion)
rescue.  Greece’s public debt, already the euro area’s biggest
relative to economic output, is forecast to reach 158 percent of
GDP this year. The economy grew 0.8 percent in the first quarter
from the previous period, aiding Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s efforts to stick to an austerity program imposed
under the existing aid deal that has already led to two general
strikes this year.  “Greece is facing a very serious situation,” EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels. “Because of weaker growth last year than expected and
the burden of that, there’s a need to take additional measures
of fiscal consolidation.”  ‘Devastating Implications’  Euro-region finance chiefs meet in Brussels on May 16 to
discuss additional support for Greece. The yield on Greece’s 10
year bond has more than doubled since the bailout, complicating
a return to markets to cover 27 billion euros of financing needs
next year.  The commission and  European Central Bank  have stepped up
their opposition to a restructuring of Greece’s debt. Rehn
warned on May 11 that such a move would have “devastating
implications” for the country and the euro area as a whole.  At the same time,  Europe ’s donor nations insist that Greece
will need to meet tougher conditions than last year to win more
aid. An EU and IMF delegation is currently in Athens, conducting
the fourth quarterly review of the government’s deficit-cutting
program.  After more than a year of austerity, which included higher
taxes and cuts in wages and pensions, Greece’s budget deficit is
still at 10.5 percent of GDP, more than three times the EU
limit. Its debt is rising and will peak at 166 percent of GDP
next year without policy changes, the commission said today.  Protest Marches  The government will submit to parliament a 76 billion-euro
package of spending cuts and asset sales by May 19, government
spokesman  George Petalotis  said today. There will be
“corrective measures” in public sector employee benefits and
no across-the-board salary or pension cuts in the new package,
he said in comments broadcast on state-run NET television.  About 18,000 demonstrators attended union-organized marches
on May 11 to protest the government’s measures.  Eurostat also released deficit forecasts and GDP figures
for Ireland and  Portugal , the two euro-region countries that
followed Greece in taking bailouts. Ireland’s deficit is
forecast to be 10.5 percent this year. Portugal, which
contracted 0.7 percent in the first three months, will have a
5.9 percent deficit, the commission said.  The 17-member euro region’s deficit is forecast to be 4.3
percent of GDP this year, while debt will reach 87.7 percent,
according to the commission.  Record Unemployment  Greece’s  Finance Ministry  blames the deeper-than-forecast
recession for the government’s failure to meet its 9.4 percent
deficit target last year and for a 1.9 billion-euro revenue
shortfall in the first four months of 2011. The ministry said in
an e-mailed statement the return to growth in the first quarter
is a positive sign that will help boost revenue going forward.  Greek GDP contracted a revised 4.4 percent last year. The
economy is forecast to shrink 3.5 percent this year, according
to today’s EU forecast.  Record unemployment and an inflation rate that reached 5.7
percent in September have damped consumer and business spending.
Unemployment rose to 15.9 percent in February, the  Hellenic
Statistical Authority  said yesterday, the most since it began
reporting the figures on a monthly basis in 2004. Inflation
slowed to 3.7 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  