-- 
EU Revives Threat of Duties on Indian Stainless Steel Fasteners

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-13T09:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/eu-revives-threat-of-duties-on-indian-stainless-steel-fasteners.html
The European Union revived a threat
to impose tariffs on screws and bolts from  India , saying EU
producers may be victims of subsidies and price undercutting.  The EU opened probes into whether Indian manufacturers of
stainless steel fasteners receive trade-distorting  government
aid  and sell the goods in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a
practice known as  dumping . In July 2010, the EU closed similar
inquiries covering imports of the same goods from India and
 Malaysia  without imposing duties.  The new investigations will determine whether EU producers
of stainless steel fasteners have suffered “injury” as a
result of any unfair Indian competition, the European
Commission, the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in
the  Official Journal .  The two probes stem from March 31 complaints by the
 European Industrial Fasteners Institute  on behalf of producers
that account for more than 25 percent of EU output of stainless
steel fasteners, according to the commission, which didn’t
identify any manufacturers. The same lobby group, which
represents companies including  Italy ’s Fontana Luigi SpA, was
behind the cases covering India and Malaysia that were closed
last year.  The European producers’ organization was also behind a
separate dumping dispute that led the EU in January 2009 to
impose five-year tariffs as high as 85 percent on Chinese screws
and bolts. That case excluded fasteners made of stainless steel.  Under EU practices, the commission can impose provisional
anti-subsidy duties for four months and provisional anti-dumping
levies for six months. The EU’s national governments -- acting
on a commission proposal -- can turn those measures into
“definitive” five-year duties at the same or different rates.  The commission has nine months from the start of an
investigation to decide on provisional measures. EU governments
have 13 months from the beginning of a probe to impose five-year
anti-subsidy -- or “countervailing” -- duties and 15 months to
impose definitive anti-dumping measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  