-- 
European Stocks Slide for Second Week as Mining Companies, Banks Retreat

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/european-stocks-slide-for-second-week-as-mining-companies-banks-retreat.html
European stocks retreated for a
second week as a selloff in commodity producers and renewed
sovereign-debt concern in the euro area offset company earnings
that topped analysts’ estimates.  BG Group Plc and  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  both sank more than 7
percent as crude oil fell below $100 a barrel and silver failed
to rebound from the previous week’s plunge.  Banco Espirito Santo
SA (BES)  and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  led a retreat in banks, each
sliding more than 2 percent. A.P. Moeller-Maersk and Vallourec
SA rallied after reporting a jump in profit.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.3 percent to 280.5.
The previous week the benchmark gauge dropped 0.9 percent, also
led by mining and energy companies as $99 billion of market
value was wiped off commodities.  “It’s been a week of rapid shifts in risk appetite
characterized by deleveraging of commodity positions,” said
Ioan Smith, a London-based director at Knight Capital  Europe 
Ltd. “Corporate earnings for the most part have been positive,
but macro events tended to overshadow.”  The Stoxx 600 has still rebounded 7 percent from this
year’s low on March 16 as government stimulus measures and
company profits bolstered confidence in the global economic
recovery.  Ninety-four companies on the Stoxx 600 were scheduled to
report results this week. Of the 298 that have reported earnings
since April 11, 58 percent have beaten analyst forecasts for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Portugal in Recession  Reports this week showed  Germany  and France drove economic
growth in the euro area in the first quarter as booming exports
fueled domestic spending in the bloc’s core. German and French
gross domestic product rose 1.5 percent and 1 percent
respectively, beating economists’ forecasts.  Portugal ’s economy
shrank for a second straight quarter sending the country back
into recession.  Commodity prices failed to recoup losses this week after
Chinese inflation figures stayed above the government’s target,
stoking concern that further monetary tightening may curb the
country’s economic growth. The nation’s central bank also raised
reserve ratios for its largest lenders.  BG led a selloff in energy producers, dropping 7.9 percent
in London. Royal Dutch Shell Plc retreated 3.3 percent and BP
Plc declined 2.8 percent. Crude oil dropped below $100 a barrel
in  New York  as the U.S. Energy Department reported a surge in
stockpiles in the previous week.  Fresnillo, Xstrata Slip  Fresnillo, the world’s largest primary silver producer,
tumbled 7.8 percent in London, extending last week’s 12 percent
selloff.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s fourth-biggest copper
producer, declined 5.8 percent, while Antofagasta Plc, which
owns copper mines in Chile, slid 5.1 percent. Copper finished
little changed on the week in London, after two weeks of losses.  Banks in Europe also retreated as officials agreed to
review the terms of  Greece ’s bailout and as  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded Greece’s debt by two levels to B. The ratings firm
also said that Portuguese banks need to take “decisive
actions” to meet their core tier 1  capital requirements .  National Bank of Greece, the country’s largest lender, lost
2.2 percent, while  Espirito Santo , Portugal’s biggest publicly
traded bank in market value, dropped 3.4 percent. Spain’s  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the nation’s second-largest
lender, fell 4.7 percent.  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. Spain’s IBEX 35 plunged 2.4 percent and
France’s CAC 40 Index slid 1 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
fell 0.9 percent and Germany’s DAX Index dropped 1.2 percent.  Maersk, Vallourec  Maersk paced advancing shares, jumping 5.2 percent in
Copenhagen after the owner of the world’s largest container line
posted an 85 percent jump in net income.  Vallourec surged 6.1 percent as the French producer of
steel pipes for the oil and gas industry reported a 35 percent
gain in first-quarter profit.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. surged 10 percent
after posting first-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
exceptional items that rose to 230 million euros ($324 million)
from 150 million euros a year earlier.  Hermes International SCA gained 7.9 percent as first-
quarter sales increased 26 percent, while Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc rose 2.5 percent after Europe’s second-biggest tobacco
company announced a 500 million-pound ($809 million) share
buyback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  