-- 
European Stocks Slide, Erasing Weekly Advance; Commerzbank Falls

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-13T16:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/european-stock-futures-climb-vivendi-thyssenkrupp-enel-may-be-active.html
European stocks declined for a second
day, erasing the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s weekly gain, as a drop
in banks overshadowed better-than-estimated earnings at  Vivendi
SA (VIV)  and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-largest lender, sank 3.3
percent. Portugal’s Banco BPI SA retreated as the nation slipped
back into recession amid government spending cuts. Vivendi
climbed 1.5 percent as the owner of the world’s biggest music
and video-game companies said first-quarter income increased 29
percent. EADS gained 5.8 percent.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.5 percent to 280.5 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London , bringing this week’s decrease to 0.3
percent. The measure has rallied 7 percent from this year’s low
on March 16 as companies including PSA Peugeot Citroen and
Ericsson AB reported results that topped analysts’ estimates and
the U.S. Federal Reserve maintained its pledge to keep  interest
rates  low for an extended period.  “We believe economic momentum has peaked and a slowdown in
growth rates is imminent,” Fredrik Nerbrand, the global head of
 asset allocation  at HSBC Holdings Plc wrote in a report.
“Relative valuations appear fair on consensus earnings
estimates, but these earnings forecasts appear overly
optimistic. We take a fairly conservative view on risk at the
moment with a focus on capital preservation rather than
appreciation.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 slipped 0.1 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 0.3 percent and Germany’s DAX lost 0.6
percent.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 sank 1.3 percent as  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
slid 1.9 percent.  The European Commission raised its 2011 inflation forecast
for the euro region to 2.6 percent from 2.2 percent, adding
pressure on the  European Central Bank  to increase borrowing
costs further. In the U.S., a government report showed the cost
of living rose 0.4 percent in April, led by gains in food and
fuel prices that are beginning to filter through to other goods
and services.  Stocks fell even as euro-region economic growth accelerated
in the first quarter, powered by forecast-topping expansion in
Germany and France that offset the impact of tougher austerity
measures from Ireland to Spain. Gross domestic product in the
17-member euro area rose 0.8 percent from the fourth quarter,
the European Union’s statistics office said. Economists had
forecast 0.6 percent expansion, according to the median of 31
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Commerzbank Slides  Commerzbank lost 3.3 percent to 3.99 euros, the lowest
level in more than two years.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  fell 2.4
percent to 2.05 euros as Italy’s second-biggest bank said profit
declined 4 percent.  Santander, Spain’s largest lender, slipped 1.9 percent to
8.01 euros. The nation’s banks increased their European Central
Bank borrowings to 42.1 billion euros in April from 41 billion
euros in March, the Bank of Spain said today.  Banco BPI retreated 1.7 percent to 1.24 euros and  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES)  lost 1 percent to 2.94 euros. Portugal’s
economy shrank for a second quarter in the three months through
March, putting the country back into recession as the government
tries to cut spending and raises taxes to narrow its  budget
deficit . GDP dropped 0.7 percent from the fourth quarter, when
it fell a revised 0.6 percent, the Lisbon-based National
Statistics Institute said.  Bank Capital  Portuguese banks will need to take “decisive actions” to
comply with the  capital requirements  that have been set for the
end of 2012,  Standard & Poor’s  said today.  International investors view a sovereign default by a euro-
area nation as more likely than not with more than four-fifths
betting  Greece  will eventually fail to pay off its debt. Eighty-
five percent of those surveyed this week said Greece probably
will default, with majorities predicting the same fate for
Portugal and Ireland, which followed Greece in seeking European
Union-led bailouts, a new Bloomberg Global Poll shows. The
outlook for all three countries deteriorated since January.  Edenred (EDEN)  SA, the world’s largest seller of meal and service
vouchers, sank 2.2 percent to 21.38 euros as Morgan Stanley
downgraded the shares to “underweight” from “equal-weight,”
saying the rally since the company was split from Accor SA,
Europe’s largest hotel company, in July has left the shares
“too expensive.” The stock has increased 57 percent since the
end of July.  Prysmian, Vivendi  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  dropped 3.4 percent to 14.96 euros after the
Italian maker of cables was cut to “underperform” from
“outperform” at CA Cheuvreux.  Vivendi advanced 1.5 percent to 19.41 euros. The company
reported an increase in adjusted net income, or profit excluding
one-time gains and some costs, to 950 million euros from 736
million euros a year earlier as sales grew in its video-game and
Brazilian telecommunications units. Profit had been predicted at
793 million euros, the average of nine analyst estimates.  EADS gained 5.8 percent to 23.09 euros as earnings before
interest, taxes and exceptional items rose to 230 million euros
from 150 million euros a year ago. The owner of Airbus SAS
confirmed is 2011 guidance for higher revenue than last year,
with Ebit before special items to remain in line with the 2010
level of 1.3 billion euros.  Of the 298 companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported
earnings since April 11, 58 percent have beaten analyst
forecasts for per-share profit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 72 percent of U.S. companies in
the same period.  Vallourec SA (VK)  surged 6.1 percent to 89.18 euros as the
French producer of steel pipes for the oil and gas industry
reported a 35 percent gain in first-quarter net income.  Aurubis AG (NDA)  soared 4.3 percent to 42.62 euros, the most in
five months, as Europe’s biggest copper smelter posted a 44
percent jump in first-half earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  