-- 
European Coal Derivatives May Rise Supported by Oil Prices

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-05-13T12:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/european-coal-prices-increase-1-head-for-a-weekly-advance.html
European coal derivatives may rise,
supported by higher  oil prices  as euro zone economic data
increased speculation fuel demand will rise on the continent.  Crude was 1.5 percent higher by 8:37 a.m. in New York. It
gained after European Union statistics showed economic growth
among the 17 nations using the euro accelerated to 0.8 percent
in the first quarter from 0.3 percent in the fourth, beating the
median forecast of 0.6 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Oil’s definitely driving the sentiment,” Karim Kanji,
director, head of coal trading at  Barclays Capital  in London,
said by phone today. “You have stronger European gas and power
prices, probably linked to oil too.”  Costlier oil, a benchmark for gas prices on mainland
 Europe , makes coal more competitive to burn by generators with
plants running on both fuels. Coal for delivery to Amsterdam,
Rotterdam or Antwerp with settlement next year rose as high as
$129 a metric ton and was unchanged at $127.75 by 1:41 p.m. in
London. A close at that level would be a 0.6 percent drop for
the week.  Profit from running coal-fired  power plants  for next month,
the so-called clean-dark spread, is about 8.50 euros ($12.14) a
megawatt-hour, compared with 4.31 euros from burning natural
gas, Bloomberg data showed. The calculation uses electricity
prices in Germany and takes emissions costs into account.  The coal-derivative data are drawn from information
supplied by ICAP Plc,  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , Spectron Group Ltd.,
Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS McCloskey, Bloomberg, Tradition
Financial Services and Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  