-- 
Euro Gains as Data Show Growth in Germany, France; Yen, Dollar Strengthen

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-13T15:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/euro-appreciates-as-economic-data-shows-german-french-growth-on-fire-.html
The euro advanced against most major
counterparts as the region’s economic growth accelerated,
bolstering the case for further interest-rate increases by the
 European Central Bank .  The shared currency’s gains were tempered by concern Greece
will need to restructure its debt. The yen rose as Japanese
Economy and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said its
strength resulted from a weaker dollar, not independent gains.
The dollar strengthened versus most peers after U.S. consumer
prices increased in line with forecasts, while  South Africa ’s
rand headed for its worst weekly loss in 18 months.  “It shows you the dichotomy in the region: Germany and
 France  are so strong, and so the ECB says ‘We have to hike,’ and
then you have the periphery collapsing,” said  Win Thin , head of
emerging market strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York. “A strong euro and higher  interest rates  are not going to
help the periphery, so there is still a weight.”  The euro declined 0.6 percent to $1.4165 at 11:30 a.m. in
New York, compared with $1.4246 yesterday, while rising versus
11 of its 16 most-traded peers. It depreciated 0.9 percent to
114.29 yen, from 115.31 yen yesterday. The Japanese currency
advanced 0.3 percent to 80.69 per dollar, from 80.94.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.4 percent to 75.524.  The U.S. consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent in
April, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department showed today
in  Washington . It rose 0.5 percent in March.  Yen Gains  The yen strengthened against most of its major
counterparts, boosted by speculation  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. is
repatriating overseas funds to pay for damages and compensation
in the wake of this year’s nuclear power-plant disaster after an
earthquake and tsunami March 11.  Standard & Poor’s  said it
lowered its long-term corporate credit and debt ratings on Tokyo
Electric to BBB, from BBB+.  The market interpreted Yosano’s comments about the role of
a weak dollar in the yen’s rise “as an indication that a
faction of policy makers remain less concerned about recent yen
strength given the need for increased imports of energy and
reconstruction supplies,” said Andrew Cox, a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  “This potential division diminishes the potential for a
quick move to intervene if the yen continues to strengthen
against the dollar,” Cox said.  Euro Region GDP  The 17-member euro area’s gross domestic product rose 0.8
percent from the fourth quarter, the fastest since the second
quarter of 2010, powered by expansion in Germany and France. The
German economy jumped 1.5 percent from the previous three months
and French GDP grew 1 percent, both more than forecast.  The ECB increased its main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent
last month, from a record low 1 percent. Investors expect the
bank will boost the rate by 91 basis points over the next 12
months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index shows. That’s up from 71
basis points of tightening predicted on May 9, even as concern
escalates that  Greece  may need extra financial aid.  Eighty-five percent of international investors surveyed
this week in a Bloomberg poll said Greece probably will default,
with majorities predicting the same fate for Portugal and
Ireland, which followed Greece in seeking European Union-led
bailouts. The outlook for all three deteriorated since January.  Rand Tumbles  South  Africa ’s rand was the worst performer against the
dollar as data showed the jobless rate in Africa’s biggest
economy increased to 25 percent in the first quarter. The
 Reserve Bank  left interest rates unchanged this week at 5.5
percent to help spur economic recovery even as a report next
week is forecast to show inflation at 4.4 percent in April.  “The knock on the SARB is that even with inflation
creeping up, they’re not going to be able to hike because
they’re under pressure to maintain stimulus due to the labor
sector,” said Brown Brother’s Thin.  The rand tumbled 1.5 percent to 7.0016 per dollar and was
poised for a weekly loss of 4.3 percent, the biggest drop since
October 2009.  The pound weakened after a report by the  Institute for
Fiscal Studies  said U.K. living standards will fall, spurring
bets that monetary policy tightening by the  Bank of England  will
lag behind that of the euro region.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is trying to
reduce a deficit running at about 10 percent of GDP through
March by raising taxes and implementing public spending cuts
that the IFS says are the deepest since World War II.  Sterling slid 0.2 percent to 87.62 pence per euro and
dropped 0.5 percent to $1.6208.  Norwegian Krone  Norway’s krone fell versus the greenback after earlier
rising versus most major counterparts as the nation increased
the growth forecast for its non-oil dependent industries.  The mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and shipping,
will expand 3.25 percent this year, the government said, up from
an October forecast for 3.1 percent, and grow 3.5 percent next
year, the government said.  The krone weakened 0.4 percent to 5.5288 per dollar, after
earlier appreciating 0.8 percent. It has gained about 6 percent
against the U.S. currency this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  