-- 
EU Raises Inflation Estimate, Increasing Pressure on ECB

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-13T10:33:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/european-commission-raises-inflation-estimate.html
The European Commission raised its
inflation forecast for the euro region this year and projected
the economy to gather strength next year, adding pressure on the
 European Central Bank  to increase borrowing costs further.  Inflation in the euro region may average 2.6 percent this
year instead of a previously projected 2.2 percent, the
Brussels-based commission said in its European Economic Forecast
published today. In 2012, annual consumer-price growth may slow
to 1.8 percent. Gross domestic product will rise 1.6 percent
this year and 1.8 percent next, it said.  The ECB last month raised its benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points to 1.25 percent, the first increase in almost three
years, to fight oil-driven inflation. While governments from
Greece to  Portugal  are struggling to contain a debt crisis and
restore investor confidence, strengthening euro-region growth is
giving policy makers room to focus on price pressures, with
 Belgium ’s Luc Coene saying on May 11 that inflation risks have
“shifted to the upside.”  “The risks to the inflation outlook are clearly tilted to
the upside” and “further hikes in commodity prices can’t be
ruled out,” European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary
Affairs Olli Rehn told reporters in Brussels today. “The
European economy is set to continue its recovery over the
forecast horizon but developments remain uneven across member
states” and “tensions continue in sovereign-debt markets.”  Economic Expansion  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.4298 at 12:09 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.4 percent.  The euro-region economy expanded 0.8 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, when it grew 0.3
percent, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
report today. Economists had forecast GDP to gain 0.6 percent in
that period, according to the median of 31 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. GDP rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier.  In  Germany  and  France , the region’s two largest economies,
growth accelerated more than economists expected in the first
quarter. Germany’s economy grew 1.5 percent from the fourth
quarter, while France expanded 1 percent. That’s helping offset
tougher austerity measures in periphery countries and softens
the impact of rising borrowing costs.  ‘Extremely Alert’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on May 5 that
the bank may keep main lending rates on hold when policy makers
meet next month by refraining from using the phrase “strong
vigilance.” Still, the central bank is “extremely alert” on
price developments, he said last week.  Crude  oil prices  have increased about 9 percent this year,
breaching $100 a barrel in February. The commission forecast oil
prices to average $117 a barrel this year and next, saying that
the “still sizeable slack in the economy is expected to keep
both wage growth and underlying inflation in check, partly
offsetting expected increases in energy and commodity prices.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that
monetary “normalization lies ahead as economic slack gradually
dissipates,” when calling the debt crisis the “most pressing
challenge.” The economies of  Greece  and Portugal may shrink
this year, while Spain and Ireland will return to growth, it
said.  Greek bonds rallied this week on expectations that
authorities will consent to another loan program to prevent a
default. Greece’s first package worth 110 billion euros ($158
billion), 67.5 billion euros for Ireland and 78 billion euros
that Portugal is set to obtain on May 16, will put the bill for
quelling the debt crisis at 256 billion euros.  ‘Unprecedented’ Effort  “While the fiscal effort of the past year is
unprecedented, it’s clear that Greece has to seriously reinforce
the implementation of its economic reforms” and “ensure full
implementation,” Rehn said. The Greek economy’s rebound in the
first quarter, with GDP rising 0.8 percent from the previous
three months “is certainly good news.”  With governments cutting spending and raising taxes to plug
shortfalls, companies have relied on export demand to bolster
sales.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, on May
4 forecast full-year profit to jump at least 75 percent, more
than previously projected, after orders in India and  China 
surged 58 percent and 15 percent respectively in the quarter
ended March 31. Emerging-market orders rose 52 percent, the
Munich-based company said.  ‘Booming’ Sales  The Washington-based IMF forecasts the global economy to
expand 4.4 percent this year and 4.5 percent next, with the
euro-region economy growing 1.6 percent and 1.8 percent,
respectively. China’s GDP may rise 9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5
percent in 2012, the fund estimates.  Bulgari SpA (BUL) , the Rome-based jeweller being acquired by  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , returned to a profit in the
first quarter and said it’s optimistic about its growth
prospects. Watch revenue improved “significantly” in April and
sales of fragrances are “booming,” Chief Executive Officer
Francesco Trapani said on May 10.  “The eurozone economy had a buoyant start to the year,”
said  Nick Kounis , an economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam.
“However, there is early evidence that growth has since lost
momentum, and given fiscal consolidation, higher oil prices and
moderating world trade growth, we think that a slower pace of
expansion is on the cards.”  European economic confidence weakened in April and German
investor sentiment dropped more than economists estimated.
French business confidence also weakened last month.  “The forecast for 2011 is clouded by geopolitical and
economic uncertainties,”  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, the French
maker of Birkin handbags, said on May 11 after reporting a 26
percent increase in revenue for the first quarter. “As a
result, it is difficult to make any projections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  