-- 
Teva, Mylan Anchen Win Patent Ruling Over Amrix Infringement

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-05-13T20:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/teva-mylan-anchen-win-patent-ruling-over-amrix-infringement.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
Mylan Inc. and Anchen Pharmaceuticals Inc. won a judge’s ruling
over their planned generic version of the muscle-relaxant Amrix.  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and  Eurand NV (EURX)  sued for patent-infringement in
2008 in federal court in  Delaware . U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson decided yesterday that while Teva’s Barr
Pharmaceuticals unit, Mylan and Anchen infringed two patents for
the formulation, the patents aren’t valid because the technology
would be obvious to a skilled chemist.  “Cephalon is reviewing the court’s opinion and is
evaluating its options, including an appeal,” the company said
today in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Teva, the world’s largest generic-drug maker, said on May 2
it agreed to buy Cephalon for about $6.2 billion.  The lawsuit was filed after the generic-drug makers applied
to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  for permission to make
low-cost copies of  Amrix . The companies conceded that their
version of the formula infringed and claimed the patents weren’t
valid.  Scientists “would have been motivated to take a group of
known elements to create an extended release version” of the
drug, and “to have a reasonable expectation of success,”
Robinson wrote in her 42-page opinion. “Therefore the invention
was obvious.”  Depositary Receipts  Teva U.S. spokeswoman Denise Bradley in North Wales,
Pennsylvania, said the company would have no comment.  Officials of Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan, as well
as John Mooney, representing Anchen in Irvine,  California , and
Sandra Tremblay, a spokeswoman for Mont-Saint-Hilaire, Canada-
based Aptalis, successor to Eurand, didn’t immediately return
voice or e-mail messages seeking comment on the decision.  American depositary receipts of Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, each representing one ordinary share, fell 13 cents to
$49.67 at 4:29 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. Cephalon, based in Frazer,  Pennsylvania , fell 5 cents
to $79.70, and Mylan was unchanged at $24.09 on the Nasdaq.  The case is Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Patent
Litigation, 09-2118, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 7,387,793, 7,544,372.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  