-- 
Exxon, Total to Partner in Poland For Shale Gas Exploration

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-13T15:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/exxon-total-to-partner-in-poland-for-shale-gas-exploration.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Total SA (FP) ,
 Europe ’s third-largest oil company, have signed a partnership
for exploration of shale gas in  Poland .  Under the agreement announced today, Exxon will have 51
percent and operate the Chelm and Werbkowice exploration
concessions in the Lublin Basin of southeastern Poland,
according to a statement from Paris-based Total. The French
company will have a 49 percent stake in the concessions.  “The entry into these concessions reflects Total’s
commitment to expanding activities in unconventional gas,
notably in Europe,” Total said in the statement.  The move into Poland to explore for unconventional gas
follows passage this week by the French National Assembly of a
bill that would ban the use of hydraulic fracturing in  France , a
technique used to explore for hydrocarbons locked in shale rock.
The French government and environmental groups have said use of
the technology can harm the environment by contaminating land
and water tables. The bill still needs approval in the Senate.  Poland’s reserves of shale and so-called tight gas may be
as much as 3 trillion cubic meters, according to estimates by
consultant  Advanced Resources International Inc.  Shale
formations consist of dense rock that can be broken apart using
water, sand and chemicals to  release  oil or gas.  Exxon has already started using seismic data to explore the
Chelm concession and has drilled an exploratory well, according
to today’s statement.  U.S. Shale  Total entered the U.S. shale-gas business last year
agreeing to pay $800 million for 25 percent of  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) ’s assets in the Barnett Shale field in Texas. In addition
to the U.S., Total plans to develop unconventional gas in
Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Canada,  China  and Denmark, Total
has said.  Total’s five-year Montelimar permit in France allowed the
company to search for shale gas in an area that spans 4,327
square kilometers (1,671 square miles) from south of Valence to
areas around Montpellier. The company won’t use hydraulic
fracturing on the permit, although it’s not clear whether the
license will be revoked, de Margerie said today.  Unconventional resources are part of the company’s strategy
to lift production by an average of 2 percent annually through
2015, a target reiterated today by de Margerie. Output will be
“relatively stable” this year amid a gap in new projects
starting and a halt in output from  Libya . Total will add to its
production this year from its acquisition of a 12 percent stake
in Russia’s OAO Novatek.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  