-- 
Falcone’s Harbinger to Raise $280 Million

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-13T17:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/falcone-s-harbinger-to-raise-280-million.html
Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , the holding
company run by hedge-fund manager  Philip Falcone , is raising
$280 million from a group led by  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)   The investors agreed to purchase 280,000 shares of
convertible preferred stock at $1,000 apiece from New York-based
Harbinger, according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The company will use the money for
general corporate purposes, which may include investments and
acquisitions, the firm said in the filing.  CF Turul LLC, a Fortress fund affiliated with Constantine
Dakolias, the co-chief investment officer for the firm’s credit
funds, will invest $205 million, the filing shows. Fortress is a
New York-based manager of private-equity and hedge funds.  A pair of funds affiliated with Providence Equity Partners
Inc. in Providence,  Rhode Island , will purchase $50 million of
the preferred stock, according to the filing. Wilton Re Holdings
Ltd., a Wilton, Connecticut, life reinsurance company, will make
a $25 million investment.  The preferred stock will accrue a quarterly cash dividend
at an annualized rate of 8 percent and will be convertible into
Harbinger common stock at $6.50 a share, according to the
filing. That would give investors a 23.6 percent stake in
Harbinger based on the company’s 139.2 million shares
outstanding as of April 28.  Francis McCarrron, Harbinger’s chief financial officer,
declined to comment beyond what was in the filing. Harbinger
shares rose 21 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $6.53 at 1:04 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Batteries and Insurance  Falcone created Harbinger in July 2009 after using his
 hedge funds  to acquire a majority stake in a predecessor company
from the family of financier Malcolm Glazer. Harbinger holds a
majority stake in Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc., a Madison,
Wisconsin-based manufacturer of pet food and batteries, and owns
Old Mutual U.S. Life Holdings Inc., a provider of fixed-annuity
products.  According to a November filing, Falcone plans to use
Harbinger to finance long-term investments in six industries,
including consumer products, insurance and financial products,
telecom, agriculture, power generation and water and natural
resources. The company raised $350 million in November through
the sale of five-year bonds at a yield to maturity of 11
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  