-- 
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Aid Would Be Capped Under GOP Plan

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-05-13T18:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-bailout-would-be-capped-under-gop-plan.html
House Republicans  will seek to cap
the bailout of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the government-run
companies that have drawn more than $160 billion from taxpayers
so far.  A draft bill to limit aid to the companies is one of seven
in the works by House Republicans, their second package of
measures aimed at reining in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac while
policy makers work on plans to dismantle the companies.
Representative  Scott Garrett , the New Jersey Republican leading
the House effort to overhaul the mortgage companies, released
summaries of the second package of bills today.  The draft legislation doesn’t specify what the bailout cap
should be. In 2008, the  U.S. Treasury  took control of nearly 80
percent of  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac in exchange for a promise
of unlimited aid.  Although the companies are showing signs of financial
health as failed subprime loans are refinanced, foreclosed or
sold, they continue to request more government aid.  Garrett, who leads a panel of the House Financial Services
Committee, said some of the bills will lack concrete details
until his subcommittee holds hearings later this month.  “We want a thoughtful discussion,” Garrett told
reporters. “There are myriad issues that need to be considered
and reconciled so we don’t have the law of unintended
consequences.”  Limiting aid to the companies, for example, could unsettle
bond markets and might expose the government to lawsuits from
investors if it’s not done correctly, Garrett said.  Democratic Senate  Even if the bills were passed by the  House of
Representatives , they have little chance of becoming law as long
as Democrats control a majority in the  U.S. Senate .  Another measure announced today would prevent the Treasury
from reducing a 10 percent dividend the government-sponsored
entities pay on the aid they’ve received.  Other bills in the package would eliminate subsidies for
affordable housing, force Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to sell off
patents and other assets and ban the companies from paying
employees’ legal fees.  In March, Republicans introduced a package of eight bills
to begin winding down the companies while policy makers work on
a broader overhaul of the mortgage market. Garrett said he plans
to unveil a third round of bills this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  