-- 
Farmland Values Surge 20% in Central U.S., Kansas City Fed Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-05-13T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/farmland-values-surge-20-in-central-u-s-kansas-city-fed-says.html
Farmland values in the central U.S.
surged in the first quarter as higher prices for crops and
cattle sparked demand for rural properties, the  Federal Reserve
Bank of Kansas City  said.  Average prices jumped 20 percent for irrigated and non-
irrigated cropland in parts of seven states from the year-
earlier quarter, with the biggest gains in  Nebraska  and Kansas,
the bank said today in a report on its website. Ranchland rose
11 percent. More than two-thirds of rural bankers surveyed said
land values will stabilize as growing season begins in the next
three months.  “Shrinking crop inventories and intense competition for
planted acreage lifted crop prices, while stronger protein
demand boosted livestock prices,” Brian Briggeman and Mary
Akers, bank economists, said in the report. “With robust farm
income, farmland values posted sharp gains akin to the swift
rise in 2008.”  The bank’s region includes all or parts of Kansas,
Colorado, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, northern  New Mexico  and
western Missouri. The  Kansas City , Missouri-based bank’s
quarterly survey included responses from 256 banks involved in
agricultural lending.  Land values  rose in tandem with commodity prices that have
increased as the global economic recovery boosted demand, while
adverse weather reduced grain supplies in exporting countries
around the world.  Commodity Rally  Corn, soybean and wheat futures were all at least 50
percent higher at the end of the first quarter than a year
earlier. Hog and cattle futures traded in  Chicago  jumped at
least 25 percent. Farm income may rise 20 percent to a record
$94.7 billion this year, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
in February.  Agriculture accounts for 1 percent of the $14.3 trillion
 U.S. economy , and may be as much as 15 percent when related
businesses such as farm supplies, grain handling and food making
are included, Briggeman estimates.  Farm-credit conditions remained stable in the first
quarter, lenders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  