-- 
U.S. Bought $1 Billion During March Yen Intervention, Federal Reserve Says

-- B y   L i z   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-13T16:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/fed-bought-1-billion-of-u-s-currency-during-march-g-7-yen-intervention.html
The Federal Reserve bought $1 billion
of the U.S. currency on March 18, when Group of Seven nations
intervened to halt the surge in the yen after  Japan  was struck
by the nation’s worst earthquake on record.  The purchases were the first transactions by the U.S. in
the $4 trillion-a-day  currency market  since 2000, when global
monetary officials sought to support the euro. The intervention
was disclosed today in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
quarterly report to Congress on foreign-exchange operations.  Central banks and monetary authorities intervened after the
yen surged to a record 76.25 per dollar, raising concern that
the strengthening currency would hamper recovery efforts
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that killed more
than 15,000 people. The New York Fed, which acts on the behalf
of the  U.S. Treasury  in the foreign-exchange market, last
intervened versus the yen in June 1998, when it acquired $833
million of the currency.  “The coordinated G-7 intervention was carried out by the
foreign-exchange trading desk at the  New York  Fed, operating in
conjunction with Japanese monetary authorities, the  European
Central Bank  and the monetary authorities of, Canada and the
 United Kingdom ,” Brian P. Sack, executive vice president of the
New York Fed, wrote in the report. “Yen selling interventions
were conducted by each central bank at the start of its
respective trading day, beginning with the BOJ.”  The yen slid 2.1 percent to 80.58 per dollar the day of the
intervention. The Japanese currency strengthened 0.4 percent to
80.66 yen at 12:42 p.m. in New York, from 80.94 yesterday. It
gained 1.4 percent to 113.66 against the euro.  ‘One-Way Market’  “The size of the intervention shows that the U.S. was
really trying to demonstrate its solidarity with Japan at that
very difficult juncture,” said  Greg Anderson , a senior currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “I am doubtful going
forward that there will be another round of intervention unless
we have, as the G-7 has identified previously, a chaotic one-way
market, as we did the day before this intervention.”  A  Japanese government official said on condition of
anonymity on the day of intervention that his country probably
sold less than 2 trillion yen, the amount it used in its last
intervention. Japan unilaterally sold its currency on Sept. 15.
The U.S. purchase of yen in March was the nation’s largest
foreign-exchange intervention since it acquired $1.134 billion
euros in September 2000.  Fed, Treasury Accounts  The Fed’s intervention last quarter was split evenly
between the  Federal Reserve  System Open Market Account and the
Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund, according to the report.  The value of the Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund
rose to $26.19 billion at the end of March, from $26.03 billion
in the prior quarter, today’s report said. The fund is comprised
of Japanese yen and euro holdings.  The Fed’s System Open Market Account holdings of foreign-
currency-denominated assets rose to $26.21 billion in the
quarter, from $26.05 billion.  The European Central Bank,  Bank of England , Swiss central
bank,  Bank of Japan , as well as the  Bank of Canada  were not
utilizing emergency currency swap lines with the Fed as of March
31, the report said.  The swap lines were provided by the Fed as part of measures
taken since 2007 to combat the effects of the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. The emergency liquidity tool,
which provides dollars as needed, were reintroduced in May 2010
in response to renewed demand by overseas banks for dollar-based
funding.  The swap lines allow the central banks, except for the Bank
of  Canada , to drawn unlimited dollars when needed. In December
2010, the  Federal Open Market Committee  authorized the extension
of these swap lines through Aug. 1, 2011, from a prior
expiration date of Jan. 31, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  