-- 
France Limits Farmers’ Water Use in 26 Departments Amid Drought

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-13T15:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/france-limits-farmers-water-use-in-26-departments-amid-drought.html
French authorities had restricted
water use by farmers in 26 of the country’s 96 departmental
administrative areas in mainland  France , as drought depletes
soil water reserves.  In six areas authorities implemented level three
restrictions, the most severe measures, which range from a ban
on irrigation to no more than two days of water use every week,
the Environment Ministry  reported  on its website today.  France, the European Union’s largest wheat, barley and
sugar beet grower, just had its second-hottest April since 1900
and one of the driest since 1953, the Agriculture Minister
reported last week. The drought is “worrisome” for many
farmers, and the situation is “more adverse” than during the
heat-wave year of 2003 because the dry weather started earlier
in the season, Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said
yesterday.  “ Twenty-six departments  are affected by at least one
prefectural regulation in force as of May 12 limiting water
use,” the  environment ministry  said.  Of the departments with the most severe restrictions on
water use, four are in the Poitou-Charentes region on the
Atlantic coast and one is in the Midi-Pyrenees, in the country’s
southwest. Val de Marne in the Paris region also had level three
restrictions in place.  Poitou-Charentes accounts for about 6.6 percent of  French
wheat production , based on harvest data for the past four years
from crops office FranceAgriMer.  In the main wheat-growing region of Centre, which produces
about 13 percent of France’s crop, level two restrictions,
limiting irrigation to between three and six days a week, were
in place in the Indre department. The Cher department in the
same region had the lowest level of limits, meaning water use in
some prefectures there has been curtailed for one day or less
per week.  In Picardie, which grows 12 percent of French wheat, the
Oise department had implemented level two restrictions and Somme
had the lowest levels of limits on water use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 