-- 
France’s Lagarde Says Aid to Greece to Come From Loans, Not Bailout Fund

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-13T00:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/france-s-lagarde-says-aid-to-greece-to-come-from-loans-not-bailout-fund.html
French finance minister  Christine Lagarde  said any new aid for Greece would come by extending
current bilateral loans rather than making use of the European
Union bailout fund already used to rescue Portugal.  Lagarde said euro-zone countries aren’t likely to draw on
the 60 billion euro ($85 billion) European Financial
Stabilization Mechanism which uses money raised in financial
markets backed by the EU’s budget. Instead, further bilateral
loans and aid from the  International Monetary Fund  would provide
the support, she said.  “The consideration at the moment is to extend those if it
was necessary,” Lagarde said in an interview on  BBC Television 
late yesterday. “What I rule out is restructuring -- there is
no question about it.”  Euro-region finance ministers will meet in Brussels on May
16 to discuss more support for Greece beyond the 110 billion-
euro rescue granted a year ago, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group, said yesterday. The yield on
Greece’s 10-year bond has more than doubled since the bailout to
15.6 percent, complicating its ability to sell bonds.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , speaking
on the same program as Lagarde, said that Britain should refrain
from assisting Greece.  “I don’t think Britain should be involved because we were
not part of the original package which was a euro zone
package,” he said.  Politicians are struggling to convince investors that 256
billion euros in aid to Greece, Ireland and Portugal will be
enough to stamp out Europe’s debt crisis and prevent the euro
region’s first restructuring. The IMF said in a report yesterday
there is risk of contagion to the countries of eastern  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in New York at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  