-- 
France Grows at Fastest Pace Since 2006

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-13T05:43:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/france-grows-at-fastest-pace-since-2006-1-.html
France ’s economy expanded at the
fastest pace in almost five years in the first quarter as
households boosted spending and companies stepped up investment.  Gross domestic product rose 1 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it increased a revised 0.3 percent, Paris-based
statistics office Insee said today. Economists forecast a 0.6
percent gain, the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  The eighth consecutive quarter of growth suggests the
recovery is on track in  Europe ’s second-largest economy, though
the pace probably won’t be kept up during the rest of 2011,
economists said. Industrial production slipped in March after
four monthly gains and confidence among manufactures fell from a
three-year high in April, according to the Bank of France.  “This is not cruising speed for the French economy but any
slowdown going forward will probably be gradual,” said
 Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. “The
first quarter should fit with dropping unemployment.”  France’s manufacturers have benefited this year as exports
have been boosted by domestic demand, helping lift the level of
orders to its highest since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed. Industrial production increased 3.0 percent in the
first quarter.  Consumer Spending  Household spending on manufactured goods rose 1.2 percent
in the quarter, down from a 1.8 percent increase in the previous
three months. Jobless claims have dropped in every month of the
first quarter, according to the labor ministry.  Even so, rising interest rates, surging energy costs and
government budget cuts may act as a break on France’s expansion
in the months ahead.  “Following a strong start to the year, growth is likely to
slow in coming months,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at
ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam.  The economy expanded 2.2 percent in the quarter compared
with a year earlier, Insee said. The statistics office had
originally reported 0.4 percent growth in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  