-- 
Germany and France Power Euro-Area Growth

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-13T08:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/german-economy-swelled-more-than-forecast-in-first-quarter-as-exports-grew.html
Germany  and France powered economic
growth in the euro area in the first quarter as booming exports
fueled domestic spending in the bloc’s core, offsetting turmoil
sparked by sovereign debt woes in Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  German gross domestic product jumped 1.5 percent from the
fourth quarter and the French GDP rose 1 percent, exceeding
economists’ median forecasts of 0.9 percent and 0.6 percent
respectively. Austria’s economy grew 1 percent and Holland’s
expanded 0.9 percent. First-quarter GDP figures for the 17-
nation euro region are due from the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg at 11 a.m.  “Germany and France are the main drivers of growth in the
euro zone,” said Chiara Corsa, an economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan. “We see clear upside risks to our GDP
forecast of 0.6 percent growth for the euro area.”  Expansion in the region’s two largest economies is putting
pressure on the  European Central Bank  to keep raising  interest
rates  even as the debt crisis afflicting peripheral countries
worsens. With German unemployment at a 19-year low helping to
boost  consumer spending , the government predicts growth of 2.6
percent this year after last year’s record 3.6 percent.  “The recovery has become more broad-based,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “While the
German economy certainly won’t keep this fantastic pace, the
outlook is pretty rosy.”  Blue Skies  The euro rose to $1.4303 at 10 a.m. in Frankfurt from
$1.4229 before the German data were published. From a year
earlier, German GDP surged 5.2 percent, the biggest increase
recorded since reunification two decades ago.  “These are fantastic figures,” said Alexander Krueger,
head of capital-market analysis at Bankhaus Lampe KG in
Dusseldorf. “We expect full-year growth of more than 3 percent.
The skies are blue right now for the German economy.”  Company investment, construction and household consumption
all contributed to German growth, the statistics office said.
With exports and imports both expanding, net trade made a
smaller contribution than domestic demand, it said. In France,
export growth accelerated to 1.4 percent from 0.3 percent in the
previous quarter and household spending gained 0.6 percent,
Paris-based Insee said.  Export Boom  German exports surged 7.3 percent in March to the highest
monthly value since records began in 1950, and industrial
production increased for a third month as construction surged.
At 7.1 percent, unemployment is the lowest on record in
reunified Germany.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
luxury vehicles, earned more money per car than ever before in
its 95-year history, the company said May 4.  BASF SE (BAS) , the
world’s biggest chemical company, last week reported first-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  “If anything, the risks for German growth are on the
upside,” said  James Nixon , chief European economist at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “Germany has done its homework, has put
in place some painful reforms and is benefiting now.”  The strength of Germany and France helped boost Spanish
exports, offsetting some of the effects of government spending
cuts.  Spain ’s economy expanded 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
beating the 0.2 percent predicted by the Bank of Spain last
week. Germany and France are Spain’s biggest trading partners.  ‘Huge Divergences’  Some countries are still struggling to revive their
economies after the region’s debt crisis forced governments to
toughen austerity measures.  Greece ’s credit rating was cut two
levels this week to B from BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , which said
further reductions are possible as the risk of default rises.  “There are still huge divergences within the euro zone and
we suspect that growth even in the core will slow during the
course of this year as the export boom fades and the fiscal
squeeze takes hold,” said  Jonathan Loynes , European economist
at Capital Economics Ltd in London. “Accordingly, while we now
expect euro-zone GDP to grow by 1.5 percent this year -- and 2
percent is quite possible -- we don’t expect that to prevent the
fiscal crisis from continuing to deepen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  