-- 
Glencore Initial Offering Orders Said to Close a Day Earlier Than Planned

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-05-13T10:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/glencore-initial-offering-orders-said-to-close-a-day-earlier-than-planned.html
Glencore International Plc, seeking
as much as $11 billion in an initial public offering, will stop
taking orders for the shares a day earlier than announced,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The books will now close at 4 p.m.  London  time on May 17,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is confidential. Demand for the stock has been high,
allowing the sale managers to stop taking applications early,
one of the people said.  The IPO, the largest since General Motors Co. sold shares
in November, will give Glencore a value of $61 billion if priced
at the midpoint of its offer range, the company said last week.
Demand has been enough to sell the shares on offer in the IPO
more than twice over, three people familiar with the sale said
yesterday.  A small number of investors who previously arranged to meet
the sale managers on May 18 will still be able to buy stock that
day, one of the people said. The date the shares start trading
is unchanged, the person said. Conditional London trading will
commence on May 19, according to the prospectus.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment.  Glencore is offering as many as 1.25 billion shares. London
shares are priced at 480 pence to 580 pence ($7.84 to $9.45)
each, a prospectus published last week shows.  Grains, Refineries  The company yesterday priced stock to be listed in Hong
Kong, representing 2.5 percent of the total offer, at HK$61.24
to HK$79.18 ($7.88 to $10.19).  Glencore, which trades commodities including coal, oil and
metals, plans to sell about $7.9 billion of new stock while
existing holders may offload an additional $2.1 billion in
shares for tax purposes and to repay loans. The company said
last month it will use the funds for expansion and acquisitions.  “We are weak on the grain side in the U.S.,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, speaking from London, told
reporters in  Hong Kong  yesterday. “On the oil side, we haven’t
had any financial power before to look at oil refineries because
they are very expensive and it would add and facilitate the
trade part of the business. Those are two areas where we could
see future growth.”  The IPO includes an overallotment option, known as the
greenshoe, of 10 percent of the offer, allowing Glencore to
raise as much as $11 billion. Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse
Group AG and Morgan Stanley are among banks managing the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 