-- 
Investors Rebuff Republicans in Poll as 2-to-1 Say Raise Taxes to Cut Debt

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-05-13T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/global-investors-rebuff-republicans-in-poll-showing-2-to-1-say-raise-taxes.html
Global investors, by an almost 2-to-1
majority, believe the U.S. government won’t be able to
substantially cut its  budget deficit  without raising taxes,
rejecting a core stand of congressional Republicans.  Investors are also pessimistic about prospects for a deal
to cut the federal deficit, a Bloomberg survey found. Almost 6
out of 10 doubt President  Barack Obama  and Republicans will
reach an agreement by the start of the new fiscal year on Oct.
1, according to a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,263
investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  “I don’t think raising taxes is a particularly good idea,
but it might be the only option,” says Thomas Larsen, a trader
at Nordea Treasury in Copenhagen and a poll participant.  Even with pessimism over a long-term deal, more than 7 of
10 poll respondents are confident Congress will raise the $14.29
trillion debt limit and stave off a default on U.S. obligations.
The government will run out of options for avoiding default by
about Aug. 2, according to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Obama’s rise in popularity in U.S public opinion polls
since Navy SEALs killed  Osama bin Laden  isn’t reflected in the
president’s standing among investors. In the Bloomberg poll,
conducted May 9-10, 35 percent of U.S. investors say they have a
favorable opinion of him, compared with 36 percent in January.
Sixty-four percent of U.S. investors have an unfavorable view.  By contrast, 54 percent of the U.S. public views Obama
favorably versus 31 who have a negative opinion of the
president, according to an NBC News poll conducted May 5-7.  Obama Popular Overseas  Overseas investors continue to diverge from their U.S.
counterparts in their appraisal of the president, as they have
since the quarterly poll began in July 2009. Among investors
outside the U.S., two-thirds view Obama favorably and 28 percent
hold a negative view.  Assessments of the U.S. budget impasse show no such
regional variation, with majorities of investors in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Asia  concluding a tax increase is a necessary part of
a deficit-reduction deal. Asked if it is possible to reduce
“substantially” the deficit without raising taxes, 64 percent
of respondents say no, while 33 percent say it’s possible.  The view on taxes is significant because of the political
outlook of the global respondents: Those describing themselves
as “right-of-center” outnumber “left-of-center” investors by
more than 3-to-1; 37 percent say they are “centrists.”  Although U.S. investors say they favor the Republican
approach to the budget, a 55 percent majority says it won’t be
possible to bring down the deficit without raising taxes.  ‘Entitlements Sacrosanct’  Some suggest that tax increases are necessary because
policy makers are unwilling to touch Social Security and health-
entitlement programs such as Medicare, which together make up
more than  40 percent  of the federal budget.  “With entitlements sacrosanct by virtue of the electoral
base (seniors and the poor), the only real option is higher
marginal and progressive taxation,” Alfredo Viegas, director of
emerging markets fixed-income strategy for Knight Libertas in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , says in an e-mail.  Russell Rivera, 33, head trader and equity strategist at
APB Financial Group in  New York , said he prefers the Republican
stance because of its focus on cutting spending, though he is
among the poll respondents who say a tax increase would have to
be included in a deficit-reduction package.  “Spending appears to be the issue,” Rivera says.
“Spending is up significantly by this administration.”  The U.S. will run a budget deficit of $1.5 trillion for the
current fiscal year and about $1.1 trillion for fiscal 2012,
which begins Oct. 1, the Congressional Budget Office projects.  Budget Talks  Vice President  Joe Biden  met yesterday with congressional
negotiators from both parties in the third session of talks on
the deficit. A bipartisan group of senators known as the “Gang
of Six” has been meeting separately to seek common ground.  For all the concern about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year  U.S. Treasury  note was 3.22 percent at 5 p.m.,
New York time, yesterday, below the average of 7 percent since
1980 and the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001
period, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Twenty-two percent of poll respondents say there is a “big
risk” that the deficit in the next two years will trigger a
market crisis resulting in dramatically higher  interest rates .
That figure is up from January’s 18 percent, yet lower than
November’s 24 percent.  Shrugging Off S&P  Likewise, 72 percent of those surveyed say Standard &
Poor’s April 18 move to lower to negative its long-term outlook
on  U.S. government debt  would have either a slight or non-
existent impact on perceptions of U.S. creditworthiness.  Some of those who reject the need to raise taxes and argue
that the deficit can be tackled through spending cuts alone say
one target should be the  defense budget .  The “U.S. is spending too much on energy and defense,”
says Ivaylo Penev, a portfolio manager with Elana Fund
Management in Sofia,  Bulgaria , and a poll participant.  Investors are split over whether Obama or congressional
Republicans offer the better budget solution, with 39 percent
favoring the president’s approach and 38 percent that of the
Republicans. Still, there are strong regional differences.  U.S. investors favor congressional Republicans’ position in
the budget deadlock over Obama’s by 62 percent to 24 percent,
even as they don’t accept the opposition party’s no-tax tenet.
Investors in other countries have the opposite view, with 47
percent taking Obama’s side versus 25 percent the Republicans.
More than a quarter of investors outside the U.S. have no
opinion on the matter.  Global Investors Unimpressed  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, is viewed favorably by 33 percent of respondents,
with 29 percent having a negative opinion. Almost 4 of 10
investors say they have no opinion of him.  Global investors are unimpressed with U.S. Congress members
from either the Democratic or Republican parties. Forty-nine
percent of U.S. investors have a favorable view of congressional
Republicans and 58 percent view Ryan positively. Only 14 percent
of U.S. Bloomberg customers have a favorable opinion of
congressional Democrats.  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, traders
and analysts was conducted by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-
based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  