-- 
Goldman’s O’Neill Says ‘Black Swan’ Fears Overblown, Stocks Set to Rally

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-13T07:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/goldman-s-o-neill-says-black-swan-fears-overblown-stocks-set-to-rally.html
Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, said investors should shed their
pessimism and stop hoarding cash amid prospects for a global
stock rally that could start in China.  The view that “the West is in trouble” is wrong when
nations including Germany, Sweden, Australia and  Canada  are
performing strongly, O’Neill said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Hong Kong, recorded yesterday and broadcast today.
Investors should “stop worrying so much,” said O’Neill, known
for coining the BRIC acronym for  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China.  Global investors have tempered their optimism about the U.S.
and world economies and plan to put more of their money in cash
and less in commodities over the next six months, a quarterly
survey of Bloomberg subscribers showed yesterday. The poll,
conducted May 9-10, also found that investors’ enthusiasm for
stocks is cooling.  O’Neill, 54, said his strongest hunch is that  China ’s
inflation may be close to easing, meaning the Chinese stock
market may “go crazy” in the second half of the year. The
central bank yesterday raised banks’ reserve requirements by
half a percentage point to lock up cash that threatens to fuel
gains in consumer prices.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 1 percent today,
the biggest gain in a month.  ‘Every Little Problem’  In the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, investors
are overly concerned at the possibility of so-called black swan
events, said O’Neill, using a term sometimes used to describe
unlikely occurrences with severe consequences.  “Every little problem that crops up somewhere in the world
is not going to create another black swan,” he said, adding
that “there’s far too much conservatism,” in terms of
investors holding cash.  O’Neill reaffirmed his view that Russian stocks are cheap,
on the same day the nation’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid to a five-month
low on falling commodity prices. He also said that a global
stock rally “could start in China.”  His positive comments on the outlook for China came as two
people with knowledge of the matter said Goldman Sachs plans to
set up a yuan-denominated private equity fund in the nation.
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein attended a ceremony
for Goldman Sachs in Beijing yesterday, the people said,
declining to be identified before an announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net ; or
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  