-- 
Gold One, Producer in South Africa, Halts Shares Ahead of Takeover Accord

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-13T10:27:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/gold-one-producer-in-south-africa-halts-shares-before-takeover-accord.html
Gold One International Ltd. (GDO) , a
producer of the metal in  South Africa , halted trading in its
shares in Sydney and Johannesburg before an announcement about a
takeover.  The move is “pending an announcement by the company of a
change of control transaction,” it said in a letter to the
Australian Stock Exchange today. A statement will be released
before trading starts in Sydney on May 16, Gold One spokesman
Ilja Graulich said by phone from Johannesburg. The company
invited media to a briefing in the South African city at 10 a.m.
that day.  Gold One is in talks with Chinese groups including Baiyin
Nonferrous Metal Group Co. about an offer that could value the
company at more than A$420 million ($448 million), the
Australian Financial Review reported yesterday without saying
where it got the information. Baiyin owns 17.8 percent of Gold
One after buying the stake for A$75.8 million April 21.  Calls to Baiyin’s office in the Gansu province city of the
same name weren’t answered.  Baiyin is jointly invested by Beijing-based  Citic Group  and
Citic Guoan Group, according to Citic’s website. Staff at Citic
Resources Holdings Ltd.’s Hong Kong office said they couldn’t
comment and the company’s investor relations department didn’t
immediately reply to e-mailed questions.  Gold One, with a market value of A$347 million, said in
March it was in talks about potential corporate transactions
including a change of control. Gold One said in April it would
acquire Rand Uranium, a South African gold producer with uranium
assets, for $250 million.  There have been $10.6 billion of gold takeovers announced
worldwide during the second quarter so far, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold One fell 5.5 percent to 43 Australian cents at the
4:10 p.m. close of Sydney trading yesterday, trimming its gain
for the year to 32 percent. The stock gained 1.5 percent in
Johannesburg to 3.35 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net 
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net 
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 