-- 
Greece Defaulting on Debts Anticipated by 85% in Global Poll of Investors

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/greece-defaulting-on-debts-anticipated-by-85-in-global-poll-of-investors.html
International investors view a
sovereign default by a euro-area nation as more likely than not
with more than four-fifths betting  Greece  will eventually fail
to pay off its debt.  Eighty-five percent of those surveyed this week said Greece
probably will default, with majorities predicting the same fate
for  Portugal  and Ireland, which followed Greece in seeking
European Union-led bailouts, a new Bloomberg Global Poll shows.
The outlook for all three countries deteriorated since January.  “All these countries will go bust at some stage,” said
Wilhelm Schroeder, a poll participant who helps manage the
equivalent of about $172 million for Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich. “I just can’t see a scenario in which these countries
get out of their debt problems.”  The pessimism underscores how investors remain unconvinced
that European policy makers can prevent the euro-area’s first
default even as they look to beef up Greece’s 110 billion-euro
rescue package ($156 billion). The cost of insuring against a
Greek default reached a record this week as investors increased
bets the country won’t be able to make good on its borrowing.  Credit default swaps on Greek debt reached an all-time high
1,371 basis points on May 9, the same day the country’s two-year
bond yield closed at a record 25.6 percent.  Debt Rising  The number of survey respondents anticipating a default in
Greece rose 11 percentage points since January and 12 points
from last June, according to the poll of 1,263 investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  Greece, Ireland and Portugal were forced to seek aid as
their swelling budget deficits, prompted investors to shun their
bonds, causing a surge in borrowing costs that made it
prohibitive to tap financial markets. After a year of austerity,
Greece ended 2010 with a  budget deficit  equal to 10.5 percent of
gross domestic product. That was the region’s second largest
after Ireland at 32 percent. Portugal was fourth at 9.1 percent,
three times the EU’s 3 percent limit.  In the quarterly survey, 59 percent regarded Portugal as
likely to renege on its debt, up from just under half at the
start of the year and about a third in June 2010. Fifty-five
percent said Ireland will probably default, an increase from 53
percent in January and 17 percent last June.  Drawing the Line  “Ireland, Portugal and Greece will probably all need to
restructure,” said  James Shugg , a senior economist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in London who responded to the poll. “They are
continually going to need more and more bailout funds, and at
some point the decision will be made to draw the line and get
creditors to participate.”  Investors expressed more confidence in  Spain  with just one
in four saying the euro-area’s fourth-largest economy is likely
to default. Six percent anticipate a default in the U.S. and 5
percent in the U.K.  Three years of recession, higher borrowing costs and weak
 tax revenue  are swamping the spending cuts required in return to
win the initial aid. Greece’s debt reached 143 percent of GDP
last year, the most in the euro-region and is set to peak at 159
percent next year.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit rating of
Greece two levels this week to B from BB- and said further
reductions are possible as the  default risk  rises.  Borrowing Costs  European finance chiefs are considering more aid for Greece
as soaring bond yields jeopardize the country’s return to
financial markets. The original bailout aimed to lower the
country’s borrowing costs enough to permit Greece to sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year. But debt costs remain
stifling, with the country’s 10-year bond yielding 15.5 percent,
more than twice the rate the time of the bailout a year ago.  At an unscheduled meeting in  Luxembourg  last week, EU
officials discussed a “further adjustment program” for Greece.
Among the options being considered are granting easier repayment
terms or deficit conditions on the original bailout. Some
nations are demanding Greece offer collateral in return for any
new loans.  European finance ministers meet in Brussels on May 16-17
and will discuss Greece.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund , which is also
financing the EU bailouts, will attend. Officials rejected talk
this week of a default with European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi describing that option as
“political suicide, which leads many into poverty.”  Portugal, Ireland  Aside from Greece, Portugal is awaiting final EU approval
for its 78 billion-euro lifeline. Irish officials also are
fighting back against speculation they will renege on their 2008
guarantee of bank debt. That country’s deficit ballooned to more
than 30 percent of GDP last year on the cost of propping up its
lenders, forcing Ireland into the arms of its neighbors in
November.  Separately, the Bloomberg Global Poll found 55 percent of
respondents are optimistic about how the policies of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  affect the investment climate in  Germany . U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s approach was endorsed by 51
percent and 65 percent reported a favorable view of him. Only a
quarter approved of French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s strategy.  Forty-four percent of respondents said the ECB’s monetary
policy is appropriate with a third labeling it too tight and a
fifth too loose. The Frankfurt-based ECB raised its benchmark
interest rate last month for the first time since 2008, lifting
it a quarter point to 1.25 percent.  ECB President Jeane-Claude Trichet was regarded favorably
by 57 percent of respondents. Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi , the frontrunner to succeed Trichet as ECB president
later this year, was endorsed by 34 percent with 21 percent
reporting an unfavorable view. Almost half said they lacked the
knowledge to grade Draghi.  The survey of investors, traders and analysts was conducted
by  Selzer & Co. , a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm, on May 9-10 and
has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  