-- 
Iceland Ousted Premier Says Rights ‘Violated’ After Indictment

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/iceland-ousted-premier-says-rights-violated-.html
Iceland ’s former Premier Geir H. Haarde, who last year became the world’s first political leader
to be indicted for economic mismanagement during the financial
crisis, said delays in his trial may “violate” his rights.  The special prosecutor appointed by Iceland’s parliament
presented Haarde with his official indictment on May 10, more
than seven months after the legislature agreed he should be
charged for his role in the island’s financial meltdown.  “The indictment is the exact same document that parliament
introduced” last year, Haarde, 60, said in an interview in
Reykjavik. “It is beyond my comprehension that the prosecutor
should take so ridiculously long. One wonders whether this
prolonged process might violate my constitutional right to a
speedy trial.”  Iceland’s 2008 banking failure forced the island, the
world’s fifth-richest per capita a year earlier, to turn to the
 International Monetary Fund  for help and sent the krona plunging
as much as 80 percent against the euro offshore. Haarde, who led
the island from boom to bust until he stepped down more than two
years ago amid street protests, exacerbated Iceland’s plight by
failing to curtail the banks’ debt-fueled expansion, a
parliamentary committee said in September.  “I won’t comment on whether this was due process or not,”
said Sigridur Fridjonsdottir, parliament’s prosecutor, in a
phone interview. “Gathering data took quite a long time due to
objections from the defendant and his lawyer. We had to take
these matters through the courts, to obtain access to basic
data. Furthermore, it took quite a bit of time to access
information from the  National Archives .”  ‘Obsolete Laws’  Haarde’s trial marks the first time Iceland’s Landsdomur, a
special court created in 1905 to hear such cases, will convene.
That means the prosecution and defense need to draw on many
“obsolete laws,” which may explain delays, said Brynjar
Nielsson, a Supreme Court lawyer and the chairman of Iceland’s
Bar Association, in an interview. Even so, “one could easily
argue that the delayed process violates the former prime
minister’s legal rights, both inscribed in law, the constitution
and the European Convention on Human Rights.”  Haarde, who was prime minister from 2006 until the
beginning of 2009, must be held responsible for “violations
committed from February 2008 through the beginning of October of
the same year, by intent or gross neglect, mostly violations
against the laws of ministerial responsibility” as well as
breaches of the penal code, a committee of nine lawmakers that
brought parliament’s original indictment said in September.  Erstwhile Giants  Iceland’s erstwhile biggest lenders Landsbanki Islands hf,
Kaupthing Bank hf and Glitnir Bank hf failed within weeks of
each other in October 2008 after they were unable to secure
enough short-term funds to continue their operations. They
toppled after amassing debts more than 10 times the size of
Iceland’s economy.  The state opted to separate the banks’ domestic and foreign
assets, piling losses onto bondholders and protecting domestic
depositors. The model won praise from Nobel Economics Prize
laureate  Paul Krugman , who in a Nov. 24 column published in the
New York Times said Iceland is an example of “bankrupting
yourself to recovery.” Krugman also contrasted Iceland’s
treatment of its financial turmoil with Ireland’s, arguing
Iceland is now better off.  While several former executives at the island’s failed
banks are being investigated, with some receiving jail terms,
Haarde is the only politician in Iceland to face trial because
of his handling of the financial crisis.  Punishable Acts?  “What the prosecutor has to do is prove that I violated
the law and committed punishable acts,” said Haarde. “This
will be a hard thing to prove, particularly in the light of what
is now known about the banking crisis in Iceland and in other
countries.”  Lawmakers also want Haarde held accountable for failing to
ensure that Landsbanki created subsidiaries when selling its
Internet Icesave accounts in the U.K. and  Netherlands  -- a
measure that would have forced the British and Dutch governments
to cover depositor claims, according to the indictment. Iceland
now faces a year-long international court battle to settle the
$5.9 billion in claims stemming from the Icesave dispute.  Editors: Tasneem Brogger, Jonas Bergman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  