-- 
Illinois Handgun-Carrying Ban Challenged in Federal Suit by Firearms Group

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-13T16:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/illinois-handgun-carrying-ban-challenged-in-federal-suit-by-firearms-group.html
Illinois ’s ban on carrying handguns
violates the U.S. Constitution, the  Second Amendment Foundation
Inc. , an advocacy group, said in a federal court lawsuit.  “Illinois is currently the only state in the country that
imposes a complete prohibition on the carrying of firearms for
personal protection by its citizens,” foundation Vice President
Alan Gottlieb said today in a press statement announcing
yesterday’s filing in Springfield, the state capital.  Citing the U.S. Supreme Court’s interpretation of the
Constitution’s Second Amendment, the Bellevue, Washington-based
group seeks a court order declaring two challenged state
statutes invalid to the extent they prohibit people who are
otherwise qualified from carrying handguns for self defense.  The amendment says, “A well regulated militia, being
necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the
people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.”  The  Supreme Court  in 2008 said the Constitution protects
the rights of individuals, not just militias, to bear arms.
Ruling in a case challenging a Chicago gun ban last year, the
high court said cities and states too are bound by the federal
mandate.  The ruling resulted in the striking down of the city’s ban
on private possession of handguns in homes.  Chicago then enacted an ordinance limiting handgun
possession to inside the home and mandating firearms training
for owners. That also been challenged in court.  Officials Sued  The Second Amendment Foundation sued two state officials,
Attorney General Lisa Madigan and Police Superintendent Patrick
Keen.  Robyn Ziegler, a spokeswoman for the attorney general,
declined to comment immediately. Sergeant Isaiah Vega, a
spokesman for the state police, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Moore v. Madigan, 11-cv-3134, U.S. District
Court, Central District of Illinois (Springfield).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  