-- 
Independent News CEO Says Action by 3 Board Members Needless

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-05-13T10:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/independent-news-ceo-says-action-by-3-board-members-is-needless.html
The action of three board members of
 Independent News & Media Plc (INM)  in questioning the independence of
a non-executive director is needless, Chief Executive Officer
Gavin O’Reilly said.  Leslie Buckley, Paul Connolly and Lucy Gaffney, were
appointed in 2009 as non-executive directors affiliated to Denis O’Brien, the company’s biggest shareholder. In April, Chairman
Brian Hillery said in a letter to shareholders that the three
directors no longer viewed Bengt Braun as independent because he
shares membership of a world newspaper body with O’Reilly. Braun
was appointed in March 2010.  “It is a fairly unusual position to take,” O’Reilly, who
maintained that Braun is independent, said in a telephone
interview today. “It is not an issue that needed to be an
issue.”  The dispute may re-open a rift between O’Brien and O’Reilly
over management of the company that ended about 18 months ago.
In 2009 O’Brien said O’Reilly was “incapable” of leading
Independent News & Media and that the leadership of the board
didn’t have “credibility” as it sought to raise new equity and
repay an overdue bond. Independent News said O’Brien was a
“dissident” shareholder.  “Do I think we have suddenly reached the point of a
commencement of hostilities, no I don’t,” O’Reilly said in the
interview.  Company Accounts  The three directors have recommended shareholders vote
against adopting the company’s accounts at the annual
shareholder meeting on June 3 because of their view of Braun’s
appointment.  A spokesman for Leslie Buckley said he wasn’t available to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. Paul Connolly could
not be reached. Lucy Gaffney didn’t respond to messages. Bengt
Braun couldn’t immediately be contacted by Bloomberg.  “I don’t think you’ll find institutional retail investors
listening to this and saying ‘oh hang on a second, we can’t
approve the accounts,” O’Reilly said.  Advertising conditions remain “challenging and the market
in Ireland has yet to stabilize and remains very short-term and
erratic,” the company said today in a statement distributed by
the Regulatory News Service.  Independent News’s share price fell 1 cent, or 1.67
percent, to 59 cents in Dublin trading and was at that price as
of 9:07 a.m., giving the company a market value of 324.8 million
euros ($464 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  