-- 
Innkeepers Judge Approves Reorganization Terms, Sales to Cerberus, Chatham

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-13T21:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/innkeepers-judge-approves-reorganization-terms-sales-to-cerberus-chatham.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  won approval of
the revised terms of a reorganization plan that includes a sale
of 64 hotels to Cerberus Capital Management LP and  Chatham
Lodging Trust. (CLDT)   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  court
today approved the so-called ‘disclosure statement’ that details
how assets will go to creditors. A hearing, initially set for
May 10, had been adjourned to today, while creditors negotiated.
A hearing to seek final confirmation of the plan is set for June
23, according to court papers.  “I believe you have an agreement to disagree with respect
to the guarantee clams,” Chapman said.  Innkeepers creditor Midland Loan Services, a division of
PNC Bank, had objected to the plan, saying it stripped Midland
of a guarantee claim it has against Innkeepers unit Grand Prix
Holdings LLC, and wrongly distributes millions to Apollo
Investment Corp. Lehman Ali, a unit of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings
Inc., had also said Apollo, which had junior equity interest,
shouldn’t get a recovery before senior creditors had been paid
in full.  Anup Sathy, a lawyer for Innkeepers, said the plan was
modified to allow for creditors to dispute that issue later. He
also said Innkeepers had provided for $4 million to be set aside
for management compensation.  Breakup Fee  Separately, Chapman approved an agreement that would pay
Chatham a $2 million breakup fee and $500,000 expense
reimbursement related to a separate bid it made for other
Innkeepers properties.  Innkeepers filed multiple Chapter 11 plans to resolve
claims against 92 units in bankruptcy. At a May 3 auction,
Cerberus and Chatham placed a winning bid of $1.12 billion for
the largest group of hotels, topping a $970.7 million offer from
Lehman Ali and Five Mile Capital Partners.  Innkeepers, based in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , has 71 extended-
stay and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20
states. The company still requires a creditor vote on its plan
and final confirmation from the court.  Chatham, a Palm Beach-based hotel investment company, won
another group of five hotels, the LNR properties, with a bid of
$195 million. Two other hotels would be turned over to their
lenders.  Biggest Plan  Under the biggest of the plans, covering the 64 hotels sold
to Cerberus and Chatham, secured creditors would be repaid in
full. Sathy said that under changes agreed to just before
today’s hearing, the Midland fixed loan mortgage will get a debt
instrument of $723.8 million, and cash of $12.8 million. The
floating rate mortgage will get a cash payment of about $233
million, and the floating rate mezzanine loan will get a cash
payment of about $2.6 million. The total equity is $400.5
million, Sathy said.  Midland, a creditor and servicer of $825 million of fixed-
rate mortgage debt, will agree not to pursue lawsuits against
 Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV) , which acquired Innkeepers in July 2007
in a $1.35 billion transaction, according to the plan. In return
for a release, Innkeepers will pay Midland $3 million.  Midland had sued Apollo, and the  bankruptcy court  had left
open the possibility for a breach-of-contract claim, according
to court papers.  The Hilton Suites hotel in Anaheim,  California , will be
turned over to Lehman Brothers, which controls the mezzanine
debt. The special servicer for the mortgage on the Hilton in
Ontario, California, C-III, will take over the property and pay
cash for what the disclosure statement calls a “small
percentage recovery” for unsecured creditors.  Innkeepers filed for Chapter 11 in July, listing assets of
$1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 