-- 
Investors See Stocks Retreating as Yields Increase in Poll on QE2

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/investors-see-stocks-retreating-as-yields-rise-in-poll-on-qe2.html
Investors say U.S. stocks and
Treasuries will decline and the dollar will strengthen after the
 Federal Reserve  completes a $600 billion stimulus program in
June, a Bloomberg poll found.  Fifty-four percent of respondents say the 10-year Treasury
yield will climb, while pluralities of 43 percent see the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling and the U.S. Dollar Index
gaining, according to a quarterly global poll of 1,263 Bloomberg
customers who are investors, traders or analysts conducted May
9-10. The proportion of respondents saying the Fed’s bond
purchases are reducing unemployment and boosting growth rose to
35 percent from 27 percent in January’s poll.  The results highlight the divergence of views provoked by
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s record monetary stimulus. While
respondents say Bernanke’s crisis-management compares favorably
with other central bankers, a majority say U.S. monetary policy
is now too loose. About one third say the bond purchases,
dubbed QE2 for the second round of so-called quantitative
easing, risk runaway inflation, and another quarter say they
aren’t helping the economy enough.  “The recent rally in stocks is a direct result of QE2,”
said Joseph Russo, 43, managing director and co-head of capital
markets at RAIT Securities in  New York , who took part in the
survey. “As the stimulus money is removed from the system, the
result will be lower stocks worldwide and an international
flight to quality.”  Dollar Index  Asked how financial markets will react when the Fed
completes its purchases of Treasuries, 26 percent said 10-year
yields will stay the same, and 17 percent said they will fall.
Seventeen percent said the S&P index would gain, and 37 percent
said it would stay the same. The U.S. Dollar Index is forecast
to be unchanged by 26 percent, while another 26 percent foresee
a drop.  Since the Fed approved the unprecedented $600 billion bond-
buying program in November, yields on 10-year Treasuries have
increased to 3.23 percent from 2.57 percent. The  S&P 500  has
gained 13 percent, while the dollar has weakened 1.7 percent
against a basket of six currencies.  The U.S. unemployment rate dropped to 9 percent last month
from 9.8 percent in November, and payroll growth topped 200,000
for three straight months for the first time in five years.
Surging food and fuel prices boosted the year-on-year inflation
rate to 2.7 percent on March, an increase Bernanke says will be
temporary.  Dangerous Levels  A smaller portion of investors is skeptical of the bond-
buying program than in January. Twenty-four percent say the plan
isn’t having a major effect on the economy, compared with 35
percent in the prior poll. The number of respondents saying the
purchases risk stoking inflation to dangerous levels was little
changed at 35 percent.  At the same time, 64 percent of respondents said they had a
favorable view of Bernanke, compared with 31 percent
unfavorable, about the same as in the prior poll. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s favorable rating fell to 44
percent from 52 percent; 46 percent had an unfavorable view, up
from 39 percent in January.  Forty-two percent said Bernanke did the best job among four
major central bankers in addressing their own economic crisis,
more than double the 20 percent for European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and 18 percent for  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King . Nine percent named  Bank of Japan  Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa.  Deflation Risk  Bernanke, 57, signaled in August that the Fed was
considering a second round of asset purchases after buying $1.7
trillion of mortgage debt and Treasuries from December 2008
through March 2010. At the time, inflation was slowing to the
point that Fed officials were concerned it might get too low or
possibly turn into deflation that could be harmful to the
economy.  The additional bond buying “reversed a disinflationary
trend in prices which could have resulted in an even larger
problem than we now face,” said respondent Craig Dismuke, 37,
chief economic strategist at Vining Sparks IBG, a broker-dealer
based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .  “Now that deflation is off the table, there is a new
battle looming -- that inflation is, in fact, not transitory --
and my hope is that they address it with equally appropriate
vigor,” Dismuke said. “If not, my view will change.”  ECB Policy  Asked about the policies of major central banks, 55 percent
said the Fed is too loose, 38 percent said its policy is
appropriate, and 6 percent said it’s too tight. That compares
with 19 percent who said the ECB policy is too loose; 44 percent
appropriate and 33 percent too tight. The ECB raised its
benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point in April to 1.25
percent, and traders predict a further rise this year.  Fifty-seven percent of respondents said Bernanke’s first
press conference on April 27 made no difference in the Fed’s
standing with investors, while 24 percent said it improved the
Fed’s standing. Nine percent said it hurt the Fed.  On the Fed’s transparency, 54 percent said the amount of
information provided by the central bank is about right, while
29 percent said it’s insufficient and 12 percent said it’s more
than sufficient.  “More Fed transparency is always a positive,” and it has
improved since  Alan Greenspan ’s tenure as chairman ended in
2006, said Garst Reese, 40, investment counselor at Boys Arnold
& Co. in Asheville,  North Carolina . The central bank “has
disclosed information more quickly than at any time before,”
Reese said.  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, traders
and analysts was conducted by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-
based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  