-- 
Lions Gate Said to Have Sought Buyers for Icahn’s 33% Stake in Film Studio

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 
2011-05-14T05:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/lions-gate-said-to-have-sought-buyers-for-icahn-s-33-stake-in-film-studio.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ,
seeking to end a two-year fight with its largest shareholder,
sought potential buyers for  Carl Icahn ’s one-third stake earlier
this year, people with knowledge of the situation said.  The film and TV studio held discussions with interested
parties as recently as February, said three people, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private. Icahn, who sought
control of Lions Gate for two years, has periodically met with
potential suitors, one person said, declining to name them.  Efforts to buy out the 75-year-old billionaire have been
sporadic and price is an obstacle to any transaction, three
people said. Icahn, who owns about 33 percent of Lions Gate,
paid an average of about $6.90 a share and is unwilling to sell
at a loss, said two people.  Lions Gate, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , lost 15
cents to $6.13 yesterday in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have declined 5.8 percent this year. At that
price, Icahn’s 44.6 million shares are valued at about $273
million.  The Vancouver-based producer of cable TV’s “Mad Men” and
distributor of the “Saw” horror films has fended off several
attempts by Icahn to wrest control and is seeking ways to end
the standoff, four people said.  Peter Wilkes, a Lions Gate spokesman, declined to comment.  Lions Gate management, led by Chief Executive Officer Jon Feltheimer and Vice Chairman Michael Burns, has kept the
investor at bay with help from board member and ex-Icahn protégé
 Mark Rachesky , whose MHR Fund Management holds 29 percent.  Icahn’s most recent $7.50-a-share buyout offer ended in
December. He lost a proxy vote in December to elect five board
nominees after a New York judge ruled Rachesky could vote shares
acquired in a deal that diluted Icahn’s stake.  Icahn lost an appeal on May 10 in British Columbia to
overturn the Rachesky deal. A New York State Supreme Court judge
dismissed a similar action in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman  in New York at 
 Jerlichman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  