-- 
IRS Denies Outside Influence Sparked Gift Tax Investigations

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-05-13T19:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/irs-denies-outside-influence-sparked-gift-tax-investigations-1-.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  says the
agency wasn’t pressured into investigating whether a levy on
gifts should be applied to some contributions to political
advocacy groups.  The IRS said in a statement that it is examining
contributions from five taxpayers to determine whether they
should pay the gift tax on donations to the groups, which are
organized as 501(c)(4) organizations. The IRS didn’t identify
the donors it is investigating or the groups.  “The examinations were started by employees of the Estate
and Gift Tax Unit at the IRS as part of their increased efforts
in the area of non-filing of gift and estate tax returns,” IRS
spokeswoman Michelle Eldridge said in the statement. “All of
the decisions involving these cases were made by career civil
servants without any influence from anyone outside the IRS.”  The 501(c)(4) entities are known as social-welfare
organizations, and have been used by political advocacy groups
in recent election cycles. Eldridge said the examinations aren’t
aimed at all of these groups.  “These examinations are not part of a broader effort
looking at donations to 501(c)(4)s,” she said.  Gift Tax Investigations  Marcus Owens, a partner at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington
and the former director of the exempt organizations division at
the IRS, said the agency hadn’t investigated many contributions
to 501(c)(4)s in recent years. That changed, he said, in part
because of the January 2010 U.S. Supreme Court ruling,  Citizens
United  v. Federal Elections Commission, which lifted
restrictions on campaign spending.  “It’s only with the advent of Citizens United that you had
an upsurge in large gifts to 501(c)(4)s,” he said.  Owens noted that a provision of the  tax code  would allow
the IRS to investigate the political groups as well as their
donors.  “Once the tax year in which the gift was made has closed
and no return has been filed, the IRS can go after the recipient
of the gift,” he said.  The top gift tax rate during 2010 was 35 percent.  In 2009, when the top rate was 45 percent, 234,714 gifts
worth a combined $40.2 billion were reported to the IRS,
according to data collected by the agency. After exclusions and
deductions, 10,718 of those gifts were taxed, resulting in $2.7
billion in revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  