-- 
Mississippi-River Flooding Threatens Louisiana Oil, Natural-Gas Production

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-05-13T17:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/mississippi-flooding-threatens-louisiana-oil-gas-production.html
(Corrects names of  Army Corps  of Engineers spokesmen in
sixth and eighth paragraphs.)  The rising floodwaters of the
 Mississippi River , threatening towns and farms between  Memphis 
and the  Gulf of Mexico , may affect 10 percent of Louisiana’s
onshore crude oil production.  A total of 2,264  oil wells  are responsible for about 19,000
barrels of crude a day, said Matt Ross, communications director
for the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association. He said 150 companies
are preparing for flooding in a four-parish area in the southern
part of the state.  As much as 252.6 million cubic feet a day of gas may be
threatened, said Anna Dearmon, a spokeswoman for the Louisiana
Department of Natural Resources, along with operations at 10
Louisiana refineries that account for about 14 percent of U.S.
operating capacity.  For weeks, the  Mississippi  and Ohio rivers, swollen by
heavy rain and melted snow, have been inundating cities and
towns, flooding cropland and disrupting shipping. The Ohio rose
to 61.72 feet (18.8 meters), a record in Cairo,  Illinois , before
joining the Mississippi there.  The threat of that flood reaching Baton Rouge and New
Orleans has the  Mississippi River Commission  considering opening
the 125 gates of the Morganza Floodway. Built in 1954, and only
used in 1973, the floodway would release 600,000 cubic feet of
water per second into central Louisiana and the Atchafalaya
River, taking pressure off the Mississippi and the cities
downstream, according to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.  Watching River Volume  The decision will be made if the flow at Louisiana’s  Red
River Landing  north of  Baton Rouge  reaches 1.5 million cubic
feet per second, said Ricky Boyett, a corps spokesman. The flow
has now reached at 1.48 million cubic feet per second.  Another reason the benchmark of 1.5 million cubic feet per
second is crucial is because that is the flow levees in Baton
Rouge have been designed to withstand, said Bryan Harmon, deputy
director of the public works department.  The Mississippi river system was engineered by the corps to
absorb a major flood while maintaining maximum flow rates
through Baton Rouge and New Orleans to ensure the integrity of
levees, according to the corps. In addition to the 1.5 mmcf in
Baton Rouge, a rate of 1.25 mmcf per second is the maximum flow
the corps wants to allow through  New Orleans , said Ken Holder, a
corps spokesman.  River Diversion  When the river flows exceed that, the system is designed to
have water diverted elsewhere, such as the Morganza or the
Bonnet Carre spillway outside New Orleans, he said.  The river commission is monitoring the flow through Red
River Landing and will make a decision to open Morganza within
the next few days, said Pam Vedros, a spokeswoman for the group.  The  Mississippi  crested earlier this week in Memphis at
47.87 feet, just under the record 48.7 feet set in 1937, and
threatens to set more high-water marks before the flow splits in
Louisiana, with 70 percent remaining in its channel and 30
percent running down the Atchafalaya. Cities and towns on both
waterways are preparing for flooding.  City workers in Baton Rouge,  Louisiana ’s capital, have
placed two miles of orange tubing filled with water on top of an
earth and concrete levee to raise it above the expected record
47.5-foot crest the  National Weather Service  says may arrive by
May 22.  “It’s been a grueling two-and-a-half to three weeks for
us,” Mayor Melvin “Kip” Holden said to a crowd of more than
200 at a public meeting yesterday. “If there is a breach in the
levee, we’re going to have some problems.”  Bonnet Carre  The Corps of Engineers already opened the  Bonnet Carre
Spillway  upstream from New Orleans to siphon Mississippi water
into  Lake Pontchartrain .  “This is the biggest train wreck in the history of
Louisiana, but it’s the slowest train wreck in the history of
Louisiana,” said Ryan Heck, who sells pumps for Hertz Service
Pump & Compressor in Baton Rouge. He said his business is
booming.  Before the high water hits Louisiana, it has to travel past
Mississippi, where officials are watching tributary flooding in
the fertile Delta region in the northwestern corner of the
state.  In Vicksburg, Mississippi, workers at the Rainbow Casino
Hotel stacked sandbags to shield it from the river, while 7 feet
of water washed into the entrance to Caesars Entertainment
Corp.’s Harrah’s Tunica, Mississippi’s largest casino.  Mississippi Casinos  The flood has shut 17 of Mississippi’s 19 river-based
casinos in the U.S.’s third-largest gaming-employment market,
jeopardizing thousands of jobs and $13 million a month in taxes.
Flooding will slow the state’s recovery from a recession two
years ago, already lagging behind the U.S., said Sohini
Chowdhury, an economist with  Moody’s Analytics  in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania .  “There is no doubt that the casino closures will weigh on
the state’s recovery,” Chowdhury said. “A month of inactivity
would deprive the already cash-strapped local and state
governments of critical funds.”  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said the Mississippi may
 flood 3 million acres  in southern Louisiana, affecting more than
20,000 people.  As many as 3,900 people may be affected above the spillway,
Jindal said. A century-old secondary levee in northeastern
Louisiana was overrun by water for the first time, threatening
10,000 acres of farmland, the  Monroe News Star  reported
yesterday.  ‘Comfort’ for City  Opening the Morganza probably will mean the river won’t
rise as high as forecast in Baton Rouge, although it may only be
a foot lower, Harmon said.  “We think it would give us a great deal of comfort it they
open that,” said William Daniel, interim director of the
department.  The river is expected to crest at 19.5 feet in  New Orleans ,
which is protected by levees to 20 feet, unless the spillway is
used, according to the Corps of Engineers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 