-- 
Italy’s Saras to Halt Units at Sarroch Oil Refinery This Quarter

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-05-13T11:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/italy-s-saras-to-halt-units-at-sarroch-oil-refinery-this-quarter.html
Italy’s  Saras SpA (SRS)  is to carry out
planned maintenance this quarter on at least five processing
units at its Sarroch refinery, the largest in the Mediterranean.  “In the second quarter, the Sarroch refinery shall undergo
scheduled maintenance work at the two mild hydrocracking units
MHC1 and MHC2, at the visbreaking unit VSB, at one crude
distillation unit T1 and also at one vacuum unit V1,” the
Milan-based company said today in a statement, without giving
exact dates of the halts.  The Sarroch refinery in Sardinia can process 300,000
barrels of crude a day, according to the company’s  website . That
represents about 15 percent of Italy’s refining capacity.  The refiner has “suspended all commercial relationships”
with  Libya ’s national oil company following sanctions imposed by
the  United Nations  and the European Union, it said in the
statement. Saras was using 35 percent to 40 percent of Libyan
crude and as a result has had to start “to introduce
alternative crude oils in the refinery.”  In the first quarter, Saras was able to use Libyan oil held
in inventories, it said. An alkylation unit was idled for
maintenance during the quarter and work on mild hydrocracker 1,
which was also scheduled to halt during this time, was pushed
back to the second quarter because of higher profits from making
fuels such as diesel, the company said.  Saras’s refining profits soared to $7.60 a barrel in the
first quarter from 90 cents a year earlier, according to the
statement.  Hydrocrackers produce distillates such as diesel and jet
fuel. Visbreakers raise the amount of diesel and gasoil that can
be processed from heavy oil-products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  