-- 
Mitchell Resigns as Middle East Envoy After Two Years of Shuttle Diplomacy

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-13T19:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/mitchell-is-said-to-resign-as-u-s-s-mideast-envoy-after-two-years-in-post.html
George Mitchell , the special U.S.
envoy to the Middle East, has resigned, President Barack Obama
announced today.  Mitchell’s departure comes as Obama prepares to deliver a
speech on the Middle East next week. Obama is scheduled to meet
with Jordan’s King Abdullah on May 17 and Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu on May 20.  Obama named Mitchell, a former Senate majority leader and
Northern Ireland peace negotiator, as a special envoy in January
2009 to coordinate Israeli-Palestinian talks, which broke down
weeks after they began in September 2010. With Mitchell’s
resignation, the process Obama launched to reach the framework
of a peace accord by September may grind to a halt.  “This is confirming the end of the road for a process that
hadn’t been working for some time,” said  Jon Alterman , director
of the Middle East program at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies , a policy group based in  Washington .  Obama said in a statement that Mitchell’s “deep commitment
to resolving conflict and advancing democracy has contributed
immeasurably to the goal of two states living side by side in
peace and security.” Mitchell’s deputy, David Hale, will serve
as the acting envoy, Obama said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a statement that
her agency would miss Mitchell’s “steady leadership and wise
counsel.”  Ahead of Developments  With no direct talks between the Israelis and Palestinians,
and without Mitchell to nudge them, the Obama administration
must move quickly to keep ahead of developments at the UN and
the region.  Palestinians have pushed for a United Nations vote by
September to formally recognize their territories as a state.
 France  is among the countries considering support for the
measure. There is potential for broad Palestinian
demonstrations, said Marwan Muasher, a former Jordanian foreign
minister.  As Palestinians wait for that UN vote, they have also been
noting the “Arab Spring” protests sweeping the region, said
Muasher, now a vice president at the  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace , a Washington-based policy group.  “I think that by September, the deadline for a UN vote on
recognizing a Palestinian state, if nothing serious moves on the
peace process, I would expect some peaceful movement on the
Palestinian street,” Muasher said. The Arab Spring protest
movement “has shown Palestinians that peaceful movements, non-
violence does work,” Muasher said.  Brokering Agreement  Obama appointed Mitchell upon taking office, signaling the
priority he placed on brokering an agreement to the decades-old
conflict.  Negotiations ground to a halt several weeks after they
started in September 2010, when Netanyahu refused to extend a
partial 10-month construction freeze in the  West Bank  and
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said he wouldn’t
negotiate until all construction was halted.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
 Jerusalem  since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  Political Realities  The administration’s basic approach -- of using Mitchell as
a mediator working with presidential imprimatur to bring the two
sides together -- was ill-suited to the political realities in
 Israel , Alterman said.  That might have worked with Netanyahu’s predecessor, Ehud Olmert, Alterman said. In contrast, Netanyahu didn’t see how
negotiations would benefit Israel, Alterman said.  “One of the problems is that you didn’t have an Israeli
government that signed on to that approach because, as they saw
it, this would have diminished their security, not enhance it,”
Alterman said.  An April 27 decision by rival Palestinian groups Hamas and
Fatah to form a unity government has further clouded prospects
for progress on a settlement. Netanyahu said a unity agreement
would put an end to any chance of peace talks.  The administration, which considers Hamas to be a terrorist
organization, has reacted cautiously to the Palestinian
announcement.  Different Meanings  In  Rome  this month for talks on  Libya , Clinton was
noncommittal. “We are going to be carefully assessing what this
actually means, because there are a number of different
potential meanings to it, both on paper and in practice,”
Clinton said.  She said Hamas would have to renounce violence, recognize
Israel and abide by the so-called Quartet principles set by the
 United States , the  United Nations , the European Union and
 Russia .  Mitchell, 77, served as chairman of the peace negotiations
in Northern Ireland that led to the 1998 Good Friday peace
agreement. A Democrat, Mitchell represented  Maine  in the  U.S.
Senate  from 1980 to 1995. After leaving office, Mitchell also
led an investigation of steroid use for  Major League Baseball .  President Bill Clinton in 1999 gave Mitchell the
Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest U.S. civilian honor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  