-- 
Ivy League Colleges Solicit Students Rejected for Stake of Selectivity

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/ivy-league-solicits-students-to-boost-selectivity.html
Nicole Ederer was delighted when
 Columbia University  and  Duke University  wooed her with e-mails
and letters after she scored 214 out of 240 on her  preliminary
SAT  college entrance exam junior year.  The 18-year-old high school senior in Thornwood, New York,
said she spent about $780 on 12 applications after mailings from
top schools like Duke, which sent a wall poster. She was
rejected by Duke, Columbia and  Cornell University  in Ithaca,
New York, and plans to attend the University of  Maryland .  “I thought, ‘Oh my gosh, someone is interested in me,’”
Ederer said in an interview. “They attract you with an e-mail
and a few pamphlets and big envelopes filled with a ton of
information and make you want to go to that school, and they
don’t accept you.”  The deluge of correspondence from even the most hard-to-
get-into colleges is raising false expectations among thousands
of students, swelling school coffers with application fees as
high as $90 apiece and making colleges seem more selective by
soliciting and then rejecting applicants. College applications
are soaring even as the number of high school graduates fell 2.2
percent this year from a peak in the 2007-2008 school year, 
according to the U.S. Department of Education.  Jon Reider, director of college counseling at San Francisco
University High School, advises students to view e-mails and
mailings skeptically, especially from  Harvard University , the
most selective college in the country. Reider called its
mailings “not honorable” and “misleading.”  “The overwhelming majority of students receiving these
mailings will not be admitted in the end, and Harvard knows this
well,” said Reider, a former admissions officer at  Stanford
University .  Selling Names  Consumer groups said that the nonprofit College Board,
which owns the  SAT college admission test , and its nonprofit
rival,  ACT Inc. , are making money by selling personal details
about teenagers. The companies collect information on millions
of test takers and both sell names and information to colleges
at 33 cents a name.  Harvard College, which accepted a record low 6.2 percent of
applicants this year, markets to high school students because it
wants to find the most talented class, said William Fitzsimmons,
dean of admissions and financial aid. The school informs
students “it’s a highly competitive process,” he said.  “There are so many students out there in the world who
might not automatically think about Harvard as a place to go,”
said Fitzsimmons, who declined to say how many students the
university contacts. Harvard, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
received almost 35,000 applications this year, a record.  “The odds of reaching the top of anything are not good but
is that a reason not to try?” said Fitzsimmons.  ‘Unrealistic Expectations’  Yale University  and  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
are scaling back their marketing, saying they don’t want to
encourage kids who likely won’t be accepted. Yale, which
admitted 7.4 percent of applicants this year, cut its mailings
by a third since 2005 to 80,000, Jeffrey Brenzel, dean of
undergraduate admissions, said in an interview.  “I feel obligated to be reasonable in recruiting so we’re
not creating unrealistic expectations of applicants,” Brenzel
said. “If a student has only the most remote chance in
admission, I feel it’s inappropriate to try to persuade a
student to send an application.”  Colleges reap both prestige and money from the soaring
stacks of applications.  “Total application count is taken as some kind of proxy
for school popularity,” Yale’s Brenzel said.  Millions in Fees  Harvard charges $75 to apply, which would amount to $2.6
million in revenue, minus waivers for low-income applicants.
Harvard declined to say how much revenue was generated, though
Fitzsimmons said the school doesn’t make a profit.  Stanford charges $90, the highest fee for U.S. students
among more than 400 colleges that use the Common Application.
This year it received about $2.6 million in fees, after giving
17 percent of applicants waivers. The money pays for the
readers, software and technical support needed to process the
applications, said Bob Patterson, director of admissions of
Stanford, near  Palo Alto ,  California .  Duke in Durham,  North Carolina , which accepted 13 percent
of a record 29,689 applicants this year, sent multiple mailings
to Ederer. The college contacts about 50,000 prospective
applicants annually through electronic and paper mailings based
on their PSAT scores, said Christoph Guttentag, the school’s
dean of admissions. Duke doesn’t know everything about a student
until it receives an application, which includes official
grades, recommendations and high school activities, he said.  Duke’s Marketing  “We don’t want to lead a student on,” Guttentag said.
“Nobody does it perfectly. It’s not unlike being contacted by a
search firm and being asked to apply for a job that you don’t
get.”  All members of the  Ivy League , eight colleges in the
northeast U.S. including Harvard, Yale and Columbia, received
record applications this year. Matthew Weiss, a senior at Latin
School of  Chicago , said he heard from Columbia just before the
January application deadline.  “When you submit an application to Columbia, you will be
following in the footsteps of some of the most notable leaders
of our time, including  Barack Obama , Allen Ginsberg and Margaret
Mead,” according to an e-mail dated Dec. 23. Weiss didn’t apply
because he wasn’t interested in the school. Columbia, in  New
York , received almost 35,000 applications this year, a record.  “Matt’s a solid student with a lot to offer; however, he
is not in the top 1 percent in terms of ACT score, or his GPA
isn’t at the top of the class,” his mother, Sharon Weiss, 48,
said in an interview.  Understanding Opportunities  Columbia makes the contacts to ensure that students from a
variety of backgrounds and regions “understand our academic
opportunities and campus community,” Jessica Marinaccio, dean
of undergraduate admissions, said in an e-mailed statement.  Schools begin their marketing efforts by buying names of
students from a variety of sources, including the  College Board .
The New York-based company said more than 2 million students in
grades 9 to 12 take the SAT each academic year.  The group’s database includes some 6.5 million students --
5.1 million with e-mail addresses. More than 1,100 colleges and
universities use the company’s Student Search Service, said
Jennifer Topiel, a spokeswoman.  The  College Board  took in $60 million in revenue from
enrollment services, according to its most recent tax filing for
the year ended June 2009. That amounted to almost 10 percent of
total revenue of $623 million.  42 Questions  Students who take the PSAT are asked to “opt-in” to the
search service on their exam answer sheets to let schools and
scholarship programs provide materials on educational
opportunities and financial aid. They are also asked for e-mail
addresses, a self-reported grade average, racial or ethnic
group, religion and college major. They can also opt out.  Parents aren’t required to give consent to answer the
questions.  SAT test-takers are asked 42 questions including checking
off any of 35 sports they have participated or plan to
participate in, and desired college size and setting. Colleges
don’t have access to questions about parental income, whether
the student has a disability and parents’ highest level of
education.  “What the  College Board  and ACT have done, under the radar
screen of parents and regulators, is turn the teens’ educational
pursuits into a profit-making opportunity,” said Jeff Chester,
executive director of the  Center for Digital Democracy , a
nonprofit consumer-protection advocacy group in  Washington .  Advocacy Work  While the Federal Trade Commission’s 1998 Children’s Online
Privacy Protection Act prohibits personal information from being
collected online from children 12 and under without “verifiable
parental consent,” teenagers aren’t covered by the law and
neither are nonprofit companies like the College Board, Chester
said.  Student information provided to colleges “really is a
service to the students and the colleges,” said Kathleen
Steinberg, a College Board spokeswoman. She said the money helps
fund “advocacy work and fee waivers” for almost 20 percent of
students in last year’s graduating class who took the SAT, which
costs $47.  The ACT, based in  Iowa  City, Iowa, took in $7.5 million in
revenue from its Educational Opportunity Service for the most
recent fiscal year, which ended last Aug. 31, said Steve
Kappler, assistant vice president for market strategy and
services.  “We’re not doing this to drive ACT profits up,” Kappler
said in an interview. “Any profit, which isn’t much, we sink
back into educational research, fee waivers -- anything that we
can do that fits into our mission.”  Brandeis Recruiting  Brandeis University used a College Board enrollment tool
called Descriptor Plus to target, market and recruit students
from ‘high-end high schools and wealthy suburban
neighborhoods,’’ according to a 2006 case study written by Sarah
Parrott and Jonathan Epstein, who at the time worked in research
and planning for the Waltham, Massachusetts-based university.  Brandeis’ uses of Descriptor Plus described in the paper
“don’t reflect our current methodology,” said Bill Burger, a
spokesman for Brandeis. “We’re not sure how we’ll be using that
tool going forward.”  Harvard, Yale in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , and Amherst
College in Amherst, Massachusetts, have successfully used the
search service to find minority students, according to their
deans of admission.  ‘Appropriate’ Pool  Like Yale, MIT, which accepted 9.6 percent of applicants
this year, has cut back its marketing to prospective students.
Last year, the Cambridge, Massachusetts, college reduced by
about 40 percent the number of students it contacted,
eliminating unsolicited mail to those who scored lower on the
math section of the PSAT. Students who scored below 640 on the
math section of the SAT generally weren’t admitted last year.  “We really only want to communicate with students that we
think we’re likely to be admitting,’ Stuart Schmill, MIT dean of
admissions, said in an interview. ‘‘Ideally, we would have a
smaller but highly appropriate applicant pool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  