-- 
Japan to Help Tepco Pay Nuclear Claims; Banks May Have to Write Off Debt

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-05-13T15:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/japan-to-support-tepco-compensation.html
Japan will provide aid to Tokyo
Electric Power Co. to shield it from bankruptcy while  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered its rating on the company’s debt as it faces a
compensation bill for the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  Japan will create a body to handle claims against Tepco, as
the company is called, and will issue bonds to fund them,
according to a statement yesterday. As part of the aid, which
may include taxpayers’ funds and purchase of shares in Tepco,
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said lenders may be required
to write off loans to the company.  Tepco earlier accepted the conditions set by the
government, which include unlimited liability on payments for
damages from the accident at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant. Aid to Tepco will run to trillions of yen, Edano said.  “The government should make it clear that consumers will
have to shoulder the burden,” said Kazutaka Kirishima,
economics professor at Josai University near  Tokyo . “Whether
through increased electricity rates, tax hikes or government
bond issues, the public will eventually have to pay.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered to BBB from BBB+
its long-term corporate credit and debt ratings on the company
and revised the CreditWatch status on the ratings to developing
from negative.  “Tepco’s stand-alone credit profile has significantly
weakened since our last rating action on April 1, 2011, and
remains under significant downward pressure,” the agency said
in a statement.  ‘Upper Limit’  While the government plans to help pay compensation, it’s
not clear what the “upper limit” of those costs will be, S&P
said. “We expect Tepco’s profitability to remain under
significant pressure for a very long period,” it said.  Tepco will report full-year earnings May 20.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch in March said Tepco
may face claims of as much as 11 trillion yen ($136 billion) if
the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl lasts for two years.  “The most important thing is that a specific compensation
figure be decided,” said Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior  fund
manager  at Asahi Life Asset Management Co. While the government
is “denying that the measures are to save Tepco, they are
effectively saving it.”  Stocks Falls  Japanese stocks fell, dragged down by banks after Edano’s
comment that public pressure may force lenders to forgive loans
to Tepco. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. declined 3.8
percent, while Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. closed 2.8
percent lower and Mizuho Financial Group Inc. fell 3 percent.
The Nikkei 225 stock average ended yesterday down 0.7 percent.  Tepco’s shares slumped 5.4 percent to 453 yen. The stock
has declined about 79 percent since the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami knocked out power and cooling systems at the Fukushima
plant, causing radiation leaks and the evacuation of more than
50,000 households. The quake and tsunami left more than 24,000
people dead or missing.  “Our requirement is that the company continues to operate
as a listed company and continue to provide a stable supply of
power,” Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  told reporters after the
statement was released. He said Tepco bondholders rights will be
maintained.  Ten power companies that operate nuclear stations will be
required to pay into the compensation organization being set up
by the government, Toshihide Kasutani, director general at the
trade ministry, told reporters at a briefing in Tokyo. Electric
Power Development Co. will be asked to join the organization
after its Oma plant starts operations, he said.  The ten nuclear plants operators are Hokkaido Electric
Power Co., Tohoku Electric Power Co., Tepco, Chubu Electric
Power Co.,  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505) , Kansai Electric Power
Co., Chugoku Electric Power Co., Shikoku Electric Power Co.,
Kyushu Electric Power Co. and  Japan  Atomic Power Co.  Under the compensation plan, the government will issue the
organization so-called delivery bonds, which can be converted to
cash at any time, and provide government guarantees, according
to a statement distributed to reporters.  The government hasn’t decided how much in delivery bonds
will be issued, Yasufumi Takahashi, a cabinet secretariat
official, told reporters at the briefing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  