-- 
JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley Said to Likely Lead Next U.S. Sales of GM Shares

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-05-13T20:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/jpmorgan-morgan-stanley-said-to-likely-lead-u-s-sales-of-gm.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , which led investment banks on  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
initial public offering, probably will handle the next sale of
the automaker’s shares, said a person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. Treasury Department, the Detroit-based automaker’s
biggest shareholder, won’t sell more shares until at least
August to wait for the stock price to climb, two people familiar
with the decision have said.  While the Treasury, which owns 33 percent of GM, can file
for a secondary offering as soon as May 22 using the same form
as for an IPO, which requires a lengthy regulatory review. At
Morgan Stanley’s suggestion, the department decided to wait
until July 1, when it can file a simpler document and have more
flexibility on timing, said the people.  “You need a megabank to underwrite a deal that is the size
of what the  U.S. Treasury  will be selling,” said Peter Bible,
GM’s former chief accounting officer who now heads the public
companies group for New York-based accounting firm EisnerAmper
LLP. “Those two make the most sense given their size. They did
a tremendous job on the IPO.”  The U.S., which invested $49.5 billion in GM during its
2009 bankruptcy and restructuring, still is talking with other
investment banks about underwriting roles, and a final decision
won’t be made until closer to a stock sale, said the person, who
asked not to be identified revealing private plans.  GM fell 35 cents to $31.07 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Earnings Results  Treasury officials put off deciding on the timing of a GM
secondary offering because the stock has mostly traded below the
$33 per-share IPO price. While the company beat earnings
expectations on May 5, the stock fell 3.1 percent that day. The
lower price affirmed the Treasury’s decision that it would be
better to wait until the second-quarter profit is announced, the
people said.  “The longer they wait, the better the return for the
Treasury will be and for the taxpayer,” Dennis Virag, president
of Automotive Consulting Group in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The auto market in the U.S. is
recovering, and it’s a fairly consistent recovery.”  The Treasury doesn’t expect to sell its remaining 33
percent stake in a single secondary offering, one of the people
said.  Sale Options  If Treasury opted to file an S-1 registration statement,
the kind of document used for an IPO, the offering would have to
go through a rigorous review that could last a month or longer,
similar to an initial stock sale, Bible said in an interview
today.  With the simpler S-3 filing, the SEC can review GM
documents it already has, so the registration could be done in
days, Bible said. That would allow the government to better time
a sale to a higher price.  GM’s management and President Barack Obama’s administration
want to end the almost two-year period of government ownership,
the people said. The Treasury doesn’t expect to get the $44
average share price needed to break even on the $49.5 billion
investment, they said. Further share sales need to average $53 a
share to make up for the $33 per-share IPO price.  “We’re going to lose money in the  auto industry  on net,
but we did this for the jobs we were going to save, not to
maximize return,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
at a Detroit Economic Club event on April 28. “We’re not a
private investor. Our job was to protect the country.”  Treasury Bailout  The Treasury provided $85 billion of commitments to the
auto industry, which included $64 billion to GM and Chrysler
Group LLC, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The
remaining assistance was provided to auto-parts suppliers and to
finance arms Chrysler Financial Corp. and GMAC Inc., which is
now known as Ally Financial Inc.  The Treasury aims to get at least the $33 IPO price and
would prefer to sell shares in the high $30s or into the $40
range, where most analysts have set their target price, the
people said. The department also wants to begin selling shares
this year, they said.  GM raised more than $23 billion, mostly for U.S. and
Canadian governments and a union health fund, selling common and
preferred stock in its initial public offering in November.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were also listed among
leaders of the investment banks.  Second-Quarter Profit  The Treasury plans to wait for GM to announce a second-
quarter profit before selling any more shares, which could be in
August or September, or it may wait until November, after third-
quarter results, the people said.  “What Treasury does with their GM shares is entirely up to
them,” Jim Cain, a GM spokesman, said yesterday. “We’re
focused on growing profitably around the world, further
strengthening our balance sheet and fully funding our  pension
plan .”  Government ownership is weighing down GM shares, said David Whiston, an analyst with Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  “A portfolio manager who believes the GM story may stay on
the sidelines because when Treasury files to sell, the stock
could sink,” he said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Other investors don’t want to invest simply because there is
government ownership.”  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson bought $939,900 in
shares of the automaker, GM disclosed today in a regulatory
filing. The purchase of 30,000 shares at $31.33 apiece was a
personal investment by Akerson, said Jim Cain, a GM spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  