-- 
Junk Issuers Ramp Up Leveraged-Loan Deals to Cut Costs as Prices Rebound

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-05-13T12:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/junk-issuers-ramp-up-leveraged-loan-deals-to-cut-costs-as-prices-rebound.html
Speculative-grade companies that
canceled more than $15 billion of leveraged-loans aimed at
reducing financing costs in March are back in the market as
prices recover from a drop triggered by global crises.  Asurion Corp., the private-equity-owned provider of
wireless handset insurance and roadside assistance, and
Quintiles Transnational Corp., the world’s biggest conductor of
medical studies, are leading companies seeking this week to
raise more than $9.4 billion of high-yield, high-risk loans to
refinance borrowings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenders are doubling U.S. leveraged-loan holdings and
pouring almost twice as much cash into funds buying the debt,
with floating coupons tied to lending benchmarks, than to  junk
bonds , betting on rising interest rates as the  Federal Reserve 
nears the end of its record economic stimulus. Investors are
discounting risks such as the nuclear crisis in Japan, buying
lower-yielding loans after a price runup pushed returns to a
2011 peak of 3.08 percent on May 10.  “The market is back to where we were: the volatility is
behind us and the deals that were pulled weren’t about the
transactions, it was about the volatility,” said Tim Broadbent,
managing director in leveraged finance at Barclays Capital in
New York. “People eventually reevaluate the fundamentals and
realize they’re not all that different from before Japan.”  Mutual funds that invest in leveraged loans increased their
assets by 50 percent this year, with the cash they received in
2011 accounting for almost all the growth,  Barclays Capital 
analysts led by Bradley Rogoff said May 6 in a report. The funds
held $64.9 billion of loans as of May 11, according to the
investment banking division of Barclays Plc.  Fund Inflows  The funds received $13.4 billion of cash as of May 5,
according to Deutsche Bank AG reports citing Lipper FMI. Inflows
are already outpacing last year’s total of $12.3 billion and are
93 percent more than money allocated for junk-bond retail funds
this year. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s .  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index pared gains to
3.02 percent as of yesterday after peaking for the year earlier
in the week. The index, which tracks the largest leveraged loans
in the U.S. market, reversed last week’s price gains to decline
0.11 cent to 95.83 cents on the dollar.  Banks arranged $17.7 billion of leveraged loans to
refinance debt this month, making up 64 percent of issuance,
according to S&P’s Leveraged Commentary and Data. Speculative-
grade issuers are on pace to match the record $48.9 billion of
loans raised for refinancings in February, before the strongest
earthquake in  Japan ’s history and a following tsunami caused a
crisis in Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power station on March 11, slowing issuance.  Fed Stimulus Ends  Central bank officials will conclude the second leg of
their monetary injection to the economy in June, totaling $2.3
trillion. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said May 12
in a speech in Aventura,  Florida , that the bank will need to end
its monetary easing in the “not-too-distant” future if the
economic recovery continues.  Retail sales rose 0.5 percent last month, the slowest pace
in nine months, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Jobless
benefits applications in the U.S. decreased by 44,000 to 434,000
in the week ended May 7, the Labor department said yesterday,
falling short of forecasts in a sign that the recovery in
employment is taking time to accelerate. Inflation rose to 2.7
percent in March, up from 2.1 percent in February and the most
since December 2009, according to the Labor Department.  Interest Rates   Narayana Kocherlakota , president of the  Minneapolis Fed ,
said this week that he favors increasing the benchmark lending
rate as a first step in ending the central bank’s so-called
quantitative easing. The federal funds rate has been at a record
low of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “I do expect the general direction of rates to be higher
on the balance this year -- the economic recovery will continue
but it’s not going to be terribly robust, it’s not going to
provoke rate hikes and inflation will stay tame,” said Josh Feinman, chief economist at DB Advisors, a unit of Deutsche Bank
that manages $232 billion of assets. “The Fed is going to keep
interest rates low for a while; that creates a generally
supportive environment for credit markets.”  Asurion, owned by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, Providence
Equity Partners Inc., Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe and
Berkshire Partners LLC, is raising $3.57 billion of first- and
second-lien term loans after canceling a $4.64 billion deal on
March 16, Bloomberg data show.  Quintiles Refinancing  Aside from reducing its offering, the Nashville, Tennessee-
based company offered the same rates to lenders as it had two
months ago, according to Bloomberg data.  Quintiles also pared down the amount it’s seeking to raise,
reducing it by $200 million to $2 billion, Bloomberg data show.
The Durham, North Carolina-based company increased the interest
it’s offering to pay by as much as 0.75 percentage point to 3.75
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate.  While Quintiles left the floor on the lending benchmark
unchanged at 1.25 percent, it proposed to issue the loan at 99
cents to 99.5 cents on the dollar, according to Bloomberg data.
That compares with a so-called original-issue discount, which
reduces proceeds for the borrower and boosts the yield for
investors, that was set at 0.5 percent in March.  Fifth Third Transaction  Fifth Third Processing Solutions LLC, the payment services
provider owned by private-equity firm Advent International Corp.
and Cincinnati-based  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) , also initiated lender
talks this week to raise $1.77 billion of loans refinancing debt
issued in October, Bloomberg data show.  The company, which had also pulled a deal in March, is the
third borrower to follow Tasc Inc., owned by KKR & Co. and
General Atlantic LLC, in returning to the market with a
previously failed transaction, according to Bloomberg data. The
Chantilly, Virginia-based systems engineering and advisory
services provider raised a $575 million  term loan  last week.  “Demand is still there because you have funds sitting on
cash and you see money flowing into funds,” said Paul Kauffman,
partner and senior portfolio manager at Highland Capital
Management LP, with $18 billion in loan investments. “On the
supply side we’ve seen some pickup on new-money deals, but it’s
still limited. That combination of high demand and no true new
issue is behind some of these refinancings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in  New York  at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 