-- 
NewPage Bonds Fall After Record Drop Yesterday, Trace Shows

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-05-13T17:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/newpage-bonds-plunge-18-cents-in-two-days-after-reporting-earnings-decline.html
Bonds of NewPage Corp., the coated-
paper maker owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, declined
after a record tumble yesterday that was triggered by earnings
lower than analyst expectations.  Its $806 million of 10 percent second-lien notes due May
2012 fell 6.3 cents to 39.9 cents on the dollar as of 12:52 p.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt dropped
11.6 cents yesterday and is at the lowest level since August.  The Miamisburg, Ohio-based company is attempting to cut
costs and reduce debt by selling assets after demand for coated-
paper declined since 2008.  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management
LLC and Avenue Capital Group, run by  Marc Lasry , hold more than
$400 million of NewPage’s 10 percent second-lien bonds, two
people familiar with the matter said last month.  “A financial restructuring is likely this year or early
next year,” Brian Bogart, an analyst at KDP Investment Advisors
Inc. in Montpelier,  Vermont  wrote in a report today. “The 10
percent second-lien notes are the fulcrum security, and we think
there is a good chance that” the owners of the debt will end up
with equity in a restructuring, he wrote.  NewPage said first-quarter adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were $85 million
compared with $132 million in the fourth quarter.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said that unadjusted Ebitda of $70
million was below its $92 million estimate and is “down
substantially” from $114 million in the fourth quarter, the
bank said in a note yesterday.  ‘Biggest Drivers’  “The biggest drivers behind the falling bond prices are
the $85 million EBITDA, which is below Wall Street’s
expectation, and coated-paper prices,”  Rahul Gandhi , an analyst
at debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. in  London  said
yesterday.  Lazard Ltd., FTI Consulting Inc. and law firm Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP are working with NewPage as a debt restructuring
looms, the people said last month.  Under its credit agreement, NewPage has to repay or
refinance the second-lien bonds by Jan. 31, or its $1.77 billion
of 11.375 percent bonds coming due in December 2014 will mature
instead in March 2012, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday.  The company also disclosed in the filing that  Robert Nardelli  resigned from its board of directors. He joined the
board in June about five years after Cerberus took control of
the company when it bought MeadWestvaco Corp.’s paper business
for $2.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  