-- 
Nigerian Army Raids Militant Camps in Southern Oil-Producing Delta Region

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-05-13T12:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/nigeria-army-raids-militant-camps-in-southern-oil-region-following-attacks.html
Nigerian troops launched attacks on
suspected militant camps in the country’s southern oil-producing
Niger River delta after a military patrol was fired upon in the
area, an army spokesman said.  Soldiers were attacked on May 11 by fighters of the John
Togo-led Niger Delta Liberation Force, Colonel Timothy Antigha,
spokesman for the joint military  task force  in the region, said
by phone today from the oil hub of  Port Harcourt .  “We decided to launch an operation to flush out the
militant camps we discovered them rebuilding in the creeks,” he
said. “The operation is ongoing.”  Attacks by armed groups in the southern delta cut about 28
percent of Nigeria’s oil exports between 2006 and 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The attacks reduced
after thousands of fighters campaigning for more local control
of oil revenue disarmed under a government amnesty plan.  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, is the fifth-
largest source of U.S. crude imports.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint
ventures with the state-owned  oil company  that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Any reduction in Nigerian output will worsen a global
shortage of light-sweet crude which has already been curtailed
by fighting in Libya, according to JBC Energy Gmbh.  Light-Sweet Crude  “The civil war in Libya already shaved off around 1.3
million barrels a day of light-sweet crude from global supplies
and a shut-in of Nigerian crude, which has become sizably
lighter in recent years, would aggravate the shortage even
further,” the Vienna-based researcher said in a note.  So far this year, Nigerian crude output averaged 2.15
million barrels a day, up from 1.82 million barrels in 2009,
according to JBC’s estimates.  The latest military raids against the militant group, also
known as NDLF, are happening near the town of Ayakoromor where
the military had attacked the rebels last year, Antigha said.  “NDLF leaders and soldiers survived the aerial attack,”
the militant group said in an e-mailed statement. The fighters,
however, won’t retaliate by attacking oil installations because
the group wants to give President Goodluck Jonathan time to
address its demands, it said.  Light-sweet crude is less dense and contains less sulfur,
meaning it can produce more profitable fuels such as gasoline
and diesel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 