-- 
Nissan Shares Rise After Fourth-Quarter Profit Beats Post-Quake Estimates

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T01:43:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/nissan-shares-rise-after-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-post-quake-estimates.html
Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-
biggest carmaker, rose the most in two months in  Tokyo  trading
after posting fourth-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates,
even after the nation’s record earthquake curtailed production.  Nissan climbed as much as 5.5 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since March 7, to 839 yen and traded at 826 yen as of 10:23
a.m. Net income was 30.8 billion yen ($380 million) in the three
months ended March 31, the company said yesterday after the
market closed. Analysts expected a profit of 23 billion yen,
according to the average of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Fewer than 20 of Nissan’s suppliers remain in a critical
condition after the 9-magnitude temblor on March 11 halted
factories and crimped domestic car sales, compared with 40 in
March, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in an interview
yesterday. Nissan rebounded from an 11.6 billion yen loss a year
earlier while larger  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s fourth-quarter profit
plunged 77 percent as the disaster forced carmakers to halt
output and sent the yen surging to a postwar high.  “Unless the supply shortage takes longer than expected to
recover, Nissan shouldn’t have to worry about sales declining,”
said Tadashi Usui, an analyst at Moody’s K.K. in Tokyo.  Nissan may be able to resume normal production levels
globally by October, Ghosn said in the interview in Yokohama,
where the carmaker is based. By comparison, Toyota has predicted
it may resume full production globally by November or December.  Market-Share Loss  The current quarter may be tougher for Nissan and its
domestic competitors as they recover from the plunging sales and
plant disruptions that followed the earthquake and ensuing
tsunami, Ghosn has said.  Nissan lost production of 55,000 units in  Japan  in March,
compared with the company’s original output plan. While the
carmaker will initially face a “significant” market-share loss
globally because of the earthquake, it plans to catch up in the
second half of the fiscal year, Ghosn said yesterday.  The automaker is less affected by the production halts in
Japan than Toyota because it relies on domestic factories for a
smaller proportion of output, Moody’s Usui said. Nissan built
25 percent of its vehicles in Japan last fiscal year, compared
with 45 percent at Toyota. Honda Motor Co., the nation’s third-
largest carmaker, built 26 percent of its vehicles in Japan.  U.S. Inventory  Nissan told U.S. dealers yesterday it has more inventory
than its Japanese competitors and that its plants haven’t been
as severely disrupted by the March earthquake.  The company began May with a 64-day supply of cars and
light trucks, compared with 48 days for Toyota and 36 days for
Honda, according to a letter Nissan sent to dealers. Nissan said
it started this month with 26,488 more vehicles than a year
earlier, while Toyota’s inventory fell by 53,234 and Honda’s
declined by 49,917.  “We are in very good shape and have a competitive
advantage over our main rivals going into May, and one that is
only likely to get stronger as we go through the summer,”  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president of U.S. sales, said in the
letter. “I am sure we will also get some surprises as we
stretch our suppliers, but we expect to have better pipeline
supply than either Toyota or Honda.”  Toyota’s inventory at the start of May was about a 46-day
supply of vehicles, or 222,549 Toyota and Scion-brand models,
said Carly Schaffner, a spokeswoman for the company’s U.S. sales
unit in Torrance,  California .  Chris Martin , a spokesman for
Honda’s U.S. unit, declined to confirm Nissan’s estimate of its
inventory, saying vehicle supply was “OK for now.”  Toyota Profit  Toyota, the world’s biggest automaker, posted 25.4 billion
yen in fourth-quarter net income on May 11. Profit fell to the
lowest in 1 1/2 years, missing the 104 billion yen average of
analyst estimates, as sales declined 12 percent to 4.64 trillion
yen.  Toyota rose 1.2 percent to 3,410 yen in Tokyo, trimming its
decline to 6.6 percent since March 10, the day before the
earthquake. Honda gained 1.6 percent to 3,150 yen and has
dropped 7.4 percent since March 10, while Nissan has gained 1.2
percent.  Nissan’s production volume last month in Japan was at about
40 percent of last year’s level, and output this month is at
about 50 percent, the company has said. Production has also been
halted periodically since April at factories in  Mexico , the U.S.
and the U.K. In  China , plants are suspending weekend and
overtime shifts.  Nissan Sales  Nissan’s global vehicle sales rose 16 percent to 1.17
million in the three months ended March 31. The gain was led by
 North America  and  Asia  excluding Japan.  Sales at home fell 22 percent to 162,000 after the
earthquake and the end of a government subsidy program that
encouraged sales of fuel-efficient models. Sales in North
America rose 22 percent to 354,000 and in Asia, excluding Japan,
deliveries surged 29 percent to 353,000.  Net income for the 12 months ended March 31 was 319.2
billion yen, more than seven times what the automaker reported a
year earlier. Sales gained 17 percent to 8.77 trillion yen,
Nissan said yesterday.  Operating profit rose 73 percent to 537.5 billion yen, even
after a stronger Japanese currency cut the figure by 148 billion
yen, the company said.  Like Toyota and Honda, Nissan declined to provide an
earnings forecast for the fiscal year started April 1, citing
the impact of the earthquake on production. Nissan plans to
announce a midterm plan before its annual shareholders meeting
in June, Ghosn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  