-- 
Nobel Winner Stiglitz Warns Job-Killing Austerity Measures Hurt Economies

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-05-13T14:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/nobel-winner-stiglitz-warns-job-killing-austerity-measures-hurt-economies.html
Austerity measures “don’t work” and
prevent countries from creating jobs needed to generate economic
growth, said  Nobel Prize  winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz .  “Austerity is an experiment that has been tried before
with the same results,” Stiglitz said today in a speech in
Copenhagen. Cutting budgets in low-growth cycles leads to higher
unemployment and hampers recovery, he said.  Greece, Ireland and Portugal are under pressure to push
through austerity measures that have sparked anti-government
protests and general strikes as the three euro members struggle
to comply with the terms of their bailout programs. The budget
cuts have failed to persuade most investors the countries will
avoid a default, a Bloomberg Global Poll published today showed.  Europe ’s leaders are gripped by “deficit fetishism,”
Stiglitz said. Austerity “doesn’t work, it does not lead to more
efficient, faster growing economies,” said Stiglitz, a
professor at  Columbia University  in  New York  who won the Nobel
Prize for economics in 2001.  The U.S. economic expansion will exceed European growth
this year and the next, the European Commission in Brussels said
today. U.S. gross domestic product will rise 2.6 percent this
year and 2.7 percent in 2012, while the euro area will expand
1.6 percent in 2011 and 1.8 percent next year.  U.S. Deficit  The U.S. federal budget deficit is projected to reach
$1.5 trillion, or 9.8 percent of gross domestic product, this
year, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The 17-
member euro region’s deficit is forecast to be 4.3 percent of
GDP this year, the European Commission forecasts.  A 2009 U.S. stimulus package increased the number of people
employed by between 1.4 million and 3.3 million and cut
unemployment by 0.7 percentage point to 1.8 percentage point,
according to U.S. CBO.  Eighty-five percent of those surveyed this week said  Greece 
probably will default, with majorities predicting the same fate
for Portugal and Ireland, which followed Greece in seeking
European Union-led bailouts, the Bloomberg poll showed. The
outlook for all three deteriorated since a January poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  