-- 
Microsoft, Nokia Challenge Apple’s ‘App Store’ EU Trademark

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-13T13:37:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/nokia-among-four-companies-to-challenge-apple-app-store-trademark-in-eu.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  are
among four technology companies challenging  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
European Union-wide trademarks for “Appstore” and “ App
Store .”  Nokia, the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, Microsoft,
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and  HTC Corp. (2498)  all filed
separate requests yesterday with the EU trademark agency in
Alicante,  Spain , seeking to invalidate Apple’s trademark rights.  The companies “are seeking to invalidate Apple’s trademark
registration for ‘APP STORE’ and ‘APPSTORE’ because we believe
that they should not have been granted because they both lack
distinctiveness,” according to a statement from Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker.  A decision by the agency could be appealed all the way to
the EU’s top court in Luxembourg. Apple, which pioneered the
sale of mobile-device applications, accounts for more than
three-quarters of revenue in the industry -- even as  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s app sales grow faster. Apple’s App Store offers more than
350,000 apps for iPhones, iPods and iPads. It will bring in
$2.91 billion in revenue in 2011, up 63 percent from last year,
according to researchers at El Segundo, California-based IHS
ISuppli.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  on April 15 opposed Apple’s two EU
trademarks, according to  documents  on the trademark agency’s
website. The dispute over the validity of the Apple rights has
also reached the U.S., where Amazon, after being sued for
trademark infringement by Apple, argued the intellectual
property right was invalid.  Pending Litigation  Alan Hely, a U.K.-based spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, declined to comment, saying the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Mark Durrant, a spokesman for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia,
and Sony Ericsson spokeswoman Mandy Slater confirmed the
companies also objected to the trademark registration.  The phrase “means just what it says, a store for ‘apps,’
which in itself is a generic term for the services that the
trademark registrations cover,” Durrant said in an e-mail.  Apple’s App Store, started in 2008, offers downloads of
programs from the company and third-party developers. Sales of
apps from sites run by Apple, Google, Nokia and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  will rise 78 percent this year from $2.1 billion
last year, IHS ISuppli said.  Decisions by the EU trademark agency’s cancellation
division can be appealed first to the agency’s own appeals board
and later to the EU’s two top courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  