-- 
Norway’s Wealth Fund Rose $11 Billion in Quarter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-13T09:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/norway-s-wealth-fund-rose-11-billion-in-quarter.html
Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund
returned 59 billion kroner ($11 billion) in the first three
months of 2011, the smallest gain since last year’s second
quarter, as European bonds slumped.  The $573 billion Government Pension Fund Global  returned
2.1 percent, as measured by a basket of currencies, the Oslo-
based investor said today. The equity portfolio returned 2.9
percent and fixed-income investments climbed 0.7 percent, led by
gains in covered bonds. European bonds fell 1.1 percent.  Government bonds  in  Europe  suffered amid concerns the
region won’t solve its debt crisis while U.S. debt prices were
little changed as central bank purchases offset concerns about
the government’s deficit. Stocks rose, with the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
reaching a 30-month high in February on optimism accelerating
global growth will fuel corporate profits.  “Better-than-expected earnings at a number of companies,
higher oil and gas prices and growth expectations for the global
economy helped push European and U.S. share prices higher,”
said  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of Norges Bank
Investment Management.  The fund, which gets its guidelines from the government and
is part of Norway’s central bank, held 61.3 percent in stocks,
38.6 percent in bonds and 0.1 percent in real estate at the end
of the quarter. It’s mandated to hold 60 percent in stocks, 35
percent in bonds and 5 percent in real estate. The fund
completed its first real estate purchase this year, buying 25
percent in the U.K. Crown Estate’s Regent Street properties.  Biggest Gainers  The fund said its biggest gainers in the period were Exxon
Mobil Corp., BG Group Plc and OAO Gazprom. The fund lost 2.8
percent in the quarter on its Japanese stock holdings, which
constituted about 5 percent of the fund, as stocks plunged
following the earth quake and tsunami.  The largest stock holding at the end of the quarter was in
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, followed by HSBC Holdings Plc and Nestle
SA. The largest fixed-income holdings were in  U.S. Treasuries ,
followed by U.K. and Italian government bonds. Spanish
government debt was the fund’s eighth largest holding.  Slyngstad at briefing today that the investor cut its
holdings in Greek government bonds by about 500 million kroner
in the quarter to 4.3 billion kroner as debt came due.  “Uncertainty about the fiscal situation in some European
countries and expectations of interest rate increases from the
 European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  pushed up yields
and lowered prices on European government bonds,” the fund
said.  Currency Split  The fund had 82 percent of its investments in euros,
pounds, dollars and yen at the end of the quarter, the report
shows. A stronger krone against several currencies the fund
invests in reduced the market value by 73 billion kroner.  The fund got its first capital infusion in 1996 and has
been taking on more risk as it expands globally, increasing its
stock portfolio from 40 percent in 2007. It first added stocks
in 1998, emerging markets in 2000 and this year real estate to
boost returns and safeguard wealth.  Norway, a nation of 4.9 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
the country’s largest energy company. Norway is the world’s
second-largest gas exporter and the seventh-biggest oil
exporter. The fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking
domestic inflation.  Capital Inflow  The government deposited 38 billion kroner of petroleum
revenue into the fund in the first three months of 2011. The
return exceeded by 0.3 percentage point the benchmark set by the
 Finance Ministry .  Only  Abu Dhabi  has a larger wealth fund, according to the
 Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute  in  California . A sovereign
wealth fund is a state-owned fund with assets such as stocks,
bonds and real estate.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts growth in the
world economy will accelerate to 4.5 percent in 2012 from 4.4
percent this year. While advanced economies will expand 2.4
percent this year, developing nations will grow 6.5 percent,
driven by expansions in China and  India , the IMF predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  