-- 
Nvidia Falls Most in Two Months on Concern Over Tablet, Phone Competition

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-13T14:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/nvidia-falls-most-in-two-months-on-tablet-competition-concern.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
chips, fell the most in two months after an analyst downgraded
the stock on concern price pressure may weigh on gross margins
and that tablet competition may increase next year.  The stock fell $1.46, or 7.1 percent, to $19.04 at 9:57
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq stock market trading, after
dropping 8.9 percent for the largest intraday decline since Feb.
22. The stock had gained 33 percent this year before today.  Competition in the tablet computer and smartphone markets
will accelerate next year, Rajvindra Gill, an analyst at New
York-based Needham & Co., said in a research note downgrading
the stock to “hold” from “buy.” He also said the growth rate in
the core graphics processing business is declining and Nvidia’s
Tesla chip is facing slow adoption.  The company yesterday forecast second-quarter sales that
exceeded analysts’ estimates, as a new microprocessor from  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  helped fuel demand for more expensive personal computers.
Revenue in the current period will rise 4 percent to 6 percent
from the first quarter to as much as $1.02 billion,  Santa Clara ,
California-based Nvidia said in a statement. That compares with
an average analyst estimate of $990.4 million, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Nvidia is trying to lessen its dependence on chips used in
PCs with a push into processors for mobile phones and tablet
computers. That business, based on a chip called Tegra, began to
take off this quarter, said Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang.  A gross margin between 50.5 percent and 51.5 percent is the
“right level,” because it allows for a “healthy balance
between growth and profitability,” Karen Burns, interim chief
financial officer at Nvidia, said yesterday on an earnings
conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  