-- 
Obama’s Nuclear-Waste Commission Weighs Temporary Storage Site Alternative

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T16:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/obama-s-nuclear-waste-commission-weighs-temporary-storage-site-alternative.html
The U.S. should set up one or more
sites to store nuclear waste until the government decides
whether to recycle the spent fuel or move it to a permanent
location, members of an Obama administration panel said.  A subcommittee of the Energy Department’s  Blue Ribbon
Commission on America’s Nuclear Future  suggested the option
during a meeting today of the full commission in  Washington . A
draft report on nuclear waste disposal is due July 29.  President  Barack Obama  called for the commission’s
formation last year after rejecting plans for a nuclear waste
dump at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada . Demands to move used fuel from
U.S. power plants have increased since radioactivity was
released from storage pools at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan  after a March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  A solution that would put waste into temporary storage,
possibly for as long as 100 years, “may offer some benefits as
we learn more from Fukushima,” Richard Meserve, a commission
member and former chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, said today.  Such a plan would give the government time to figure out
whether to reprocess the spent fuel or move it into a permanent
storage site, said Meserve, the co-chairman of the commission’s
subcommittee on transportation and storage.  About 65,000 metric tons of radioactive uranium rods are
being held at 76 locations in 35 states.  ‘First In Line’  Spent fuel at  power plants  no longer operating should be
“first in line” to be moved to temporary storage, Meserve
said.  Phil Sharp , a commissioner and former Democratic U.S. House
member from  Indiana , said while it might be possible to
establish one interim site, it could be “wiser to have them
regionally located” to make transport easier.  The commission is hearing recommendations from three
subcommittees today. Those suggestions may be included in the
group’s draft report to the Obama administration. A final report
is due Jan. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  