-- 
Obama Seen Stronger Against Terrorism Than Bush in Global Investor Poll

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/obama-viewed-stronger-against-terrorism-than-bush-in-global-investor-poll.html
Global investors say President  Barack Obama  has done a better job of fighting terrorism than former
President  George W. Bush , while U.S. investors rate the ex-
president higher.  Outside the U.S., Obama is rated stronger than Bush on
terrorism, 48 percent to 16 percent, in the Bloomberg Global
Poll. Worldwide, Obama has a 40 percent to 29 percent edge in
the quarterly poll taken May 9-10 of 1,263 Bloomberg customers
who are investors, analysts and traders.  Fabian Fritzsche, 32, a poll respondent from Collineo Asset
Management GmbH in Dortmund, Germany, says Obama deserves credit
for improving the world’s view of the U.S.  “The Obama administration improved the reputation of the
U.S.A. -- i.e., the soft power of America -- which will make it
more difficult for terrorists to recruit new terrorists,”
Fritzsche said. “That is probably, in the long term, the most
efficient way to fight terrorism.”  By 54 percent to 26 percent, investors in the U.S.
questioned in the poll give Bush, a Republican, better marks
than the current occupant of the White House, a Democrat, for
fighting terrorism.  The death of Osama  bin Laden  will have little impact on
world markets, according to the poll of global investors who
disagree, depending on where they live, about how much credit to
give for the war against terrorism.  Bin Laden’s Death  Almost three-quarters of the people questioned say bin
Laden’s death will make no difference to the investment climate,
compared with about 20 percent who say the financial outlook
will improve because of the al-Qaeda leader’s demise.  “The global investment community has grown accustomed to
the threats of the post-9/11 world and had already discounted
them prior to bin Laden’s death,” said poll participant Douglas Schoninger, 50, president of New York-based DJS Capital
Management Inc. “The death of bin Laden does not change the
equation. Unless an act of terror is of mass-destructive scale
or global in its economic impact, any market reaction will be
short-lived.”  Crude oil for June delivery initially fell as much as 2.7
percent on May 2 after news that bin Laden had been killed by
U.S. Navy SEALs, then rebounded to end the day down 0.4 percent
at $113.52 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.18 percent on May 2 to
1,361.22 and the Euro Stoxx 50 Index fell 0.08 percent to
3,008.89.  Some Potential  Some participants in the poll, which has a margin of error
of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points on the full sample, see
more potential benefit from bin Laden’s death.  “Bin Laden was a thorn in every government’s side,” said
Joseph Russo, 43, a managing director and co-head of capital
markets in New York for Rait Securities LLC. “His death, over
time, will save billions in security spending as his terrorist
group falls apart. The price of oil will fall. As it does, it is
good for the global economy.”  Investors are divided on whether the U.S. raid that killed
bin Laden increases the risk of terrorism. The largest group --
40 percent -- says his death won’t have any effect on the
frequency of attacks, 37 percent say it will make them more
likely and 17 percent say they will be less likely.  “The hunt for  Osama bin Laden  has been going on for quite
some time, and investors may have already discounted his
influence,” said J. Ann Selzer, president of  Des Moines , Iowa-
based  Selzer & Co. , which conducted the poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  