-- 
Obama Sets Middle East Policy Speech May 19 in Washington

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-13T17:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/obama-plans-middle-east-policy-speech-on-may-19-in-washington.html
President  Barack Obama  will make a
foreign policy speech on May 19 on the historic changes in the
Middle East and the implications for U.S. foreign policy,
spokesman  Jay Carney  said today.  Obama’s speech at the State Department will come as
governments in Tunisia and  Egypt  have been toppled, and  Libya ,
Syria and other countries in the region have seen violent
uprisings and bloodshed.  “We’ve gone through a remarkable period in the first
several months of this year” in the Middle East and North
Africa, Carney told reporters at a briefing. Obama will speak
about “the upheaval” in the region, he said. “I’m sure it’ll
be a fairly sweeping and comprehensive speech.” Carney declined
to offer additional details.  The Obama administration has reacted on a case-by-case
basis to the spate of so-called Arab Spring rebellions across
the Middle East and North Africa.  Obama called for longtime U.S. ally  Hosni Mubarak  to step
down in Egypt and supported a NATO intervention in Libya. The
U.S. has denounced government repression in Syria while stopping
short of saying President Bashar al-Assad has lost legitimacy,
and hasn’t yet called for regime change in Yemen.  “Each country in the region that has experienced upheaval
is different,” Carney said.  Meeting Abdullah, Netanyahu  Obama is scheduled to meet next week with two Middle East
leaders -- Jordan’s King Abdullah on May 17 and Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on May 20 -- to discuss developments
in the Middle East and the peace process between  Israel  and the
Palestinians.  In 2009, Obama delivered a speech at Cairo University in
which he called for “a new beginning” between the U.S. and the
Muslim world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  