-- 
Oil Market Is ‘Structurally Bullish,’ Goldman’s Currie Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-13T15:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/oil-market-still-structurally-bullish-goldman-s-currie-says.html
The oil market is “structurally
bullish” and prices are likely to be higher in 12 months,
according to a senior analyst at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The market will get into “critical shortages” in 2012,
 Jeffrey Currie , head of commodity research at the bank, said
today in an interview in London. “Long-term and medium-term
we’re still structurally bullish.”  Brent crude  has risen 20 percent this year and West Texas
Intermediate oil, the U.S. benchmark, is up 8.2 percent amid
concern that unrest in North Africa and the Middle East will
disrupt supplies as the global economy recovers. Crude last week
had its biggest weekly decline in more than two years as U.S.
economic indicators and a strengthening dollar triggered a five-
day rout in commodity prices.  Volatility in  oil prices  will begin to stabilize next month
as the market gets clearer signs on U.S. growth and the pace of
monetary policy tightening in  China , Currie said. The
commodities market is currently going through “a rough patch”
on weakness in macroeconomic data, he said.  ‘Clearer Position’  “Once these fears exhibit some signs of stability you’ll
be in a clearer position,” he said.  Oil demand will continue to expand even if the U.S. ends
bond-buying efforts to support the economy, known as
quantitative easing, or QE, Currie said.  “If there is real sustainable growth that was generated
off the back of this QE, when you take it away, you may see a
slowing in the growth rate, but growth should still be
underlying intact,” he said today at the Platts Crude Oil
Markets conference in  London .  The International Energy Agency yesterday trimmed its 2011
global oil demand forecast for the first time as this year’s
price rally begins to weigh on consumers. Consumption will
expand 1.5 percent worldwide this year, the Paris-based agency
said in its monthly report.  Goldman’s Currie said inflation pressures on policy makers
in emerging economies will ease in the second half of the year,
creating “a more positive environment for risky assets.”  Saudi Arabian production capacity is in the “vicinity” of
2008 levels, the Goldman Sachs analyst said at the London
conference. Spare capacity isn’t expected to reach 2008 levels
for another six to 12 months, Goldman said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  