-- 
Holder Considers Gingrich Criticism of His Performance a ‘Badge of Honor’

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/holder-considers-gingrich-criticism-of-his-performance-a-badge-of-honor-.html
Attorney General  Eric Holder  said he
considers criticism by Republican  Newt Gingrich  “a badge of
honor,” dismissing the presidential candidate’s assertion that
Holder sought to help terrorists and doesn’t deserve his post.  Gingrich, a former speaker of the House from Georgia,
blasted Holder in a May 11 interview with Fox News host Sean Hannity. Holder “should never have been approved by the United
States Senate,” and Congress “should be investigating what his
beliefs are,” Gingrich said.  Gingrich alleged that Holder “volunteered to write papers
for terrorists” and “volunteered to try to help terrorists get
out of jail.” He didn’t elaborate on the accusations.  Asked about the remarks during an appearance on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, Holder said, “Who can explain Newt?”  “I will wear that comment as a badge of honor, given a lot
of other things that he said,” the attorney general said.  Holder, who Gingrich said “is consistently doing the wrong
things as it relates to Americans,” defended his team’s
performance.  “I’m quite happy with the job that the people here in the
Department of Justice are doing and the approach that we have
taken to try and restore this department,” the attorney general
said. “I’m not worried an awful lot about what Newt Gingrich is
saying.”  Terrorism Interrogations  Gingrich’s broadside against Holder came in response to a
question from Hannity about investigations of the actions of
Central Intelligence Agency officials who interrogated terrorism
suspects during former President  George W. Bush ’s
administration.  In 2009, Holder named a special investigator to probe the
use of interrogation techniques such as waterboarding used by
CIA officials on terror detainees.  The death of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden has prompted
questions about whether such harsh methods may have yielded
information that led the U.S. to his compound in  Pakistan . A
group of Republican senators wrote to President  Barack Obama 
this week calling on him to end the investigation, calling it
“politically motivated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  