-- 
Holder Says Bin Laden Pulled ‘Levers’ of Al-Qaeda (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-13T21:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/holder-says-bin-laden-pulled-levers-of-al-qaeda-transcript-.html
U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder 
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that Osama bin Laden
was “pulling the levers” of al-Qaeda and wanted to target senior
U.S. officials.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: And we begin the program with Attorney General
Eric Holder. General, thank you so much for being with us. We
got a treasure trove of intelligence from bin Laden’s home. And
intelligence officials now are saying that he had goals of
killing U.S. senior officials, including the president. Was this
specific? How much did we know about how far advanced this was?  ERIC HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL: I’m not sure we have any
plots that we can say were particularly well advanced? On the
other hand, we did see that he had a number of goals to do
things that he wanted to do around the anniversary, the 10th
anniversary of September the 11th. Certain people that he wanted
to harm. I wouldn’t say that they had advanced beyond the
operational stage but he was clearly a person who was still
pulling the levers in the al-Qaeda organization.  HUNT: People, including top officials in the United States
government.  HOLDER: Yes, that’s true.  HUNT: There was - it had been reported that a plot; he was
scheming to attack railroads. What other targets and what
specifically have we been able to do to respond to what we have
learned?  HOLDER: Well, we have certainly sent things out of the
Department of  Homeland Security , as well as the FBI sent out
what is called a terror line around our country to raise the
awareness around rail transportation so that people would be
more cognizant of potential threats there. And we’re still in
the process of going through this material to get a better sense
of what it is we might expect in the short term and over - over
the long term.  HUNT: In the short term we are in more danger because of
any kind of reaction from his community?  HOLDER: I think that potential is there. I particularly
worry about what we call the lone wolves, people for whatever
reason want to make a statement; avenge the death of  bin Laden .
And these are people who are generally hard to track and who can
act almost spontaneously in this country or in - in other
countries.  HUNT: As you know, former Vice President Cheney and Defense
Chief Rumsfeld said that enhanced interrogation, waterboarding,
was essential for the intelligence in getting bin Laden. Are
they right?  HOLDER: No, I don’t think so. One has to look at this whole
question of enhanced interrogation techniques and I think what
Senator McCain said on the Senate floor a few days ago I think
was particularly relevant.  Torture does not get the relevant information - good
information all the time. In fact, most of the time people will
tell the interrogators what they think they want to hear in
order to stop the interrogation.  HUNT: So it did not play an essential role in this?  HOLDER: We have gotten information from a variety of
sources. And - it’s not clear to me at least that the
information that we got from those enhanced interrogations
techniques is what ultimately led to Bin Laden.  HUNT: You mentioned Senator McCain. He is an opponent of
torture, as you know, but he said it’s time now to stop your
department’s investigation of former CIA interrogators.  HOLDER: We’re working through that. I think we’ve made a
lot of progress. And I think that people have to remember that
we said we would not investigate anybody who followed what we
considered very flawed advice from the Office of Legal Counsel
and the Justice Department during the  Bush administration  if
they relied in good faith on what the Justice Department said
they could do -- they were not going to be investigated. And I
think we are pretty close to the end of a substantial portion of
that investigation.  HUNT: When do you think you might close that out totally?  HOLDER: I - I don’t think we’re looking at an extended
period of time. I don’t think we’re looking at months. I think
that we’re looking at weeks before we’ll have -  HUNT: In a few weeks it’ll be resolved one way or another.  HOLDER: I think substantial portions of it will be resolved
within weeks.  HUNT: Okay. Bin Laden was at the top of our most wanted
terrorist, the worst terrorist in the world. He’s gone now -who
is the top target? Who scares you the most? Is it Al-Zawahiri,
his number two man? Or is Al-Awlaki, the head of al-Qaeda Yemen?  HOLDER: Yeah.  HUNT: Where’s the threat?  HOLDER: Well, I think the threat - it’s interesting I think
the threat comes from the affiliates. Certainly Al-Awlaki would
be one of the people I’d be concerned about. Core al-Qaeda I
think has certainly been weakened and who knows what impact Al-
Zawahiri will have.  I also worry a great deal about people who become
radicalized within the  United States  or in other countries in
their basements or interacting with friends and who then take
upon themselves the notion that they are going to try to do
something on behalf of this crazy cause. So, I worry not only
about the affiliates, but the individuals as well.  HUNT: Did I read you right that Al-Awlaki, however, may be
actually more of a global threat than Al-Zawahiri?  HOLDER: Well, we certainly know that Al-Awlaki wants to
strike within the United States. Al-Qaeda on the Arabian
Peninsula has tried to do things in the United States already
with the printer that they tried to send over. You know the
impact, their interaction with the Detroit airplane bomber. I
worry a great deal about Al-Awlaki, a great deal about Al-
Awlaki.  HUNT: Let me just switch subjects. Two years ago following
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and many
said there were scams, you said, I believe I’m quoting you
right, “There’s a perception that  Wall Street  doesn’t play by
the same rules as Main Street,” and you vowed to hold those
responsible for the financial crisis accountable.  Two years later no indictments of major figures - AIG,
 Lehman Brothers , anyone else. Why not?  HOLDER: Well I think we have made a substantial amount of
progress. We have the Galleon conviction.  HUNT: But that really wasn’t - that was  insider trading .
The kind of case that’s brought always.  HOLDER: Well, inside - we had a substantial number of
those, I think we had over 35 of those cases where convictions
have been obtained.  We had the Colonial Bank matter with
(inaudible) - a $3 billion dollar fraud. And there are
investigations that are ongoing. I mean people labor under this
misapprehension that somehow or other, we don’t want to bring
these cases.  People come to the  Justice Department  as part of their
careers to make these cases, to have a major impact and we are -
we still have a number of these cases under investigation. So I
don’t think that we should say that we have not kept to the
promise that I’ve made. We’re still working on it.  HUNT: Well I know you’re not going to - you can’t say which
ones, but is it likely that there will be major actions against
what people would identify with the perpetrators who brought -
brought about the 2000 crisis?  HOLDER: All I can say is that we have investigations that
are underway. We have Senate reports that we are reviewing. And
when we have an ability to make cases, then we want to. We want
to make cases where they are appropriate we will announce them.  HUNT: Can I ask you one political question? In launching
his bid for the Republican presidential nomination, a
centerpiece of  Newt Gingrich ’s opening statement was a broadside
against you - he said you were consistently doing the wrong
thing for America and the U.S. House should investigate what
your quote beliefs, end quote, are.  HOLDER: Who can explain Newt - I will wear that comment as
a badge of honor given a lot of other things that he said; a lot
of other positions that he has taken. I’m quite happy with the
job that the people here in the  Department of Justice  are doing
and the approach that we have taken to try and restore this
department and the approaches that we’ve taken in a whole host
of other areas, so I’m not worried an awful lot about what Newt
Gingrich is saying.  HUNT: General, you have said the Department of Justice is
looking at  Carl Levin ’s report on Goldman Sachs. Do you have
sense of when you’ll decide whether there is anything that is
relevant for the department.  HOLDER: It’s hard to put a time frame on it, but I can say
it’s actively under review here in the department by a bunch of
prosecutors who are going to be extremely aggressive and who are
going to try and make cases to the extent that we can. The
report that we got was very thorough, very well researched and
well documented and so we are in the process of looking at it.  HUNT: How about the working group on the spike in gas
prices? Do you anticipate there could actually be criminal
action there?  HOLDER: Who knows - civil action, criminal action - one of
the things that we want to make sure is that people, the
American people, are not manipulated and prices are not gouged.  HUNT: But you don’t have any evidence yet that there is -
there had been -  HOLDER: We are at the beginning stages of it. The committee
has met, the  task force  has met one time, but their work is
underway. It’s a multi-agency task force, that also involves
states’ attorney generals who really have I think in some ways
the best sense of what’s going on in their localities.  HUNT: Attorney General Eric Holder, thank you so much for
being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.87.23378.25>#
-0- May/13/2011 21:31 GMT
 