-- 
Hong Kong Economy Expands Faster-Than-Forecast 7.2%, Adding to Bubble Risk

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-13T16:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/hong-kong-economy-expands-faster-than-forecast-7-2-adding-to-bubble-risk.html
Hong Kong ’s economy expanded a more-
than-forecast 7.2 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier as the government wrestled with accelerating inflation
and the threat of a property bubble.  The increase in gross domestic product announced yesterday
was the biggest in a year and compared with a revised 6.4
percent gain in the fourth quarter. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists was for a 5.5 percent
expansion and none predicted such a large gain.  The government yesterday raised its full-year inflation
forecast to 5.4 percent, while the  International Monetary Fund  
warned last month that “steep corrections” in property prices
are possible. A currency peg to the dollar robs Hong Kong of an
independent interest-rate policy as cash spills into the city
from neighboring  China  and also from monetary easing in
developed economies such as the U.S.  “Such robust economic growth inevitably turns up the heat
on inflation, but we suspect consumers will soon start to feel
and react more noticeably to the bite of rising prices,” said
Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“Cooler household spending growth, in turn, should provide a
degree of counter-balance to any potential risks of
overheating.”  The government raised its growth forecast for this year to
a range of 5 percent to 6 percent. The expansion in the first
quarter was bolstered by larger-than-estimated exports and
strong domestic demand, it said. In February, the growth
forecast was 4 percent to 5 percent and the inflation estimate
was 4.5 percent.  ‘Home Market Bubble’  The city this week sold three residential sites for more
than analysts expected, suggesting confidence in the  property
market .  Home prices  in March were 3 percent higher than their
peak in 1997, the year the Asian financial crisis started, the
government said yesterday.  “The robust economic growth is fueling inflation and
adding risk to the already overheated property market,” said
Joseph Lau, a senior economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong
Kong. “The home market bubble could burst as the U.S. starts
tightening its monetary conditions more aggressively.”  Financial Secretary John Tsang said this week that the
government aims to cool the real-estate market and restrain
excessive credit growth, echoing the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority’s April warning of the risk of a “credit-fueled
property bubble.”  Most Expensive Place  Housing prices have gained more than 55 percent in the past
24 months on record-low  mortgage rates  and buyers from China,
according to data compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.,
the city’s biggest privately held real-estate broker.  In November, the government increased property transaction
taxes and pledged to boost land supply amid public protests that
prices are unaffordable. In January, Hong Kong was ranked the
world’s most expensive place to buy a home by London-based
property broker Savills Plc in January.  Yesterday’s report showed the economy grew 2.8 percent in
the first quarter from the previous three months.  The government in  February  announced one-off relief
measures of HK$18.4 billion ($2.37 billion) to help residents
cope with rising prices, including an electricity subsidy and a
waiver of property rates. In March, inflation accelerated to 4.6
percent, the fastest pace since August 2008, led by increases in
the cost of food and housing rentals.  “Inflation will trend up higher and that will limit Hong
Kong’s growth,” said Kevin Lai, an economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets in Hong Kong.  Consumption Engine  A jobless rate at a more than two-year low of 3.4 percent
is “propping up Hong Kong’s private consumption engine of
growth,” according to HSBC’s Kwok. Consumption gained an annual
7.6 percent in January through March, the government said today.  Hong Kong will give a handout of HK$6,000 to each permanent
resident, Financial Secretary Tsang said in March. The money
will encourage retail spending and benefit companies including
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and  Lifestyle International Holdings
Ltd. (1212) , CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said.  A sustained recovery in the U.S. and  Europe  will support
the city’s overseas sales, even as  Japan ’s earthquake clouds the
outlook, the government said in April. Exports increased 17
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, as strong
growth in China spurs production and shipments in  Asia , the
government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  