-- 
Hong Kong Economy Expands Faster-Than-Forecast 7.2%, Adding to Bubble Risk

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-13T10:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/hong-kong-economy-surges-faster-than-forecast-7-2-adding-to-bubble-risk.html
Hong Kong  raised forecasts for growth
and inflation after the economy expanded 7.2 percent in the
first quarter, the fastest pace in a year and more than any of
the estimates in a survey of 17 economists.  The gain in gross domestic product from a year earlier,
released by the government at a briefing today, compared with a
revised 6.4 percent increase in the three months ended December
31. Analysts’ median estimate was for a 5.5 percent increase.  Hong Kong’s currency peg robs the city of an independent
interest-rate policy, adding to inflation risks as cash spills
into  Asia  from monetary easing in nations including the U.S. The
city yesterday sold three residential sites for more than
analysts expected, suggesting confidence in the real-estate
market even after the International Monetary Authority warned in
April that “steep corrections” in property prices are possible.  “The robust economic growth is fueling inflation and
adding risk to the already overheated property market,” said
Joseph Lau, a senior economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong
Kong. “The home market bubble could burst as the U.S. starts
tightening its monetary conditions more aggressively.”  The government raised its growth forecast for this year to
a range of 5 percent to 6 percent, and the estimate for
inflation to 5.4 percent. The “GDP leap” is bolstered by
larger-than-estimated exports and “strong” domestic demand,
the government said today. The previous growth forecast made in
February was 4 percent to 5 percent and the inflation estimate
was 4.5 percent.  Higher Than Peak  Home prices  in March were 3 percent higher than the peak
level in 1997, the year when the Asian financial crisis started,
the government said today.  Financial Secretary John Tsang said this week that the
government aims to cool the real-estate market and restrain
excessive credit growth, echoing the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority’s April warning of the risk of a “credit-fueled
property bubble.” Loans extended by Hong Kong banks in March
surged 31 percent from a year earlier to a record HK$4.54
trillion ($584 billion).  Housing prices in the city have gained more than 55 percent
in the past 24 months on record-low  mortgage rates  and an influx
of buyers from  China , according to data compiled by the
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately
held real-estate broker.  The government in November increased property transaction
taxes and pledged to boost land supply amid public protests that
prices are becoming unaffordable, as the city is ranked the
world’s most expensive place to buy a home by a London-based
property broker Savills Plc in January.  Relief Measures  Today’s report showed Hong Kong’s economy grew 2.8 percent
in the first quarter from the previous three months.  Inflation accelerated to 4.6 percent, the fastest pace
since August 2008, in March from a year earlier, led by
increases in the cost of food and housing rentals. The financial
secretary in  February  announced one-off relief measures of
HK$18.4 billion ($2.37 billion) to help residents cope with
rising prices, including an electricity subsidy and a waiver of
property rates.  “Inflation will trend up higher and that will limit Hong
Kong’s growth,” said Kevin Lai, an economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets in Hong Kong.  Consumption Engine  A jobless rate at a more than two-year low of 3.4 percent
is “propping up Hong Kong’s private consumption engine of
growth,” said Donna Kwok, an economist with HSBC Holdings Plc.
Consumption gained an annual 7.6 percent in January through
March, the government said today.  Hong Kong will give a handout of HK$6,000 to each permanent
resident, Financial Secretary Tsang said in March. The money
will encourage retail spending and benefit companies including
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and  Lifestyle International Holdings Ltd. (1212) ,
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said.  A sustained recovery in the U.S. and  Europe  will support
the city’s overseas sales, even as  Japan ’s earthquake clouds the
outlook, the government said in April. Exports increased 17
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, as strong
growth in Chinese economy are spurring production and shipments
in Asia, the government said.  -- With assistance from  Michael Munoz , Marco Lui and Huang Zhe
in Hong Kong. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  