-- 
Mongolia Targets $700 Million in Debut Domestic Bond Sales From This Month

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-05-13T05:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/mongolia-targets-700-million-in-debut-domestic-bond-sales-from-this-month.html
Mongolia’s newly created development
lender is aiming to sell $700 million of domestic-currency bonds
in 2011, with sales scheduled to begin this month, the bank’s
chairman said.  Investors will be offered tugrik-denominated bonds due in
five, 10, and 15 years in several sales from the end of this
month to around September, Chuluundorj Khashchuluun, the Ulan
Bator-based chairman of the  Development Bank  of Mongolia, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. The bonds will be backed by
the government, which has approved the sales, he said.  “In a week or two we will have another meeting with
investors to make more concrete plans” to set terms for the
initial sale,  Khashchuluun  said. The central bank and finance
ministry are involved in “extensive consultations” on the
sales, he said.  It will be the first sovereign offerings by the resource-
rich nation that needs to quadruple the size of its rail network,
add power and water plants, and build more roads before it can
increase metal and mineral exports. New transport projects would
also help Mongolia ease its economic reliance on its neighbor
 China , which took nearly 80 percent of shipments last year,
according to official data.  The bonds will be offered via the stock exchange and the
central bank, with a private placement also possible,
Khashchuluun said. The size of the offering may be adjusted to
reflect market demand and also bring in a wide range of
investors with the number of sales not yet decided, he said.
Domestic banks and international investors have shown interest
in the debt and yields are being discussed, Khashchuluun said.  Surging Tugrik  Moody’s Investors Service rates Mongolian sovereign debt B1,
four levels below investment grade, while  Standard & Poor’s 
rates the North Asian nation BB-, three levels below investment
grade. Moody’s rates Mongolia the same as  Sri Lanka , which sold
10-year bonds to yield 6.25 percent in September last year.  “The bank’s lending can’t be very costly, because it is
policy-based financing,” Khashchuluun said. Although, rates
have to be high enough to attract investors, he said. “So it
demands a balance.”  The tugrik has strengthened 18.2 percent against the dollar
since the beginning of last year, the second-best performance
among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Australian
dollar.  The government has tasked Development Bank of Mongolia,
which opened yesterday, to help finance rail, road and other
infrastructure projects as well as the building of an industrial
park. The bank is in a hurry to start the sales so that it can
access funding before construction stops due to freezing
temperatures in the winter months, Khashchuluun said. Lack of
infrastructure is holding back economic development across the
economy, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  