-- 
Online Tracking Business Bizo Backs ’Do Not Track Online’ Rules

-- B y   S t e v e   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-05-13T16:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/online-tracking-business-bizo-backs-do-not-track-online-rules.html
By clicking on this article, a reader’s Web browsing data is
collected by  Omniture (ADBE),   Google AdSense (GOOG),  Quintelligence, ChartBeat,
VoiceFive Networks, and dozens of other marketing and analytics businesses. That’s
according to analysis by Ghostery, a browser plug-in that detects hidden scripts running
on Web pages. Readers needn’t worry, though, because the data -- browser type,
demographics, language settings, page views -- is anonymous. In fact, this type of data
collection is standard practice for just about every website on the Internet. Marketers
use it to deliver more relevant ads to users. It would be better, privacy advocates argue,
if users could opt out of being tracked or at least see what data is being collected.
Eighty percent of general election voters in the U.S. support a “Do Not Track” list,
according to a 1,000-person poll released last July by nonprofit advocacy group
Consumer Watchdog.  Now lawmakers are looking to impose rules that take those online privacy concerns into
account, with three “Do Not Track Online” bills making their way through Congress. The
first, Representative Jackie Speier’s (D-Calif.) bill, introduced in February, requires
advertisers to disclose what information is collected and how it’s used, as well as
provide tools that enable users to block data collection. Senators  John Kerry  (D-Mass.)
and  John McCain  (R-Ariz.) introduced a similar bill in April and Senator John D. Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.) brought forward a third bill on May 9. Lawmakers, privacy
advocates, and industry leaders expect a version of the legislation to be signed into law
in the near future but are vague on specifics.  So it would seem  Bizo,  a three-year-old online marketing firm that collects and sells
data on 85 million business professionals to publishers, marketers, and advertising
agencies would fight it, keeping in line with much of the industry that wants self-
regulation instead of the government stepping in. Instead, its founder and chief
executive officer, Russ Glass, is leading the charge on regulation. In February, Glass
wrote the Federal Trade Commission a letter to propose how it can regulate responsibly
to ensure consumer choice and data collection openness. “We didn’t come from the ad
industry,” says Glass, 35, the former vice-president of marketing and product
management at ZoomInfo, a business information search engine. “It was just obvious to
us that transparency and the ability for people to own their own data made a ton of
sense.”  MORE APPEALING  Glass is adamant that giving individuals the ability to modify their data will make Bizo’s
services more appealing to those being tracked -- and those tracking them. About 70
percent of his 34-employee San Francisco company’s revenue comes from its ad
network, which marketers pay to use to target business professionals with ads as they
navigate the Web.  Unlike Google AdWords, which targets users based on keywords, Bizo’s network uses
cookies. These packets of data are used to create anonymous user profiles based on
demographic data Bizo collects from about 1,200 different sources, including contact
directory Jigsaw and business information and marketing firm Access Intel. As with
LinkedIn, customers use Bizo to target businesspeople based on what industry they’re
in, how senior they are, what job function they hold, or what size company they work for.
The difference is Bizo allows marketers to reach professionals across the Web, not just
within LinkedIn’s network. Bizo’s other business line is selling its business demographic
data to publishers and other ad networks to make their targeting more effective.  Cultivating trust is important to Glass. Without it, a company’s brand is less valuable,
particularly in the ad industry, which is already hampered by massive consumer
mistrust, he says. When Glass launched Bizo in 2008, he says, it was the first on the
market with a tool allowing Web surfers to see what information was being collected
along with the ability to correct facts or to opt out of being tracked. For example, if a
business executive notices an ad served by a Bizo user she doesn’t find relevant, she
can click on an “i” icon in an overlay or a descriptive link above or below the ad to make
cookie changes so that it stops appearing. In April, Bizo recorded roughly 25,000 opt-
outs across its platform, about 0.01 percent of its monthly unique audience. Google
released its tool about three months later, and others have since followed suit with
similar opt-out features on ads they serve.  IMPROVED EFFICIENCY  Of course, no matter how transparent the explanation of how their data will be used,
some people don’t want to be tracked. That means Bizo, its few competitors like
business-to-business advertising network BBN Networks, and thousands of data
collectors won’t be able to target those individuals as they click their way around the
Web. While there are exemptions for the collection of business-related data in Speier’s
bill, the opt-out tracking standards would affect Bizo the same as any other online
tracker. Glass says rules will improve efficiency since users who opt out “wouldn’t have
converted anyway,” referring to sales. The latest versions of  Microsoft’s Internet
Explorer (MSFT)  and Mozilla’s Firefox include do-not-track features. Based on its
developer release,  Apple’s Safari 6 (AAPL)  will add them this summer. Google has an
opt-out plug-in for Chrome, though do-not-track functionality isn’t a built-in feature.  “I think the ball is rolling and there’s going to have to be some sort of regulation to
please the constituencies that want it,” says Bob Felsenthal, vice-president and
publisher of BtoB, a business-to-business marketing magazine with offices in  Chicago 
and  New York City . “I think what you don’t want is something nearly as radical for the
Internet industry as ended up for the consumer telemarketing industry.” He’s referring to
the Federal Trade Commission’s National Do Not Call Registry, which went into effect in
February 2008. The service lets individuals avoid telemarketing calls, a development
Felsenthal says “destroyed” the industry. “[It] probably went too far too quickly, but after
years of doing nothing,” Felsenthal adds.  This time, lawmakers are taking action on Internet marketers much more quickly.
Felsenthal agrees with Glass that the online marketing industry should welcome
government oversight rather than just self-regulation measures. Felsenthal also notes
that because Bizo limits its services to targeting business readers, the company likely
won’t be adversely affected by  government regulation . “I don’t think that business
readers, like consumers, are as concerned about having ads on the page because it’s
usually of business information that’s of interest to them -- so I think that makes [Bizo]
unique and different.”  Convinced relatively few of the individuals he relies on will opt out should legislation
become law, Glass is optimistic about growth. Bizo has 1,000 publisher partners that
share revenues from advertisements served, including  Yahoo! (YHOO),   Nielsen
(NLSN),  and  Dun & Bradstreet (DNB),  plus more than 300 marketer customers. Glass
says renewal rates are up more than 30 percent from a year earlier. As clients’
advertising budgets expand, Glass expects revenue to hit $15 million in 2011, up more
than double from $6.8 million last year. GyroHSR, a business-to-business marketing
agency in  London , has been using Bizo’s services for over two years. “We build unique
programs with Bizo for almost every one of our clients,” says Frannie Jaye
Danzinger, senior vice-president of media at the agency, which has more than 600
employees. “It’s our first choice when it comes to targeted business-to-business display
programs.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steve Cooper at  socal.journo@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  