-- 
Thor Industries Agrees to Pay $1 Million to Settle SEC Accounting Claims

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-13T19:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/thor-industries-agrees-to-pay-1-million-to-settle-sec-accounting-claims.html
Thor Industries Inc. (THO) , the biggest
U.S. maker of recreational vehicles, agreed to pay $1 million to
settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit
claiming one of its executives underreported company costs.  The proposed settlement was filed in federal court in
 Washington  yesterday along with a complaint that alleges Mark
Schwartzhoff, the former vice president of finance at Thor’s
Dutchmen Manufacturing Inc., “engaged in a fraudulent accounting
scheme to understate Dutchmen’s cost of goods sold.”  Schwartzhoff overstated Dutchmen’s pretax income by almost
$27 million from fiscal year 2003 to the second quarter of
fiscal 2007, according to the SEC. The executive, who was fired
in 2007, agreed to pay almost $400,000 in penalties, according
to court filings.  “Thor’s failure to maintain accurate books and records and
adequate internal accounting controls violated a 1999 commission
cease-and-desist-order,” the SEC in said court papers,
referring to similar misconduct at a different Thor unit.  Without admitting or denying the allegations, Thor
Industries agreed to hire an SEC-approved independent consultant
to evaluate its internal accounting controls at its headquarters
in Jackson Center,  Ohio , and at its other units. The agreement
requires court approval.  Richard Riegel, Thor’s senior group president, said the
company looks forward to working with the independent
consultant.  “We’re just pleased the issue has come to a resolution
because we’ve become a much, much, much better company,” he
said.  The case is SEC v. Thor Industries, 11-cv-00889, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 