-- 
Louisiana Spillway Likely to Open

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-13T21:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/morganza-spillway-likely-to-open-this-weekend-jindal-says-1-.html
Louisiana  Governor Bobby Jindal said
it’s "extremely likely" the Morganza Floodway will be opened
this weekend, inundating the Atchafalaya River basin with enough
water to fill a football field 10 feet deep every second.  The  Mississippi  River Commission hasn’t made an official
announcement. Jindal said at a press conference in Baton Rouge
that “we are proceeding on the assumption that the spillway is
going to be opened tomorrow or Sunday.”  The spillway, built in 1954, would release 600,000 cubic
feet of water per second into central Louisiana and the
Atchafalaya, taking pressure off the Mississippi and the cities
downstream, according to the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers.  Jindal said the Morganza would be opened gradually and
wouldn’t result in a wall of water running the length of the
state to Morgan City, 70 miles west of New Orleans, where the
Atchafalaya empties into the  Gulf of Mexico . He stressed the
need to act quickly.  “Now is the time to take action,” Jindal said. “We
wanted to give people as much advance notice as we can.”  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
to flooding when the waters rise, according to Jindal’s office.  Oil, Gas Production  Opening the spillway would also affect Louisiana’s energy
production. Inside the threatened area are 2,264 wells that
produce 19,278 barrels of crude oil a day, about 10 percent of
Louisiana’s onshore total.  About 252.6 million cubic feet a day of gas is produced in
the potential inundation area provided by the corps, Anna
Dearmon, a spokeswoman for the Louisiana Department of Natural
Resources, said in an e-mail. She said there is no estimate of
how much of this production would be affected.  “We are building earthen, sandbag and Hesco basket levees
in Amelia,” said Paul Naquin, St. Mary Parish president, based
in Franklin, Louisiana. “In five days we should be OK. We are
working 24 hours a day trying to beat the clock.”  A Hesco basket is a container that can be filled with dirt
to build a temporary levee.  Naquin said there is also a plan to sink a barge in a bayou
to slow down the rising water.  Exxon  Baton Rouge   The  Mississippi River  has flooded  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s river
docks at the refinery in Baton Rouge, according to a person
familiar with the plant’s operations.  The refinery, on the banks of the Mississippi, had crews
working “around the clock” because of the river, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. The plant is operating while “watching the river
conditions,” Kevin Allexon, a company spokesman based in
Fairfax,  Virginia , said in an e-mail today.  National Guard troops and local sheriffs would start going
door-to-door in the affected areas warning residents to flee,
Jindal said. It would take the water three days to travel the
length of the floodway from Morganza to  Morgan City .  For weeks, the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, swollen by
heavy rain and melted snow, have been inundating cities and
towns, flooding cropland and disrupting shipping. The Ohio rose
to a record 61.72 feet (18.8 meters) in Cairo,  Illinois , before
joining the Mississippi there.  Watching Flow Rate  The decision to open the Morganza will be made if the flow
at Louisiana’s  Red River Landing  north of Baton Rouge reaches
1.5 million cubic feet per second, said Ricky Boyett, a corps
spokesman. The flow was at 1.49 million cubic feet per second
today, according to the  National Weather Service .  The Mississippi River system was engineered to absorb a
major flood while maintaining flow rates through Baton Rouge and
 New Orleans  to ensure the integrity of levees, according to the
corps. The corps wants to limit flow to 1.5 million cubic feet
per second at Baton Rouge and 1.25 million at New Orleans, said
Ken Holder, a spokesman.  When the river flows exceed that, the system is designed to
have water diverted elsewhere by using the Morganza or the
Bonnet Carre spillway outside New Orleans, he said.  Opening the Morganza may lower the river’s crest in Baton
Rouge by as little as a foot, said Bryan Harmon, the city’s
deputy public works director. The river is projected to crest at
47.5 feet on May 22 without the Morganza opened, according to
the weather service.  “We think it would give us a great deal of comfort if they
open that,” said William Daniel, Baton Rouge’s interim public
works director.  Unless the spillway is used, the river is expected to crest
at 19.5 feet in  New Orleans , which is protected by levees to 20
feet, according to the corps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 