-- 
Toshiba Said to Be Near More Than $2 Billion Deal for Landis+Gyr

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-05-13T20:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/toshiba-said-to-near-agreement-to-buy-landis-gyr-for-more-than-2-billion.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502)  is near an agreement to
buy Landis+Gyr AG, a Swiss electronic-metering company, for more
than $2 billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The companies may announce the sale in the coming days,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
details are private. Tokyo-based Toshiba beat private equity
firms TPG Capital and EQT Partners AB, which also submitted
takeover proposals by a May 9 deadline, the people said.  Toshiba, which lost a bid for Areva SA’s power-grid
business in 2009, is seeking to expand its energy operations to
transmission equipment as countries such as the U.S. invest in
upgrades of their electrical systems. Landis+Gyr, based in Zug,
 Switzerland , makes smart meters that allow utilities to check
energy use remotely and can be connected to equipment that shows
customers when rates are highest.  “For Japanese firms such as Toshiba, an acquisition is a
quick way to expand in the smart grid-related businesses after
focusing mainly on information technology operations,”  Masahiko Ishino , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. in  Tokyo , said earlier this week.  Calls and e-mails to a spokeswoman at Toshiba
International’s office in Houston weren’t immediately returned.
Keisuke Ohmori, a Toshiba spokesman in Tokyo, declined to
comment on any specific bid earlier this week and said the
company is working on the smart grid business in a “variety of
ways.”  Largest Smart Grid  “We don’t comment on rumor and speculation,” Thor Valdmanis, a spokesman for Landis+Gyr, said by phone.  Founded in 1896, Landis+Gyr operates in 30 countries with
about 5,000 employees offering meters for clients including E.ON
AG,  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas unit and PG&E Corp. The company
is controlled by Australian investment firm Bayard Capital.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG, declined to comment.
Johan Hahnel, an EQT spokesman in Stockholm, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  In January, Landis+Gyr was chosen by State Grid Corp. of
 China  to help build the world’s largest smart grid, agreeing to
supply more than 10,000 commercial and industrial advanced
electricity meters in six Chinese provinces.  Toshiba, which makes power-generating equipment including
nuclear reactors, is expecting sales of 700 billion yen ($8.6
billion) from “smart grid” and “smart communications”
businesses, the company said last year.  A smart-grid system more efficiently regulates use of
energy from the main grid and independent sources by using
current that fluctuates like solar, wind and biogas and storage
of the energy they produce. The network reduces reliance on a
centralized energy source, better handling spikes in demand and
reducing likelihood of power disruptions.  Landis+Gyr has been working with Credit Suisse Group AG and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to examine options, including a sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Berlin at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  