-- 
Spillway to Open When Flow Meets Threshold

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-13T23:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/louisiana-spillway-likely-to-open-by-sunday-as-farms-sacrificed-for-cities.html
The commander of the Morganza
Floodway has permission to open it within 24 hours, inundating
the Atchafalaya River basin and reducing the flow down the
 Mississippi  toward  New Orleans .  Major General Michael Walsh, president of the  Mississippi
River  Commission, has told Col. Edward Fleming to open the
spillway as soon as the river’s flow reaches 1.5 million cubic
feet per second at Louisiana’s  Red River Landing , the U.S.  Army
Corps  of Engineers said in a statement.  The spillway, built in 1954, can release 600,000 cubic feet
of water per second into central Louisiana and the Atchafalaya
at maximum capacity, according to the corps. That’s enough to
fill a football field 10 feet deep every second. The corps
anticipates operating the spillway at 150,000 cubic feet per
second, according to a statement.  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said the Morganza would be
opened gradually and wouldn’t result in a wall of water running
the length of the state to Morgan City, 70 miles west of New
Orleans, where the Atchafalaya empties into the  Gulf of Mexico .
He stressed the need for residents to move quickly.  “Now is the time to take action,” Jindal said. “We
wanted to give people as much advance notice as we can.”  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
to flooding when the waters rise, according to Jindal’s office.  Oil, Gas Production  When the Morganza Spillway is opened, an estimated 15,000
acres of farmland will be initially underwater in the south-
central part of Louisiana along the Mississippi River, said Kyle
McCann, a spokesman at Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation.  Opening the spillway would also affect Louisiana’s energy
production. Inside the threatened area are 2,264 wells that
produce 19,278 barrels of crude oil a day, about 10 percent of
 Louisiana ’s onshore total.  About 252.6 million cubic feet a day of gas is produced in
the potential inundation area provided by the corps, Anna
Dearmon, a spokeswoman for the Louisiana Department of Natural
Resources, said in an e-mail. She said there is no estimate of
how much of this production would be affected.  “We are building earthen, sandbag and Hesco basket levees
in Amelia,” said Paul Naquin, St. Mary Parish president, based
in Franklin, Louisiana. “In five days we should be OK. We are
working 24 hours a day trying to beat the clock.”  A Hesco basket is a container that can be filled with dirt
to build a temporary levee.  Naquin said there is also a plan to sink a barge in a bayou
to slow down the rising water.  Exxon  Baton Rouge   The Mississippi River has flooded  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s river
docks at the refinery in Baton Rouge, according to a person
familiar with the plant’s operations.  The refinery, on the banks of the Mississippi, had crews
working “around the clock” because of the river, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. The plant is operating while “watching the river
conditions,” Kevin Allexon, a company spokesman based in
Fairfax,  Virginia , said in an e-mail today.  Door-to-Door  National Guard troops and local sheriffs would start going
door-to-door in the affected areas warning residents to flee,
Jindal said. It would take the water three days to travel the
length of the floodway from Morganza to  Morgan City .  A voluntary evacuation notice has been issued for Melville,
Krotz Springs and Three Mile Lake, according to the St. Landry
Parish government.  For weeks, the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, swollen by
heavy rain and melted snow, have been inundating cities and
towns, flooding cropland and disrupting shipping. The Ohio rose
to a record 61.72 feet (18.8 meters) in Cairo,  Illinois , before
joining the Mississippi there.  The Mississippi River system was engineered to absorb a
major flood while maintaining flow rates through Baton Rouge and
New Orleans to ensure the integrity of levees, according to the
corps. The corps wants to limit flow to 1.5 million cubic feet
per second at Baton Rouge and 1.25 million at New Orleans, said
Ken Holder, a spokesman.  When the river flows exceed that, the system is designed to
have water diverted elsewhere by using the Morganza or the
Bonnet Carre spillway outside New Orleans, he said.  Roadway to Shut  Jindal said the corps has asked the State Police to shut
the roadway over the Morganza down at 10 a.m. tomorrow. The
structure also carries a  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  railroad line.  Walsh, also commander of the corps’ Mississippi Valley
Division, and Fleming are scheduled to have a press conference
at 2:30 p.m., according to a corps statement.  Opening the Morganza may lower the river’s crest in Baton
Rouge by as little as a foot, said Bryan Harmon, the city’s
deputy public works director. The river is projected to crest at
47.5 feet on May 22 without the Morganza opened, according to
the weather service.  “We think it would give us a great deal of comfort if they
open that,” said William Daniel, Baton Rouge’s interim public
works director.  Unless the spillway is used, the river is expected to crest
at 19.5 feet in  New Orleans , which is protected by levees to 20
feet, according to the corps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 