-- 
Lloyd’s of London Predicts $1.95 Billion in Claims From Japan Earthquake

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-05-13T12:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/lloyd-s-of-london-predicts-1-95-billion-in-claims-from-japan-earthquake.html
Lloyd’s of  London , the world’s oldest
insurance market, said losses from this year’s natural disasters
in  Japan , New Zealand and  Australia  will cost about $3.8
billion, making it the costliest first quarter on record.  The Japanese earthquake and tsunami in March will cost
Lloyd’s about $1.95 billion in claims, less than a tenth of the
total estimated $30 billion total loss for the industry, the
market said today in a statement. Claims from the New Zealand
earthquake may total $1.2 billion, and flooding in Australia may
cost $650 million, Lloyd’s said today.  The Japanese quake is the fourth-largest single loss in the
history of Lloyd’s and the biggest outside the U.S., according
to a Lloyd’s spokeswoman. Together, the catastrophes may cut
full-year profit for Lloyd’s insurers by about 60 percent to 70
percent, according to Joy Ferneyhough, an analyst at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento SA. Lloyd’s insurers typically
face their biggest losses in the third quarter, the height of
the U.S. hurricane season.  “It’s been pretty rough,” Ferneyhough said in a telephone
interview today. “This has been one of the worst quarters for
many years, but it remains an earnings event rather than a
capital event,” she said. “Much depends of the second half of
the year.”  Only  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005, the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks in the U.S. and Hurricane Ike in 2008 were costlier,
according to Lloyd’s.  No Capital Impact  “There will not be a material impact on Lloyd’s capital
and there is not expected to be any central fund exposure from
these events, either individually or collectively,” Lloyd’s
said in the today’s statement. The market holds capital in the
central fund in case any of its insurers can’t meet claims.  Rates are likely to rise as a result of the losses, Lloyd’s
Chief Executive Richard Ward said in today’s statement.  Catlin
Group Ltd. (CGL) , the third-biggest Lloyd’s insurer by market value,
said separately today that rates for catastrophe-related
business have already increased.  Amlin Plc (AML)  and  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)  have
said they expect rates to climb this year.  The cost of U.S. policies that protect against hurricanes
is likely to rise about 10 percent when they come up for renewal
in June and July, according to Ferneyhough. There is so far
little evidence of rates increasing in non-catastrophe lines of
business, she said.  Catlin Climbs  Catlin rose 1.8 percent to 401.6 pence at 1:02 p.m. in
London trading after saying sales rose 11 percent in the first
quarter. Amlin was down 0.9 percent to 421 pence and Hiscox was
1 percent lower at 412.8 pence. All three insurers are trading
higher than on March 10, the day before the Japanese earthquake.  Earthquakes in  New Zealand  and flooding in Australia at the
end of 2010 and the beginning of this year had already eroded
insurers’ catastrophe reserves before the 9.0 magnitude quake
struck northeast Japan on March 11. The earthquake and tsunami,
which killed more than 11,000 people, may cost the  insurance
industry  as much as 2.5 trillion yen ($30 billion), according to
catastrophe modeling firm AIR Worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  