-- 
Lloyd Barriger of G&B Partners Fund Charged in $12.6 Million Mail Fraud

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-13T19:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/lloyd-barriger-of-g-b-partners-fund-charged-in-12-6-million-mail-fraud.html
Lloyd Barriger, who operated a
commercial real-estate financing fund that collapsed in 2008,
was charged in a federal grand jury indictment in New York with
conspiracy and  securities fraud  for defrauding investors.  Barriger, 55, of Damascus,  Pennsylvania , who operated
 Gaffken & Barriger Fund LLC , a Monticello, New York-based
investment fund, was accused of operating a scheme from April
2005 to September 2008 with an unnamed co-conspirator who served
as the vice president and an owner of an underwriter of the
fund’s loans, according to the indictment filed today.  He claimed his fund held real estate assets, including
collateralized commercial  mortgage loans , prosecutors said. The
fund raised capital for its operations through sales of
securities to public investors after he obtained a $15 million
line of credit in 2006, prosecutors said in the indictment.  In July of that year, Barriger, who also ran G&B Partners
Inc., started a scheme to defraud in which, under false
pretenses, he solicited $12.6 million from more than 70 old and
new investors, prosecutors said.  Barriger failed to tell investors that delinquencies on the
fund’s loan portfolio rose to more than 25 percent in July 2007
and increased to about 34 percent in November 2007, according to
the indictment filed in federal court in White Plains, New York.  ‘We Are Struggling’  As a result of those delinquencies, the fund experienced
what prosecutors called “a severe liquidity crunch” and wasn’t
able to support the promised 8 percent return to investors.  Prosecutors said Barriger continued to mislead investors
about the fund’s performance, even though he privately told his
co-conspirator about the problems, according to prosecutors.
“Just so you are a little updated on our situation,” Barriger
said in one e-mail to the co-conspirator, “we are struggling
(as usual!).”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil
lawsuit in federal court in  Manhattan  today, alleging Barriger
misused the fund’s assets by causing it to pay cash
distributions that he called “preferred returns” to investors
who requested them.  Barriger also caused the fund to redeem investors at values
reflecting a purported return of 8 percent a year when the fund
lacked the income to support those allocations, the SEC alleged.  The SEC said Barriger defrauded Campus Capital Corp.
investors out of about $2.5 million by raising money from them
to prop up Gaffken & Barriger.  ‘Somber Truth’  “In the midst of the credit crisis, Barriger chose to lie
about the solvency and liquidity of his fund rather than admit
the somber truth of a collapsing business,” George Canellos,
director of the SEC’s  New York  regional office, said in a
statement.  “He continued to solicit new investor funds based on the
same misrepresentations up until the day before the fund
collapsed,” Canellos said.  A lawsuit filed by Gaffken & Barriger investors in 2008 was
dismissed by U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in September.  Barriger is scheduled to appear in federal court in White
Plains later today, said Herbert Hadad, a spokesman for U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. If convicted of securities
fraud, Barriger could face as long as 20 years in prison.  Susan Brody, a federal public defender who is representing
Barriger, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Lloyd Barriger, 11-cr-00416, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( White Plains ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  