-- 
Pakistan's Taliban Threatens Attack on U.S. to Avenge Death of Bin Laden

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 
2011-05-13T23:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/pakistan-bombings-kill-73-people-in-worst-attack-since-death-of-bin-laden.html
The  Pakistan  Taliban said it carried
out bombings at a paramilitary police academy in northwest
Pakistan, killing 80 people, as part of its revenge campaign for
the death of Osama  bin Laden .  An attack against the  United States  is next, it said.  The militants’ attack, the deadliest this year in Pakistan,
struck outside the training center of the Frontier Constabulary
in Shabqadar, a town 25 kilometers (15 miles) north of the city
of  Peshawar . It follows a Pakistani army offensive to reverse
growing Taliban control in the Mohmand Agency, an adjacent
tribal district. Shabqadar is about 200 kilometers (125 miles)
from the city of Abbottabad, where bin Laden was killed.  “Our leader Hakimullah Mehsud has said that today’s attack
was a reaction to Osama’s martyrdom and operations by the
Pakistan army in the tribal areas,” Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan
spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan said by phone from an undisclosed
location. He said the attack “was the first of many” that
would “first target Pakistan and then the U.S.”  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the U.S. took
the threat “very seriously.”  “It is obviously entirely possible, even likely, that
terrorists -- whether organized or lone wolves -- might try to
respond with revenge attacks of some kind,” he said. “You can
be sure that our intelligence community is focusing very hard on
that.”  Pakistani Offensives  Bin Laden was killed May 2 by U.S. Navy commandos at a
house in Abbottabad, 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of the
capital, Islamabad. Pakistan’s military offensives against the
Taliban and allied guerrillas have sparked retaliatory attacks
in cities nationwide that killed  more than 2,000  civilians and
security personnel last year, according to the South Asian
terrorism database of the New Delhi-based  Institute for Conflict
Management .  The bombers struck outside the massive stone Shabqadar
Fort, where 15 buses were preparing to carry home graduates of
the paramilitary force, according to Ghufran Ali, a police
official in Charsadda, the local district center.  Senior provincial minister Bashir Bilour confirmed the
death toll to reporters at the scene. At least 66 of the dead
are from the force, Ali said. The blasts injured at least 115
people, the Edhi rescue service said.  Shabqadar is a market town at the border of Pakistan’s
ethnic Pashtun tribal zone, called the  Federally Administered
Tribal Areas . The zone, which is supposed to be semi-autonomous
under Pakistani law, has been the main battleground for
Pakistan’s army and the Taliban and allied Islamic militant
guerrillas.  Repeat Target  Shabqadar has been a Taliban target before. Police fought
in 2008 and 2009 to oust militants from parts of the town and
surrounding villages. Bombs there in August and September killed
a total of eight people, according to Pakistani press reports
citing officials.  Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan is a close affiliate of al-
Qaeda, according to analysts such as former CIA officer Bruce Riedel of the Washington-based  Brookings Institution , who led a
White House review of policy in  Afghanistan  in 2009.  The U.S. military says its war against the Taliban in
Afghanistan is hindered by neighboring Pakistan’s failure to
shut down militant havens, especially in the tribal zone.  Pakistan’s Taliban movement and allied militant groups have
conducted scores of bombings and gun attacks on police, army and
intelligence facilities since 2007, when the army battled armed
militants in the Lal Masjid, or Red Mosque, in Islamabad.
Attacks intensified following army offensives against guerrilla
strongholds from 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Anwar Shakir in Abbottabad, Pakistan at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  