-- 
Pakistan Generals Face Parliament Over Failure to Detect Bin Laden, SEALs

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-13T11:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/pakistan-generals-face-parliament-over-failure-to-detect-bin-laden-seals.html
Pakistani generals will brief
parliament behind closed doors today on the armed forces’
failure to detect either Osama  bin Laden  or the U.S. commando
force that killed him as he hid 30 miles from the capital.  The army will hold the private session with lawmakers in
Islamabad, only the second time it has done so under civilian
rule, as  Pakistan ’s most powerful institution faces criticism
from politicians, media and the public.  “The Abbottabad incident has become a big national
issue,” said Imtiaz Gul, director of the  Center for Research
and Security Studies  in Islamabad. “The army stands embarrassed
and exposed and it needs some sort of political cover,” he said
in a phone interview yesterday.  Pakistan’s army, which fields 600,000 troops and wields
nuclear weapons, controls national security and foreign policy
and isn’t accountable to the government for its annual budget,
which at $5.2 billion this year forms 16 percent of total
spending, according to the  Finance Ministry . The military has
ruled Pakistan for 32 of the country’s 63 years.  The presentation to legislators is “mostly a public
relations exercise” in which the army “is unlikely to cede any
ground to the civilian leadership,” Hasan-Askari Rizvi, a
Lahore-based political analyst, said yesterday. “Politicians
are bitterly divided” and unable to force greater oversight of
the army, Rizvi said.  President  Barack Obama  said on CBS television May 8 the
Pakistani government must investigate whether any of its
officials helped shelter bin Laden.  ‘Chess Games’  While the U.S. says Pakistan’s armed forces continue to
support Islamic militant militias such as the Jalaluddin Haqqani
network fighting U.S.-led troops in  Afghanistan , it says the
army’s help is essential in shutting down al-Qaeda in the region.  Pakistani political party leaders have condemned the army
and the intelligence community it dominates. “These
intelligence agencies which keep following politicians and their
activities, play political chess games day and night, couldn’t
find Osama a few 100 meters away from the Kakul academy,” the
main opposition leader, former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , said
in a televised press conference on May 11. “This has humiliated
Pakistan.”  Bin Laden was found by the U.S. in a home about 1,600
meters from the gate of the Pakistan Military Academy at Kakul,
an Abbottabad suburb.  The military’s press spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas,
has declined to comment on the political controversy over the
military’s failures in Abbottabad. His office issued a statement
May 10 denying Pakistani press reports that the army leadership
has criticized Prime Minister Yousuf Gilani’s government for its
treatment of the issue.  ISI Control  “The military and civilians are on the same page to
effectively deal with the situation,” the statement said.  In today’s briefing, the army’s commander, General Ashfaq
Parvez Kayani, and its top intelligence chief, Lieutenant
General Ahmed Shuja Pasha, will try to convince Pakistani
politicians that the military’s failure to detect the U.S. raid
doesn’t mean that it can’t protect the country’s nuclear weapons,
said Gul.  The previous instance of an army chief briefing a
parliament during civilian rule was in October 2008, when Kayani
outlined the threat posed by the Taliban.  Three months after the  Pakistan Peoples Party  came to power
in 2008, Gilani tried to assert control over the army’s single
most important power center, the Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate, or ISI.  ‘Lack Character’  His office issued a notice saying ISI was to be placed
under the control of the civilian Interior Ministry, only to
retract the order hours later. Pakistani news media, including
the newspaper Dawn, quoted officials as saying the army had
forced the government to retreat.  “Pakistan’s politicians lack character,” said Hamid Gul,
a retired lieutenant general and former ISI director. “You
would have never become a nuclear power if we had civilian
control over security agencies. What we need now is a policy to
decide what our core national interests are.”  Overwhelming  majorities in Pakistan are dissatisfied with
national conditions, unhappy with the nation’s economy, and
concerned about political corruption and crime, according to a
Pew Global Attitudes survey last year. Only one-in-five
expressed a positive view of President Asif Ali Zardari, down
from 64 percent just two years ago, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  