-- 
Nuclear Waste Needs Permanent Disposal, U.S. Panel Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T20:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/permanent-disposal-needed-for-u-s-nuclear-waste-obama-panel-says.html
The U.S. should set up one or more
sites to store radioactive nuclear waste for millenia, members
of an Obama administration panel said.  “Permanent disposal is needed under all reasonably
foreseeable scenarios,” according to a subcommittee’s report to
the Energy Department’s  Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s
Nuclear Future . The commission, which includes former elected
officials, industry executives and environmental advocates, met
in  Washington  today to prepare for its draft report due July 29.  President  Barack Obama  ordered the commission’s formation
last year after rejecting plans for a permanent nuclear waste
dump at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada . Demands to move used fuel from
U.S. power plants have increased since radioactivity was
released from storage pools at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in Japan after a March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  The nuclear crisis in Japan “makes it more urgent that we
move ahead” with permanent disposal, said Jonathan Lash, co-
chairman of the disposal subcommittee and president of  World
Resources Institute,  a Washington-based environmental group.  The subcommittee also suggested forming an organization to
plan for U.S. transportation, storage and disposal of commercial
and military nuclear waste.  The bipartisan commission heard recommendations today from
three subcommittees. A final report is due by Jan. 29.  Temporary Sites  The subcommittee on transportation and storage said the
commission should call for one or more temporary sites for
nuclear waste. Such facilities could store spent fuel for about
100 years and give government officials time to determine
whether to recycle used reactor fuel or move it to a permanent
disposal site, according to the subcommittee’s report.  About 65,000 metric tons of radioactive uranium rods are
being held at 76 locations in 35 states.  Spent fuel at  power plants  no longer operating should be
“first in line” to be moved to temporary storage, said Richard
Meserve, co-chairman of the storage subcommittee and former
chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  Phil Sharp , who is Meserve’s co-chairman and a former
Democratic U.S. House member from  Indiana , said while it might
be possible to establish one interim site, it may be “wiser to
have them regionally located” to make transport easier.  Permanent Disposal  Lash said questions about temporary storage and whether to
recycle nuclear waste don’t reduce the need “under any set of
circumstances we can imagine” for a permanent disposal
solution.  Opponents of a dump at Yucca Mountain, led by Senate
Democratic Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, have cited the risks of
cross-country rail transport of radioactive waste, earthquake
faults in the vicinity and possible leaks from storage
containers.  “The Yucca project produced years of continued acrimony,
dispute, and uncertainty,” Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in
a Feb. 11 letter to the commission.  While recommending long-term federal support for research,
a commission subcommittee focusing on the reactor and fuel cycle
said, “we do not believe that new technology developments in
the next three to four decades will change the underlying need”
for a storage strategy combining interim sites with progress
toward a permanent facility.  During a public comment period, Tom Cochran, a nuclear
physicist at the New York-based  Natural Resources Defense
Council , said the commission should recommend an independent
review of lessons learned from  Japan ’s Fukushima crisis.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission isn’t able to
adequately “review their past practices and come up with the
best recommendations for this country,” said Cochran, who is a
member of the Energy Department’s Nuclear Energy Research
Advisory Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  