-- 
Petronas to Build $20 Billion Malaysia Oil, Chemical Hub Next to Singapore

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-05-13T04:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/petronas-to-develop-20-billion-southern-malaysia-oil-petrochemicals-hub.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state oil and gas company, will build a $20 billion refining
complex bordering  Singapore  to benefit from increased global
demand for petrochemicals and plastics.  Petronas, as it is known, will construct a crude oil
refinery with a capacity of 300,000 barrels a day, a naphtha
cracker, petrochemicals and polymer facilities in Pengerang, in
the country’s southern state of Johor, Prime Minister Najib Razak told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. It may also
construct a liquefied natural gas import and re-gasification
terminal in the area, he said.  The project, scheduled for completion in 2016, will help
the nation compete with Singapore, which has a refining capacity
of more than twice as large even though it has no natural energy
resources of its own. Malaysia and Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest oil producers, have lagged their neighbor in investing
in specialist downstream facilities, which traditionally produce
higher margins.  “This signifies the depth of Petronas’s ambition to
capture the opportunities that  Asia ’s dynamic energy and
chemical markets are expected to provide in the decades ahead,
especially in the specialty chemicals segment,” Najib said.
“These efforts will also strengthen and help diversify the
country’s export capabilities.”  Boosting Capacity  Petronas, Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc
operate refineries in Malaysia with a combined capacity of
551,700 barrels a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon, Shell, Chevron Corp. and Singapore Petroleum Co.
operate refineries in Singapore with a daily capacity of 1.32
million barrels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
import crude from overseas, including  Indonesia , for processing
and re-export.  “The threat to Singapore is not Malaysia,” John Vautrain,
a Singapore-based senior vice-president at U.S. energy
consultancy Purvin & Gertz Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“If there was a threat to Singapore, people talk about  Shanghai 
or the Arab Gulf. Shanghai is obviously a much larger
consumption center, but the problem is there’s not much free
trade. It’s not a shipping hub the way that Singapore is.”  The Johor oil and gas hub will complement Malaysia’s
Economic Transformation Program, under which the government has
identified $444 billion of private-sector led investment to
champion in the current decade.  Deep Water  The Johor hub is likely to attract “significant
investments from international companies within and further down
the business value chain,” Shamsul Azhar Abbas, chief executive
officer of Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas, said in a statement. The
company is open to partners joining the project, Shamsul told
reporters.  Dialog Group Bhd. (DLG) , based in Selangor, Malaysia, is
constructing Southeast Asia’s first deepwater petroleum terminal
in the same area in partnership with the Johor state government
and Rotterdam-based Royal Vopak NV, the world’s biggest chemical
and oil storage company.  “Pengerang has been chosen as the site because of its
water depth of up to 26 meters, which is one of the deepest in
Southeast Asia,” Alex Goh, an analyst at AmResearch Sdn., said
in a report on May 11. This would make it accessible for very-
large and ultra-large crude carriers.  The Johor refinery will be bigger than the combined
capacity of Petronas’s existing facilities in Melaka and Kerteh,
Najib said. It will produce refined petroleum products such as
gasoline,  jet fuel  and diesel for local use and export, he said.  Chemicals Complex  The naphtha cracker will produce about 3 million tons of
ethylene, propylene and olefins a year, Petronas said in its
statement. The accompanying petrochemicals and polymer complex
will make highly specialized chemicals it said. This would be
bigger that the combined capacity of its existing facilities in
Kerteh and Gebeng on Peninsular Malaysia’s east coast, it said.  The Malaysia government wants to help transform Johor into
and oil and gas hub.  France ’s  Technip SA (TEC)  this month opened a 20-
hectare plant in the area to produce flexible pipes and subsea
umbilical systems used in deepwater oil and gas fields.  Dialog operates the 500 million-ringgit Langsat storage
terminal nearby that opened in February 2010. Amsterdam-based
Trafigura Beheer BV, the world’s third-largest independent oil
trader, is the main user of the  facility .  Langsat is less than 30 miles (48 kilometers) away from
Singapore, Asia’s biggest oil-storage and trading center, where
Dubai-based  Emirates National Oil Co.  and closely held trader
 Hin Leong Trading Pte.  have storage facilities.  Petronas will decide on whether to proceed with the Johor
LNG terminal and re-gasification project by year-end, Shamsul
said. It is already constructing a re-gasification plant in
Melaka state which other companies can tap when completed in
mid-2012, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  