-- 
Petrobras First-Quarter Profit Exceeds Estimates on Crude Output, Prices

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-05-16T19:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/petrobras-reports-first-quarter-net-income-rose-to-10-99-billion-reais.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
fifth-largest oil company by market value, posted first-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates on higher prices and output.  Net income rose to 10.99 billion reais ($6.72 billion), or
84 centavos a share, from 7.73 billion reais, or 88 centavos, in
the year earlier period, Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras said May
13 in a regulatory filing. Sales gained about 9 percent to 54.8
billion reais. The company, which sold $70 billion of shares in
September, was expected to post per share profit of 74 centavos,
the median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Oil and natural gas output gained 3 percent after the
company added offshore production platforms in the Campos and
Santos basins, while crude traded in  New York  climbed 20 percent
in the quarter to average $94.60 a barrel. The company also
posted a financial gain of about 2.7 billion reais, helped by
the appreciation of the Brazilian real, which reduced the value
of the company’s dollar-denominated debt. Per share profit
dropped after the company sold new shares in September.  “The company is delivering what it promised in terms of
growth,” Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said today in
Rio de Janeiro. Petrobras “is testing new fields, preparing for
production growth that will come in the next few years.”  Shares Rise  Petrobras rose 43 centavos, or 1.8 percent, to 23.95 reais
as of 3:52 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , the biggest gain in a week. The
shares have fallen 12 percent this year, compared with a 9.4
percent decline for the benchmark Bovespa stock index.  “The stock has underperformed the market, so it could
bounce back,” Eric Conrads, who helps manage $12 billion in
emerging-market stocks at ING Investment Management in New York,
said in a May 13 telephone interview. “The stock has been
deeply oversold relative to the Brazilian context.”  Petrobras is developing the offshore Lula field and may
take a minimum stake of 30 percent in the government’s Libra
discovery. Lula and Libra are the Americas’ biggest oil finds
since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976, and are located in a deep-
water region known as the pre-salt along Brazil’s coast.  Petrobras has drilled eight pre-salt wells this year in the
Santos Basin that holds the Lula and Libra fields as the company
accelerates exploration after contracting more equipment,
according to Barbassa. The company only drilled 20 pre-salt
wells in Santos from 2006 through 2010, he said.  “That gives an idea of the rate of growth,” said
Barbassa. Drilling “will accelerate even more,” he said.  The company will need to raise $17 billion of net debt in
the next five years after selling $6 billion of debt in January
and borrowing $1.5 billion to $2 billion from banks in the first
quarter, he said.  Market Value  Petrobras, with a market value of about $201 billion,
trails  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , PetroChina Co.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and Chevron Corp. among the world’s largest oil producers by
market value.  The Brazilian real has climbed 8.5 percent in the past year
against the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg data, the
second-best performer in  Latin America  after the Chilean peso.  “The real has strengthened and because a large part of
Petrobras’s costs are dollar-based, when the dollar is weakening
against the real the margins improve as a result,”  Anisa Redman , an oil and natural gas analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in
New York, said in a telephone interview before the report. She
rates the stock “overweight” and doesn’t own any.  Bond Sale  Petrobras continues to study a possible bond sale,
depending on conditions in international markets, Barbassa said.
The company doesn’t need to raise cash for investments after
selling the $6 billion in bonds in the first quarter, he said.  “It depends on the opportunities,” Barbassa said of the
potential sale. “We’re working in the best possible way to take
advantage of good opportunities that arise in the market.”  Per-share profit dropped after the company sold $70 billion
of new stock in September, the largest share sale in history.
The company used the cash to finance its $224 billion five-year
business plan and buy from the government the rights to produce
5 billion barrels of oil from deep water fields offshore.  Petrobras’s international division posted an 89 percent
increase in profit in the quarter to 843 million reais. The
company sells crude abroad at international prices, while its
domestic production is refined in  Brazil  and sold at fixed
prices under a government policy to control inflation.  Profit at the exploration and production business rose 28
percent to 9.33 billion reais, while earnings at the gas and
energy unit increased 59 percent to 515 million reais.  Refining Losses  The company’s refining division posted a 95 million reais
loss after the company sold imported gasoline and diesel below
cost.  Lower ethanol prices should ease demand for gasoline and
allow Petrobras to stop importing the fuel, Paulo Roberto Costa,
the head of Petrobras’s refining division, told reporters today
at a press conference in Rio de Janeiro.  “It is possible to supply the domestic market with our own
production,” Costa said.  Petrobras will have fewer planned shutdowns at the
country’s refineries this year compared with 2010, allowing it
to increase overall production, Costa said. The company said May
13 that it will carry out additional studies for its 2010-2015
business plan after it was presented to the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  