-- 
Pfizer Sets Aside $772 Million, Settles One-Third of Prempro Drug Cases

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/pfizer-sets-aside-772-million-to-resolve-cancer-claims-on-menopause-drug.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , which has settled a
third of the pending cases over its Prempro menopause drug, said
it set aside $772 million to resolve claims the medicine causes
breast cancer.  Officials of New York-based Pfizer, the world’s largest
drugmaker, said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission yesterday that the reserve provides “the
minimum expected costs to resolve all of the other outstanding”
lawsuits over its hormone-replacement drugs. The company didn’t
say how many cases would be settled.  “I see this as an effort to clean up a long-standing
litigation so they can go forward with their business plan,”
 Les Funtleyder , a New York-based fund manager at Miller Tabak &
Co. in  New York  who holds Pfizer shares, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “This is probably a good thing for the
stock.”  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms including hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
exceeded $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a study sponsored by the  National Institutes of
Health .  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined Premarin,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden Provera, made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its Prempro pill. Pfizer completed
its $68 billion purchase of Wyeth in 2009.  10,000 Suits  At the height of the litigation, Pfizer faced more than
10,000 claims that its menopause drugs caused  breast cancer ,
according to lawyers for former users. Those cases included more
than 8,000 cases consolidated in federal court in  Arkansas  and
other cases in state courts in  Pennsylvania , Nevada and
 Minnesota .  The company’s announcement that it had resolved a third of
the cases over its menopause drugs means Pfizer has settled more
than 3,300 cases.  “The decision to settle cases reflects a business decision
by the company to avoid the cost and distraction of prolonged
litigation,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  “We are pleased to see Pfizer finally accept
responsibility for the injuries this drug caused to women and
hope the company will compensate each woman fairly and
reasonably,”  Zoe Littlepage , a Houston, Texas-based lawyer who
serves as lead counsel for ex-Prempro users in the consolidated
Arkansas cases, said in a phone interview.  Bloomberg News reported in February that Pfizer had agreed
to pay about $330 million to resolve 2,200 cases over the
menopause drugs, according to people familiar with the accords.
Those settlements provided average payouts of about $150,000 per
woman, the people said. Pfizer officials disputed those numbers.  Litigation Record  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have lost eight of the 15
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006. The
drugmaker got some of the verdicts thrown out after trial or had
the awards cut. The company has appealed its losses. Wyeth also
has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases prior to trial.  In December, a jury in  Puerto Rico  ordered Wyeth to pay
$1.5 million in damages to a pharmacist who developed breast
cancer after taking Prempro.  Pfizer’s regulatory filing was reported earlier by the Wall
Street Journal.  The consolidated case in Arkansas is In Re Prempro
Products, 03-CV-015070-WRW, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Arkansas ( Little Rock ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  