-- 
Philippine Peso Falls for Second Week as Foreigners Sell Stocks

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-05-13T09:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/philippine-peso-falls-for-second-week-as-foreigners-sell-stocks.html
The Philippine peso had a second
weekly decline as overseas investors pulled money from local
stocks on concern regional economic growth will slow. Three-year
bonds fell today, wiping out gains earlier in the week.  The currency touched a two-week low today and the MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks fell after  China  raised
banks’ reserve requirements for the fifth time this year. Global
funds sold $41 million more Philippine shares than they bought
this week through yesterday, exchange data show. Reports this
week showed industrial output is cooling in China and  Malaysia ,
while renewed concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand
for riskier assets.  “Everyone is risk averse now because people are concerned
that the growth story we are seeing in  Asia  may slow,” said
Marcelo Ayes, senior vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking
Corp. in Manila. “We are seeing the return of the dollar.”  The peso slid 0.1 percent this week to close at 43.14 in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
43.25, the weakest level since April 26.  Inflows from exports, remittances, outsourcing and
investments buoy the peso and provide a bias “for some
strengthening,” Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said today. The
currency has gained 4 percent in the past year.  Money-Supply Growth  Money-supply growth in March quickened to 10.3 percent,
data released by the central bank today showed. Bank lending,
excluding funds with the central bank, rose 14.1 percent in
March from a year earlier, a separate data showed.  The central bank’s future action will be data dependent and
a further increase in the benchmark interest rate or a pause
“are both on the table,” Amador said. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas last week raised its overnight borrowing rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.5 percent.  Philippine benchmark three-year bonds fell for a second day.
The yield on the 6.25 percent note due January 2014 climbed 2.5
basis points, or 0.025 percentage point, to 4.90 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate was
unchanged for the week.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 