-- 
Philippines to Gauge Whether Rate Increases Anchored Prices

-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-05-13T12:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/philippines-to-gauge-whether-rate-increases-anchored-prices-1-.html
The  Philippine central bank  will
gauge whether its two consecutive interest-rate increases have
anchored price expectations enough to ensure inflation targets
are met, Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said.  “We hope that with the two actions, we have sufficiently
anchored inflation expectations, a key in determining inflation
trends,” Amador told reporters in Manila today. “We continue
to be very data-dependent. But make no mistake about it,
inflation control is the top priority of the central bank.”  The  Philippines  joined Malaysia, India and  Vietnam  in
raising  interest rates  last week to damp price pressures from
higher food and oil costs. The Asian nation will assess in the
weeks leading to the June 16 policy meeting whether risks to
inflation have moderated.  While a rate increase or a pause “are both on the table,”
policy makers remain alert to inflation risks, Amador said.
“Food and energy inflation in the country tend to be
persistent, have a strong pass-through impact to broader base
inflation and tend to invite second-round effects,” she said.  Workers in the Philippine capital will receive a 22-peso
daily allowance to boost minimum pay by the end of the month.
The additional pay was within the central bank’s 25-peso
estimate, Governor Amando Tetangco said on May 9.  “At this point, we should let the two rate increases work
their way through the system,” Tetangco said in an interview
with ABS-CBN News Channel this week. Inflation risks “are
tilted to the upside,” Tetangco said in the interview.  Oil Prices   The central bank may have “no need” to further boost
borrowing costs if oil prices stabilize, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said on May 11.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas raised overnight borrowing rate
by a quarter-of-a-percentage point each in the March 24 and May
5 meetings to 4.5 percent.  Inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, a 12-month high.  Crude oil rose for a second day in  New York  after stronger-
than-forecast economic growth figures for the  euro zone  fanned
speculation that fuel demand in  Europe  will increase. Oil
climbed as much as 1.7 percent to more than $100 a barrel,
reversing an earlier 1.1 percent decline.  “The outlook constantly changes or evolves,” Amador said
today. Inflation is “in a state of flux,” she said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  