-- 
Zloty Is ‘Broadly’ in Line With Economy, Current-Account Deficit, IMF Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-13T13:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/poland-s-zloty-is-broadly-in-line-with-economy-current-account-deficit.html
The Polish zloty’s  exchange rate  is
“broadly right” based on the country’s economic performance
and the current-account deficit, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  “The zloty is broadly in line with its fundamentals,”
James Morsink, the IMF’s mission chief for  Poland , said in an
interview in Warsaw yesterday. “It’s true that the real
effective exchange rate is slightly weaker than it was at its
peak before the crisis, but it’s also appreciated a fair amount
since the trough.”  The zloty advanced to the strongest level in three months
this week after the central bank unexpectedly raised the main
interest rate to curb inflation. It rallied 2.9 percent this
quarter for the second-steepest appreciation among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency
eased 0.1 percent to 3.9150 per euro as of 3:16 p.m. in Warsaw.  The zloty got a boost from the  Finance Ministry ’s plan
announced on April 21 to convert euros Poland receives from the
European Union on the market. The process of selling the
currency through state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has
already begun, Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said last week.  The decision to sell euros “needs further clarification,”
the IMF said in a statement yesterday, summing up its visit to
Warsaw. “We would recommend that the Ministry of Finance be
transparent and non-discretionary in its sales of foreign
exchange so as to minimize potential exchange rate volatility.”  The government will this year exchange as much as 14
billion euros ($20.2 billion) for zloty, Deputy Finance Minister
 Dominik Radziwill  said on April 21. The ministry can’t give any
more detail about the transactions “at this stage” and will
report on this year’s market transactions in the second quarter
of 2012, he said last week.  “We agree with the IMF’s recommendations” and “have
already applied them in practice,”  Piotr Marczak , head of the
Finance Ministry’s public debt department, said in an e-mail
today. “The euro sales are carried out in a fully transparent
way through an electronic platform.”  The transactions are aimed at reducing potential swings in
the zloty exchange rate, according to Marczak’s remarks that
were previously reported by the PAP newswire today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at o
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  