-- 
Pound Declines Versus Euro, Dollar as ‘Lackluster’ Economy Curbs Rate Bets

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-13T15:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/pound-declines-versus-euro-dollar-ifs-says-u-k-living-standards-to-fall.html
The pound weakened after data showed
economic growth in Germany and  France  exceeded estimates and a
report said U.K. living standards will fall, spurring bets that
euro-region interest rates will outpace increases in Britain.  Sterling depreciated versus the majority of its 16 most
traded peers. German gross domestic product jumped 1.5 percent
in the first quarter compared with the previous three months,
and French GDP rose 1 percent, exceeding economists’ median
estimates of 0.9 percent and 0.6 percent respectively. U.K.
living standards will decline as inflation outstrips income
growth and  government spending  cuts crimp welfare payments, the
 Institute for Fiscal Studies  said.  “The U.K. economy looks pretty lackluster compared to the
likes of Germany and France, which supports the view that rates
are going to rise faster in the  euro zone ,” said  Neil Jones ,
head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in  London . “That’s going to keep the pound among the laggards
of the currency world.”  The pound was 0.2 percent weaker at 87.64 pence per euro as
of 4:01 p.m. in London. The British currency fell 0.6 percent
against the dollar to $1.6200S, a fourth day of declines.
Sterling bought 130.96 yen from 131.86 yen yesterday.  U.K. government bonds were mixed, with the yield on the 10-
year gilt little changed at 3.37 percent and the two-year yield
slipping two basis points to 1 percent.  Rate Outlook  The  Bank of England  left its main interest rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent on May 5. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on the same day that policy makers
may raise borrowing costs after June, following a decision to
keep their main rate at 1.25 percent.  Money markets have pushed back expectations for a 25 basis-
point increase in the U.K’s benchmark rate to January, Tullett
Prebon Plc sterling overnight interbank average forwards data
show. As recently as March, traders were betting on a quarter
point increase by this month.  “There might not be a double-dip recession, but the U.K.
economy is certainly facing a period of stagnation,” said
Jones. “That’s not going to be helped by raising interest
rates. The small size of the anticipated rate increase won’t do
much to inflation, which is mainly imported, so it would be
better to just keep rates on hold.”  The  Confederation of British Industry  lowered its economic
growth estimates for the U.K. on May 9, saying gross domestic
product would expand 1.7 percent this year compared with a
February estimate of 1.8 percent.  Spending Cuts  The U.K. economic outlook may worsen further as Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government battles a fiscal
deficit running at almost 10 percent of gross domestic product
by raising taxes and implementing public spending cuts that the
IFS says are the deepest since World War II.  The central bank said this week that inflation may reach 5
percent later this year, more than double its 2 percent target,
even while risks to economic growth remain “skewed to the
downside.” Inflation expectedly slowed to 4 percent in March
from a year earlier, up from 4.4 percent the previous month, the
U.K. office for National Statistics said April 12.  U.K. consumer earnings fell 3.8 percent in real terms in
the 11 months through February after growing through the
recession of the previous two years, the London-based IFS said
in its report on  living standards  published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  