-- 
Qaddafi Tells NATO From Hiding Place ‘You Can’t Kill Me’

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-14T09:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/qaddafi-denies-being-injured-by-bomb-speaks-from-place-you-can-t-reach-.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said he
survived NATO attacks on his Tripoli compound and is now in a
place “you can’t reach and where you can’t kill me.”  Libyan state television yesterday presented what it said
was a telephone interview with Qaddafi, hours after Italian
Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said Qaddafi may have been
wounded in alliance attacks. The Libyan leader thanked his
followers for their concern after the Italian minister’s remarks
as he denounced NATO as the “cowardly crusader.”  “Even if you kill the body you will not be able to kill
the soul that lives in the hearts of millions,” he said.  In  Washington , President Barack Obama met yesterday with
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen. They said that
military operations will continue “as long as the Qaddafi
regime continues to attack its own population,” according to a
White House statement.  Six explosions were heard in and around the Libyan capital,
Tripoli, late yesterday and early today,  Agence France-Presse 
reported, citing witnesses. Two occurred late yesterday to the
east of the city and four were heard early today in the capital,
AFP said without giving any more details.  Frattini said Qaddafi is likely to be named in an
international arrest warrant next week. The action by the
prosecutor of the  International Criminal Court  would limit
Qaddafi’s options if he seeks refuge in another country.  Arrest Warrants  Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that he will request on May 16 arrest warrants for
three Libyan individuals suspected of murder and persecution. He
didn’t name them.  “I think one of these will be for Col. Qaddafi; I don’t
know, but imagine it’s so,” said Frattini  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization extended its
bombardment of Qaddafi’s forces and said its jets have
“significantly” hindered the Libyan leader’s ability to attack
civilians in the past three days.  Air strikes on Tripoli, the Qaddafi stronghold of Sirte,
and the rebel-held port city of Misrata destroyed radar units,
missile systems, rocket launchers and arms depots in the last 72
hours, the alliance said.  “We have taken out a significant part of Qaddafi’s war
machine,” NATO spokeswoman Carmen Romero told reporters
yesterday in Brussels. “We can see the effect across Libya.”  Misrata Quiet  NATO is attacking targets closer to Qaddafi, as rebels say
they have taken control of Misrata and made advances on the
strategic oil town of Brega along the central coast. Alliance
Wing Commander Mike Bracken said no attacks took place on
civilians in Misrata May 12.  “If we go back 25 days, there were tanks in the streets of
Misrata,” Bracken told reporters from NATO’s mission command in
Naples,  Italy . “That is no longer happening.”  The Libyan government said 11 Muslim clerics were killed
during a NATO airstrike yesterday in the eastern oil town of
Brega, the  Associated Press  reported. NATO said it hit a command
and control center.  The insurgency against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule in Libya,
which has Africa’s biggest proven crude reserves, has helped
push up  oil prices  by almost 15 percent since mid-February.  Crude for June delivery rose 68 cents, less than 1 percent,
to settle at $99.65 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are up 1 percent this week and 34 percent in
the past year.  Washington Talks  In Washington, a delegation from the opposition Libyan
Transitional National Council, led by Mahmoud Jibril, met
yesterday at the White House with Tom Donilon, President  Barack Obama ’s national security adviser, the administration said in a
statement.  After three days in Washington seeking financial help, the
Libyan rebels’ finance minister said he was returning to
Benghazi with little to show for his effort other than
expressions of “overwhelming support and sympathy.”  “The problem with me is time,” Ali Tarhouni, formerly an
economics professor at the  University of Washington  in  Seattle ,
said in an interview in Washington. “We are at war. People are
dying. It’s not a question of waiting it out a month or two. I
need money yesterday, I need it a week ago.”  U.S. officials cited problems tapping the approximately $34
billion in frozen Libyan assets in the U.S. to help the rebels
meet their budget needs in the areas of  Libya  they control.  Financial Needs  The rebel’s Transitional National Council says it needs $3
billion to meet needs for the next six months. Massachusetts
Democratic Senator  John Kerry  said May 12 that he will draft
legislation to clear the way for the transfer of $180 million
from Libyan assets.  While better than nothing, that amount won’t last more 10
days and may not arrive fast enough, Tarhouni said.  Farhat Omer Bengdara, the former governor of the Central
Bank of Libya and a member of UniCredit SpA’s board, expects
Muammar Qaddafi’s regime to fall within three months, according
to an interview with daily  Corriere della Sera  today.  “Once Misrata has fallen, the situation for him will
become untenable,” Bengdara told the newspaper. He said the
rebel group in its Benghazi stronghold needs “at least $3.6
billion to sustain the population.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in  Rome  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 