-- 
Qantas Wins $788,000 Verdict Against Australian Transport Union for Strike

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-07-22T03:54:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/qantas-may-win-damages-as-judge-rules-baggage-handlers-strike-was-illegal.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. won a A$727,000
($788,000) judgment against the  Transport Workers’ Union of
Australia  after a judge ruled a 2009 work stoppage was illegal.  Federal Court Judge Michael Moore today ruled Qantas was
entitled to compensation for costs it incurred when baggage
handlers belonging to the union stopped work for four hours to
protest the hiring of contract workers for some operations.  “No submission was made that the TWU did not have the
capacity to pay the amounts ordered,” Moore wrote in today’s
90-page ruling. “It will have the significantly undesirable
consequence of depleting funds which are, in effect, the funds
of the membership.”  Qantas, Australia’s biggest carrier, is now in contract
talks with its engineers and long-haul pilots, with both groups
having voted to strike if a deal can’t be reached. The pilots
are pushing for more pay with in-flight announcements explaining
their demands. The engineers held a one-minute work stoppage
last week to keep their strike option open.  Most strikes in  Australia  are illegal unless union members
support them in a vote ordered by mediator Fair Work Australia,
which also regulates issues including minimum wages. Once a
ballot is completed, unions must start the industrial action
within a month or lose the right to strike.  Qantas shares rose 2.1 percent to A$1.92 at 1:34 p.m. in
trading on the Australian Stock Exchange.  The March 30, 2009, protest by the Sydney-based carrier’s
baggage handlers breached the Workplace Relations Act, Moore
said in a May 13  ruling .  ‘Compensate Qantas’  The baggage handlers’ work stoppage at Sydney International
Airport forced flights to leave without luggage and caused
gridlock in loading areas.  “That led directly to certain losses for which the TWU
should be ordered to compensate Qantas as a method of remedying
the effect of the unlawful conduct,” Moore wrote.  Seth Tenkate, a spokesman for the transport union, declined
to immediately comment. The union was drafting a statement, he
said.  Moore also ordered six union officers and employees to pay
Qantas a total of A$18,000, with individual penalties ranging
from A$1,500 to A$5,000.  The case is  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  vs Transport Workers’ Union
of Australia. NSD340/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  