-- 
Radiation ‘Bias’ Threatens Fukushima Manufacturers Recovery

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-05-13T00:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/radiation-bias-threatens-fukushima-manufacturers-recovery.html
More than two months after  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima nuclear plant started leaking
radiation, manufacturers in northern Japan are still trying to
dispel rumors their industrial products are tainted.  “We lost a deal worth several hundred million yen”
because a customer was concerned about radiation, Yoshimasa
Sekiguchi, an executive at  Tohoku Bolt Manufacturing Co. , a
parts maker based in Iwaki about 50 kilometers (31 miles) from
the crippled power plant, said in an interview. “For us, it’s a
significant amount of money.”  The image of the Fukushima disaster has raised concerns
that Japanese products may be contaminated after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami unleashed the world’s worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl in 1986. For parts makers such as
Tohoku Bolt, the perception is rankling as global demand for the
products have increased amid a shortage.  “I’m angry that people elsewhere only hear bad news about
Fukushima,” he said. “Radiation readings here in Iwaki have
been low compared with some cities farther from the plant, but
that’s reported only on local programs.”  The company, whose bolts help hold together  Tokyo Tower  and
whose spikes are used in  Taiwan ’s high speed  rail  system, didn’t
sustain serious damage at its buildings due to the quake, and
production resumed soon after, Sekiguchi said. Tohoku Bolt last
year had sales of 1.9 billion yen ($23 million).  ‘Raises Alarm’  Radiation  measured  in Iwaki yesterday was 0.43 microsievert
per hour at the highest point, compared with 1.46 for Fukushima,
the capital, and 1.37 for Koriyama, the prefecture’s most-
populous city, according to the regional government’s website.
Tokyo, about 220 kilometers to the south, had a  level  of 0.066
the same day.  Sekiguchi’s concerns are shared by other business owners in
the area, including those who line up each day at the Fukushima
Technology Center in Koriyama to get their products tested for
radiation levels.  “Among some clients, the word ‘Fukushima’ raises an
alarm,” said Takashi Mogami, president of T.M.C. Corp., a
manufacturer based in Kunimi on the northern edge of the
prefecture. Mogami last month brought in parts used in
communication devices to the center, saying a European customer
had asked they be checked for radioactivity.  Rotterdam Shipment  The prefectural facility started offering the tests for
free on April 4 after getting requests from area manufacturers
and has since checked more than 1,000 products. Visitors to the
 center  receive a written report on the level of radiation
detected on the parts they bring in.  Concern about radiation may stem from a basic
misunderstanding, Shigeru Kurosawa, the center’s chief, said.  “Although unlikely inside a factory building, radiation
could adhere to the surface of industrial materials in the form
of dust,” Kurosawa said. “But radiation won’t permeate it, and
any radioactive material that did cling to the surface can be
easily wiped away.”  In most instances, radioactivity detected on products was
close to zero, while “in some cases there were higher levels on
goods that were stored outdoors,” said Kurosawa.  The government on April 28 officially started screening
cargo boxes leaving ports as a precautionary measure.
Authorities in Rotterdam this week quarantined five containers
from  Japan  because they found radiation levels that exceeded
allowable limits. The shipments probably left Japan before
screening started, the country’s transport ministry said.  Declining Levels  Gen Suzuki, a professor at the  International University of
Health and Welfare  in Tochigi prefecture, said radiation levels
in Fukushima are declining overall, excluding some places very
close to the nuclear plant, he said.  “The current level is too low to worry about contamination
of industrial materials made in the area,” he said. “It seems
people are fearing radiation without having sufficient
knowledge.”  Murakoshi Manufacturing Corp. , a maker of car parts and
housing components, purchased two radiation-measuring machines
for 400,000 yen each so that it can check products at its
factories in Iwaki.  “I was opposed at first because I didn’t want to pay for
something meaningless,” said Yusuke Murakoshi, an executive
officer at the company whose plants are located at least 40
kilometers away from the edge of the government-designated
evacuation zone that surrounds the Fukushima plant.  ‘Not Like Farmers’  “I don’t know why the government can’t say to the world
that industrial products made here are safe,” he said. “It has
been telling its citizens living here there’s no health risk.”  The company, based in Tokyo, is now considering moving some
of its production capacity to other areas, including  Thailand  or
 South Korea , so it can disperse the risk that major disasters
may pose, he said. The perception their products may be
contaminated was another reason, he said.  The number of companies in Fukushima, the biggest
industrial center in the Tohoku region hardest hit by the March
11 disaster, could drop by as much as 30 percent in two or three
years, Seigo Naito, vice chairman of the  Iwaki Chamber of
Commerce and Industry , said.  “Unlike farmers, manufacturers can move away and do
business wherever they want,” he said. “We’d like to ask
people worldwide to have a more reasonable understanding of the
threat of radiation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in  Osaka  at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 