-- 
Rajesh Exports May Invest as Much as $1 Billion in Rwandan Gold, Diamonds

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-05-13T07:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/rajesh-exports-may-invest-as-much-as-1-billion-in-rwandan-gold-diamonds.html
Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX) ,  India ’s largest
jewelry maker and exporter, said it may invest as much as $1
billion in  Rwanda  over the next five years developing the
country’s gold industry and building a diamond-trading business.  The company, based in Bangalore, India, is in talks with
Rwanda’s government about proposals that include establishing a
gold refinery in the East African nation within six months, Ravi
Chandra, the company’s chief executive officer for mining, said
in an interview on May 10 in Kigali, the capital.  Most of the gold mined in Africa is currently exported to
 South Africa  or  Europe  for processing, Chandra said. Rajesh
Exports is seeking to make Rwanda a continental hub for gold
processing over the next three to five years.  “Our aim is to try to bring the gold from most of  Africa  to
Rwanda,” Chandra said.  Rwanda is seeking to diversify its economy as the country
recovers from a genocide in 1994 in which 800,000 ethnic Tutsis
and moderate Hutus were killed in a 100-day slaughter that left
a 10th of the population dead. The East African nation, which
makes most of its foreign currency from tourism and the export
of coffee, doubled the size of its economy in the nine years to
2010, according to the  World Bank .  Rajesh has begun exploring a 2,000 square-kilometer (772
square-mile) gold concession in Rwanda that it wants to increase
to 15,000 square kilometres, Chandra said. Eventually the
company plans to export products including jewelry and coins. It
also intends to set up a diamond business that may involve
importing and exporting the gems as well as cutting and
polishing, he said, without providing further details.  Gold, Diamonds  Rwanda produced 20 kilograms (705 ounces) of gold in 2009,
according to the website of the  U.S. Geological Survey . Diamonds
aren’t mined in the country.  Talks between the company and the Rwandan government are
“still very exploratory” and may take six months to complete,
Clare Akamanzi, chief operating officer of the Rwanda
Development Board, said in an interview on May 9. The projects
envisaged by the company may cost $500 million to $1 billion,
she said.  Rajesh Exports is also working with the Rwandan government
to establish a legal way to import gold from neighboring
Democratic Republic of Congo. In March, Rwanda banned the
purchase of so-called conflict minerals including gold,
tungsten, coltan and tin from Congo after the U.S. passed a law
aimed at halting the trade.  Conflict  The Dodd-Frank law will require American companies to
report any purchases of gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum that
might have come from conflict zones in Congo, according to a
draft of the regulations on the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s website. Fighting has raged in eastern Congo for
more than 15 years and armed groups often support themselves by
taxing or trading in minerals.  “We are hopeful to find a legal solution,” Chandra said.  Minerals can only be legally imported into Rwanda if they
are tagged and certified “conflict-free,” Forestry and Mines
Minister Christophe Bazivamo said on April 27.  Congo produced 3,300 kilograms of gold in 2008, the latest
data available on the  U.S. Geological Survey ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 