-- 
Rambus Falls as Micron, Hynix Cases Sent Back to Lower Court

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-05-13T20:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/rambus-appeal-of-micron-patent-ruling-remanded-to-lower-court.html
  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  fell the most since 2009
after a U.S. appeals court agreed that the company destroyed
documents relevant to patent infringement trials with Micron
Technology Inc. and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and sent the cases
back to a lower court to determine appropriate sanctions.  A five-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington  today vacated lower court  rulings 
in the two  cases , which centered on whether Sunnyvale,
California-based Rambus should be allowed to enforce patents on
computer-memory chips since it destroyed potential evidence.  The decision prolongs legal disputes that date back to 2000
for Rambus, a chip designer that has been suing companies that
refuse to license its technology. The appeals court decision
forces the judge in the Micron trial to reconsider the degree to
which Rambus acted in bad faith and it throws out a $397 million
judgment against Hynix so the court in that case can also
revisit the document-destruction issue.  “Vacating awards or being convicted of spoliation is not
anything anyone wants put out in the financial press,” said
Jeff Schreiner, a Capstone Investments Inc. analyst in  San
Diego . “In the end, though, nothing has taken Rambus off the
patent train express, nothing has derailed Rambus’s ability to
collect on these patents.”  Rambus fell $3.44, or 18 percent, to $15.83 at 4:05 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest
percentage drop at the close since January 2009. Schreiner has a
$45 target and a “buy” rating on the shares and doesn’t own
them. Micron fell 2.4 percent to $10.40.  ‘Bad Faith’  “We are very disappointed with the decisions in these
cases,” Thomas Lavelle, Rambus’s general counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are hopeful when the district courts
reconsider these decisions, they will find, as we believe, there
was no bad faith and no prejudice.”  If the district court were to conclude again that there was
“bad faith and prejudice,” a sanction against Rambus may be
justified, the appeals court wrote in the Micron order. It
didn’t say what the sanction would be, and said the judge has to
consider whether lesser sanctions would be appropriate.  “Our view is that the district court truly believed that
Rambus acted in bad faith and with sufficient prejudice,” Matt Powers, a lawyer at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP who represents
Boise, Idaho-based Micron, said in a telephone interview. “That
is the result that should happen and will happen.”  Representatives from Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix
declined to immediately comment on the ruling.  Nvidia Case  Hynix is the world’s second-largest maker of computer-
memory chips, trailing Samsung Electronics Co. Micron is the
largest in the U.S.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , in January 2010
agreed to pay $900 million to settle all legal claims with
Rambus, including a separate antitrust lawsuit.  The Micron and Hynix disputes are over the companies’ use
of interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. Hynix and Micron
claimed Rambus got rid of papers that would have proved Rambus
misled the board that sets that standard.  Questions about the Rambus document-retention policy have
dogged the company for years, and today’s ruling may help
graphics-chips maker  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  in its appeal of a finding by
the U.S. International Trade Commission that its products
infringe Rambus patents. That case is on appeal before the
Federal Circuit and involves different patents.  Micron Case  The cases ruled on today marked the first time the issue of
document destruction has been put squarely before the appeals
court in Washington, which specializes in  patent law . The panel
was trying to reconcile the two cases in which federal judges
looked at the Rambus policy and came up with different results.  A judge in the Micron case ruled 12 Rambus patents
unenforceable as punishment for document destruction, saying
Rambus should have protected documents beginning in 1998, when
litigation could be “reasonably foreseen.”  Trial Judge Sue Robinson in Wilmington,  Delaware , didn’t
explain why she felt Rambus acted in bad faith, the panel wrote
in today’s decision to vacate the ruling.  “A district court must do more than state the conclusion
of spoliation and note that the document destruction was
intentional,” the panel wrote. “This court is unable to
determine whether the district court applied the applicable
exacting standard in making its factual determination that
Rambus acted in bad faith.”  Needle in Haystack  The lower court will now need to determine whether the
absence of the documents hurt Micron’s case. Taking into account
motives and the degree of bad faith, the judge would need to
explain the reasons for any sanctions.  Circuit Judge Arthur Gajarsa disagreed with the four-member
majority. In the Micron case, Gajarsa said he would have upheld
the sanctions of finding the patents unenforceable because
Rambus “abused the privilege of owning a patent monopoly.”  “Instead of recognizing this abuse by Rambus, the majority
searches to find a needle in the haystack because, in its
collective superior judgment, Rambus’ conduct does not require
taking away that privilege,” the judge said. “In vacating the
sanctions award, the majority has called the firing squad to the
ready, the squad cocking their guns and taking aim, but instead
of shooting the appropriate and culpable party, the squad aimed
at the district court’s proper determinations of fact.”  Hynix Case  In the Hynix case, the appeals court upheld U.S. Judge
Ronald Whyte’s denial of a bid to throw out the verdict
altogether or grant a new trial. It vacated the financial
damages judgment because of the document spoliation.  Hynix had appealed after Whyte rejected arguments that the
document destruction voided Rambus’s right to enforce the
patents. The judge’s decision had allowed the trial to proceed,
which resulted in the $397 million judgment.  Claims that Rambus has against Hynix and Micron over newer
patents had been put on hold, awaiting today’s decision.  Rambus also has an antitrust lawsuit pending against the
companies in a San Francisco court claiming $4.3 billion in
damages, which is scheduled to go to trial June 7. Rambus
alleges that Micron and Hynix artificially inflated the price of
Rambus-designed DRAM chips to drive Rambus technology out of the
computer-memory market.  The appeals are Micron Technology v. Rambus, 2009-1263, and
Hynix Semiconductor v. Rambus, 2009-1299, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court cases are
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-00792, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington) and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-20905, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Bill McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  