-- 
Romania Ends Economic Decline as German Demand Boosts East European Growth

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-05-13T13:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/romania-ends-economic-decline-as-german-demand-boosts-east-european-growth.html
Romania ’s two-year economic decline
ended in the first quarter as eastern Europe’s export-driven
economies benefited from accelerating growth in euro-region
countries such as  Germany  and  France .  Romania’s gross domestic product rose an annual 1.6 percent
in the first quarter after a 0.6 percent decline in the fourth,
the country’s statistics office said today, while Hungary’s
economy grew an annual 2.4 percent, the most in four years.
Estonia and Lithuania are growing at the fastest pace among
countries that have reported first-quarter figures.  Germany’s economy, Europe’s largest, surged an annual 5.2
percent in the first quarter, the biggest increase since the
country’s reunification two decades ago. East European rely on
the strength of their western trading partners to boost demand
for their products including Dacia SA or Skoda Auto AS cars,
Nokia Oyj mobile phones and Ericsson AB communication equipment.  “There’s no strong reason to expect central and eastern
 Europe  to fail to strengthen growth this year and next as long
as the global economic expansion continues,” Miroslav Plojhar,
a London-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an e-
mail.  The  International Monetary Fund , which helped bail out
Hungary, Latvia and Romania in 2008 and 2009, yesterday
increased its growth forecasts for Europe’s emerging economies.
That outlook may be threatened by the sovereign debt crisis in
the euro area, the Washington-based lender said.  Raised Estimates  The region’s economies will expand a cumulative 4.3 percent
this year and next, instead of the 3.7 percent and 4 percent the
IMF projected April 11, according to the Regional Economic
Outlook for Europe.  The European Union raised its forecast for average economic
growth in its eastern members for this year to 3.2 percent from
a 2.9 percent projected in November, according to the European
Commission’s forecasts released today. It also increased its
estimate for growth next year to 3.6 percent from 3.5 percent.  The only two eastern EU countries where the commission
lowered growth projections are the  Czech Republic  and Hungary as
 consumer spending  remains curtailed by cuts to social handouts.
In Hungary, Europe’s highest bank levy also curbs credit growth,
the commission said in its report.  Czech Republic, Hungary  The Czech economy will expand 2 percent this year and 2.9
percent next year, compared with an earlier forecast for 2.3
percent and 3.1 percent growth. The forecasts for Hungarian
expansion for this year and next were cut to 2.7 percent and 2.6
percent, from 2.8 percent and 3.2 percent previously.  Poland will also grow more slowly next year as the
government cuts spending to reduce the  budget deficit  and debt.
The economy will grow 3.7 percent, rather than 4.2 percent seen
in November, the commission said.  Estonia’s 8 percent annual growth in the first quarter led
the EU countries that have reported for the period, followed by
 Lithuania ’s 6.9 percent. Czech growth was 2.5 percent in the
first quarter, compared with 3.5 percent for Slovakia and 2.5
percent for  Bulgaria .  The region will continue to rely on western European demand
for growth as local consumption is crimped by the lack of
lending, unemployment, pay cuts and tax increases in several
countries,  Neil Shearing , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London , said by phone.  Inflation Effect  Domestic demand is also constrained by accelerating
inflation as economic growth gains momentum, said Michal Dybula,
an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw. Romania had the EU’s
fastest inflation at 8.3 percent in April, with the next six
highest rates of price growth also reported from eastern Europe.  “There is a risk for the emerging Europe economies that
when we’ll see some slowdown in external demand, internal demand
should step in and take the lead for growth,” he said. “I
don’t see that rebound happening this year, also because of
rising inflation that erodes the people’s purchasing power.”  The constraints on domestic consumption makes it more
difficult for central banks in the region to fight inflation
with higher borrowing costs, Shearing said. Several countries in
eastern Europe, including  Hungary , Poland and  Russia , have
raised  interest rates  to slow price growth.  “Monetary policy still needs to stay loose as the spike in
inflation is only energy driven and should fade at one point,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  