-- 
Rosneft Still Weighing Arctic, Swap Deal Before May 16 Deadline on BP Deal

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-05-13T16:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/rosneft-still-weighing-arctic-swap-deal-before-may-16.html
BP Plc (BP/)  remains “optimistic” of
agreeing on a share swap with state-run OAO Rosneft as a May 16
to reach a deal approaches.  Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, is still weighing
its decision, Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for the Moscow-based
company, said by phone today. An arbitration court ruled on May
6 that the share swap may go ahead if Rosneft agrees to replace
BP in an Arctic exploration deal with the U.K. company’s local
venture, TNK-BP.  “I can’t comment about time but I’m sure we’ll see a deal
sooner or later,” BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said
today in  St. Gallen ,  Switzerland .  BP’s billionaire partners in TNK-BP won an injunction in
February on the Rosneft alliance, saying their shareholder
agreement gives their 50-50 venture exclusive rights to pursue
opportunities in  Russia . The BP-Rosneft alliance was set to
become Dudley’s biggest deal since becoming head of the U.K.
producer following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill last year.  TNK-BP, set up in 2003, made BP the biggest foreign
producer in Russia and now accounts for a quarter of BP’s output
and a fifth of its reserves. Five years later, the billionaires,
represented by a group called AAR, ousted Dudley as head of TNK-
BP as part of their resolution of a shareholder battle over
strategy.  Tribunal on TNK-BP  Rosneft agreed on April 14, the day the swap agreement
initially expired, to move the deadline to May 16, giving BP and
the billionaires a month more for arbitration.  The tribunal on May 6 allowed BP to swap 5 percent of its
shares for about 9.5 percent of Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil
producer, as long as Rosneft agrees to take on TNK-BP as its
partner for Kara Sea exploration.  The stakes, each valued at about $7.8 billion when the
alliance was announced on Jan. 14, may be held for investment
purposes only, and neither Rosneft nor BP is allowed seats on
each other’s boards, according to the tribunal.  “The company will make a decision that best meets its
shareholders’ interests,” Kazharov said, declining to give a
timeframe on a decision. “The company wants to take a very
balanced approach to making a decision.”  Kara Sea  Rosneft CEO Eduard Khudainatov said it needs BP’s expertise
to explore offshore Arctic resources, rather than a partnership
with TNK-BP. The Kara Sea blocks Rosneft offered to BP contain
as much as 100 billion barrels of oil equivalent.  "TNK-BP is unlikely get into the project on the back of the
court ruling," Lev Snykov and Svetlana Grizan, analysts at VTB
Capital, said in a May 10 research. Rosneft could ally with
another producer, buy out AAR jointly with BP, or, “somewhat
less likely,” BP’s stake with AAR, the analysts said.  BP offered its partners participation in the Arctic, cash
and international projects to allow BP to proceed with the
Rosneft deal, Dudley said last month. The Russian partners also
rejected a $27 billion buyout offer from BP and Rosneft.  A BP and Rosneft alliance is “attractive” and the two
companies are continuing talks, Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said today, declining to comment on TNK-BP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  