-- 
Saab Talks Failed on ‘Commercial Realities,’ Hawtai Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-13T12:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/saab-talks-failed-on-commercial-realities-hawtai-says-1-.html
Sweden’s Saab Automobile failed to
secure investment from Hawtai Motor Group because of “commercial
and economic realities,” not a lack of government approval, the
Chinese company said today.  Cooperation with Saab’s owner,  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) , remains a
“top priority” for Hawtai and partnership options are still
being explored, the Beijing-based company said in a statement.  Hawtai agreed on May 3 to invest 120 million euros ($171
million) for a stake of as much as 29.9 percent in Spyker in a
transaction that would have eased a cash shortage that halted
output at Trollhaettan-based Saab on March 29. It also planned
to lend 30 million euros to Spyker, which said yesterday the
deal had failed to win approval from the Chinese authorities.  “Saab needs help and we strongly believe we are the best
partner in this regard,” Richard Zhang, Hawtai’s vice
president, said in today’s statement.  Tom Grimmer, an external spokesman for the Chinese company,
declined to elaborate on the failure of the previous plan with
Zeewolde, Netherlands-based Spyker, which would have seen Saab
make a comeback in  China  after being absent since 2008.  Under that agreement, Hawtai would have made Saab vehicles
locally for the Chinese market, starting in 2013 with the
Swedish carmaker’s upgraded 9-3 model.  Saab said yesterday that it was continuing to work on
securing short- and medium-term funding, including talking with
“various” Chinese partners.  The company can still draw on a 30 million-euro loan
arranged last week and is seeking further funding from the
 European Investment Bank , while Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov 
has said he’d like to take a stake.  General Motors Co. (GM) , Saab’s former owner, tentatively agreed
on April 28 to allow Antonov’s investment.  --Liza Lin in Shanghai, with assistance from Ola Kinnader in
 Stockholm  and Yang Huiwen. Editors: Chris Jasper, Andrew Noel.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at +46-8-610-0714 or
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  