-- 
SAC Says Cohen’s Ex-Wife Met With Fairfax

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-13T19:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/sac-says-cohen-s-ex-wife-met-with-fairfax.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP claimed
founder  Steven A. Cohen ’s ex-wife met with lawyers for Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. before she sued him for allegedly
cheating her out of money in their 1990 divorce, according to
court papers.  SAC Capital, in a March 2 filing unsealed today in a
Fairfax lawsuit against it and other  hedge funds , said that the
Canadian insurer or its lawyers may have been involved in
 Patricia Cohen ’s suit.  “SAC has learned from reliable sources that Patricia Cohen
in fact met with counsel for Fairfax prior to filing that
lawsuit,” SAC said.  Fairfax, in its 2006 lawsuit in state court in Morristown,
 New Jersey , accuses SAC Capital and other hedge funds of
conspiring to spread negative information about Toronto-based
Fairfax because they were betting its stock price would decline.
The funds, including  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC Capital,
have denied the accusation.  “Neither Fairfax nor its lawyers had anything to do with
Patricia Cohen’s lawsuit, and only learned about it from news
reports,” Michael Bowe, a lawyer for Fairfax at Kasowitz Benson
Torres & Friedman LLP in Manhattan, said in an e-mail.
“Suggestions otherwise sound paranoid.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, an SAC Capital spokesman, declined to
comment. SAC Capital has about $13 billion under management.  Howard W. Foster , a lawyer for Patricia Cohen at Foster PC
in  Chicago , declined to comment. She has appealed the March 30
dismissal of her suit in federal court in Manhattan.  ‘Racketeering Scheme’  In the suit, she said SAC Capital was “the product of an
ongoing racketeering scheme” that has engaged in  insider
trading , bank fraud, money laundering and other misconduct.  SAC Capital in March 2 motions sought permission to conduct
sworn interviews with a Fairfax representative and Patricia
Cohen about any communications between her and the company.  Stephen M. Orlofsky, the court-appointed “discovery
master” deciding evidence-sharing disputes in the New Jersey
case, denied the hedge fund’s request to interview the Fairfax
representative in a May 11 order. He denied the request on
Patricia Cohen on April 1, according to the order.  SAC Capital has appealed the denial of its request to
interview Patricia Cohen, according to Orlofsky, a former
federal judge in New Jersey and a partner with Blank Rome LLP in
Princeton. The appeal is pending.  The case is  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown). Patricia Cohen’s case is Cohen v. Cohen,
11-1390, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ( New York )
and 09-cv-10230, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 