-- 
Scene Last Night: ‘Law & Order’ Stars, LaChanze, Louvre Lovers

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-13T16:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/scene-last-night-law-order-stars-lachanze-fats-waller-louvre-gala.html
Tamara Tunie pulled off a mini “ Law
& Order ” reunion last night at  Harlem Stage , the performing
arts venue in Upper Manhattan.  Tunie, a board member, brought in Jesse Martin and S. Epatha Merkerson as emcees, while she herself did a star turn as
auctioneer at the landmark theater, a scenic conversion of a
former pumping station for the Croton Aqueduct. The exterior of
the building looks like a castle; inside, a grand arch frames
the theater.  You can’t ask for a more perfect setting to conjure up the
spirit of Fats Waller, the jazz great who once jammed at Small’s
Paradise, the Harlem dance club.  That time was remembered in the world premiere of “The
Fats Waller Dance Party,” commissioned by Harlem Stage from
pianist, composer (and MacArthur genius) Jason Moran, and singer
and bassist Meshell Ndegeocello.  The music was all over the jazz map and on the mood scale
ranged from an island groove to a romantic slow beat. Moran,
wearing a white T-shirt and pale suit, performed at piano and
keyboards, joined by Ndegeocello in a sweater, jeans, and big
pink-frame glasses.  The duo was backed by trumpet, trombone, bass, and drum,
and some young, edgy dancers who stomped their feet, swiveled
their hips, and wove their way around the dinner tables, luring
guests to join them.  Fats Mask  Moran performed in a big Mardi Gras mask of Fats, complete
with top hat and cigar sticking out of his mouth. At a live
auction earlier in the evening, art dealer Roland Augustine had
bought the mask by Haitian artist Didier Civil for $1,500.  “That’s the last deal tonight,” Tunie told the crowd,
which included artist Glenn Ligon, who has his own show at the
 Whitney Museum  of American Art, and actress Gloria Reuben.  LaChanze and her husband, Derek Fordjour, bid $3,000 for a
trip to  Napa Valley . Art dealer Jack Tilton, a Harlem Stage
board member, bid $6,000 for Moran to play a 30-minute house
concert. In less than a minute, more than 10 people pledged
$1,000 each to bring teaching artists into a neighborhood public
school, enhancing the experience of seeing shows at Harlem
Stage.  During dinner, Merkerson said she had acquired the rights
to film August Wilson’s “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom.”  Martin said he will be stepping out as Marvin Gaye in the
forthcoming film, “Sexual Healing,” and summering in Montauk.  Janet Jackson at the Louvre  The atmosphere was calmer at the flower-filled private
residence of  Gerard Araud ,  France ’s Permanent Representative to
the  United Nations . He hosted a benefit for the Young Patrons of
the  American Friends of the Louvre .  Among the guests were Daniel Colon, a partner at the
private equity shop CM Equity Partners and a decorative arts
enthusiast, and Anne Huntington, an independent curator and
communications manager at Phillips de Pury & Co., who is keen on
the Louvre’s contemporary art initiatives with artists such as
Nan Goldin and Jenny Holzer.  These modern excursions, of course, have alarmed those who
still gag at the memory of  Jeff Koons  infiltrating Louis XIV’s
other palace at Versailles.  So here’s some advance notice to fragile esthetes: On June
14, Janet Jackson will perform a benefit concert at the Louvre.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 