-- 
Schaeuble Said to Push for Ban on Naked Credit-Default Swaps

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-13T14:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/schaeuble-said-to-push-eu-for-ban-on-naked-credit-default-swaps.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  plans to urge European Union governments to consider a
ban on trading of naked credit-default swaps on sovereign debt,
two people familiar with the discussions said.  Schaeuble will seek an EU-wide ban to be included in draft
EU rules on short selling, said the people who declined to be
identified because the discussions aren’t yet public. He will
raise the issue when finance ministers discuss a possible deal
on the short-selling curbs at a meeting in Brussels on May 17.  Germany ’s move is “part of a wider dirigiste effort to re-
regulate, really micro manage, markets in a way that buries bad
news,” Bob Penn, financial regulation partner at law firm Allen
& Overy LLP in  London , said. “There’s something terribly Big-
Brotherish about the whole thing.”  Politicians including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have called for the EU to curb
naked CDS on sovereign debt, as well as naked short-sales of
certain stocks and bonds, because of concerns that such
activities were fuelling the eurozone’s debt crisis. Germany
already has restrictions on using swaps to bet on sovereign
defaults.  Germany’s finance ministry declined to comment, as did
Marton Hajdu, a spokesman for  Hungary , which holds the EU’s
rotating presidency.  Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer
face value if a borrower -- a country or a company -- defaults.
In exchange, the swap seller gets the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent. Traders in naked credit-default swaps buy
and sell insurance on bonds they don’t own.  Financial Stability  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
proposed the short-selling law in September. While the plans
allowed for emergency CDS bans if financial stability is at
risk, they don’t seek permanent curbs. Governments have so far
refrained from going further in their work to amend the
proposals.  Lawmakers in a European Parliament committee voted in March
in favor of a ban on naked CDS on EU nations’ debt, with an
exemption for traders owning assets whose market price moves in
close tandem with the government bonds. EU states and the
parliament must agree on the law before it can enter into force.  The Hungarian government has said that it is “very
optimistic” that ministers will be able to agree on a
negotiating position on the short selling law at the meeting on
May 17.  ‘Reasonable Expectation’  A compromise version of the draft short-selling law, which
was discussed by national representatives on May 11, would
require traders to have a “reasonable expectation” that they
can obtain shares and  government bonds  they have agreed to sell
short. The rules also cover emergency curbs on non-naked short
selling deemed to pose a threat to financial stability.  The U.K. may clash with other governments at the meeting
over its concerns that giving European Union regulators
emergency powers to ban short selling may be illegal.  The British government “has considerable concerns” that
giving ultimate responsibility for emergency curbs on short
selling to the newly formed   European Securities and Markets
Authority  wouldn’t be “robust and legally watertight,”
according to an EU document obtained by Bloomberg News dated May
6.  Separately, finance ministers will seek to agree on
guidelines for support measures for banks shown to need more
capital by this years’ round of EU-wide stress tests, according
to a statement  published  on the EU’s website. Ministers may also
endorse recommendations for stricter oversight of commodity-
derivatives trading, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  