-- 
SEC to Release Finding on Stanford Clients’ SIPC Eligibility

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-13T18:18:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/sec-to-determine-if-stanford-investors-should-receive-sipc-protection.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, faulted for missing R. Allen Stanford’s alleged $7
billion fraud, said it will decide “in the near future”
whether victims should receive federal insurance payments.  The SEC has devoted “substantial time and effort” to
determine whether the Securities Investor Protection Corp. erred
in denying investors coverage, SEC enforcement director  Robert Khuzami  and inspections chief Carlo di Florio said today at a
House Financial Services Committee hearing in  Washington .  Stanford, 61, was indicted in June 2009 on 21 criminal
charges claiming he misled clients about the safety and
oversight of certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based
Bank. Investors, lawmakers and the SEC’s inspector general have
accused the agency and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority of ignoring warnings about Stanford years before he
was arrested.  “It’s a tragedy that the investors have to pay the price
of the SEC and Finra’s failures,” Representative Francisco Canseco, a  Texas  Republican, said at the hearing. Finra, the
industry-funded brokerage regulator, oversaw the Stanford unit
that sold the CDs.  Stephen Harbeck, the president of the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., said in an August 2009 letter that Stanford
investors weren’t eligible for insurance payments because the
government-sponsored regulator doesn’t protect people who are
sold worthless securities. SIPC, which was chartered to guard
investors against broker theft or brokerage failure, is overseen
by the SEC.  ‘Wrong Way’  “We’re being told our money was stolen the wrong way,”
Stanford Kauffman, who invested in the alleged fraud, said in
testimony at the hearing. “Stanford stole our savings, but the
SEC and Finra held the door wide open.”  Missing Stanford’s alleged fraud wasn’t a matter of faulty
regulations so much as a failure to enforce existing statutes,
Finra chairman and chief executive officer Richard Ketchum told
lawmakers today.  Julie Preuitt, an SEC employee who worked on an examination
of Stanford’s business in 1997, said she had been rebuffed by
supervisors after flagging possible fraud and pushing for a more
thorough investigation.  Preuitt, now an assistant regional director in the SEC’s
regional office in  Fort Worth , Texas, told the panel she was
also reprimanded by management after complaining about changes
to the examination program in 2007.  “I paid a heavy price for complaining,” Preuitt said. “I
was not only ignored, but was actively rebuffed in my attempts
to perform at a fully functioning level.”  Disciplinary Action  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz urged in a report last
year that the SEC consider taking disciplinary action against
two managers in the Fort Worth office who punished Preuitt.  That hasn’t happened, Preuitt said.  “The commission has failed to discipline anyone, at least
not visibly, nor has there been any effort made to restore me to
a position with similar duties and responsibilities to the one
held before,” Preuitt said.  Stanford, who has denied the allegations against him, has
been in federal custody since 2009 while awaiting trial. He is
being held in a hospital at the Butner Federal Correctional
Complex in  North Carolina , where he is receiving treatment for a
prescription drug dependency developed while in prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  