-- 
Galleon Defendants Denied Requests on May 16 Trial Evidence, Postponement

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/second-galleon-insider-trial-set-to-begin-as-former-traders-lose-motions.html
Two men facing a May 16 trial on
insider trading charges as part of the Galleon Group LLC
prosecution lost their bids to introduce evidence or postpone
the proceeding, less than a week after the conviction of the
hedge fund’s co-founder, Raj Rajaratnam.  Former trader Emanuel Goffer was denied his request for a
two-week postponement because of “inflammatory” publicity
surrounding the May 11 conviction of Rajaratnam in  Manhattan 
federal court. Co-defendant Michael Kimelman was barred from
introducing evidence that prosecutors offered him a plea deal on
a conspiracy count in exchange for a sentence of probation.  “The court sees no reason, and Goffer has not offered one,
why potential prejudice resulting from a juror’s familiarity
with Rajaratnam’s trial cannot be identified and addressed
during jury selection,” U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan 
said in an order dated yesterday. In a separate ruling, the
judge said “Kimelman’s rejection of the government’s plea deal
is of little probative value” and “would likely distort the
issues and distract the jury from the alleged facts underlying
the crime.”  Jury selection begins next week in the case of Kimelman,
Goffer and his brother  Zvi Goffer , a former Galleon trader, who
the U.S. said participated in one of three insider trading rings
that are part of a nationwide probe of  hedge funds , technology
companies, banks and expert consultants. All three have pleaded
not guilty.  Guilty Pleas  To date, 21 people in the overlapping Galleon
investigations have pleaded guilty. Of those, several were co-
defendants in the Goffer case who entered plea deals as the
trial date neared.  On April 26, former Galleon trader Craig Drimal pleaded
guilty to conspiracy and five counts of securities fraud. On
April 21,  Brooklyn , New York, lawyer Jason Goldfarb pleaded
guilty to similar charges.  Attorney Arthur Cutillo, formerly of Ropes & Gray LLP and
Goldfarb’s former roommate, pleaded guilty in January. Brian
Santarias, also of that law firm, pleaded guilty in 2009.  The three remaining defendants are charged with conspiracy
and  securities fraud . They are accused of trading on stock tips
that came from the lawyers at Ropes & Gray and from Gautham Shankar, another former trader. The men face as long as 20 years
in prison on the most serious charges.  The U.S. has placed Zvi Goffer at the center of the scheme
and claimed his accomplices called him “Octopussy,” a
reference to the 1983 James Bond movie, because of his many
sources of information.  Defense Lawyers  Michael Sommer , a lawyer for Kimelman, declined to comment.
Michael Ross, a lawyer for Emanuel Goffer, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Rajaratnam, 53, was found guilty May 11 of all 14 counts
against him of conspiracy and securities fraud. The jury heard
evidence that he gained $63.8 million over seven years through
trading on inside information from corporate executives,
bankers, consultants and the directors of public companies.  He faces between 15 1/2 and 19 1/2 years in prison at his
sentencing July 29, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Zvi Goffer, 10-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 