-- 
Security Lax for New $100 Bills at Printing Plants, Audit Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-13T22:44:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/security-lax-for-new-100-bills-at-printing-plants-audit-says.html
The U.S. government left millions of
$100 bills inadequately protected at a currency-printing plant
with windows that lacked security features, the  Treasury
Department ’s inspector general said.  About 54.4 million new $100 bills and 4 million uncut
sheets of notes had “inadequate security” at a Bureau of
Engraving and Printing plant in Washington, according to the
 inspector ’s report released today. The audit also criticized
security at the bureau’s Fort Worth, Texas, facility.  The finished bills were “wrapped in protective plastic,
but were not stored in a locked security cage,” the audit said.
As of January 2011, some notes had been stored in the production
area for more than nine months even though finished notes
usually “are moved to a secure, limited-access vault shortly
after production.”  The production area had 26 windows that lacked “protective
security features,” the report said. The $100 bills also were
at “increased risk of theft and loss” because about 225
employees had access to the production area, compared with 21
workers who are allowed into the vault.  In a response included with the audit, the bureau, or BEP,
said it would move bills and sheets that weren’t yet finished
into vaults. Still, the money was always safe, it said.  “After careful consideration, and based on multiple
compensating controls, such as cameras, access control systems,
locking mechanisms, etc., the BEP stored finished notes in
highly secure space,” the bureau said.  Last year the Treasury was forced to delay the debut of
$100 bills due to printing errors. The new design, aimed at
thwarting counterfeiters, has several new security features,
including a “3-D Security Ribbon” and an image of a bell on
the front that, when tilted, changes in color from copper to
green.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  