-- 
Jude Law, Kelly Hoppen Are Chosen for First Phone-Hacking Incident Trials

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-20T17:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/sienna-miller-agrees-to-162-000-news-corp-phone-hacking-case-settlement.html
Actor Jude Law’s case was chosen to
be one of the first heard over phone-hacking at a News Corp.
U.K. newspaper after his lawyers claimed that a “senior” News
of the World executive might be involved in the practice.  Law’s lawyer, Hugh Tomlinson, said at a hearing today that
disclosures in the case indicated the involvement of the
executive, which he didn’t identify.  Sienna Miller , Law’s former
girlfriend, last week reached a tentative agreement to settle
her lawsuit for 100,000 pounds ($162,000).  At least two dozen celebrities and politicians have sued
 Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. over allegations that the newspaper
illegally accessed mobile-phone messages for stories. The New
York-based company last month apologized and offered to settle
some of the cases after journalists linked to the paper were
arrested.  “It is perhaps by a whisker that” that Law was selected
for “a lead case” Vos said. The possibility that a senior
executive was involved could lead to “a higher level of
damages,” he said.  Law joins designer Kelly Hoppen, sports agent Sky Andrew,
soccer commentator Andy Gray and lawmaker Chris Bryant who were
also chosen to bring so-called test cases by Judge Geoffrey Vos
at a hearing today.  “Now that we have seen the disclosure we believe it is
entirely false that the named executive is implicated in the
alleged voice mail interception of Jude Law,”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K.
unit said in an e-mailed statement.  Law was also selected for his “significant profile,” Vos
said. The trials could start as early as January. Hayley Barlow,
a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to comment.  ‘Bit of Celebrity’  “I suppose judges, like the rest of us, like a bit of
celebrity,”  Duncan Lamont , a lawyer at Charles Russell LLP,
said in a telephone interview. It was “surprising” that Law
was chosen as he only recently filed his claim, he said.  The judge also selected five claims to act as a backup
should any of the lead cases settle. Vos chose former lawmaker
George Galloway, actor Steve Coogan, ex-soccer player Paul Gascoigne, publicist Nicola Phillips and Mary-Ellen Field, a
former adviser to model Elle Macpherson.  Vos said he’d received a note from the police that said
they had identified 149 voice mail pin numbers that might
indicate hacking, and had also identified around 400 telephone
numbers that might have been hacked.  The scandal started when a former News of the World editor
and a private investigator were sent to jail in 2007 for hacking
into members of the royal household’s mobile phones. Former News
of the World Editor  Andy Coulson  resigned as Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s head of communications in January over claims
the practice took place while he was at the paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  