-- 
Sina Posts Biggest Weekly Decline Since 2008 on Earnings

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-05-13T22:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/sina-heads-for-biggest-weekly-loss-since-2008-on-earnings.html
Sina Corp., owner of  China ’s third-
most visited website and the Twitter-like Weibo service, lost
the most since December 2008 this week in New York as four
brokerages cut their ratings on the stock.  Shares fell 5.5 percent today to $106.88, taking the weekly
loss to 15 percent. BOCOM International Securities Ltd. cut its
rating on Sina to “long-term buy” from “buy,”  following
downgrades at Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered Plc and Mirae
Asset Securities Co. yesterday. The company reported first-
quarter profit this week that fell short of estimates.  Four Chinese Internet companies listed shares in the U.S.
this month, including Renren Inc., NetQin Mobile Inc.,
Jiayuan.com International Ltd., and Phoenix New Media Group.
Three have fallen below their offering prices.  “Valuation is definitely on people’s minds,” Andy Yeung,
an equity analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The pullback in recent IPO prices would
give people a pause, making them cautious about approaching the
Chinese names.”  Sina on May 11 said first-quarter profit declined 39
percent from a year earlier to $15 million, trailing the $15.4
million average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Weibo Spending  The drop in profit was mainly due to Sina’s increased
spending on its Weibo microblogging service, Chief Executive
Officer Charles Chao said on a conference call May 11. Total
investment in Weibo, which had more than 140 million users by
April, may reach $100 million to build up the social networking
platform and to fend off competition, he said.  Sina estimated its second-quarter total sales may be $112
million to $115 million, compared with a $118.4 million average
forecast of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue from
advertising may rise to as much as $92 million for the quarter
ended in June, from $72.3 million in the previous three months,
Sina said in the statement.  Thirteen analysts rate the stock “buy,” eight give it a
“hold” and five “sell,” according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the
goal of profiting when they fall, was 6.4 percent of Sina’s
total outstanding shares as of May 11, according to Data
Explorers, a New York-based research firm. That compared with
9.2 percent on April 26.  BOCOM raised its price target for the company to $122 from
$93 on “strong growth in advertising revenue and rapid
expansion in Weibo,” analysts led by Ma Yuan wrote in the
report.  Sohu.com, which owns China’s fourth-most visited website,
tumbled 11.3 percent in the past five days, the most since
December. It fell 11.1 percent last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  