-- 
Singh’s Second Biggest Ally Routed in Southern State Elections

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-05-13T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/singh-s-second-biggest-india-ally-routed-over-corruption-claims.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s second-biggest parliamentary ally was routed in
elections in a southern state, as a backlash against corruption
underscored that recent scandals have damaged his government.  The  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam , which contested the polls
with Singh’s Congress party, was on course to win just a sixth
of the seats of its main rival in Tamil Nadu’s assembly,
according to the Election Commission of  India   website  yesterday.
In another closely watched ballot, the Trinamool Congress, the
largest partner of Singh in the federal alliance, swept aside
communists who had run West Bengal for 34 years.  The results are the first electoral test of the prime
minister since he was beset by graft allegations and soaring
food prices. Former Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja ,
a member of the DMK, is on trial for conspiring with companies
to sell licenses to run mobile-phone services at below market
rates that the country’s auditor says may have cost the
government as much as $31 billion.  “Corruption charges against the DMK and Congress have had
a massive effect in Tamil Nadu and this is echoed in the
results,” said G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, managing director of
Development & Research Services, a New Delhi-based political
research group. “It’s really a signal to the Congress party to
take immediate, strong, corrective measures to check
corruption.”  Games Graft  Senior Congress party politicians are among those arrested
and jailed over allegedly corrupt deals in hosting last
October’s Commonwealth Games in the Indian capital.  Defeat for the DMK weakens the federal government’s
authority, while a victory for Railways Minister Mamata Banerjee
in West Bengal may make her harder to control, according to Rao.  “The election results are not really good news for
Congress as it lost considerable ground in the south,” he said.
“A big win for Banerjee is a further headache for the prime
minister as with every reform proposal, such as land reforms,
she will extract her pound of flesh.”  Congress’ biggest election victory in two decades, in May
2009, was expected to herald political stability, greater
confidence in  Asia ’s third-largest economy and renewed efforts
to lift millions out of poverty. India’s benchmark stock index
soared 17 percent in the first day of trading after results were
announced.  Instead, Singh’s second term, which runs until 2014, has
seen legislation stalled by parliamentary protests over
government corruption and food-price inflation that averaged 18
percent in 2010. While the economy grew 8.6 percent in the last
fiscal year, foreign investment  slumped  25 percent in its first
11 months.  ‘Not Given Up’  Singh told a meeting of television channel editors in
February that his government had “not given up” on policy
changes that may further open the retail and insurance sectors
to overseas companies, denying he had become a “lame duck” two
years after reelection.  His government has vowed to change laws on how farmland is
purchased for industry after major investments were blocked by
protests over inadequate compensation, including several in West
Bengal that were backed by Banerjee.  Congress won reelection in northeastern Assam, while it was
poised for a narrow victory in Kerala state. The combined
winners of these elections will preside over about 225 million
people, more than the population of  Brazil . Results in the
elections were held in the four states in April and May.  Cinema Stars  Kanimozhi, a DMK federal lawmaker and daughter of defeated
 Tamil Nadu  Chief Minister Muthuvel Karunanidhi, has also been
charged in the probe by federal investigators into the 2008
telecoms sale though not detained. All those arrested so far
deny wrongdoing.  The people of Tamil Nadu have rejected the “humongous
corruption” of the DMK, V. Maitreyan, a senior leader of the
victorious All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, said in an
interview in Chennai yesterday.  In Tamil Nadu, parties led by film stars and scriptwriters
have dominated politics for four decades, using cinema to
promote Tamil culture and language and win support. Karunanidhi
wrote plays and film scripts, while AIADMK leader Jayaram Jayalalitha, who will now become chief minister, was formerly a
popular actress.  Banerjee’s victory ends the rule of the world’s longest
serving democratically elected Marxist government in West Bengal.
Her Trinamool Congress was ahead in 177 seats to 52 for
communist parties, the election commission data showed.  Trade Zones  After taking power in 1977, the state’s communists parceled
out land to 1.5 million farmers and imposed government controls
on industry. After 20 years of championing agriculture, they
switched attention to new trade zones and attempted to lure
investors with little success.  The state has the third-largest number of people living in
poverty, according to a  University of Oxford  study in 2010.
Trinamool pledged in campaigning to create large numbers of
industrial jobs.  “Now is the time for business to put its best foot forward
and help build a better Bengal,” said Sanjiv Goenka, vice
chairman of RPG Enterprises, which owns companies including
Spencer’s Retail Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  