-- 
Sleigh Bells, Spidey, Baby Zebra, Azaleas, ABT: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-05-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/sleigh-bells-spidey-baby-zebra-azaleas-abt-n-y-weekend.html
Spidey’s back! After a 3-week break
to retool, “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” is once again in
previews with opening night scheduled for June 14.  Look out for five more flying episodes and several new
songs by U2’s Bono and the Edge, all in the hope of seducing
critics, who probably wouldn’t let this thing live even if
Glinda the Good Witch swooped by.  “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” is at the Foxwoods
Theatre, 213 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-877-250-2929;
 http://spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com .  Saturday  Claribel and Etta Cone were what used to be called
“spinsters” because they forgot to get married.  They had time and money to amass some 3,000 objects,
ranging from textiles, jewelry and furniture, to paintings by
Cezanne,  Van Gogh , Gauguin.  Guided by their friend, and perhaps lover, Gertrude Stein,
the Baltimore duo wandered through the salons and studios of
Paris, buying what pleased them. They ended up with 114 Picassos
and 500 Matisses.  The Jewish Museum is presenting 50 pieces from the Cone
collection, which the sisters left to their hometown museum,
“if the spirit of appreciation of modern art in Baltimore
becomes improved.” The show has Matisse’s lovely “Interior,
Flowers and Parakeets.”  “Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters” is at the Jewish
Museum until Sept. 25. 1109 Fifth Ave. at 92nd St. Information:
+1-212-423-3200;  http://www.thejewishmuseum.org .  Head uptown to Earl’s Beer and Cheese, a tiny joint with a
shrewd selection of brew: from Smuttynose Winter Ale on tap to
cans of Oskar Blues Ten Fidy.  There’s a tasty grilled cheddar sandwich on sourdough with
pork belly, kimchi and fried egg. The mac and cheese is made
with shredded chicken and rosemary.  1259 Park Ave. at 97th St. Information: +1-212-289-1581.  Saturday Evening  Kent Nagano brings the Orchestre Symphonique de Montreal to
 Carnegie Hall  for a blow-out performance of Beethoven’s Fifth.  It’s the culmination of the clever Spring for Music
Festival, which presents orchestras that normally don’t play
Carnegie Hall. Interesting programs are part of the allure.  Before the Beethoven, you’ll hear selections from Giovanni
Gabrieli’s 1597 “Sacrae symphoniae,” Angela Hewitt playing
piano Sinfonias by Bach, as well as modern works by Webern and
Stravinsky: thus, “The Evolution of the Symphony.”  Tickets are $25!  57th St. and 7th Ave. Information: +1-212-247-7800;
 http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Sunday  Don’t miss the dazzling new 11-acre Azalea Garden, where
pink, coral, magenta and white blooms erupt in a crescendo of
color.  The 3,000 azaleas and rhododendrons are from around the
world, set beneath oaks, sweet gums and tulip trees.  During the reconstruction, more than 70,000 plants were
added, including bulbs, ferns and shrubs. There are new dramatic
vistas and nifty places to sit.  Other spring bloomers are also putting on a show in the
250-acre park, like dogwoods, crabapples, lilacs, flowering
cherries, redbuds and tree peonies.  New York Botanical Garden, 2900 Southern Boulevard, Bronx.
Information: +1-718-817-8700;  http://www.nybg.org .  Go across the road to the Bronx Zoo and pay a visit to
Terri, a baby Grevy’s zebra. She likes to eat grass and romp
with her parents, Tara and Jimbo.  There’s a lot to see, from Tiger Mountain with its six
playful cubs to the 6.5-acre Congo Gorilla Forest where you can
go nose-to-nose with the splendid creatures.  You can even board a green grasshopper or praying mantis
for a ride on the bug carousel.  Wildlife Conservation Society, 2300 Southern Boulevard,
Bronx. Information: +1-718-220-5100,  http://www.wcs.org .  Sunday Evening  Everyone will be at the  Bowery Ballroom  on Sunday for the
rush of Sleigh Bells, the sonic hurricane that hit the scene
last year.  The duo is opening for the Brazilian electro-rave band CSS,
but they’re hardly second fiddle to anyone with their massive
grinding chords and front woman Alexis Krauss’s sexy screech.  They’re the perfect symbol of teen drama -- she in neon
spandex that gradually strips off to reveal tattoos, while
guitarist Derek Miller is a mystery in a big dark hoodie.  It will be a whirl of crowd-surfing and sweat, over in 30
minutes, so get there early.  Don’t tire yourself out too much, since CSS delivers heavy
come-ons.  6 Delancey St. Information: +1-212-533-2111;
 http://www.boweryballroom.com .  Looking Ahead  The American Ballet Theatre’s opening night gala on Monday
pays tribute to retiring principal dancer Jose Manuel Carreno.  The Cuban great performs in Jorge Garcia’s “Majisimo,”
set to music from Jules Massenet’s “El Cid.”  Also on the program are highlights from the upcoming
season, including the first act waltz and the finale from Alexei
Ratmansky’s “The Bright Stream” and a Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux
by George Balanchine performed by Gillian Murphy and David
Hallberg.  Michelle Obama  is an honorary chairman of the gala.  At the  Metropolitan Opera ,  Lincoln Center , until July 9.
Information: +1-212-362-6000;  http://www.abt.org .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch and A.M. Erika. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 