-- 
Somali Pirates Score Rich Returns When Ship Cargoes, Crews Are Left Intact

-- B y   R o b e r t   Y o u n g   P e l t o n
-- 
2011-05-13T16:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/somali-pirates-score-rich-returns-when-ship-cargoes-crews-are-left-intact.html
Tucked behind the shouting
dockworkers and fishermen cleaning their nets at the wharf in
Bosaso, on the  Gulf of Aden  in Somalia, there’s a row of
decrepit gray skiffs and patrol boats.  Strewn with rusted anti-aircraft shells and old mattresses,
these dead ships look more like floating homeless shelters than
vehicles of terror. Out on the water, though, they played a
starring role in a booming criminal enterprise. These are the
impounded attack vessels used by Somali pirates to hijack
passing cargo ships, private yachts, and even oil tankers.  Drive a few hundred yards west along the beach, and there,
just past the presidential compound, is a well-worn and crowded
jail, with 248 pirates among its 400 prisoners, Bloomberg
Businessweek reported in its May 16 issue.  Abdirahman Mohamed Farole, the president of Puntland,
insisted that I visit the prison to prove that his tough stand
on maritime kidnappers was not just talk. Somalia has not had an
effective central government since 1991, and Puntland is one of
its seven autonomous regions. Minutes after entering the prison,
I met 51-year-old Farah Hirsi Kulan, or “Boyah.”  Halfway into an eight-year sentence for piracy, Kulan
lounged outside a packed cell block with another famous bandit,
Omar Bagaley. A newly arrested 13-year-old, Saynab, sat wedged
between Bagaley’s knees on a concrete slab.  False Promise  Back in November 2008, Kulan was the first public face of
Somali piracy. Not only was he the region’s chief scoundrel --
he had coordinated the seizure of 25 ships, as he boasted to the
 BBC  in 2009 -- Kulan began a second career as a “reformed”
pirate, advocating for pirates to quit, stop the violence, and
go to the mosque. Some believed him, until Kulan was apprehended
while fleeing a major pirate planning meeting in Garowe,
Puntland’s central city, and thrown in jail.  Our conversation was brief and loud. Bagaley stabbed the
air with his finger, warning me and my interpreter to back off,
while Kulan insisted he had ceased to be a pirate before his
arrest and was merely a fisherman, enlisted to repel poachers.  What money he earned, he shared with friends. This is a
common refrain among Somali pirates: that they’re just poor
fishermen taking up arms to defend the seas from the predatory
practices of foreign poachers. Some will tell you they go to sea
to prevent toxic dumping like  Greenpeace .  Unglamorous Cargo  The  UN Monitoring Group on Somalia  estimates that 6.5
percent of the attacks by gangs of Somali men have been against
fishing vessels. According to the International Maritime Bureau,
or IMB, a London-based not-for-profit group specializing in
global commerce, the estimated $150 million to $300 million in
ransom money paid out last year was provided to free the crews
of bulk carriers,  container ships , and other vessels carrying
unglamorous and lightly protected cargo.  Some of that was paid to recover private yachtsmen. And
while a pirate’s take may trickle down to friends, President
Farole said most burn through cash conspicuously on Land
Cruisers, lavish parties, and a steady supply of qat, a mild
stimulant chewed like tobacco and imported from  Kenya .  Saynab, the 13-year-old would-be pirate, clearly admired
his elders in the yard. His implausible story was that he set
sail with the pirates to learn how to fish.  It was Friday, and he was being visited in jail by his 32-
year-old mother and two-year-old brother. His mother blamed
herself for Saynab’s predicament.  “I only started looking for him 22 days after he
disappeared,” she said. “I thought he just sailed away.”  Waging War  Later that afternoon, when I mentioned Kulan and Bagaley to
Farole, laughter broke out in the room. “They think they own
the world,” Farole said.  In his third year as the leader of Puntland, the former
banker and doctorate candidate at  Melbourne ’s  La Trobe
University  has stepped up his war on the pirates with plans that
combine community activism with a new law enforcement group
funded by an anonymous donor.  In the past 90 days, Farole says, pirates have been pushed
from fishing ports to Puntland’s smaller communities. Elders and
residents of coastal towns such as Eyl, Bargal, Laasqoray, and
Bosaso have all taken stands against the brigands and their
followers. Pirates are forbidden to come ashore, store owners
are banned from selling goods to pirates, and pamphlets declare
their money to be “haram,” or against the tenets of Islam.  Powerful Draw  Despite the imported firepower and the support of
residents, Farole’s dismissal of Kulan may be years premature.
The idea of sailing off to find riches and adventure is a
powerful draw, especially for young men with few employment
options. When the president hears about the gullible teenager
sitting in prison, he is visibly disturbed.  He turns to his ministers in the room and says, “Get him
out of there: Piracy is no business for a child.”  Piracy is a crime, but it is above all a business, and
right now it’s a high-volume one. The  UN Office on Drugs and
Crime  reported that 1,011 pirates are on trial or in jail in 20
countries, and neither deadly military responses nor harsh
sentences have slowed the attacks or piracy’s spread.  There have been 97 pirate attacks in the Somali region in
the first quarter of 2011 out of 142 worldwide, according to the
IMB. That’s up 177 percent from a year earlier. At the moment,
more than 480 people are being held hostage on more than four
dozen ships in Somali waters, all awaiting ransom and rescue.  Tanker Ransom  Business is booming, in part, because ransoms keep getting
larger. On April 7,  Intertanko , an organization of independent
tanker owners, reportedly paid $13.5 million for the release of
its Very Large Crude Carrier Irene SL, topped up with 1.8
million barrels of Kuwaiti crude.  The $200 million worth of oil didn’t interest the
hijackers. Instead, they used the 1,000-foot-long tanker as a
destroyer-class warship.  European Union Naval Force , or EU
Navfor, which tracks piracy from its U.K. headquarters, reported
that the Irene SL pulled up alongside freighters as pirates
fired down on their victims from the tanker’s hull.  To score their $13.5 million payout, the pirates held the
Irene SL’s 25-man crew for 58 days. That two-month investment
netted them a 26,900 percent return on estimated expenses of
$50,000, according to Andrew Mwangura, maritime editor of
 Somalia  Report. More typically, Mwangura figures, crews raise
$300,000 to chase a $4 million ransom.  Shipping companies ballpark the impact of pirates on their
trillion-dollar shipping business at $7 billion to $12 billion
per year, according to  Ocean Beyond Piracy  figures presented at
a Dubai antipiracy conference in April.  Gulf of Aden  Some 23,000-plus vessels pass through the Gulf of Aden
annually. This includes tankers carrying 40 percent of the
world’s crude oil. Running a decent-size cargo ship costs
$15,000 to $50,000 per day, according to Hart, a British-owned
security firm with offices in  Singapore , Cyprus, and the  United
Arab Emirates , among others.  A cargo ship will typically make the Gulf of Aden passage
in three days. It would take a similar ship three and a half
weeks to go around the Horn of  Africa .  Ironically, piracy in the Gulf of Aden partially grew out
of efforts in the late 1990s by the same Hart security outfit to
train Somali militias as a self-sufficient coast guard. When the
Puntland government fell in 2000, the transition from coast
guard to piracy took about a day.  Enterprising sailors such as Boyah and 38-year-old Mohamad
Abdi Garaad grabbed guns and began boarding unsuspecting fishing
vessels operated by Thai, Spanish, and Chinese companies,
demanding “fines” of $20,000 to $50,000.  Early Piracy  A ship could be released if money were paid to a member of
the Somali diaspora anywhere from  London  to Nairobi. Payment
confirmed, the ship and crew were sent on their way. Initially,
some of the militia discipline held, and any pirate using
violence or damaging the ship would be fined or kicked out.  This early piracy still seemed like a tabloid hoax, at
least until 2005, when Somali coast guards hired to protect a
Thai fishing boat, the Sirichainava 12, seized the ship and
demanded $800,000 for its release.  The mutineers were overpowered, but the idea stuck. Why
accept cash to protect ships when it was just as easy to demand
a ransom? In 2006, there were 10 to 20 reported piracy attacks.
The next year they doubled, and ransoms climbed to $1.5 million.  Using funds from successful hijackings, pirates poured the
money back into ships and crews, and in 2008 piracy began in
earnest. That year there were 134 pirate attacks and 32
hijackings. It was also the year that the first oil-carrying
supertanker, the Sirius Star, was pirated, an act that caught
the attention of terrorism analysts and military planners.  Main Groups  At present the IMB and Navfor believe there are 10
principal pirate groups, some operating with more enthusiasm
than professionalism. After a number of violent responses to
piracy by the world’s navies, the trade is becoming even uglier.  On Feb. 19, four Americans on a round-the-world trip got
caught up in a botched rescue attempt and paid with their lives.
At least three Danish children were being held hostage even
after the ship they were held on had been returned to its owner.  One reason for piracy’s rise is that, while the risks of
prison and death are high, it’s easy for startups to gain market
share. All you need is a fishing boat and a relationship with
one of the “big three” money men -- or a relationship with
someone who has a relationship.  If you have successfully grabbed ships in the past and have
a decent crew, one of the big three, known by their nicknames,
Boyah, Garaad, and Afweyne, will back you for 50 percent of
expenses. Then you need to canvas the eight small backers who
are good for 25 percent. In all, it takes around $300,000 for a
solid run, according to Mwangura at Somalia Report.  Expenses List  Expenses break down as follows: weapons and ammo ($2,000);
skiffs and outboards ($14,000); grappling hooks and curved
ladders ($1,200); GPS and radios ($4,000); food ($70,000);
miscellaneous equipment ($30,000); bribes ($180,000). Once you
take hostages, allot $15,000 to pay the land crew to watch over
them and the hijacked ship.  Ambitious pirates use rusty skiffs to board and control a
“mother ship,” a larger vessel that can deliver a good ransom
but can also provide fuel, food, water, and shelter as a staging
platform for more attacks farther out to sea.  Eventually, when you are pressed too hard by the world’s
navies, or the mother ship runs out of supplies, you can always
abandon ship and grab another.  Naturally, pirates have specialized to make themselves more
valuable to gang leaders. A pirate intel crew identifies ships
and tracks them via their automatic identification system, or
AIS. Once a ship has been taken, pirates use the ship’s phone to
call a trusted negotiator. Meanwhile, they anchor the ships
offshore. According to NATO, about a quarter of pirate attacks
are successful, and most pirated ships yield a ransom.  Testing Patience  What pirates must excel at is waiting. From the adrenaline
rush of attack to the moment of payoff can stretch to a tedious
153 days, a long time to be responsible for 25 or 30 hostages.  Ransoms are set based on previous payouts. The $13.5
million paid for the Irene SL was an extreme high; the IMB says
$2 million to $3 million is a more standard ask. The average
payout has been creeping upward as negotiators get smarter and
push for automatic insurance payments for cargo or ships.  Western hostages on small pleasure craft, a different
business altogether, are worth about $500,000 each, but these
operations often result in violent retribution.  Rescue Missions  Increasingly, the French, Americans, and Danes will either
try to rescue their citizens or go after pirates once a ransom
is paid. Overall, that $300,000 investment should yield a payoff
of at least $600,000 to $1 million. The lucky can score anywhere
from $1.5 million to $8 million. But this is a business: Shoot a
crew member, destroy the cargo, damage the ship, and your ransom
will be less and take much longer to collect.  Generally speaking, pirate takes are split among several
groups. Thirty percent goes to the maritime crew, with a bonus
of a Land Cruiser to the first pirate that lands on the ship.  The ground crew that watches the ship and hostages for
extended periods receives 10 percent. Another 10 percent gets
splashed around with local elders, community, and politicians.
Twenty percent goes to the little backers. And the big boss
receives 30 percent.  There are a lot of fingers in the piracy pie, and it’s not
just pirates profiting under the equatorial sun.  Increasingly, piracy is but one part of a larger economy
that includes maritime insurance, with its cash payments and
cash transaction fees; hostage negotiators; an antipiracy
equipment manufacturing sector; and, inevitably, soldier-of-
fortune protection services.  Dubai Sunset  “Looks like they are getting another ransom ready,” joked
Jim Heycock, a silver-haired former commando, noting that the
lights are still on at the bank down below.  We were on the rooftop deck of the  Grosvenor House  hotel in
Dubai as the sunset. Like his boss, Richard Westbury, the owner
of Hart, Heycock is a former member of the SAS, the British
special forces. Retired and in his fifties, Heycock explained
that banks here stay open after hours to count and bundle the
multimillion-dollar ransoms.  Every part of the piracy business has an expert now, and
while Hart offers a full complement of security services,
Heycock and Westbury have lately focused on getting replacement
crews to hostage ships and delivering the ransoms.  “In the old days, the standard pirate ransom was around $2
million,” Heycock said. “That ransom, in new, sequential,
Treasury-wrapped U.S. $100 bills, fits nicely in a large legal
briefcase and weighs under 50 pounds.” He smiled. “It’s a
reassuring heft.”  Booming Business  Business has never been better.  “We made $1.9 million in the last 28 days,” said Heycock.
He stared at the lights below and pulled on a Cuban cigar. “We
are not here to save Somalia,” said Westbury. “It’s not a
solution to piracy, it’s a business plan to make money.”  Westbury agreed that insurance is the grease that keeps the
security business in gear. Hart has a partnership with an
insurance company to package its services.  Hugh Martin is part of a small group of high-risk insurance
brokers willing to play in the area of piracy. A kidnap-and-
ransom, or K&R, specialist, Martin works at  Swinglehurst  in
London, far from the skull-cracking heat of Somalia.
Swinglehurst is a family-owned business founded in 1999. Like
the pirates, Swinglehurst’s individual insurance policies are
underwritten by anonymous investors.  Competing Parties  “When you look at shipping, you are looking at three
elements: the owners, the charterer, and the facility company
that runs the ship. They often compete with each other,” Martin
said. “None want to spend any money they don’t have to, and
none want to be involved in liability regarding loss or damage
to crew or cargo, so they turn to insurance companies to remove
that risk.”  For the insurance companies, piracy is just another game of
arbitrage. Worldwide, IMB estimates, 18 vessels have been
hijacked in the Gulf of Aden this year, 45 vessels have been
boarded, and another 45 ships have been fired on.  That’s a significant number, though still less than 1
percent of the total shipping traffic. That means piracy remains
a decent insurance bet. Swinglehurst and Hart have created a
package. The three-day run will cost a ship operator an
additional $180,000 for insurance, security prep, and gunmen.  Martin points out that the highly competitive shipping
industry is driven primarily by the need to cut costs.  “Insurance premiums for the Gulf of Aden area have gone up
tenfold and now twentyfold,” he says. “In addition, loss of
income caused by a hijack can hit the bottom line, so K&R
specialists are under the gun to come to quick agreements, but
not accept initial demands too easily.”  Legal Ransoms  It is legal to pay ransoms in the U.K., Martin says,
because piracy is not considered theft since the pirates intend
to return property and people and the ransom is not supporting
organized crime because it ensures the safe return of property
and life. If shipping companies do feel the pain of piracy, they
pass on the cost to the consumer; shippers through the Gulf of
Aden generally tack on $1 per container foot, according to
 Maersk Line , the world’s largest shipping business.  In Maersk’s Copenhagen offices, I met with Lars Lorenzen,
the company’s head of security. Lorenzen views piracy as a
manageable risk, just one line in a complex matrix of
calculations that shipping companies must make every day.  Maersk Alabama  While the April 2009 seizure of Maersk Alabama was a high-
profile case, Lorenzen says Maersk has kept pirate losses to a
minimum. He credits good security management procedures,
rerouting ships, and training with keeping his other ships out
of the hands of Somali pirates.  Lorenzen and Erik Rabjerg Nielsen, Maersk’s head of daily
operations for container freight, calculate that piracy cost
Maersk $100 million in 2010. This year it expects to spend $200
million. That works out to an additional $100 to $200 on every
$3,000 container-shipment bill.  Bryan Toki is a 21-year veteran of the New Zealand army and
former rugby forward. He is also the man you go to in order to
improve your chances of safe passage through the Gulf of Aden.  Despite two decades of military training, he was never
interested in becoming a hired gun. “A lot of my mates were
lured to  Iraq , I wasn’t,” he says. “I knew if I went there, I
would never come back.”  Instead, Toki became an anti-pirate profiteer. He puts
together teams of Western security guards to equip, man, or
accompany ships from  Southeast Asia  to  Nigeria  to  Yemen . He’s
done about 120 missions, he says, and averages three or four a
month. Toki estimates his crews encounter pirates on about 20
percent of their runs.  Malacca Straits  “Back in 2004, we started in the Malacca Straits and made
$8 million,” said Toki over a drink at Le Meridian Hotel in
Dubai. “We were successful because we put $300,000 into the
legal side of the business to find out what is right and what is
wrong. A vessel has a right of safe passage from point A to B.
But if we start doing our drills, we can be seen as a threat to
the sovereignty of the nation whose waters we are in.”  To keep pirates at bay, Toki’s team first must survey and
“harden” the ship, working with the captain and then training
the crew. The team goes over emergency drills, welds plates on
weak entry points, puts barbed wire on accessible decks, and
trains for attack on the vessel.  The enemy is always innovating. “The pirates are not
stupid,” Toki said. “They are very aware, far more aware than
we are. The pirates even run three shifts now, one in the water,
one on land, and one on leave.”  Clock Ticks  Once at sea, and depending on the client, Toki’s team
either runs an armed escort or positions men prominently on the
ships. “We do more with our binoculars and radios than our
guns.” Toki notes.  “Fifteen minutes is the average time it takes from the
time a crew spots a pirate attack until they are on board. When
the pirates attack, they do so in small boats, often in
multiples trying to confuse and overwhelm the ship,” he said.  Toki and his crews have a number of tricks up their
sleeves, ranging from the use of ordinary fire hoses to dropping
20-kilogram iron weights on the fragile fiberglass skiffs that
come up alongside a ship.  “The last thing we would do would be to shoot someone,”
he said. “The idea is to deter. If you’re driving a VIP through
 Baghdad , I would be low-profile. But out here, you want to be
visible.”  Restraint has made Toki’s business valuable. It also
frustrates him. Piracy can be assessed and accounted for like
any other maritime threat, but that doesn’t make it less evil.  ‘This is Business’  In March, Toki and Hart were hired by the owner of the Rak
Afrikana, a bulk cargo carrier with steel and cement on board,
to deliver a ransom and tow the disabled rig back home. The ship
and its Indian crew had been held hostage for 332 days.  The pirates finally settled for $1.2 million, down from
their $3.5 million demand, because the ship had sprung a leak.
As Toki’s men hooked up the slowly sinking ship, he could see
the other large vessels being held, but not yet ransomed.  He was haunted by the sight of Chinese sailors, rail-thin
with beards down to their waist, waving for salvation on a
nearby ship.  “I had a 50-cal. on the bow, and I wanted to open up on
those bastards who were holding them and free those poor
souls,” Toki recalls. “But I had to remind myself, this is a
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Young Pelton via Heather Carpenter at 
 ryp@combebackalive.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners in New York at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  