-- 
Amazon.com Server Said to Have Been Used in Sony Attack

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v ,   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-14T19:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/sony-network-said-to-have-been-invaded-by-hackers-using-amazon-com-server.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Web Services cloud-
computing unit was used by hackers in last month’s attack
against  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s online entertainment systems, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter.  Hackers using an alias signed up to rent a server through
Amazon’s EC2 service and launched the attack from there, said
the person, who requested anonymity because the information is
confidential. The account has been shut down, the person said.  The development sheds light on how hackers used the so-
called cloud to carry out the second-biggest online theft of
personal information to date. The incursion, which compromised
the personal accounts of more than 100 million Sony customers,
was “a very carefully planned, very professional, highly
sophisticated criminal cyber attack,” Sony has said.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment. Amazon didn’t respond to a request to speak
with Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos .  “We’re continuing to work with  law enforcement  in an
ongoing investigation into the situation,” said Patrick Seybold, a U.S. spokesman for Tokyo-based Sony. “As such, we
will not comment further on this matter.”  The hackers didn’t break into the Amazon servers, the
person said. Rather, they signed up for the service just as a
legitimate company would, using fake information.  Even so, the role of Amazon Web Services is likely to call
attention to concerns some businesses have voiced over the
security of computing services delivered via others’ remote
servers, referred to as cloud computing.  Cloud security is Amazon’s top priority, Bezos said at an
event sponsored by Consumer Reports magazine this week.  Rented Servers  “Data security is one of these great dynamic situations
where the bad guys get better, and the good guys have to keep
getting better too -- it’s not a static situation,” Bezos said,
Fast Company’s website reported. “I don’t think this is ever
going away -- it’s like trying to say that you’re going to get
crime to go away.”  The use of a hijacked or rented server to launch attacks is
typical for sophisticated hackers. The proliferation of server
farms around the globe has made such misdirection easier, said
E.J. Hilbert, president of the security company Online
Intelligence and a former FBI cyber-crime investigator.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  will likely subpoena
Amazon as part of its investigation process, or it may try to
obtain a search warrant, Hilbert said.  Tracing Activity  “The subpoena will give law enforcement a history of the
transactions,” or who had access to the specific Internet
address at that time, Hilbert said. “The search warrant will
get them more detailed information, including payment
information and which credit card was used.”  Herdener declined to say whether Amazon has been subpoenaed
or served with a search warrant.  FBI Special Agent Darrell Foxworth, a spokesman for the
agency’s  San Diego  office, said he couldn’t comment on whether
the agency had served Amazon with a search warrant or subpoena.  “We are following up on each and every lead,” Foxworth
said.  Amazon Web Services leases computing space to companies
such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  so they don’t have to
buy their own servers to store data and handle a surge in
visitors. The unit brought in about $500 million in revenue in
the past year, according to estimates from  Barclays Capital  and
Lazard Capital Markets, or about 1.5 percent of Amazon’s $34.2
billion in 2010 sales. The company doesn’t disclose revenue from
Web services.  Security Risk  Amazon fell $3.51, or 1.7 percent, to $202.56 yesterday in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have added 13 percent
this year. Sony lost 23 yen to 2,241 yen in Tokyo and have slid
23 percent in 2011.  Sony offered customers a free year of identify-theft
protection after its PlayStation Network and Qriocity
entertainment networks were crippled by the attack. Thieves may
have stolen  credit-card , debit records and other personal
information from customers of Sony Online Entertainment, a third
service. The New York Attorney General’s office has subpoenaed
Sony, according to a person familiar with the probe.  Network security breaches are part of a trend that saw the
costs of such invasions jump 48 percent, to an average of $318
per compromised record last year, according to a March report by
the Ponemon Institute.  Malicious attacks in the U.S. are on the rise. They climbed
7 percentage points in 2010, with data breaches costing U.S.
businesses an average of $7.2 million per incident, according to
the Ponemon Institute report. The study found that about 85
percent of all U.S. companies have experienced one or more
attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in  Tokyo  at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  