-- 
Spain’s Economic Growth Accelerates in First Quarter on Exports

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-13T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/spain-s-economic-growth-accelerates-in-first-quarter-on-exports.html
Spain ’s economic growth accelerated
in the first quarter as increasing exports helped offset some of
the effects of the deepest austerity measures in three decades.  Gross domestic product grew 0.3 percent in the first three
months of the year, up from the 0.2 percent pace in the fourth-
quarter. The economy expanded 0.8 percent from a year earlier,
the National Statistics Institute said in Madrid today. The
quarterly figure is better than the 0.2 percent page estimated
by the Bank of Spain on May 6.  Spain, home to almost a third of the euro region’s
unemployed, is relying on exports to spur a recovery as budget
cuts undermine  consumer spending  and banks curb lending to
households after a decade-long credit boom. The Socialist
government aims to slash the  budget deficit  to 6 percent of
gross domestic product this year and 4.4 percent in 2012 from
9.2 percent last year when the deficit was the third-largest in
the euro region.  “It’s very difficult for an economy to grow when it’s
undergoing such an intense correction on many fronts; it’s not
just the fiscal adjustment but a financial one too,” said Angel
Laborda, the chief economist at Funcas, the savings-bank
foundation in Madrid. “The only engine of growth is exports,
but that doesn’t have the power to pull the rest of the economy
to growth.”  Exports  Exports in the first two months grew 27 percent from a year
earlier, according to data from the Industry Ministry, as demand
recovered in  France  and  Germany . Madrid-based  Acerinox SA (ACX) , the
world’s largest stainless steel maker, reported a sixfold
increase in first-quarter profit and said global demand levels
allowed the company to be “optimistic” about the following
three months.  Foreign sales haven’t translated into more jobs at home,
and the nation’s jobless rate rose to 21.3 percent in the first
quarter. The figures should get better in the coming quarters,
Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said on April 29, even
as he declined to say whether the rate had peaked.  Adding to pressure on Spanish consumers, the  European
Central Bank  raised its benchmark interest rate last month for
the first time in three years and investors expect more rate
hikes this year. More than 90 percent of Spanish mortgages have
variable rates, making homeowners more vulnerable to changes in
benchmark borrowing costs.  Higher interest rates and the costs of rising joblessness
also risk undermining efforts to cut the budget deficit. The
government forecasts growth of 1.3 percent this year,
accelerating to 2.3 percent in 2012, more optimistic than the
 International Monetary Fund , which predicts expansion of 0.8
percent and 1.6 percent respectively. Funcas also expects the
economy to expand 0.8 percent this year, forecasting that the
deficit will exceed the government’s 6 percent target by half a
percentage point.  The highest  unemployment rate  in  Europe  is also eroding
support for the government, which faces elections in 13 of the
17 regions on May 22. The ruling Socialist Party is set to lose
most of the votes, including in the region of Castilla-La Mancha
which it has controlled for three decades, according to a poll
by the state-run Center for Sociological Research on May 5. A
general election is due by March 2012, and polls also suggest
the Socialists will lose that vote to the opposition People’s
Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  