-- 
Stark Says Euro Economy No Longer Needs Fiscal, Monetary Support

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-05-13T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/stark-says-euro-economy-no-longer-needs-fiscal-monetary-support.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Juergen Stark said  Europe ’s recovery is strong enough to
continue without additional support from governments and the
region’s central bank.  The economy “no longer needs fiscal or monetary policy
support,” Stark said, according to the text of a speech in
Aachen,  Germany  today. “Growth is increasingly self sustaining
and is broad based” and the first quarter “was significantly
stronger than expected.”  The comments suggest he’s supporting further interest-rate
increases after the ECB raised its benchmark for the first time
in almost three years in April to stem rising inflationary
pressures. Euro-area economic growth accelerated to 0.8 percent
in the first quarter from 0.3 percent in the previous three
months, data today showed, while the European Commission raised
its 2011 inflation forecast.  As governments from Greece to Portugal struggle to contain
a debt crisis and restore investor confidence, strengthening
euro-region growth is giving policy makers room to focus on
price pressures. The ECB “will continue to deliver  price
stability ,” Stark said.  He said the decision to lift the key rate to 1.25 percent
from a record low of 1 percent last month was “taken against
the background of firmly anchoring euro-area inflation
expectations at a low level.”  Inflation Outlook  Inflation in the euro region may average 2.6 percent this
year instead of a previously projected 2.2 percent, the
Brussels-based commission said today. That is above the ECB’s 2
percent limit. In 2012, annual consumer-price growth may slow to
1.8 percent. Gross domestic product will rise 1.6 percent this
year and 1.8 percent in 2012, it said.  Stark said proposals by government to strengthen the euro
area’s economic and fiscal governance lack “the quantum leap”
required. He also reiterated his objection to  Greece 
restructuring its sovereign debt.  “This type of debate is based on the assumption that the
country is insolvent,” he said. “That assumption is wrong.”  Any renegotiation of debt obligations won’t solve the
“fundamental economic and structural problems,” he said. It
will “weaken the respective governments’ incentives” to push
through reforms required under the EU-International Monetary
Fund aid plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Aachen at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  