-- 
State Street Pricing Probe, Basel on Banker Pay, Dodd-Frank: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-13T11:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/state-street-pricing-probe-basel-on-banker-pay-dodd-frank-compliance.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest
custody bank, is being investigated by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over its pricing of some foreign-exchange
services, an issue that has drawn legal action from whistle-
blowers and state officials.  The SEC, attorneys general and U.S. Attorney’s offices
“have made inquiries or issued subpoenas concerning our
foreign-exchange pricing,” the Boston-based company said in a
regulatory filing made public May 9.  The firm has been sued by  California  and the Arkansas
Teacher Retirement System for alleged fraud. The suits claim
State Street secretly marked up the price of some foreign-
exchange transactions. Those and similar suits against  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  have brought scrutiny to currency
transactions that could lead to lower revenue across the
industry.  “State Street is responding to inquiries from various
regulatory bodies regarding its foreign-exchange practices,”
Hannah Grove, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. “We
will cooperate fully with the SEC in its inquiry” and
“continue to defend ourselves against any allegations of
wrongdoing.”  BNY Mellon, State Street’s largest rival, faces similar
claims from  Virginia , Florida and a public pension fund in
Pennsylvania. BNY Mellon has denied the allegations and said it
will defend against the suits.  Massachusetts’s chief securities regulator, Secretary of
the Commonwealth William F. Galvin, is also examining the
trades, according to spokesman Brian McNiff.  The type of bundled foreign-exchange transactions that
spurred the lawsuits accounted for $335 million in revenue in
2010, or about 3.7 percent of sales, Chief Financial Officer
Edward Resch said at an April 19 earnings conference call.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  Compliance Policy  Basel Committee Issues Report on Aligning Banker Pay With Risk  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued a  report 
on aligning bankers’ pay with risk and performance.  “The report is intended to enhance banks’ and supervisors’
understanding of risk-adjusted remuneration,” the committee
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “By providing
clarification on the design of risk-adjusted remuneration
schemes, the committee aims to promote greater adoption of sound
compensation practices in the banking sector.”  Lenders often use a one-size-fits-all approach to deferring
bonus payouts, and on when staff can cash-in stock options,
meaning that remuneration isn’t aligned to the higher risks that
some employees may be taking, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision said in the report published on its website.  “Standardizing the features in ways that do not depend on
risk calls into question whether firms are really paying
attention to risk-incentive alignment,” the Basel committee
said.  Since the financial crisis, regulators have sought to
overhaul lenders’ bonus policies to prevent executives and
traders from taking excessive risks in order to reap short-term
gains. EU regulators approved laws to curb incentives for
excessive risk-taking last year. The rules allow bankers to
receive about 25 percent of their bonuses in immediate cash
payouts and require the rest to be deferred or held in shares
for a minimum of three years.  U.S. Bill Would Require CFTC Analysis of Swaps-Rules Cost  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  would be
required to perform additional analysis of the economic impact
of Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules under a bipartisan bill
introduced in the House of Representatives.  The measure, co-sponsored by three Republicans and two
Democrats, would require a determination by CFTC economists that
the benefits of new rules justify the costs. The legislation
follows President Barack Obama’s January order that federal
agencies review and minimize the burden of regulations. The
order didn’t apply to the CFTC, which is an independent agency.  The CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission are
writing regulations to govern the $583 trillion over-the-counter
derivatives market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel
the 2008 credit crisis. The agencies are required to complete
scores of rules intended to reduce risk and boost transparency
in the financial system.  Republican lawmakers and companies including CME Group Inc.
have faulted the CFTC, which oversees most of the market, for
failing to adequately estimate the costs of new regulations.  Nuclear Plant Changes Probable in U.S., NRC’s Jaczko Says  The U.S. is likely to require changes in the way nuclear
plants operate after a partial meltdown of reactors in  Japan ,
 Gregory Jaczko , chairman of the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission ,
said.  The NRC is still trying to identify lessons from Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which was
crippled by a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11.
The agency is meeting to discuss the safety of U.S. reactors
following the crisis in Japan, where fires, explosions and
radiation leaks caused the worst nuclear incident since the 1986
Chernobyl disaster.  Disaster-preparedness inspections at U.S. nuclear plants
found “discrepancies with the procedures, equipment and
training,” Marty Virgilio, a deputy executive director of the
NRC, said at meeting yesterday at NRC headquarters in Rockville,
Maryland.  For more, click here.  Hong Kong  Reviews Listing Rules for International Companies  Hong Kong’s securities regulator and stock exchange are
reviewing listing guidelines for international companies with a
view to making the city a more attractive place to raise funds.  The review will help the city become more competitive for
listings by overseas companies, according to K.C. Chan, Hong
Kong’s secretary for financial services and the  Treasury .  Hong Kong may also develop a listing model for business
trusts, reported RTHK, citing Chan.  Separately, Shanghai’s stock exchange said it will
encourage more eligible companies to list in Hong Kong and will
push for better regulation of dual listings in both cities,
according to President Zhang Yujun.  The Shanghai bourse will also pursue more cross-listing of
index products, Zhang said in Hong Kong yesterday.  Japan Unveils Emergency Plan for Credit Unions in Quake Areas  Japan’s Financial Services Agency announced a plan to
provide taxpayer money to credit unions in earthquake-stricken
areas that may allow them to be exempted from repaying public
funds, the regulator said in a statement yesterday.  The watchdog won’t seek management responsibility even as
banks request public money, according to the plan. The public
funds will have low  interest rates , helping banks rebuild after
the March 11 record temblor, it said.  Compliance Action  EU Revives Threat of Duties on Indian Screws, Bolts  The European Union revived a threat to impose tariffs on
screws and bolts from  India , saying EU producers may be victims
of subsidies and price undercutting.  The EU opened probes into whether Indian manufacturers of
stainless steel fasteners receive trade-distorting government
aid and sell the goods in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a
practice known as  dumping . In July 2010, the EU closed similar
inquiries covering imports of the same goods from India and
Malaysia without imposing duties.  The new investigations will determine whether EU producers
of stainless steel fasteners have suffered “injury” as a
result of any unfair Indian competition, the European
Commission, the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in
the  Official Journal .  The two probes stem from March 31 complaints by the
 European Industrial Fasteners Institute  on behalf of producers
that account for more than 25 percent of EU output of stainless
steel fasteners, according to the commission, which didn’t
identify any manufacturers. The same lobby group was behind the
cases covering India and Malaysia that were closed last year.  The commission has nine months from the start of an
investigation to decide on provisional measures.  Courts  Morgan Crucible Seeks Removal From Suit Over Graphite Cartel  Morgan Crucible Co., the maker of carbon materials for
medical and transportation equipment, told a U.K. court that
Deutsche Bahn AG and 30 other European rail companies waited too
long to sue over a defunct graphite cartel.  The deadline for including Morgan Crucible in the lawsuit,
which seeks as much as 129 million pounds ($209.5 million),
expired sooner than for other cartel members because it didn’t
join their challenge to an earlier European Union fine, the
company’s lawyers said yesterday at the  Competition Appeal
Tribunal  in  London . The railway companies rejected the argument,
saying all of the cartel members are jointly liable for losses.  The price-fixing, which lasted from 1988 to 1999, caused
customers to pay too much for graphite-based goods used for
transferring electricity in train motors, the rail companies
have claimed. While Windsor, England-based Morgan Crucible won
immunity from EU fines by being the first to cooperate, its
former Chief Executive Officer Ian Norris was sentenced to 18
months in prison in a parallel U.S. case.  European Union regulators in 2003 levied fines totaling 101
million euros against four of the cartel’s five members,  SGL
Carbon SE (SGL) , France’s Carbone Lorraine SA, Austria’s Hoffmann &
Co. and Schunk GmbH. The railway companies’ lawyers have said
the case, filed in December, may be the most significant claim
of its kind in  Europe .  The case is Deutsche Bahn AG & Others v. Morgan Crucible
Co. & Others, 1173/5/7/10, Competition Appeal Tribunal (London).  Xinhua Finance Ex-CEO Bush Denies U.S. Insider-Trading Charges  Xinhua Finance Inc.’s former chief executive officer,
Loretta Fredy Bush, denies that she was part of a $50 million
insider-trading scheme that defrauded investors and U.S.
regulators, her lawyer said.  Bush, along with former Xinhua Finance board members Shelly
Singhal and Dennis Pelino, were charged May 10 in federal court
in  Washington  with conspiracy, mail fraud and false statements.
Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed
on the Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products
focused on Chinese and international financial markets.  The three are accused of using entities to disguise the
sale of shares in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and investors and engage in
insider trading, according to an indictment.  “The allegations regarding Ms. Bush are characterizations
of legitimate business transactions by disgraced lawyers who
have pleaded guilty to lying to prosecutors about other matters
and now are trying to curry favor with these prosecutors,”
Bush’s lawyer, Charles Leeper of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP in
Washington, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Pelino denies the charges, according to an e-mailed
statement from his lawyer, Atlee Wampler, in Miami, who also
said it is unlikely the U.S. has jurisdiction over the China-
based company.  Xinhua Finance said in statement yesterday that none of the
three defendants have worked at the company since January 2009.  Singhal’s lawyers, Barbara Van Gelder and Mark Srere in
Washington, didn’t immediately return telephone messages seeking
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Bernanke Says Fed to Propose Finance Rules This Summer  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, Deputy Treasury
Secretary Neal Wolin and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  testified about the implementation of the
Dodd-Frank Act.  Topics discussed included monitoring of risk, the Fed’s
stability rules, Basel rules, global coordination of regulation,
banking capital requirements, the resolution framework, systemic
firms, mortgage servicing, and interest-rate risks.  They testified before a  Senate Banking Committee  hearing in
Washington.  For the video, click here.  For more, click here.  Burns, Ruzumna Talk About Rajaratnam Trial and Verdict  Douglas Burns, a formal federal prosecutor, talked about
the insider-trading trial of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam and the outlook for further probes by the U.S. The
verdict “may well scare”  Wall Street , he said.  Daniel Ruzumna, partner at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler
LLP, talked about the use of wiretaps in the insider-trading
trial, saying he believes they were justified.  Rajaratnam was found guilty of five counts of conspiracy
and nine counts of securities fraud on the jury’s 12th day of
deliberations. Burns speaks with Erik Schatzker and Deirdre
Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the Burns video, click here.  For the Ruzumna video, click here.  Erste CEO Says Consumer Banks Not Treated Fairly Under Basel    Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and other “traditional” banks are
still disadvantaged under new rules for bank capital known as
Basel III, Erste Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said.  “I would have wished that the traditional lending business
is more preferred” under the new set of rules drafted by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Treichl told
shareholders at his bank’s annual general meeting in Vienna
yesterday.  “If we lend to an Austrian family-owned company that we’ve
known for 100 years and that’s been profitable for 100 years, we
need 10 times as much capital as we need if we lend to the
Republic of  Greece ,” he said. “That could have and should have
been cleaned up” in Basel III, Treichl added.  Banks face tougher capital requirements and will need to
hold more liquid assets under the Basel III rules.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Man’s Clarke Says U.K. Hedge Fund Moves Won’t Be ‘Dramatic’  Man Group Plc (EMG)  Chief Executive Officer Peter Clarke said
higher taxes and increased regulation will prompt few hedge
funds to leave the U.K. because relocations pose challenges and
new rules weren’t as aggressive as feared.  “I don’t think you are going to see a dramatic rush,”
Clarke, who oversees the world’s largest publicly traded hedge
fund, told reporters in London yesterday. Moving “is complex,
it takes time and your investors might not like it.”  London Mayor Boris Johnson predicted in 2009 that rules
under consideration by the European Union for hedge funds would
prompt countries outside the region to steal its jobs. He and
other politicians criticized a U.K. plan to impose a 50 percent
income tax on high earners, saying it would encourage financial
professionals to flee London.  Thus far, such predictions haven’t come to fruition. U.K.
 hedge funds  managed $290.2 billion at the end of 2010, unchanged
from a year earlier, according to industry publication
 EuroHedge .  The rules, proposed after the global financial crisis,
initially limited how much money hedge funds could borrow. When
lawmakers voted to approve the regulations in November, the
restrictions on leverage had been watered down. The U.K.’s share
of European hedge-fund money did slip to 69 percent from 76
percent during the same time period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 