-- 
Syria Extends Crackdown on Demonstrators; Four Reported Killed by Forces

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-13T16:56:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/syria-intensifies-crackdown-on-protesters-with-raids-as-two-reported-dead.html
At least four Syrian protesters were
killed as thousands took to the streets nationwide, defying mass
arrests amid an intensifying crackdown on dissent.  The security forces killed two protesters in the central
city of Homs today, one in the southern city of Daraa and
another near Barzeh, a suburb of the capital, Damascus, Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab Organization for Human Rights and Ammar Qurabi, head of the National Organization for Human Rights, said
in telephone interviews.  Protests also erupted in Hama, Banias, Aleppo and Idlib,
while in Daraa people were barred from attending Muslim Friday
prayers and there were “tanks outside every mosque,” Qurabi
said. Gunfire was heard in Barzeh, the port city of Latakia and
in Madaya, near the border with Lebanon, he said.  The suppression of pro-democracy protests in Syria began in
mid-March after popular revolts ousted longtime leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia . The uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
President Bashar al-Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place
since 1963 and named a new government. He hasn’t repeated the
assurances in recent weeks as security forces stepped up their
assaults.  Thousands of people joined rallies in the Homs districts of
Bab Al-Sba and Waar, a resident said today in an interview on
condition of anonymity out of fear of reprisal. About 1,000
members of the security forces were deployed near the Omar Ibn
Al Khatab mosque, close to the center of the city, he said.
Tanks continued to surround the Bab Amro district of Homs, which
came under shell fire two days ago, the resident said.  Hundreds Killed  More than 780 demonstrators have been killed since the
uprising began, according to Qurabi, who has compiled a list of
the names of victims. As many as 10,000 have been detained, he
has said. Most foreign journalists have been banned from  Syria 
and the government has restricted media access.  Authorities continued conducting house-to-house searches
and arresting hundreds of people yesterday, including activists
such as Najati Tayyara, a former political prisoner, and Wael
Hammada, husband of Razan Zaitouneh, a critic of the Assad
administration, Merhi said today.  The army and security authorities say they are pursuing
“terrorist elements” and have aired footage on state
television of what they said were confiscated arms and
ammunition, in addition to confessions of alleged members of
terrorist or extremist groups.  Amnesty for Protesters  The Interior Ministry said 3,713 people “involved in riot
acts” have surrendered under an amnesty that expires May 15,
the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency  reported  today.  Syria will hold a “national dialogue” in the coming days,
and army units have started a gradual withdrawal from Banias,
Information Minister Adnan Hassan Mahmoud said in a televised
speech today.  The European Union imposed sanctions this week that include
a visa ban and an asset freeze on 13 Syrian officials and
relatives of the president. The U.S. has also applied sanctions
against Syrian officials.  The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has
been in contact with the Syrian government “seeking their full
cooperation” with a fact-finding mission to assess the
situation in the country, a spokesman for the UN office, Rupert Colville, said in an e-mailed statement today. Assad agreed on
May 4 to let the team visit to check on humanitarian needs in
Daraa, according to UN spokesman Farhan Haq.  The U.K. summoned Syrian Ambassador Sami Khiyami to the
Foreign Office in  London  today and said EU countries will take
further sanctions “targeted at the highest levels of the
regime” if the violence doesn’t stop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 