-- 
U.K. First-Quarter Construction Output Falls Less Than Estimated

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-13T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/u-k-first-quarter-construction-output-falls-less-than-estimated.html
U.K. construction fell less than
initially estimated in the first quarter, a change that will
have a minimal impact on gross-domestic-product data for the
three-month period.  Building output declined 4 percent from the previous
quarter, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. That’s smaller than the 4.7 percent drop estimated in
data published on April 27. The statistics office said the
change will have an impact of “less than 0.1 percentage
points” on GDP.  The U.K. economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
barely enough to erase a contraction in the last three months of
2010. The Bank of England said in its Inflation Report this week
that growth in the current quarter may be boosted by
construction as it strengthens.  The impact of supply-chain disruptions related to the
earthquake in  Japan  and the wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate
Middleton  “may be partially offset by a positive contribution
from construction output,” the central bank said on May 11.  Within the construction data, private housing, public
housing, commercial building and repair and maintenance fell in
the first quarter, the statistics office said. Infrastructure
output rose. From a year earlier, total construction output
increased 3.6 percent.  In March, construction output rose 16.3 percent after a
10.1 percent increase in February, based on non-seasonally
adjusted data. Output dropped 6.5 percent in January and 16.4
percent in December.  The statistics office also revised data for the fourth
quarter of 2010 to show construction output fell 2.7 percent. It
previously reported a 2.3 percent drop. The third-quarter
decline was revised to 3.5 percent from 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  