-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Extend Gains After Inflation Report

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-05-13T12:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-extend-gains-after-inflation-matches-forecasts.html
U.S. stock-index futures extended
gains after government data showed growth in consumer prices
matched economists’ estimates, easing concern that inflation may
be accelerating faster than forecast.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 expiring next month
increased 0.3 percent to 1,351.5 at 8:33 a.m. in  New York . Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures advanced 34 points, or 0.3
percent, to 12,706.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent, matching
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
following a 0.5 percent advance in March, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington. Excluding volatile food
and energy, the so-called core gauge rose 0.2 percent, also as
projected.  The  S&P 500  has fallen 1.1 percent this month as gauges of
energy and raw-materials producers slumped with metal and oil
prices. The gauge has still climbed 7.2 percent this year as
government stimulus measures and corporate earnings boosted
confidence in the economic recovery.  The view that “the West is in trouble” is wrong when
nations including Germany, Sweden, Australia and  Canada  are
performing strongly, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, in a Bloomberg Television broadcast in  Hong
Kong  today. Investors should “stop worrying so much.”  Reports in  Europe  today showed Germany and France powered
economic growth in the euro area in the first quarter as booming
exports fueled domestic spending in the bloc’s core, offsetting
sovereign debt concerns.  German gross domestic product jumped 1.5 percent from the
fourth quarter and French GDP rose 1 percent, exceeding
economists’ median forecasts of 0.9 percent and 0.6 percent
respectively.  In Hong Kong, the economy expanded 7.2 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in a year, beating all estimates in a
survey of 17 economists. That compares with a revised 6.4
percent increase in the three months to December 31.  U.S. data today may show the cost of living climbed in
April by 0.4 percent, led by gains in food and fuel prices,
according to economists. That follows a 0.5 percent gain in
March. The Labor Department report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington .  Companies including UnitedHealth Group Inc. and WellPoint
Inc. may advance after JPMorgan’s strategy team, lead by  Thomas
Lee , raised their recommendation for health care to
“overweight” from “neutral”, citing improving fundamentals,
stable regulatory risk and “attractive” valuations.  UnitedHealth and Wellpoint were named in the bank’s list of
18 “best ideas.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  