-- 
U.S. Living Costs Climb on Food, Fuel as Confidence Gains With Job Growth

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-13T20:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/u-s-consumer-prices-increased-0-4-in-april-on-gains-in-fuel-food-costs.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
in April, led by increases in food and fuel that are starting to
filter through to other goods and services.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent, matching
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
following a 0.5 percent advance in March, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in  Washington . Excluding food and
energy, the so-called core gauge rose 0.2 percent.  Another report showed consumer sentiment climbed more than
forecast this month, signaling improving job prospects will help
sustain spending even as household expenses climb. The pickup in
inflation has yet to concern some Federal Reserve policy makers,
including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who predict the acceleration
will be temporary.  “Inflation is starting to bubble underneath the surface,”
said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The Fed is still pretty relaxed about
inflation but we may get to a point in the next few months when
policy makers will have to think a little more seriously about
it.”  Stocks retreated as shares of financial and technology
companies dropped. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.8
percent to 1,337.77 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury
securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
down to 3.17 percent from 3.22 percent late yesterday.  Sentiment Improves  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index rose to 72.4, a three-month high, from
a final reading of 69.8 in April, the group reported today. The
gauge was projected to rise to 70, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The increase was driven by the component gauging
expectations for six months from now, which rose to 67.4 from
61.6, the biggest jump since September 2009. The measure more
closely projects the direction of  consumer spending , according
to economists.  Growing optimism about jobs led to the improvement as 31
percent of respondents said they had heard employment was
improving, the most since 1983, according to an e-mailed note
from economists at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York .  The University of Michigan’s index of current conditions,
which reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial
situation and whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, fell to 80.2 from 82.5 the prior month.  Forecasts for consumer prices in the Bloomberg survey of 76
economists ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 0.7 percent.  Year-Over-Year Gain  Prices increased 3.2 percent in the 12 months ended April,
the biggest year-over-year gain since October 2008. The core CPI
rose 1.3 percent from April 2010, the most since February 2010.  “There clearly has been some acceleration, even at the
core level,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global
Inc. in New York, who accurately forecast the overall April
gain. “The Fed is happy to see  core inflation  move back up a
bit, but I suspect they’d almost like to see it move a little
slower. The numbers are still pretty tame.”  Improving job prospects and a growing economy may make it
easier for companies like  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  to pass rising
costs on to customers. Ian Cook, the company’s chief executive
officer, said yesterday that the New York-based toothpaste maker
is not seeing consumers resist higher pricing. Cook spoke at a
conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Energy Costs  Energy costs increased 2.2 percent from a month earlier,
and have climbed at a 39 percent annual rate so far this year,
today’s report showed. Gasoline prices increased 3.3 percent
from the prior month, and food costs rose 0.4 percent.  Commodities excluding food and fuel climbed 0.4 percent in
April, the biggest advance since October 2009, showing cost
increases are broadening.  The core rate was pushed up by increases in new and used
automobiles and medical care, which rose 0.4 percent.  Commodity prices have retreated since the end of April, on
concern rising  interest rates  in countries from  China  to  India 
will slow the global economic recovery. Crude oil has dropped 13
percent from the end of April to yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  The declines support Bernanke’s views on inflation. The Fed
chairman and some of his colleagues, including Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William C. Dudley, have said in recent speeches that the threat
from accelerating prices will prove “transitory.”  “Measures of underlying inflation, though having increased
modestly in recent months, remain subdued, and longer-term
inflation expectations have remained stable,” Bernanke said
last month at a press conference in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  