-- 
UBS, Other Banks Ask Court to Reinstate Suit Over MBIA Split

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-13T22:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/ubs-asks-new-york-court-to-reinstate-suit-over-2009-mbia-split.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and about a dozen other banks
asked New York’s highest court to reinstate a lawsuit over MBIA
Insurance Corp.’s split in 2009.  The banks filed a so-called reply brief with the New York
Court of Appeals in  Albany  today that said the court should
reverse a lower court decision dismissing the suit against MBIA.
Oral arguments in their appeal are set for May 31.  Armonk, New York-based MBIA Inc. in January won dismissal
of the lawsuit by banks including UBS and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
that claimed the bond insurer’s restructuring was intended to
defraud policyholders. The financial institutions claim the
restructuring, approved by New York’s insurance department, was
a “fraudulent conveyance” that left MBIA undercapitalized and
possibly unable to pay out future claims.  The banks argued the insurance department’s approval of the
split shouldn’t stop them from suing under creditor and debtor
laws and common law where the agency “provided no notice” to
policyholders prior to approval, which was issued in an
“informal” process and relied on MBIA’s “self-interested
factual assertions.”  Public Finance Markets  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  last month told the Court of Appeals the lower
court correctly dismissed the suit. According to their brief,
the restructuring was done to help unfreeze the public finance
markets during the financial crisis and was approved by the
insurance department after an extensive review that found MBIA
Insurance would remain solvent and have sufficient resources to
meet claims.  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, had no immediate comment on
the banks’ brief.  “The banks are asking the trial court to overrule the
department’s approval of the transformation, in a proceeding to
which the department is not a party,” lawyers for MBIA wrote in
its Court of Appeals brief. “Such a ruling would not only
contradict established law, but it would fundamentally upset the
functioning” of the insurance department and all state
agencies, MBIA said.  A separate lawsuit against the insurance department and
MBIA in New York state  Supreme Court  was brought under the
state’s Article 78 statute, which asks the court to review a
state administrative decision.  Eric Dinallo , the state’s former insurance superintendent,
approved the split in 2009, allowing MBIA to move the company’s
guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of the unit that
guaranteed some of Wall Street’s riskiest mortgage debt.  The banks said in court filings that the split transferred
$5 billion in cash and securities out of MBIA’s primary
operating unit, MBIA Insurance, to another entity, now known as
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA Inc., 601475-2009, New
York state Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in  New York  at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 