-- 
Huckabee to Announce Presidential Candidacy Plans

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-14T14:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/huckabee-to-announce-presidential-candidacy-decision-on-fox-show-tomorrow.html
Former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , whom polls have shown would be a top contender for the
2012 Republican presidential nomination, will announce whether
he will take the first steps to enter the race on his program on
the Fox News cable television channel today.  “Will he or won’t he make a White House run? The Gov gives
his answer on Huckabee!,” teased a note posted yesterday on the
show’s website.  The program’s executive producer, Woody Fraser, said in a
statement yesterday that Huckabee “will announce tomorrow night
on his program whether he intends to explore a presidential bid.
He has not told anyone at Fox News Channel his decision.”  Huckabee, 55, also urged followers on Twitter to watch his
media appearances on  Fox News  programs over the weekend. He
previously has said he would decide this summer whether to seek
the Republican nomination to challenge President Barack Obama
next year. His program airs at 8 p.m. Washington time.  “I want it to be a decision that I make on the Fox News
channel and I want it to be on my show,” Huckabee said today in
an interview on the show Fox and Friends. “It will be, I think,
worth watching tonight.”  Social Conservatives’ Backing  After beginning a run for his party’s 2008 nomination as a
little-known underdog, Huckabee rode support from religious and
social conservatives to win that year’s Republican Iowa caucuses
and emerge as a serious contender. Though he lost the nomination
to Arizona Senator  John McCain , he parlayed his support into the
“Huckabee” show on Fox News.  Republican strategist Ed Rollins, who headed Huckabee’s
2008 campaign, said yesterday he spoke with him a week ago to
review his former boss’s potential to win support from activists
in early caucus and primary states and to raise money for
another campaign.  Rollins said he told Huckabee to call him back once he’d
made a decision about whether he would run. “I’ve had no
contact and no connection with him since,” Rollins said,
causing him to expect that Huckabee will pass on running again.  ‘Plenty of Support’  If he does run, Rollins said, “There’s plenty of support
out there for him, and unlike four years ago, he’s a front-
runner.”  Polls have shown Huckabee leading or near the top as the
presidential preference of Republican-leaning voters.  Huckabee, a native of former President  Bill Clinton ’s
hometown of Hope, Arkansas, and a onetime Baptist minister, was
elected lieutenant governor of the state in a 1993 special
election. Three years later, he replaced Jim Guy Tucker as
governor after the Democrat resigned in the midst of a financial
scandal. Huckabee served until January 1997.  As governor, he pushed through changes to the state’s
education and health-insurance systems, including expanding
coverage for children whose families didn’t qualify for
Medicaid. Angering some in his party, he raised fuel taxes to
finance a road-building program in 1999.  He also commuted the sentences of more than 1,000 convicts,
a decision that was attacked by his opponents during the 2008
presidential campaign. Those actions gained renewed attention in
2009 when a man whose sentence Huckabee commuted in 2000 killed
four police officers in Washington state.  Other Candidates  Among other Republicans, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
of Georgia officially announced his candidacy earlier this week,
and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas did the same
yesterday.  Two former governors,  Tim Pawlenty  of Minnesota and  Mitt Romney  of Massachusetts, and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum
of Pennsylvania, have created exploratory committees that can
raise money for potential presidential campaigns. The statement
by Fraser indicates Huckabee will be announcing whether he
intends to set up such a committee.  Other potential Republican candidates include Indiana
Governor Mitch Daniels, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the
party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee, and former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman, who stepped down as the U.S. ambassador to  China 
at the end of April.  The lack of a clear Republican frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
a Tea Party favorite, and real estate developer  Donald Trump  to
position themselves for potential runs.  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour said April 25 that he
wouldn’t enter the race because he lacked an “absolute fire in
the belly” to run.  As the Republican race gears up, Obama has already opened a
2012 re-election campaign headquarters in  Chicago . He raised
millions of dollars last month at events in Illinois, California
and  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 