-- 
Ugandan Legislative Committee Backs Anti-Gay Bill, Rights Watch Says

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T13:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/ugandan-legislative-committee-endorses-anti-gay-bill-hrw-says.html
A Ugandan parliamentary committee
endorsed a draft bill that seeks to outlaw homosexuality and may
call for executing gay people.  Legislators on Uganda’s Legal and  Parliamentary  Affairs
Committee also suggested adding a clause that would make it a
criminal offense to perform same-sex marriages,  Human Rights
Watch  said in a statement yesterday. Maria Burnett, a senior
researcher with the New York-based advocacy group, e-mailed a
copy of the legislative panel’s report today.  In October 2009, Ugandan lawmaker David Bahati proposed the
“Anti-Homosexuality Bill” that sought the death penalty or
life imprisonment for gay people in the East African nation. The
proposal drew criticism from international and domestic civil-
society groups for infringing on human rights and making
homosexuality equivalent to terrorism or treason.  While Uganda’s parliament will probably close its session
next week without debating the bill, the proposed legislation
will likely be introduced again at a subsequent sitting, Burnett
said. “The sentiment is still there,” she said by phone from
the capital, Kampala. “There’s support for it.”  The bill could be revived for debate “when parliament has
time,” Helen Kawesa, the parliament’s spokeswoman, said by
phone from Kampala today.  Death Penalty  The committee said in its report that the penalty of
“aggravated homosexuality” should be the same as defilement, a
crime that is punishable by death, according to  Uganda ’s Penal
Code Act.  The panel also suggested removing a provision that requires
anyone with knowledge of “homosexual activity” to report to
the police within 24 hours, because it would be difficult to
enforce among professionals such as doctors, lawyers and
counselors who enter into a confidential relationship with their
clients.  “The committee recommends that the bill be passed into law
subject to the proposed amendments,” the report said.  Members of the panel consulted officials from the Ministry
of  Justice and Constitutional Affairs , the Uganda Law Reform
Commission, the  Uganda Human Rights Commission  and the Uganda
Prisons Service, as well as civil-society representatives and
social workers, according to the report.  The bill is meant to address the “emerging internal and
external threat to the traditional heterosexual family” and to
promote good values, the committee said in the report.  Uganda will drop the call for the death penalty or  life
imprisonment  in a refined version of the bill, James Nsaba
Butoruo, then minister for ethics and integrity, said in 2009. 