-- 
Hungary Economic-Growth Rate Rises to 4-Year High on Exports

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-13T07:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/hungary-economic-growth-rate-rises-to-four-year-high-on-exports.html
Hungary ’s economy grew at the fastest
annual pace in four years in the first quarter as rising exports
to  Germany  fuel a recovery from the worst recession in 18 years.  Gross domestic product expanded 2.4 percent in the January-
March period from a year earlier, the most since the same period
of 2007, according to a preliminary estimate published today by
the Budapest-based  statistics office . That matched the median
estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Growth was 0.7
percent on the quarter.  Germany’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, surged 5.2 percent in
the first quarter, the biggest increase recorded since that
country’s reunification two decades ago. Hungary is looking to
the euro region, which buys 60 percent of products made or
assembled in the country, including Audi AG cars and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
mobile phones, to power its resurgence after the global
financial crisis.  “Industrial exports are pulling the economy along while
domestic demand is still weak,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a
Budapest-based economist at Erste Bank AG, said by phone today.
He estimates growth of 2.7 percent this year and 3.1 percent in
2012.  The forint weakened 0.1 percent to 266.76 at 9:32 a.m. in
Budapest. The benchmark BUX stock index rose 0.5 percent to
23,481.32, led by OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s largest lender,
and Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest refiner.  Hungarian industrial production rose 9.2 percent in March
from a year ago, matching a preliminary estimate, the statistics
office said in a separate release today.  Tax Cuts  The government introduced a flat 16 percent personal income
tax this year, cutting taxes for those earning more than the
average salary, and reduced the corporate  tax rate  to 10 percent
for small and medium-size companies to spur growth.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  wants to boost economic growth
to 3.2 percent this year and as much as 5.2 percent by 2014. GDP
expanded 1.2 percent in 2010 after five consecutive quarters of
contraction that started in 2008. Achieving Orban’s goals may
help Hungary in its bid to reduce its public-debt level, the
highest among the eastern members of the European Union.  ‘Undoubtedly the Engine’  “Exports and industrial production were undoubtedly the
engine of growth,” government statistician Peter Szabo said.
“Household consumption continued to stagnate while the
 construction industry  continued its slump and the financial
industry shrank.”  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates Hungary’s economy
will grow 2.8 percent this year and next, according to a
regional economic outlook released on May 11.  It will be “very difficult” for Hungary to achieve its
growth targets because of its shrinking population and the
second-lowest employment rate in the EU, according to  Anthony Thomas , a risk analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  “If you look at the labor market, it’s a shrinking
population, the participation rate is low," Thomas said May 4 in
Prague. "So in terms of generating strong growth it’s just very
difficult to see where that’s going to come from,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  