-- 
UniCredit Gains Most in Three Weeks After Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-05-13T10:34:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/unicredit-shares-advance-most-in-three-weeks-as-earnings-beat-estimates.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
climbed the most in more than three weeks in Milan trading after
first-quarter profit exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Net income rose 56 percent to 810 million euros ($1.15
billion), the Milan-based lender said yesterday after the market
closed. That beat the 620 million-euro average estimate of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said UniCredit is
confident of meeting the 2.9 billion-euro consensus analyst
estimate for full-year profit. He expects the bank’s core Tier 1
capital ratio, a key measure of financial strength, to improve
further in coming quarters after increasing to 9.06 percent as
of March 31 from 8.58 percent three months earlier.  “We see two major positives: strong organic capital
formation and improving asset quality,” Domenico Vinci, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. with a “conviction buy” on
the stock, wrote in a note today. “We expect the market to
react positively to good balance sheet development.”  UniCredit rose as much as 4.1 percent and was up 2.4
percent at 1.68 euros as of 11:50 a.m., giving the company a
market value of 32.4 billion euros. The stock has climbed 8.6
percent this year, compared with the 1.3 percent gain in the 48-
company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Ghizzoni is reviewing his strategy in some markets to
increase profitability. UniCredit is the only Italian lender
facing a second round of stress tests that hasn’t announced a
share sale to boost capital before the implementation of
stricter rules.  “Italian business is showing good signs of recovery,
swinging to a profit in the first quarter,” Ghizzoni said on a
conference call today. “We expect a further improvement of core
Tier 1 ratio in the next quarters, even if at a slower pace
showed in the first three months of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  