-- 
Uranium May Rise to $75 a Pound in 2012 After Fukushima, Uranium One Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-13T08:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/uranium-may-rise-to-75-a-pound-next-year-on-japan-boost-uranium-one-says.html
Uranium prices may trade from $70 to
$75 a pound next year after problems at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant are resolved, Fletcher Newton, a vice
president at  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , said in Beijing.  The price of uranium oxide concentrate for immediate
delivery will be from $55 to $65 a pound this year, Newton told
Bloomberg before a conference today.  “You simply can’t build a uranium mine at these prices,”
Newton said. When Japan starts to experience a power shortage
this summer “the world will look at it and realize that the
issues we face are the same as before” in meeting nuclear power
requirements. New uranium mines need a price of $85 a pound
before they are economically viable, Newton said.  The spot price for the nuclear fuel has fallen about 15
percent since Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
atomic power station was damaged on March 11 by an earthquake
and tsunami, sparking the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years.
Prices gained $1.25 to $56.50 a pound in the seven days through
May 9, based on the most competitive offer tracked by Roswell,
Georgia-based Ux Consulting Co. on May 10.  Canada-based Uranium One, controlled by Russia’s state-
owned nuclear company Rosatom Corp., has had talks about
entering the Chinese market, according to Newton. “Nothing is
concrete about those talks,” he said.  China  Demand  China’s “demand growth puts a floor on uranium prices and
has helped to drive prices higher,” Jonathan Hinze, vice
president at Ux Consulting, told the conference. “China news
can swing spot prices rapidly."  China, building more reactors than any other country,
stopped approving new plants ‘‘until safety and improved long-
term development plans are cleared,’’ according to a March 16
statement by the State Council. The country has approved 34
reactors, of which 26 are under construction, according to the
 World Nuclear Association ’s website.  Small mines will have to close if uranium falls below $50 a
pound and the ‘‘most-desired’’ level is $65 to $70 a pounds,
Zhou Zhenxing, chairman of the uranium unit at China Guangdong
Nuclear Power Group Co., the nation’s second-largest reactor
builder, said at the conference today.  China Guangdong Nuclear’s uranium mines in the northwestern
province of Xinjiang and Guangdong in the south may start output
in 2013 and have a capacity of 500 metric tons a year each, Zhou
said.  The nation’s proven and estimated uranium resources are
currently 10th in the world, according to Zhou. ‘‘The scale of
nuclear power development will be world number one, so we need
to secure more uranium supplies,” he said.  Kazakhstan  and  Africa  will supply 70 percent of world
uranium this decade, Uranium One’s Newton said. The company has
stakes in mines in Kazakhstan and the U.S., according to its
website.  -Baizhen Chua and  Wang Ying . Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  