-- 
Washington Post Shorts Triple as Paper Loses Kaplan Bulwark

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-13T20:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/washington-post-shorts-triple-as-pulitzer-prize-paper-loses-kaplan-bulwark.html
Investor bets against the stock of the
 Washington Post Co. (WPO)  have more than tripled over the past year,
as the government investigated the for-profit education business
and the company’s earnings dropped.  The Washington-based company, which owns the  Washington
Post  newspaper and Kaplan education business, had short interest
in its stock rise to 866,903 shares at the end of April,
compared with 223,164 a year earlier, according data compiled by
U.S. exchanges and Bloomberg. The figure is the highest since at
least September 1991, the earliest data Bloomberg has.  The bearish bets reflect the rising challenges for Kaplan
at the same time the Washington Post newspaper struggles with
print advertising and circulation declines, said Mark Travis,
chief executive officer of Intrepid Capital Management Inc.  “The shorts have been working over the for-profit education
industry for a while and their newspaper business is obviously
challenged,” said Travis, whose Jacksonville, Florida-based
firm manages $1.4 billion and uses short-selling as an
investment strategy, though it is not short Post Co. “It may
look like a cheap security on its face, but it’s probably a
dying business.”  Kaplan’s decline may put pressure on the company’s 134-
year-old newspaper, which uncovered the Watergate scandal in the
1970s and has won 57 Pulitzer Prizes, according to the company.
The paper is losing its inoculation against the downturn that
has stricken other publishers, said analyst  John Morton .  “The bulwark against financial distress is now under
distress itself,”  Silver Spring , Maryland-based Morton said in
an interview. “Kaplan may be able to pull itself out of this,
but it’s probably going to get worse for the newspaper.”  Kaplan Drop  Donald Graham , chief executive officer, wasn’t available
for comment, according to company spokeswoman Rima Calderon.  While the Post paper has had layoffs, Kaplan helped protect
it from the worst of the industry’s troubles. Newspapers from
the  Philadelphia Inquirer  to the  Chicago Tribune  to the  Denver
Post  have filed for bankruptcy in the past three years.  At the company’s annual meeting yesterday, Graham said the
paper did well financially last year, when it cut expenses and
closed two printing plants.  “What it doesn’t mean is that future years will
necessarily be as good,” Graham said, according to a transcript
of his speech. “2011 shapes up as a very challenging year at
the newspaper, but I expect every future year to shape up as a
very challenging year at the newspaper.”  The company’s newspaper division, which also includes the
Herald of Everett,  Washington , had a first-quarter operating
loss of $12.8 million, compared with the year-earlier loss of
$13.8 million.  State, Federal Investigations  Washington Post Co. fell $9.66, or 2.3 percent, to $416.52
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 5.2 percent this year.  The company faces a challenge in keeping tight control over
newspaper expenses. The union representing newsroom and other
employees said last week it wants a 16.4 percent pay raise, the
same level publisher Katharine Weymouth received, as it
negotiates a contract to replace one that expires in June.  Kaplan, which offers degree programs online and on campuses
as well as test-preparation courses, saw enrollments at Kaplan
University and Kaplan Higher Education decline 23 percent in the
first quarter, contributing to a 67 percent drop in Post Co.’s
net income. The company said it expects Kaplan’s profit to
decline “very substantially” this year.  Kaplan is facing increased regulations as for-profit
colleges come under state and federal investigations. The U.S.
Department of Education is proposing new rules regulating the
federal aid that many Kaplan students have used to pay for their
tuition.  Buffett, Gates  The new rules come after the U.S. Government Accountability
Office found that recruiters at for-profit colleges have been
enrolling unqualified students and leaving them with loans that
they are unable to repay. Kaplan accounted for 60 percent of
Post Co.’s revenue in the first quarter.  Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is the
company’s largest shareholder, and  Melinda Gates , who runs the
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  with her husband,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s co-founder, have left the company’s board.  In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them. If
the price drops, the trader profits by buying back the stock at
a lower price, repaying the loan and pocketing the difference.  Bearish wagers against Post Co. rose to 14 percent of
shares outstanding at the beginning of May, the most since at
least July 2006, according to Data Explorers, a London-based
research firm that surveys financial institutions to garner more
recent short data than that available from exchanges.  “Given that the average short interest is about 2 percent,
this is a noteworthy level,” said Will Duff Gordon, the firm’s
research director.  The stock is becoming more difficult to borrow, with 59
percent of the lendable supply out on loan, up from 11 percent a
year ago, according to Data Explorers.  “This may be some of the same investors doubling their
bets,” said Gordon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  New York  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 