-- 
Toms Holds One-Shot Lead at Golf’s Players Championship as Mickelson Slips

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-05-13T23:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/watney-holds-one-shot-lead-at-players-event-as-woods-withdraws-with-injury.html
David Toms had six birdies today to
take a one-shot lead in the second round of golf’s  Players 
championship, while  Phil Mickelson  slipped back with four bogeys
over his final seven holes.  Toms, the 2001 PGA Championship winner, shot a 4-under par
68 today at the TPC at Sawgrass course in Ponte Vedra Beach,
 Florida , and is 10 under for the tournament.  He’s one shot in front of fellow American and first-round
leader  Nick Watney , and two ahead of U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland,  England ’s Luke Donald and
Americans Steve Stricker and Lucas Glover, last week’s winner of
the U.S. PGA Tour’s Wells Fargo Championship in Charlotte,  North
Carolina .  “I’ve played really, really solid,” Toms, who hasn’t won
a tournament since the 2006 Sony Open, told reporters after his
round. “I haven’t done anything necessarily great, I’ve just
been very solid in every part of the game.”  Phil Mickelson, the No. 4 player in the Official World Golf
Ranking, slipped back this afternoon with a 4-over 40 on his
final nine holes. His 1-under total of 71 began with the left-
hander making three birdies and an eagle over his first nine
holes. He’s 2 under for two rounds.  Watney, whose opening-day 64 was one shot more than the
tournament record for 18 holes, began his second round this
afternoon and birdied the par-5 second hole to reach 9 under.  No  Tiger Woods   Golf’s richest tournament is being played without Tiger Woods, who withdrew after nine holes yesterday with knee and
ankle injuries.  Woods, who also withdrew from the tournament last year with
a bad neck, is recovering from injuries sustained during the
 Masters Tournament  last month. He was 6 over through his opening
nine holes when he decided to stop playing. It was Woods’s first
appearance since the Masters, where he tied for fourth.  The Players championship, which Woods won in 2001, has a
purse of $9.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  