-- 
Wells Fargo Said to Seek Buyers for H.D. Vest as Stumpf Revamps Brokerage

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-13T14:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/wells-fargo-said-to-seek-buyers-for-h-d-vest-as-stumpf-revamps-brokerage.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is seeking buyers
for the H.D. Vest brokerage and tax-advisory unit that it bought
for about $128 million a decade ago, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  The business may fetch more than $200 million and attract
interest from private-equity investors, said one of the people,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are
private.  Wells Fargo Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, has
been revamping the wealth, brokerage and retirement business
after calling it “sub-optimized” in December, and is seeking
acquisitions in the sector. He shuffled regional managers in the
wealth-management unit earlier this year, cutting them from 12
to seven, Vince Scanlon, a bank spokesman, said in a May 6 e-
mailed statement.  Alan Elias, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, declined to comment.  The unit, founded by Herb D. Vest in 1983 and sold to Wells
Fargo in July 2001, is the largest U.S. provider of financial
services delivered through tax and accounting professionals, the
Irving, Texas-based unit said on its  website . It has about 5,200
independent contractors, including certified public accountants,
enrolled agents and tax practitioners, and oversees more than
$26 billion of client assets, according to the website.  Wells Fargo, which struck $25 billion of acquisitions over
the past decade, rarely sells business units. Excluding private-
equity investments and buildings, its only divestiture exceeding
$100 million in the past decade was the $734.5 million sale in
2006 of Island Finance, a San Juan, Puerto Rico-based bank,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 