-- 
Whirlpool Harmed by Imports of Refrigerators, U.S. Rules

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-05-13T16:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/whirlpool-harmed-by-imports-of-refrigerators-u-s-panel-rules.html
Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest
appliance maker, is being harmed by low-cost refrigerators from
 Mexico  and South Korea, a U.S. trade panel ruled, paving the way
for tariffs on those imports.  The U.S. International Trade Commission voted 5-0 in
 Washington  today in a preliminary ruling on the petition by
Whirlpool to get antidumping and countervailing duties imposed
on so-called bottom-mount refrigerators made by Samsung
Electronics Co. or  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  in the two nations. LG
said it will “aggressively contest” the decision.  The decision is the first of four the U.S. company must win
before tariffs of as much as 183 percent are imposed. Whirlpool
rose $1.28, or 1.5 percent, to $86.67 at 12:16 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, after earlier climbing as much
as 3.1 percent.  Imports made by LG have “in no manner injured Whirlpool,”
Sam Kim, home appliances president for LG Electronics USA Inc.,
based in Englewood Cliffs,  New Jersey , said in a statement.  Amy Grenek, a spokeswoman for Samsung, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking a response.  “This unanimous decision by the ITC validates the action
we’ve taken to protect our 23,000 U.S. employees and the
communities in which they work,” Jill Saletta, a spokeswoman
for Whirlpool, said in a statement.  Imports of refrigerators of all types were valued last year
at $2.3 billion from Mexico and $881 million from South Korea,
the Commerce Department said. The bottom-mount models have the
freezer on the bottom and are more energy efficient, according
to a Whirlpool statement.  Whirlpool Complaint  Whirlpool, of Benton Harbor,  Michigan , on March 30 said it
was seeking dumping duties against Gyeonggi, South Korea-based
Samsung and Seoul-based LG in  South Korea  of 33 percent to 62
percent. From Mexico the dumping duty would be as much as 183
percent, according to Whirlpool’s petition to the Commerce
Department.  Dumping refers to selling a product at a discount in a
foreign market. Countervailing duties are meant to offset
government subsidies provided to a manufacturer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  