-- 
Wiig Plays Gloomy Bridesmaid; Will Ferrell Lives on Lawn: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/wiig-plays-gloomy-bridesmaid-will-ferrell-lives-on-lawn-film.html
“ Bridesmaids ” is being touted as a
girly version of “The Hangover,” another raunchy comedy about
a group of misfits getting wild and crazy before a friend’s
wedding.  But “Bridesmaids,” co-written by and starring Kristen
Wiig of “Saturday Night Live,” is more nuanced, more
sophisticated and just as funny. Wiig and a cast that includes
former SNL colleague Maya Rudolph, Rose Byrne and  Melissa McCarthy  manage to elicit empathy along with the laughs.  Wiig is ringleader Annie, a gloomy 30-ish Milwaukeean whose
bakery just went out of business. Her love life consists of sex-
only sessions with a cad played by Jon Hamm and she turns off
customers at the jewelry store where she works with a running
doomsday commentary.  When her best friend Lillian (Rudolph) asks her to be the
maid of honor at her wedding, things go from bad to disastrous.
Annie and the bridesmaids, including frosty rival Helen (Byrne)
and corpulent hell-raiser Megan (McCarthy), embark on an
adventure that includes a sickening visit to a Brazilian
restaurant, a side-splitting airplane ride and a garish bridal
shower with a mini-Eiffel Tower and a giant fountain spewing
chocolate syrup.  The film is ably directed by Paul Feig, the creator of TV’s
cult classic “Freaks and Geeks,” and features standout work by
Chris O’Dowd, as a gentle Irish cop who fancies Annie, and the
late  Jill Clayburgh  as her eccentric mom.  “Bridesmaids,” from Universal Pictures, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Everything Must Go’  When funnymen turn serious, the results are sometimes
laughable. Remember  Woody Allen  vainly trying to channel  Ingmar Bergman  in “Interiors”?  Will Ferrell  attempts the tricky transition in “ Everything
Must Go ,” where he plays a down-and-out salesman whose wife
leaves him right after he loses his job and dumps all his
possessions on the front lawn, which becomes his temporary home.  Ferrell ditches the goofy shtick that him a huge comedy
star in films like “Old School,” “Anchorman” and “Talladega
Nights.” He gives a solemn, gutsy performance as a beer-
guzzling Everyman trying to make the best of a desperate
situation by paying a local latchkey kid (Christopher Jordan
Wallace, son of the late rapper Notorious B.I.G.) to help him
sell all his junk, including his fishing rod, blender and
reclining chair.  Wallace and Rebecca Hall, who plays a pregnant neighbor,
are fine in supporting roles. But the movie -- an expansion of a
Raymond Carver short story by first-time filmmaker Dan Rush --is
a one-note affair that stutters and drags toward its wistful
ending.  “Everything Must Go,” from Roadside Attractions, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Hey, Boo’  Harper Lee  was a one-hit wonder who won the Pulitzer Prize
for her debut novel, “ To Kill a Mockingbird ,” and never
published another book.  Her remarkable story is told in “ Hey, Boo ,” a documentary
that chronicles Lee’s small-town Alabama roots, her long
struggle to write “Mockingbird” and the making of the classic
movie version with  Gregory Peck . It also traces her turbulent
friendship with childhood neighbor  Truman Capote , including the
aid and comfort she gave him while he was researching “In Cold
Blood.”  Most importantly, the movie explains why “Mockingbird,” a
1961 novel about a Southern lawyer who defends a black man
accused of raping a white woman in the 1930s, has such enduring
appeal.  Silent Lee  Filmmaker Mary McDonagh Murphy uses archival footage, clips
from the movie and interviews with  Oprah Winfrey ,  Tom Brokaw  and
Lee’s feisty 99-year-old sister, Alice. They help put
“Mockingbird” in the context of its time, when segregation was
enforced in the Deep South and the civil-rights movement was in
its early stages.  Lee, now 85, didn’t talk to Murphy. She withdrew from
public life after “Mockingbird” and hasn’t given an in-depth
interview since 1964.  “Hey, Boo,” from First Run Features, is playing in New
York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 