-- 
Wilmar International Profit Declines Less Than Forecast; Share Price Gains

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-05-13T03:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/wilmar-international-reports-first-quarter-net-profit-of-386-7-million.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s biggest palm oil processor, reported a less-than-
expected 3.7 percent drop in first-quarter profit as prices of
raw materials fell. The shares surged.  Net income fell to $386.7 million from $401.4 million a
year earlier, the Singapore-based company said today in a filing.
That beat the $325 million mean of four analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Wilmar’s loss was partly due to
writedowns on the value of convertible bonds.  Plantations and palm oil mills reported a 26 percent jump
in pretax profit, while merchandizing and processing, the
biggest earner, rose 3.8 percent as margins expanded. The new
sugar milling unit had a pretax loss.  “They beat street significantly, mostly because of higher
crush margins,” Tanuj Shori, an analyst with Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Singapore, said in an e-mail. “Stable refining margins
also helped. Although sugar milling was negative because of pre-
harvest season, it should pick up going forward.”  A boost for Wilmar’s earnings came with the 11 percent fall
in crude  palm oil  prices in the first quarter as inventories of
the edible oil climbed to their highest level in six months in
April. With an “improved” supply of crude palm oil, the
margins of processing the material grew, Wilmar said.  Cooking Oil  The better-than-expected results come as Wilmar’s profits
are being squeezed in China, where it holds about half of the
retail market for cooking oil. The nation has asked suppliers
since at least November to refrain from raising prices, making
the price of buying the raw materials to make the oil higher
than that of the end product.  “The group remains positive on its prospects, despite a
challenging operating environment in  China  arising from the
monetary tightening and anti-inflationary measures” taken by
the government of  Asia ’s biggest economy, Wilmar Chief Executive
Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said in today’s statement.  Wilmar jumped as much as 3.7 percent, the most in six
months, after declining 22 percent in the previous 12 months.
The stock rose 2.8 percent to S$5.23 on the Singapore stock
exchange at 9:18 a.m. local time.  One way to fight lower margins on retail goods in China has
been to cut output at local processing operations, which is what
Noble has done, Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Leiman said May
11. Wilmar said today it cut sales volumes of processed palm,
oilseed and grains by about 14 percent and made money on hedged
sales of the products.  Total revenue climbed 41 percent to $9.54 billion for the
quarter, helped by higher prices for agricultural commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Singapore  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  