-- 
Winklevoss Twins Face Suit Over Failed Alliance

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-13T14:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/winklevoss-twins-face-suit-over-failed-alliance.html
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the
twins challenging a $65 million settlement with Facebook Inc.,
must face a lawsuit filed by a  Boston  businessman over a failed
partnership, a judge ruled.  The businessman, Wayne Chang, claims in a lawsuit filed in
December 2009 that a former partnership with the Winklevosses’
ConnectU project entitles him to part of the Facebook
settlement.  Superior Court Judge  Peter Lauriat  in Boston on April 28
denied the Winklevoss twins’ motion to dismiss the case, ruling
that Chang’s prior relationship with the twins gives him
standing to seek a share of the settlement proceeds in
proportion to his ownership interest in ConnectU as determined
by a fact-finder.  “We’re pleased with the court’s ruling,” Alan Rose Jr.,
an attorney for Chang, said today in a phone interview. “The
value of Mr. Chang’s claims are completely intact, and that’s
what we care most about.”  Chang is seeking half of any settlement proceeds with
Facebook, Rose said.  Erin E. Howard , an attorney for the Winklevosses, didn’t
immediately return a phone call today seeking comment.  The Winklevosses sued Facebook founder  Mark Zuckerberg  in
2004 claiming he stole the idea for the social network and
delayed their ConnectU project while they were all Harvard
University students.  Accord Upheld  A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  on April 11 upheld
the Winklevosses’ $65 million settlement with Facebook in 2008,
rejecting their claim that it should be thrown out because
Facebook misled them about the company’s value at the time.  Chang claims in the lawsuit that he was deprived of the
opportunity to participate in the settlement agreement at the
time.  The Winklevosses contacted Chang in October 2004 seeking to
form a partnership with his I2hub Organization, a file-sharing
program popular among college students, according to court
papers. Chang and the Winklevosses agreed to form a holding
company called Winklevoss Chang Group through which they would
co-own and operate both projects.  The deal entitled Chang to 50 percent ownership of WCG and
the option to exercise a 15 percent stake in ConnectU, according
to his complaint.  Chang’s relationship with the Winklevosses deteriorated in
April 2005 over the twins’ claims that a $7,500 payment to WCG
entitled them to an additional 5 percent of the company. The
Winklevosses informed Chang they were terminating the
relationship, effectively dissolving the company, according to
court papers.  “Chang alleges that he has received nothing in return for
the substantial benefits he provided to ConnectU, including the
value of his work, as well as I2hub’s users and goodwill,”
Lauriat said in his ruling.  The case is Chang v. Winklevoss, SUCV2009-05397,
Massachusetts Superior Court, Suffolk County (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 