-- 
Tyco Rises on Report Schneider, Private Equity Discuss Offer

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   A r i e   S h a p i r a
-- 
2011-05-13T20:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/tyco-rises-on-report-schneider-private-equity-discuss-offer-3-.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  rose after
the New York Post reported that  France ’s  Schneider Electric SA (SU) 
may work with private-equity firms on a bid of $30 billion or
more.  The shares climbed $1.28, or 2.6 percent, to $50.78 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company
pared earlier gains of 4.7 percent after Schneider reiterated
its April 20 comment that it has no plans for a large
transaction.  Tyco was identified as a takeover candidate after Bloomberg
reported April 11 that Schneider held preliminary talks about a
buyout. The Post, citing people it didn’t identify, said
Schneider’s discussions with  private-equity groups  are at an
early stage, with no decision on a possible partner.  Speculation that Schneider may team up with multiple
parties to buy Tyco makes more sense compared with prior
discussions it would acquire the company outright, Deane Dray, a
New York-based analyst with Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone
interview.  Dray said Schneider could purchase Tyco’s “jewels” -- the
Security and Fire divisions -- while other companies or private-
equity firms may acquire its other businesses. Dray has a
“hold” rating on Tyco.  Little ‘Overlap’  While there’s very little industrial-strategic logic for a
combination between Schneider and Tyco, Schneider has a history
of aggressive acquisitions, Steve Winoker, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a telephone interview.  “The only overlap that exists is really a small
digital/video business that Schneider has,” said Winoker, who
has a “market-perform” rating on Tyco. “So this is a
completely adjacent move, and synergies have got to be very
limited. But if the company wants to make a move over into an
adjacent business, then that’s what this is.”  Schneider Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire told
analysts on April 20 that “there is no plan of large-size
acquisitions now and in the foreseeable future” for the Rueil-
Malmaison, France-based company. Schneider said a week earlier
it was “not currently” in talks with Tyco, the world’s largest
maker of security and fire-protection systems.  “Our chief executive has expressed himself clearly at the
time of our first quarter-earnings report,” a Schneider
spokesman, Anthime Caprioli, said today. “We have no further
comments to make.”  Schneider fell 1.6 percent to 112.25 euros at 5:27 p.m.
local time in Paris trading.  Tyco Silent  Paul Fitzhenry, a spokesman for Schaffhausen, Switzerland-
based Tyco, declined to comment. Tyco hasn’t acknowledged any
discussions with Schneider.  Goldman Sachs analyst Terry Darling increased his Tyco M&A
ranking to 2 from 3 in late April following Chief Executive
Officer Ed Breen’s comments that the company is always open to
options that boost long-term value for investors. A No. 2
ranking represents a medium probability of 15 percent to 30
percent.  Tyco’s options volume rose, as calls to buy traded at four
times the four-week average, while puts to sell were six times
average. The most-traded contracts were July $60 calls, which
jumped 63 percent to 52 cents as of 4 p.m. in  New York . Implied
volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for at-the-money
options expiring in 30 days, jumped 25 percent to 32.38.  Tyco’s CEO said April 28 he likes Tyco’s existing
businesses, which include industrial valves as well as the fire
and security divisions. He also said the company always looks
“at all the other alternatives to see if something makes more
sense to create long-term  shareholder value .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net  or
Arie Shapira at 
 ashapira3@bloomberg.net  