-- 
Yemen Protesters Welcome Withdrawal of Qatar From GCC Effort

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-13T13:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/yemen-protesters-welcome-withdrawal-of-qatar-from-gcc-effort-1-.html
Yemeni protesters welcomed the
withdrawal of Qatar from efforts to mediate a standoff with
President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s government and called on the rest
of the Gulf Cooperation Council to scrap the plan.  “We commend this courageous decision of Qatar,” said
Khalid al-Anisi, a protest leader and a member of the 21-member
Organizing Committee of Popular Youth Revolution. “We call on
the rest of the GCC to withdraw from this plan, which is
standing as a life-jacket for the regime, providing it
protection from prosecution despite all the killings.”  Yemen’s government and main opposition group agreed last
month to a Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered plan for Saleh to
cede power within a month and be granted immunity from
prosecution. Organizers of the protests rejected the plan and
continued to stage demonstrations demanding Saleh’s immediate
departure. He would be the third leader in the region to be
forced from office by protest movements this year, after  Egypt ’s
 Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  More than 100 people have been killed by security forces
since the protests began in January and at least 19 have been
killed in the past few days in a renewed crackdown.  New Protests  Violence continued today in the city of Ibb where five
people were wounded when security forces opened fire on
protesters, according to Mohammed al-Badaani, an activist. In
Taiz, three were wounded when police used live rounds, another
activist, Bushra al-Maktari, said.  In Sana’a, protesters gathered at Sixty-Meter Street, which
leads to the presidential palace, and shouted slogans such as
“the people want the trial of the mass killer.”  Saleh addressed his supporters in the capital’s al-Sabeen
Square. “It is enough playing with fire,” he said today in a
warning to the opposition. “Our people in towns and villages
and the army personnel will be forced to respond.”  Qatar’s Foreign Ministry  said yesterday  that it withdrew
from mediation “because of procrastination and delay in signing
the agreement,” originally due in the first days of May.
Continued violence in Yemen is “incompatible with the spirit of
the initiative,” Qatar said.  The Joint Meeting Parties, the main opposition, initially
accepted the GCC plan and then said it would pull out because of
Saleh’s delay in signing. The group has called for massive
demonstrations today.  Saleh’s General People’s Congress welcomed Qatar’s
withdrawal and said on its website that it hopes to continue
talks with the other GCC countries. Saleh had accused Qatar of
interfering in its domestic affairs via Qatar-based  Al Jazeera .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 