-- 
Yen, Dollar Gain Versus Major Counterparts as Equities Fall; Rand Tumbles

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-13T21:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/yen-dollar-gain-versus-peers-as-equities-commodities-fall-rand-tumbles.html
The yen and the dollar advanced
against all other most-traded currencies as investors sought
safety amid falling stocks and fluctuating commodities.  The euro fell after earlier gaining on economic growth data
for the region. It lost for a second week against the dollar as
concern persisted that Greece will need to restructure its debt.
The yen also rose as  Japan ’s economy and fiscal policy minister,
 Kaoru Yosano , said its strength resulted from a weaker dollar,
not independent gains. South  Africa ’s rand tumbled the most in a
week in 18 months as unemployment increased.  “All the good news about the global recovery got priced in
over the first four months of the year, and what we’ve gone
through is a significant rethink about the strength of the
global recovery,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at
FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm Gain Capital
in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “A lot of the froth is being taken
off right now.”  The dollar rose 0.9 percent against the euro to $1.4118 at
5 p.m. in  New York , from $1.4246 yesterday. It touched $1.4067,
its strongest level since April 1.  The Japanese currency advanced 0.2 percent to 80.79 per
dollar, from 80.94. Against the euro, it gained as much as 1.6
percent to 113.52 yen, the strongest level since March 18, when
Group of Seven central banks sold yen in the  currency markets  to
stem its surge after a record earthquake.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.7 percent to 75.726.  Euro Bets Drop  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks fell 0.8 percent,
while the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
was little changed after earlier gaining 0.9 percent and
dropping 0.8 percent.  Futures traders lowered their bets the euro will gain
against the dollar after raising them a week earlier to an
almost four-year high.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 61,447 on May 10.
That compared with net longs of 99,516 a week earlier, the most
since July 2007.  The euro traded near its low of the day as  Germany ’s Die
Welt reported that Germany backed a “voluntary restructuring”
of Greek debt. The newspaper didn’t say where it got the
information.  ‘No Knowledge’  The German government has “no knowledge” of any plan for
a Greek restructuring, spokesman Christoph Steegmans said in an
interview. It is waiting for the conclusions of a European and
International Monetary Fund mission to  Greece  before making any
decision on further steps to help the first victim of  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, the government said.  Eighty-five percent of international investors surveyed this
week in a Bloomberg poll said Greece probably will default, with
majorities predicting the same fate for Portugal and Ireland,
which followed Greece in seeking European Union-led bailouts.  The euro dropped 1.4 percent for the week versus the
dollar. It was the worst performer over the past month among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, losing 1.8 percent, while the
greenback strengthened 0.7 percent.  Repatriating Yen  The yen also strengthened amid speculation  Tokyo Electric 
Power Co. is repatriating overseas funds to pay for damages and
compensation in the wake of this year’s nuclear power-plant
disaster after the temblor and tsunami March 11.  Standard &
Poor’s  said it lowered its long-term corporate credit and debt
ratings on Tokyo Electric to BBB, from BBB+.  The market interpreted Yosano’s comments about the role of
a weak dollar in the yen’s rise “as an indication that a
faction of policy makers remain less concerned about recent yen
strength given the need for increased imports of energy and
reconstruction supplies,” said Andrew Cox, a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  “This potential division diminishes the potential for a
quick move to intervene if the yen continues to strengthen
against the dollar,” Cox said. Central banks intervene in
foreign-exchange markets by selling or buying currencies to
influence prices.  The 17-member euro area’s gross domestic product rose 0.8
percent from the fourth quarter, the EU’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said, bolstering the case for interest-rate increases
by the  European Central Bank .  Germany,  France   The gain, the fastest since the second quarter of 2010, was
powered by expansion in Germany and France. The German economy
jumped 1.5 percent from the previous three months and French GDP
grew 1 percent, both more than forecast.  The ECB raised its main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent
last month, from a record low 1 percent. Investors expect the
bank will boost the rate by 91 basis points over the next 12
months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index shows. That’s up from 71
basis points of tightening predicted on May 9, even as concern
escalates that Greece may need extra financial aid.  South Africa ’s rand was the worst performer against the
dollar among major currencies as data showed the jobless rate in
Africa’s biggest economy increased to 25 percent in the first
quarter. The South African Reserve Bank left  interest rates 
unchanged this week at 5.5 percent to help spur economic
recovery even as a report next week is forecast to show
inflation at 4.4 percent in April.  The rand tumbled 1.8 percent to 7.0206 per dollar and had a
weekly loss of 4.5 percent, the biggest drop since October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  