-- 
Yen Rises After Pakistan Bombing; Euro Advances on German Growth Surprise

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-13T08:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/yen-rises-as-losses-in-stocks-commodities-raise-investor-demand-for-haven.html
The yen strengthened against most of
its 16 major counterparts after a bombing in Pakistan killed at
least 73 people, boosting demand for  Japan ’s currency as a
refuge.  The euro surged after data showed German economic growth
accelerated more than forecast in the first quarter. South
Korea’s won dropped to a three-week low after the central bank
unexpectedly held off from increasing  interest rates .  “The yen has substantial status as a safe haven,” said
 Adam Cole , global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada in London. “It’s clearly helped by a market which is
turning more risk-averse.”  The yen advanced 0.5 percent to 80.50 per dollar at 9 a.m.
in London. The Japanese currency was little changed at 115.23
per euro after reaching 114.19 yesterday, the strongest since
March 28. The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.4302. It appreciated
to $1.4124 yesterday, the highest level since April 1.  Bombers today targeted 15 buses carrying newly graduated
members of  Pakistan ’s Frontier Constabulary, a paramilitary
force, who were going home after a May 11 ceremony, said Ghufran
Ali, a police official in Charsadda. Sixty-six of the dead are
from the force, he said. The Tehreek-e-Taliban group said it
carried out the attacks as a first act of revenge for Osama bin
Laden’s death, Pakistan’s Dunya TV reported.  German Growth  The euro erased its loss against the dollar after strong
German growth added to the case for further interest rate
increases by the  European Central Bank .  Gross domestic product, adjusted for seasonal effects,
jumped 1.5 percent from the fourth quarter, when it rose 0.4
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast growth of 0.9 percent, according to the
median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Economic fundamentals in  Europe  are resilient,” said
Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign bond department in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Securities Co. “It supports expectations for a series of
interest-rate increases.”  The won dropped after the Bank of Korea kept its benchmark
rate at 3 percent, having increased it twice this year to help
tame inflation. Two of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast the decision, while 12 predicted a 25-basis-point
increase.  “Expectations for a rate increase had been limiting
declines in the won this week,” said Yun Se Min, a currency
dealer at Busan Bank in Seoul.  The won lost 0.2 percent to 1,086.80 per dollar. It earlier
touched 1,092.38, the weakest level since April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 