-- 
Stocks Fall as Dollar, U.S. Treasuries Advance; Commodities Rise

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-13T19:38:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/yen-strengthens-as-asian-stocks-fall-oil-european-index-futures-advance.html
Stocks slid as the dollar and
Treasuries rallied, with 10-year notes near their highest level
of the year, amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and
economic growth won’t be strong enough to justify this year’s
equity rally. Commodities recouped earlier losses.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.8 percent to
1,337.52 at 3:34 p.m. in New York, sending it 0.2 percent lower
for the week. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 0.4
percent, reversing a 1.1 percent earlier drop. The Dollar Index,
which tracks the currency against six major peers, rallied 0.7
percent to a one-month high of 75.799. Ten-year Treasury yields
lost four basis points to 3.18 percent, near their 2011 closing
low of 3.15 percent reached a week ago. Spanish 10-year debt
snapped a three-day streak of gains.  The euro weakened against 10 of 16 major peers, losing 1
percent versus the dollar, as investors sold the common currency
before the weekend. The European Commission, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the German government back an extension of
maturities on Greek bonds because of the worsening deficit
situation in  Greece , Die Welt reported, while the  European
Central Bank  and France still oppose a so-called haircut.  “The rotation internally has been away from risk and
toward more stability,” said Michael Vogelzang, chief
investment officer at Boston Advisors LLC, which manages $1.8
billion. “The markets are going to struggle. We’ve seen most of
the return for the year. We’re taking risk off the table.”  Earnings, Stimulus  The  S&P 500  rallied as much as 8.4 percent this year to
reach an almost three-year high on April 29 amid government
stimulus measures and higher-than-estimated profits. The gauge
has slipped almost 2 percent since as the first-quarter earnings
season nears its close and investors prepare for the completion
of the  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion bond-purchase program at
the end of June.  CA Inc. (CA) , the second largest maker of software for  mainframe
computers , slumped 9 percent today for the biggest loss in the
S&P 500 after quarterly profit and sales missed analysts’
projections. CA joined the minority of companies missing
estimates. Per-share earnings have topped estimates at 72
percent of the 433 companies in the S&P 500 that released
results since April 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.5 percent and lost 0.3
percent in its second straight weekly decline.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
 Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  both sank more than 7 percent this week to pace
losses in commodity producers.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  and
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  led a retreat in banks, each sliding
more than 2 percent over the past five days. A.P. Moeller-Maersk
and  Vallourec SA (VK)  rallied after reporting higher profits.  Gas oil, natural gas and brent crude climbed more than 1
percent to lead gains in commodities.  The dollar strengthened versus all 16 major counterparts.
It appreciated more than 1.2 percent versus the  New Zealand
dollar , Norwegian krone and South African rand.  U.S. 10-year notes reversed earlier losses after the Labor
Department reported the  consumer price index  rose 0.4 percent in
April, matching economists’ forecast. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that the rise in inflation was
“transitory” as investors fretted as the price of oil surged and
other commodities climbed.  International Business Machines Corp., the world’s biggest
computer-services provider, and General Mills Inc. led a 29
percent jump in U.S. corporate bond sales this week as yields
fell to the lowest level since November.  IBM issued $1 billion of 1.25 percent, three-year notes
that tied for the lowest coupon for that maturity this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Minneapolis-based
General Mills sold $700 million of three-year fixed- and
floating-rate bonds in its biggest offering since January 2009.
Companies sold $31.9 billion of debt, the most since the five
days ended April 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  