-- 
ThyssenKrupp First-Half Earnings Increase 35% on Steel Demand

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-13T05:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/thyssenkrupp-first-half-earnings-rises-35-to-1-1-billion-on-steel-demand.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s largest
steelmaker, said fiscal first-half earnings rose 35 percent as
the company benefited from higher demand for the metal.  Adjusted earnings before interest and tax climbed to 770
million euros ($1.09 billion) in the six months through March
from 570 million euros a year earlier, the Essen-based company
said today in a statement. Sales advanced 21 percent to 23.6
billion euros.  ThyssenKrupp is gaining from a recovery in domestic demand,
while grappling with the cost of plants it’s building to boost
North American sales. Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger
said last week the company would sell assets making up about a
quarter of revenue as he seeks to cut debt and finance growth.
German rolled-steel orders rose 4 percent in the first three
months of 2011, the German Steel Federation said on May 9.  “The numbers should show a good operating performance
across the company, including at their European steel unit,”
Lars Hettche, a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus Metzler,
said yesterday. “But there are also costs at their Americas
division to contend with as they start plants there.”  ThyssenKrupp has risen 5.6 percent in Frankfurt trading
this year, less than the 7.7 percent gain in Germany’s benchmark
 DAX Index. (DAX)  The stock fell 1.1 percent to close at 32.73 euros
yesterday.  Company Overhaul  Hiesinger is overhauling ThyssenKrupp, less than four
months after taking on the job, to cut dependence on raw
materials as costs expand. The plan to split off the company’s
stainless-steel unit and sell automotive-component producers
will be put to the supervisory board today.  “The question is how ThyssenKrupp’s going to deal with the
assets they’ve said aren’t core to their business and whether
they can maintain the euphoria the disposal plan generated,”
said Christian Obst, a UniCredit SpA analyst who recommends
investors sell the stock.  The CEO is scheduled to hold a press conference at 2 p.m.
local time at the company’s headquarters in the western German
city of Essen and brief analysts and investors at 4 p.m.  Analysts and investors may focus “on how parts of the
company are hived off and what the time line is for that -- will
it be in 6 months, 12, 18, 24?” said Hettche. “There’s also
the question of how the Steel Americas unit will develop.”  Rising Costs  European stainless-steel producers have struggled to cope
with higher raw-material costs as prices of the metal decline.
Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker,
spun off its stainless unit, Aperam, in January. ArcelorMittal
CEO Lakshmi Mittal said in July “many, many years” of talks
between producers had failed to lead to consolidation.  “The circumstances for separating the stainless unit
haven’t necessarily changed for the better, there are still
problems with demand and pricing,” said Obst at UniCredit.
“Spinning it off might be easier than listing it on the stock
exchange but that won’t bring in any cash any time soon.”  Hiesinger, the former head of Siemens AG’s industrial unit,
joined ThyssenKrupp in October as previous CEO Ekkehard Schulz’s
deputy before succeeding him in January. ThyssenKrupp said last
week it wants to “provide additional flexibility for the
expansion into strategically promising business activities.”  The CEO took over as the company expands raw-steel capacity
with a 5.2 billion-euro plant in  Brazil  to supply rolling mills
in the U.S. He also inherits the corporate structuring employed
by Schulz to help reverse ThyssenKrupp’s 1.86 billion-euro net
loss in 2009.  “ThyssenKrupp has said that it is building up net working
capital for its new plants in the U.S. and Brazil, which will
mean greater cash outflows,” said Munich-based Obst.  ThyssenKrupp widened its forecast for an anticipated loss
at its Americas unit for the fiscal year through September in
February. The costs of depreciation and input materials will
diminish as the plants raise output, it said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  