-- 
Yum Plans Little Sheep Buyout Valuing Restaurant Operator at $862 Million

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-13T20:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-13/yum-plans-little-sheep-buyout-valuing-restaurant-operator-at-862-million.html
Yum! Brands Inc., owner of the KFC
fast-food chain, offered to take  Little Sheep Group Ltd. (968)  private
in a deal that values the operator of hot pot restaurants in
China at HK$6.7 billion ($862 million).  The offer is worth HK$6.50 a share in cash, 30 percent
higher than the April 21 closing price, the last day of trading
before Little Sheep disclosed an approach from Yum, the Baotou,
Inner Mongolia-based restaurant operator said in a filing to the
Hong Kong stock exchange. Yum already owns 27.2 percent of the
stock.  Yum, which gets 36 percent of annual revenue from China,
wants Little Sheep to accelerate expansion there. The
Louisville, Kentucky-based company, which also owns the Pizza
Hut chain, aims to appeal to diners overseas as U.S. sales slow.  “Little Sheep kind of fills a hole for them in their China
portfolio -- most of their concepts are Western concepts,” said
 Larry Miller , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Atlanta. The
purchase may mean “less share buybacks or debt reduction this
year,” he said. He rates the shares “outperform.”  Little Sheep surged as much as 29 percent, an intraday
record, to HK$6.38, before closing at HK$6.14 at 4 p.m. in Hong
Kong.  ‘Fills Hole’  Yum rose 13 cents to $54.86 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has advanced 12 percent
this year.  Yum, led by Chief Executive Officer David C. Novak, had
$1.53 billion in cash and $2.06 billion in net debt, as of March
19. The U.S. restaurant operator, which also owns the Taco Bell
chain in the U.S., increased its stake in Little Sheep from 20
percent last year.  In January, Yum put its 1,600 Long John Silver’s and A&W
All-American Food restaurants up for sale to focus on expansion
in  China  and other regions. Last year, revenue from China rose
12 percent to $4.14 billion from $3.68 billion the year before.  “We are confident we can further strengthen Little Sheep’s
brand, business model and market position in the industry,” Sam Su, chief executive officer of Yum’s China division, said in the
statement. “There is the potential for further development
internationally,” said Su, who is also global vice chairman of
the Louisville, Kentucky-based restaurant operator.  Yum’s offer to buy out and privatize the Chinese company is
“fair and reasonable,” Zhang Gang, Little Sheep’s chairman,
said in a conference call today.  Simmering Pot  Su said in the same conference call that Yum believes
Little Sheep has the potential to tap demand in overseas markets
for hot pot, a type of cuisine in which various ingredients are
cooked in a simmering pot by the diners. There is no specific
expansion plan, he said.  “Yum will help to improve Little Sheep’s management skills
and bring in more opportunities to tap the global market,”
Titus Wu, an equity analyst at DBS Vickers ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.,
said by telephone from Hong Kong today. “It’s also good for Yum
because it finally has a Chinese company in its global
portfolio,” said Wu, who recommends buying Little Sheep’s
stock.  The Chinese restaurant company’s 2010 net income gained 21
percent, according to a filing last month.  Overseas Markets  “With a global network and rich experience in brand
building, Yum will join hands with Little Sheep to explore
feasible ways to introduce hot pot to overseas markets,” Su
said.  Little Sheep operated 179 self-owned restaurants and had
274 franchisees in mainland China, according to its 2010 annual
report. Zhang reiterated today that the company plans to open 40
outlets this year.  Yum operates more than 3,300 KFCs in China, and has 650
Pizza Hut eateries in the country, according a company filing.  A board committee will consider the bid, which will be done
by a so-called scheme of arrangement, with controlling
shareholder Possible Way International Ltd. supporting the plan.  The offer is 28 percent higher than the average stock price
in the 20 days through April 21, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Little Sheep would be delisted from the Hong Kong exchange
with Yum holding 93.2 percent of stock and Possible Way
controlling the rest.  Little Sheep Chairman Zhang and Chen Hongkai, a non-
executive director, will stay on with the company after its
privatization, the statement said. The buyout plan requires the
approval of the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and other
regulatory agencies, according to the statement.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Yum and Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit is advising Little Sheep.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/13/ :15 GMT 