-- ‘Safe House’ Jumps to No. 1 Spot With $24 Million in Receipts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-02-20T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/-safe-house-is-weekend-s-top-box-office-draw-bumping-the-vow-to-no-2.html
“Safe House,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures , jumped to the top spot in the movie rankings
this past weekend, taking in $24 million in ticket sales in U.S.
and Canadian theaters.  The romantic drama “The Vow” dropped to second place from
first with $23.6 million in receipts for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Screen
Gems unit, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. “Safe House” was second last weekend.  The Universal picture is the second from the studio this
year to finish the weekend in first place. The studio is ranked
fifth in 2012 sales with $141.8 million as of Feb. 19, according
to  Box Office Mojo , a website that tracks movie revenue.  “It’s rare to have a movie jump up from the second spot to
the first spot in the second week,” said  Paul Dergarabedian ,
the president of the box-office division of Hollywood.com, in a
telephone interview. “It’s a pure reflection of great word of
mouth.”  In the film,  Denzel Washington  plays a rogue CIA agent who
turns himself in to U.S. authorities with the promise of
revealing an important secret. He goes on the run again in the
film, along with a novice agent played by  Ryan Reynolds , after
assassins attack the supposedly secure residence where he is
being held.  Second place’s “The Vow” stars  Channing Tatum  as a man
whose wife awakens from a coma with no memory of their marriage.
He must compete with one of her old flames as he tries to
rebuild their relationship.  Rachel McAdams  and Scott Speedman
co-star.  Comic-Book Movie  Sony’s “Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance,” a 3-D sequel
based on a Marvel Comics character, finished third in its debut
with $22 million. Nicolas Cage returns as Johnny Blaze, who can
transform himself into a fiery being with extraordinary strength
and speed. Blaze is asked by members of a monastic order to
protect a mother and son who are being pursued by Satan.  “It’s a comic-book movie, and you figure in February this
movie would be able to do even more business,” Dergarabedian
said. “The thing is though it entered a more competitive
marketplace than you would normally think for this time of the
year, because ‘Safe House’ and ‘The Vow’ are both
overperforming.”  The first “Ghost Rider” cost about $110 million to make
and generated $228.7 million in worldwide ticket sales,
according to Box Office Mojo.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  bought Marvel
Entertainment in 2010.  ‘This Means War’  “Journey 2: The Mysterious Island,” from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., generated $20.1 million, taking fourth
place. The picture features Dwayne Johnson in a 3-D sequel to
the 2009 hit “Journey to the Center of the Earth.” He plays a
stepfather who accompanies his wife’s son to a remote island in
search of the boy’s grandfather.  The comedy “This Means War” opened in fifth place with
$17.6 million.  The movie features  Reese Witherspoon  as a woman
who is romantically pursued by two deadly spies played by  Tom
Hardy  and  Chris Pine . The men also happen to be best friends,
until they discover that they are wooing the same woman. The
film is distributed by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 11 percent
to $143.9 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance is up 22 percent year to date, while revenue is up 19
percent. The amounts below are based on actual tickets sales for
Feb. 17 and Feb. 18 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  