-- Malca-Amit to Boost Asian Precious-Metal Storage on Bank
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-02-20T09:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/malca-amit-to-boost-asian-precious-metal-storage-on-bank-demand.html
Malca-Amit Global Ltd., a Hong Kong-
based company that stores and transports precious metals and
diamonds, plans to open a vault in Beijing and is doubling space
in  Singapore  as rising demand spurs gold’s 12th year of gains.  The Beijing facility at the city’s airport will open by the
end of the year, Ofer Wilner, regional manager of the Far East
unit, said in an interview. A $2-million expansion at the
Singapore FreePort will be ready in six months, adding three
vaults to the existing pair, which are 80 percent full, he said.  Malca-Amit, founded in Tel Aviv in 1963, is joining lenders
such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and storage companies including The
 Brink’s (BCO)  Co. in opening or expanding vaults to tap demand for
secure space to house commodities used to protect wealth. China
may become the world’s largest gold market this year, displacing
 India , according to the World Gold Council.  “The whole point of owning gold or buying gold is that
you’re buying a form of financial insurance,” said Mark O’Byrne,
executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd., which stores
customers’ bullion at the Perth Mint in  Western Australia  and in
a depositary in  Switzerland . “You need to own gold in the
safest way possible in order to reduce counterparty risk.”  Spot gold hit a record $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6, and
has rallied more than sixfold since the end of 2000. The metal,
at $1,732.28 at 5 p.m. in Singapore, has gained 11 percent this
year as  Europe ’s debt crisis buoyed demand. That’s beaten the 10
percent climb in the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of equities,
as of today, and 6.8 percent climb in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 commodities as of the Feb. 17 close.  Vault Expansion  Malca-Amit, which holds assets for banks and individuals,
opened its first metals vault in 2010 in Singapore and has space
in  New York , Zurich, Geneva,  London  and Bangkok, where it plans
to add another facility, Wilner said. A facility in London’s
Heathrow area that can hold more than 300 metric tons of gold
and 1,000 tons of silver opened earlier this month.  Investors held a near-record 2,389.7 metric tons of gold as
of Feb. 16 in  exchange-traded products , according to data
tracked by Bloomberg. The financial products enable buyers to
own precious metals without taking physical possession of them.  Brink’s, based in Richmond,  Virginia , said in September
that it may add more storage after opening a London vault in
2011.  Barclays Capital  is also building a vault in the U.K.
capital that may open this year, and Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank said last year that it may expand facilities and build new
ones to meet demand.  Prices may keep rising, according to  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which
predicts gold will average $1,845 this year. That’s 17 percent
higher than last year’s average. Investment demand will climb 60
percent to 1,722 tons this year, accounting for 39 percent of
total demand, according to a Feb. 13 report.  “Not many banks are equipped to deal with physical
metals,” Wilner said, declining to disclose the size of its
Asian facilities or clients’ identities. “We are being
approached now by more and more banks whose clients want to
purchase physical gold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  