-- Tang Should Quit H.K. Bid Over Scandal: Poll
-- B y   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   G a r v e y
-- 2012-02-20T05:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/tang-should-quit-h-k-bid-over-scandal-poll.html
More than half of  Hong Kong  people
say Henry Tang, the front-runner to be the city’s next leader,
should end his campaign because of a scandal over an illegal
addition to a property owned by his wife, according to a poll.  Tang blamed his wife for a 209 square meter (2,250 square
foot) basement in a house that was in her name, though connected
to one he owns in the upmarket Kowloon Tong district. A poll
commissioned by the South  China  Morning Post showed 51.3 percent
of respondents thought Tang should quit, while 79.5 percent said
the incident reflected poorly on his integrity.  The fallout over the basement threatens to upset what was
expected to be a smooth transition from outgoing Chief Executive
 Donald Tsang  to a candidate backed by most of Hong Kong’s
business and political elite, as well as the government in
Beijing. China’s Communist Party leadership may ditch Tang, 59,
who has trailed in surveys gauging support among Hong Kong’s 7.1
million people, most of whom don’t have a say in the 1,200-
strong election committee that picks their leader.  “Many believe that a candidate with such low popularity
and credibility can’t become the next chief executive,” said
Ivan Choi, a politics lecturer at Chinese University of Hong
Kong. “It would detract from the legitimacy of the government,
and so people think Beijing will make a new decision.”  Tang said Feb. 18 that he would not bow out of race.  Privacy Issue  “ Henry Tang ’s refusal to withdraw from the chief executive
election shows his ignorance of residents’ anger and public
opinions,” Ng Yut Ming, a spokesman of the Hong Kong Social
Workers’ General Union, which holds 28 votes in the committee,
said in a  statement . “We seriously demand that Henry Tang quit
the election immediately.”  Hong Kong newspapers, including  Apple Daily  and the South
China Morning Post, reported that the basement contained a wine
cellar, wine-tasting room, movie theater and Japanese-style bath.
Tang, a wine lover, said last week the room was used for storage,
denied the reports of luxurious fittings, and ruled out opening
the room to journalists on the grounds it would invade his
privacy, the Post reported.  Tang’s handling of the allegations put a further dent in
his public approval ratings following an admission last year of
an affair. A separate poll by the University of Hong Kong
conducted earlier in the week showed Tang’s approval rating fell
4.8 percentage points to 21.3 percent.  Leung Option  Former government adviser Leung Chun-ying had the backing
of 49 percent of respondents. While both Leung and Tang are
acceptable candidates to leaders in Beijing, Tang held an edge
with the business lobby that exerts key influence through Hong
Kong’s system that gives votes to interest groups known as
functional constituencies.  Hong Kong business leaders would prefer to see a third
candidate appear because they distrust Leung’s more populist
policies, Choi said.  Rita Fan, a former Legislative Council president and a
member of the National People’s Congress Standing Committee, may
be a candidate palatable to Tang’s supporters, the  South China
Morning Post  reported yesterday. The Post’s survey put her
support at 24.1 percent, though she ruled herself out of the
running in November.  Other Candidates  Regina Ip, the former secretary for security, said Feb. 17
that and she would consider standing, as did Jasper Tsang,
chairman of the Legislative Council.  All candidates need to get at least 150 nominations from
election committee members by the end of the month to stand. The
election is the last under the committee system, with Hong Kong
moving toward universal suffrage by 2017.  The latest opinion survey also showed mounting public
disapproval for Tang, with 63.1 percent of 183 people polled on
Feb. 17 saying he should end his election campaign, from 44.8
percent of 333 people on Feb. 16.  The poll of 516 people was carried out on Feb. 16 and 17 by
the University of Hong Kong on behalf of the territory’s leading
English-language newspaper. The margin of error was plus or
minus 2.2 percentage points, the newspaper said.  Both surveys were carried out before the government said
late on Feb. 17 that its officials are conducting a probe into
whether Tang and his wife submitted false planning documents for
the home.  Illegal Work  The  Liberal Party  won’t vote for Tang should he fail to win
support from the public, Honorary Chairman James Tien said on a
Commercial Radio Hong Kong  program  today.  Tang last week said the illegal work was carried out after
the Buildings Department had issued an occupation permit, which
verifies there are no illegal structures when a residence is
first lived in. Photographs of the property’s swimming pool show
skylights in the bottom that let light into the basement, which
is twice the size of more than 90 percent of private homes in
the city, according to government data.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and other mainland leaders have
publicly criticized Tsang and the Hong Kong government for
failing to address social “contradictions” that are stoking
discontent in the autonomous territory. The Communist Party
leadership sees maintaining social harmony as its top priority
in a country where corruption, illegal land grabs and pollution
spark more than 100,000 mass protests a year.  Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong’s first chief executive following
the territory’s return to China in 1997, stepped down early
after protests by 500,000 people in 2003 and hundreds of
thousands in 2004.  Government Probe  The Buildings Department has asked engineers, contractors,
and Tang’s wife for information, the government said. Tang and
his wife would cooperate with the investigation, he said at a
public forum in Hong Kong Feb. 18.  Tang’s father Tang Hsiang Chien was ranked the 40th-richest
person in Hong Kong in 2010 by Forbes Magazine. Tang is a wine
enthusiast whose best known policy success was to end duties on
the beverage in 2008, helping the city overtake  London  and  New
York  as the world’s biggest auction market for wine.  “This election is a trial run,” said Willy Wo-lap Lam, an
adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese University of Hong
Kong . “If C.Y. Leung’s popularity improves, then Beijing may
change their support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Richardson in Hong Kong at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Garvey in Hong Kong at 
 bgarvey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  