-- Choice Hotels, Ctrip, Frontier, Home Depot, RadioShack: U.S. Equity Movers
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/apple-corning-experian-hewlett-packard-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  : HTC Corp. lost a patent-infringement
claim against the world’s largest technology company at the U.S.
International Trade Commission, the first of the Taiwanese
handset maker’s cases targeting the iPhone.  Codexis Inc. (CDXS)  : Alan Shaw resigned as president and
chief executive officer of the company, which makes enzymes used
in producing drugs. He will continue to serve as an adviser to
the board. The board appointed Peter Strumph, business head of
pharmaceuticals, as interim CEO.  Corcept Therapeutics Inc. (CORT)  : The specialty drug
company that hasn’t generated revenue since 2009 won approval
for its leading product candidate, a treatment that uses the
active ingredient of the abortion pill RU-486 to treat Cushing’s
Syndrome.  Corning Inc. (GLW)  : The largest maker of glass for flat-
panel television sets is poised to rebound to $20 in two to
three years as it cuts excess capacity and focuses on the
growing smartphone and tablet markets, Barron’s reported in its
“The Trader” column, citing Alan Lancz of Alan B. Lancz &
Associates.  Experian Plc (EXPGY)  : Experian’s U.S.-traded shares are
poised to rise 20 percent or more during the next year as the
credit-report provider’s expansion in Latin America boosts
earnings, Barron’s reported.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  : The outlook for the world’s
largest personal computer maker is still unclear as Chief
Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  tries to turn it around by
changing the corporate culture and boosting research and
development expenditure, Barron’s reported.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  : The world’s biggest operator of
offshore drilling rigs said it won’t recommend a dividend
payment at its 2012 annual shareholder meeting.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  : Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada’s Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425 JP) said it will
take legal action after Wynn Resorts, a casino operator,
forcibly redeemed Universal’s stake at a 31 percent discount and
accused Okada of improper payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  