-- Aramco, Sumitomo May Delay Rabigh Chemical Expansion, HSBC Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-02-19T07:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/aramco-sumitomo-may-delay-rabigh-chemical-expansion-hsbc-says.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and  Sumitomo
Chemical Co. (4005)  may postpone a $6 billion plan to expand their
joint-venture petrochemical plant in the Red Sea town of Rabigh,
HSBC Holdings Plc said.  Sumitomo may seek to delay the expansion due to financial
concerns, while  Saudi Aramco , as the state oil producer is
known, may be reluctant to proceed alone as it’s already
investing in other refining and chemical plants, John Tottie, a
Riyadh-based analyst at HSBC, said in a note to investors.  “The project may be at risk to be put on hold as we
believe Sumitomo may be hard-pressed to make another heavy
commitment,” Tottie wrote in the note dated Feb. 17. “Aramco
is likely more keen on the project, as it is integral with
broader Saudi energy-policy objectives, but is also juggling
many other ambitious expansion plans.”  Saudi Arabia  and other Persian Gulf oil producers are
building new industries including petrochemicals to help
diversify their economies and create jobs. By boosting
petrochemicals output, Saudi Aramco would also be making more
valuable products from the country’s crude. The planned Petro
Rabigh expansion and an adjacent industrial park would add about
5,000 jobs, Tottie said.  Petro Rabigh may report  net income  of 1.56 billion riyals
($420 million) this year, Tottie estimated, lowering his
forecast by 18 percent. Tottie cut his forecast for 2013 by 5.5
percent to 2.13 billion riyals after weaker-than-expected
fourth-quarter earnings and a refining loss, he said.  Tottie, who maintains a “neutral” rating on Petro Rabigh
shares, cut the target price for the stock to 25 riyals from 27
riyals.  The shares  are down 2.15 percent this year, closing at
22.75 riyals yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  