-- British Teacher Dies After School Coach Crashes in France
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2012-02-19T16:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/british-teacher-dies-after-school-coach-crashes-in-france-1-.html
A teacher who died when a coach
carrying British schoolchildren home from a ski holiday crashed
in northern  France  has been named as Peter Rippington.  More than 20 other people were injured, four of them
seriously, when the vehicle  crashed today  near the city of Reims
in the Champagne-Ardenne region, the Press Association said,
citing  Interski Snowsport School , which organised the holiday.  Among the injured is Rippington’s wife, Sharon, and
daughter, Amy, the Foreign Office in  London  said, citing a
statement issued by the family.  “We, as a family, are devastated at the tragic loss of
Peter, a wonderful husband, father, son, brother, son-in-law,
brother-in-law, uncle, friend and teacher,” the statement said.
“We are still extremely concerned about the health of his wife,
Sharon, who was injured and is still recovering in hospital in
France. Sharon is accompanied by her daughter Amy, who escaped
the incident with minor injuries.”  Rippington was a teacher at the Alvechurch Middle School,
in Worcestershire, central England, whose pupils were returning
to the U.K. from the Aosta Valley, in  Italy .  In a statement on its website, the school said it planned
to open tomorrow as normal and would provide specially trained
staff to provide support to those affected.  The French authorities are investigating the accident,
British Foreign Office Minister Alistair Burt said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Our thoughts and sincere condolences are with everyone
involved in or affected by the tragic coach crash in Northern
France earlier today,” Burt said.  The bus was carrying 29 children and 21 adults, including
two drivers, six ski instructors and 13 adults belonging to the
school party, PA cited Interski as saying. The company said the
vehicle left the A26 motorway and came to rest at the bottom of
an embankment.  The coach was operated by Solus Coaches in Tamworth,
 England , the Foreign Office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  