-- Cameron Faces Labour Party Calls to Abandon Health Proposal, Cut Salex Tax
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-02-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/cameron-faces-opposition-calls-for-u-k-tax-stimulus-ahead-of-march-budget.html
British Prime Minister David Cameron
faced opposition calls to abandon his health-service revamp and
cut  sales tax  as scrutiny of the coalition government’s deficit-
cutting policy intensified before next month’s budget.  A temporary reduction in the 20 percent rate of value-added
tax “is the fastest and fairest way to do a temporary boost to
demand, to get confidence moving,”  Ed Balls , the opposition
 Labour Party ’s finance spokesman, told the BBC’s Andrew Marr
Show yesterday. “We need some stimulus into our economy to get
the economy moving, to get growth and jobs back.”  The attack on Cameron’s deficit strategy comes before he
meets doctors to rebuild momentum in a program to streamline
health spending, which former Labour Health Secretary John Reid
called on him to scrap. That gathering coincides with an end to
Parliament’s recess as focus shifts toward the contents of
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s March 21 budget.  “The one thing we can’t do now, and Mr. Balls still hasn’t
learned this lesson, is to borrow even more,”  Michael Fallon ,
deputy chairman of Cameron’s ruling  Conservative Party , told the
BBC’s Sunday Politics Show. “He wants to splash 12 billion
pounds ($19 billion) on an unfunded VAT cut, which would have to
be borrowed. That would mean even higher debt and that would
mean, in the end, we’d lose our AAA rating.”  Moody’s Investors Service said on Feb. 13 that it could
strip the U.K. of its top credit rating, citing risks from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Osborne said afterwards that the warning
is a “reality check” serving as a reminder that the government
can’t waver on deficit reduction.  Stimulus Options  “I am going to continue to press him to not bow to
pressure from backward-looking  credit rating  agencies, but to do
the right thing for growth and jobs,” Balls said.  Balls wrote in an article in the Sunday Times yesterday
that lower sales tax would be the best way of adding stimulus,
though alternatives could include a reduction in income tax or
an increase in tax credits.  Conservative lawmaker  David Davis  said that the sales-tax
proposal would be “populist” and ineffective.  “It actually won’t work because all the money would leak
out of the country,” he said on the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show.
“We’d spend all the money on Chinese goods.”  Balls’s comments on the tax threshold chime with the
preference of Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners, who
have been pressing for an increase.  Laws Interview  Former Liberal Democrat Treasury Minister  David Laws  will
tell the  BBC ’s Newsnight program today that the threshold should
reach 10,000 pounds as soon as possible, the Sunday Telegraph
reported. The newspaper said he will call for the measure to be
funded by a curb on tax-free pension contributions for higher-
rate taxpayers and a levy on homes worth more than 2 million
pounds.  A poll in the Sunday Times yesterday showed the Liberal
Democrats with support of 7 percent, less than a third of the
result they achieved at the general election in 2010. Labour led
with 41 percent and the Conservatives had 37 percent in the poll
by YouGov Plc, which questioned 1,772 adults Feb. 16-17. It
didn’t give a margin of error.  Cameron will today meet medical representatives in an
effort to reinvigorate his health reforms, which seek to devolve
budget decisions to local areas in a bid to reduce costs. The
revamp has faced opposition from doctors and cast a shadow over
the future of Health Secretary Andrew Lansley.  Lansley’s Prospects  Lansley will keep his job for a further six months until
Cameron reshuffles his cabinet, when he may be removed, the Mail
on Sunday reported yesterday, citing unidentified people.  Reid, health secretary under  Tony Blair  from 2003 to 2005,
told  Sky News  that the health revamp is a “bureaucratic mess.”  “The real question for  David Cameron  is, given this is
getting deeper and deeper into political quagmire, does he
abandon it or does he plough on,” Reid said. His advice to
Cameron would be, “just get rid of this thing, do your U-turn
and get out of it,” he said.  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  signalled that the
Conservative-led government will press on with the program.  “The health service has to be reformed to cope with all
the pressures of an ageing population,” he told the BBC’s
Andrew Marr Show. “This bill helps us to make those
administrative savings for the health service to run more
efficiently. It’s part of saving 4.5 billion pounds out of
administration in the next few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  