-- China’s Stocks to Extend Rebound to Sixth Week After Ratio Cut, BofA Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-20T07:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/china-s-stocks-to-extend-rebound-to-sixth-week-after-ratio-cut-bofa-says.html
China’s stocks  may extend gains into
a sixth week after the government cut lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios for the second time in three months,
according to Bank of America Corp. and Dazhong Insurance Co.  Reserve ratios  will fall 50 basis points from Feb. 24, the
People’s Bank of  China  said on its website Feb. 18. The Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.2 percent last week, a fifth week of
gains and the longest winning streak since November 2010, on
speculation the government would reduce the ratio a second time
to boost economic growth after cutting them Nov. 30.  “The market will react positively to the reserve-ratio
cut,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The turning point
for liquidity has appeared. What we want to see next is if the
slowdown in economic growth can be halted after these measures
are implemented.”  The Shanghai index gained 0.3 percent to 2,363.60 at the
close, adding to a 7.5 percent rebound this year, after falling
a combined 33 percent in the previous two years. The gain lags
behind a 16 percent jump for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and
a 17 percent rally for the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
Chinese companies that are publicly traded in  Hong Kong .  The Shanghai  gauge  trades at 9.7 times estimated profit,
less than the MSCI index’s 10.7 multiple, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China’s yuan-denominated A shares may
catch up with the rally in global equity markets once the easing
cycle is confirmed, Minggao Shen, Citigroup Inc.’s head of China
research, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  ‘A Surprise’  Concerns about China’s economic slowdown intensified after
January data showed exports and imports falling for the first
time in two years, new lending was the lowest for that month in
five years and money supply grew the least in more than a
decade. China’s expansion may be cut almost in half if  Europe ’s
debt crisis worsens, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
Feb. 6 report.  “The markets have been awaiting this RRR cut since
end-2011,” Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at the Merrill
Lynch unit of Bank of America, wrote in a report. “This RRR cut
is to some extent a surprise and will definitely be positive for
markets in the coming week.”  The Bank of America economist, who had forecast a reserve-
ratio cut in the first quarter, said the central bank will
reduce the ratio twice more before the end of this year. Bank of
America was rated first for Asia research in 2011 by
Institutional Investor magazine.  ‘Great News’  At least three more reserve-ratio cuts are needed this year
to restore the confidence of business leaders to promote more
investment in the near-term, Citigroup said. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and China Construction Bank Corp.
are among Citigroup’s “top buys” among Chinese banks, while
Jianxi Copper Co. was recommended among miners.  China’s reserve-ratio cut will be “great news” for stocks
as it signals the government is encouraging banks to lend to
small companies hurt by the nation’s credit crunch,  Gavin Parry ,
managing director of Hong Kong-based Parry International Trading
Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  The reduction is further evidence that liquidity will
improve after the government set a higher target for 2012 money
supply growth, he said. China’s M2 will probably grow by about
14 percent this year, the central bank estimates. That compares
with a 13.6 percent increase in 2011.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  