-- China’s January Housing Prices Post Worst Performance in a Year on Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-19T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/china-s-january-housing-prices-post-worst-performance-in-a-year-on-curbs.html
China’s January  home prices  recorded
their worst performance in at least a year, with none of the 70
cities monitored by the government posting gains as Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated his determination to maintain property curbs.  Prices in 47 of the cities fell, while home values in the
remaining 23 were unchanged from December, the National
Statistics Bureau said in a statement on its website on Feb. 18.
New home prices in the nation’s four major cities of Shanghai,
Beijing, Shenzhen and Guangzhou declined for a fourth month.
None of the cities posted gains in home prices for the first
time since the government began releasing at the start of 2011
prices for 70 cities surveyed instead of a national average.  The data reflects a two-year effort by China to battle
rising home prices with measures including higher down payments,
 mortgage rates  to home purchase restrictions in 40 cities. China
won’t waver on the real-estate controls and efforts to bring
prices down to a reasonable level to ensure fairness and
stability, Wen said on Feb. 12.  “The data wasn’t a surprise as the government maintained
its property policies, and home prices will continue to fall
till at least the later half of the year,” said Ting Lu, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America Corp. unit Merrill Lynch.  Lu expects the government to start easing property curbs as
soon as the fourth quarter, starting with some of its measures
on mortgages and down payment requirements as “the government
is happy to see home prices fall, but not a drastic crash.”  Wenzhou’s Falling Prices  The eastern city of Wenzhou posted the biggest drop for the
third month, with home prices declining by 0.6 percent in
January, according to the Statistics Bureau. A credit squeeze on
smaller businesses in the city prompted a visit and pledge of
financial aid from Wen in October.  “Wenzhou and other eastern coastal cities are liquidity-
sensitive,” said Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-based property analyst
at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., adding that prices dropped in
these cities as “entrepreneurs with high-yield debt may have
just sold off their properties for cash.”  New home prices in Beijing and  Shanghai  declined 0.1
percent, the data showed, while housing values in Shenzhen slid
0.2 percent and dropped 0.3 percent in Guangzhou.  “The figures won’t prompt the central government to
release the curbs any time soon, because it probably would like
to observe and study the market further,” Jin said.  Easing Economic Policies  China has said it will maintain its housing measures even
as it eases other economic policies. The central bank on Feb. 18
cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as  reserves  for
the second time in three months to spur lending as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a cooling property market threaten economic growth.  Reserve ratios will fall 50 basis points effective Feb. 24.
The cut may add 400 billion yuan ($64 billion) to the financial
system,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  estimates. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The government’s home price figures came after private data
also showed signs of cooling. China’s average home prices fell
for a fifth month in December, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the country’s biggest real estate website.  Home sales in China’s four key cities declined during the
week-long Lunar New Year holiday at the end of January.
Transactions in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen fell
66 percent to 109 units, compared with the same holiday period a
year earlier, Centaline Property Agency Ltd., China’s biggest
real-estate brokerage, said Jan. 30.  The measure tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 7.7 percent this year, exceeding the
benchmark gauge’s 7.2 percent advance.  Falling home prices fueled an attempt by  China ’s smaller
cities to release tightening on property policies. The eastern
city of Wuhu was the first Chinese city this year to ease
measures ordered by the central government by waiving a deed tax
and subsidizing some home purchases. The move was suspended
three days later, following the outcome of a similar attempt in
October by Foshan in southern China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  