-- Commonwealth Bank’s New Loans Are Profitable, Chief Executive Narev Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-19T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/commonwealth-bank-s-new-loans-are-profitable-ceo-narev-says.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest by market value, said new loans are profitable
after boosting its mortgage lending rate by 10 basis points last
week, a move independent of the central bank.  “On the current cost of funds, new loans have just crossed
the profitability line,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Narev told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday. “Ten basis
points don’t exactly make a huge difference.”  Narev, who took over from Ralph Norris in December, is
among Australian bank chiefs battling rising wholesale funding
costs and the weakest demand for home loans since 1977.
 Commonwealth Bank (CBA)  and the nation’s other three biggest lenders
have faced intensifying pressure from Treasurer  Wayne Swan  to go
in step with the central bank’s rates policy.  “There’s no doubt the whole industry does get influenced
by public debate which focuses on these prices,” Narev said.
“The whole relationship between a bank and its customer base
should not be defined by one pricing point and one product. The
debate must be had on the facts.”  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  trimmed
the nation’s benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage
point to 4.5 percent on Nov. 1 and to 4.25 percent Dec. 6 to
help revive household demand and hiring. The central bank on Feb.
8 defied the forecasts of 24 of 27 economists for another cut,
after which the four big lenders increased rates.  Raising Rates  Commonwealth Bank increased the interest on a variable rate
home loan by 10 basis points to 7.41 percent on Feb. 13,
followed by  National Australia (NAB)  Bank Ltd., which added 9 basis
points to 7.31 percent.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  boosted the cost
by 10 basis points to 7.46 percent on Feb. 10, after  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Corp. (ANZ)  added 6 basis points to 7.36 percent.  While Australia’s biggest banks have cut their reliance on
credit markets as local households save at close to the highest
rate in a quarter century, debt markets still furnish about 40
percent of the funds they use for lending.  Commonwealth Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of the bank’s lending business, narrowed 10 basis
points to 2.15 percent in the half year from 2.25 percent in the
six months through June 30, the bank said Feb. 19, when it
announced first-half profit rose 19 percent to A$3.62 billion
($3.88 billion).  “Costs of funds move over time,” Narev said in the
interview. “What we don’t want to do is react in a kneejerk way
every time things change because our customers want some sense
of stability. The primary thing we look at obviously is the
action of our competitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  