-- Dar Al Arkan to Repay $1.3 Billion in Debt This Year as Land Sales Climb
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-02-19T06:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/dar-al-arkan-to-repay-1-3-billion-in-debt-this-year-as-land-sales-climb.html
Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development
Co. (ALARKAN)  plans to repay about 5 billion riyals ($1.3 billion) of debt
this year as the Saudi Arabian developer sells land to build its
cash holdings, the chief financial officer said.  “We will repay our  debts  this year, which amount to about
5 billion riyals and includes our sukuk maturing in July,” Andy
Raheja said in an interview at the Bloomberg office in Dubai on
Feb. 15. “We have been selling land and not deploying it back
into more land and are building up a cash pile in order to repay
the sukuk.”  Dar Al Arkan, the second-biggest property company in the
kingdom by market value, holds about 35 million square meters of
land mainly in Riyadh and Jeddah. It expects to continue making
about 800 million riyals every quarter from land sales, Raheja
said.  Saudi Arabia  announced investment programs valued at more
than $500 billion in the past two years to build homes, develop
infrastructure and create jobs in the Arab world’s biggest
economy. Benefiting from the state’s development objectives, Dar
Al Arkan is pursuing a “very large pipeline” of mega projects,
Raheja said. The company won’t add to more projects until it
sets aside enough cash to cover debts, he said.  “The board has decided that we will not invest in any more
land acquisitions, we will not launch any new mega projects, we
don’t pay dividends,” Raheja said. “We won’t have any other
significant use of cash until enough money is put aside to cover
the upcoming debt payments.”  Asset-Backed Financing  The company’s cash reserves rose to 2.5 billion riyals at
the end of last year from 1.2 billion riyals at the start of the
year, Raheja said. Dar Al Arkan’s  fourth-quarter profit  beat
analysts’ estimates.  The stock  has advanced 25 percent this year compared with a
6.4 percent gain for the benchmark Tadawul All Share Index. The
price on the company’s $1 billion floating-rate sukuk due in
July rose to 96.63 cents on the dollar on Feb. 16, the highest
since November 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dar Al Arkan has a 400 million-riyal loan due in the second
quarter and may have a capital expenditure of about 250 million
riyals, Raheja said.  The company is in talks with banks to raise 700 million
riyals in an Islamic financing facility backed by its Qasr Mall,
which will be operational in the first half. “We are evolving
from a generic borrowing model to borrowing against assets and
borrowing to build specific assets or projects,” Raheja said.  The developer is also talking with banks to finance
construction of build 500 villas in the Shams Ar Riyadh project,
he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  