-- Yen, Dollar Drop Versus Major Peers on China Easing, Progress on Greek Aid
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-20T02:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/dollar-yen-drop-versus-major-peers-on-china-easing-progress-on-greek-aid.html
The yen and dollar dropped against
most major peers after the People’s Bank of  China  announced a
cut to banks’ reserve requirements to spur growth, curbing
demand for refuge assets.  The currencies of  Australia  and New Zealand, which count
China among their largest export destinations, gained on
prospects the move will also boost demand for commodities. The
euro advanced for a third day against the greenback before
European finance ministers meet today amid speculation they are
nearing a deal for a second Greek aid package. The yen traded
0.4 percent from a six-month low versus the dollar as data
showed Japan had its largest monthly trade deficit on record.  “The PBOC probably revealed some of its hand in that it
still favors supporting growth rather than tackling inflation,
so the market is probably expecting more easing,” said  Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  in
Wellington. “If we do get the Greek deal on top of that, it’s
likely to provide an additional risk kicker.”  The yen fell 0.5 percent to 105.04 per euro at 11:28 a.m.
in Tokyo after touching 105.75, the weakest since Nov. 14. It
slid as low as 79.89 per dollar, the least since Aug. 4, before
trading little changed at 79.51 from the Feb. 17 close in  New
York . The dollar lost 0.5 percent to $1.3211 per euro.  Australia’s currency rose 0.7 percent to $1.0778 and New
Zealand’s gained 1 percent to 84.07 U.S. cents.  The proportion of cash that lenders in China must set aside
will fall half a percentage point from Feb. 24, the central bank
said on Feb. 18 on its website. Standard Chartered Plc forecasts
at least three more reductions this year, while HSBC Holdings
Plc sees a minimum of two.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks climbed 1.2 percent.  Finance Ministers’ Meeting  The euro gained against 11 of its 16 major peers before
euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels to try and close in
on a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) Greek bailout. Talks on
 Greece ’s second aid package in two years will aim to reconcile
demands made on Greek politicians, a debt swap among private
creditors, the role of the  European Central Bank  and concerns
the measures won’t bear fruit.  “I think the market is cautiously optimistic in terms of
what they expect out of  Europe  this week,” said  Thomas Averill ,
managing director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and
interest-rate risk-management company. “There will be a support
for the euro today.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  on Feb. 17
expressed confidence that ministers will resolve open questions.
Should they fail to back the bailout at the Brussels meeting,
the issue could be pushed to the next European Union summit on
March 1.  Japan Trade  The yen dropped against all bar three of its major peers. A
government report showed  Japan ’s exports fell in January as the
currency traded near a record high and amid weaker global
demand.  The trade deficit widened to 1.48 trillion yen ($19
billion) and  shipments  dropped 9.3 percent from a year earlier,
the Ministry of Finance said. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a trade gap of 1.46 trillion
yen and a 9.4 percent decline in exports.  The yen has weakened because of the Japanese trade report,
China’s reserve-requirement cut and also hopes for second aid
package for Greece, said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst in Tokyo at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
online currency margin-trading company.  “Once the yen starts weakening like it has in the past few
days, we don’t know how far it may go,” she said.  Japan’s currency slid 4 percent against the dollar and 5
percent versus the euro this month. The dollar has weakened 0.6
percent today, the biggest decliner among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The yen has lost 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  