-- Merkel Nominates Gauck for German Presidency
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-19T23:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/merkel-names-gauck-as-unity-candidate-for-german-presidency.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  named
Joachim Gauck, a pro-democracy activist from the former East
Germany, as the unity candidate for the mainly ceremonial role
of German president after the resignation of the incumbent amid
corruption allegations.  Gauck, 72, a Protestant pastor who went on to oversee the
opening up of Stasi secret-police files after the fall of the
 Berlin Wall , now goes forward to a special assembly for election
by March 18, the second time he’ll face such a vote in less than
two years after he was defeated for the presidency in 2010 by
Merkel’s candidate,  Christian Wulff . Wulff quit on Feb. 17 with
a legal probe pending, setting the stage for Gauck to become the
first German president from the former east.  “The central issue in the public life of Joachim Gauck has
been that of freedom and responsibility, and that’s what
connects me to him personally, despite our differences,”
Merkel,  Germany ’s first eastern chancellor, told reporters in
Berlin late today at a press conference with the main political
party leaders.  Merkel moved quickly to find a replacement after Wulff
became the second German president to quit during her time in
office, threatening to distract her from the euro-region debt
crisis. By accepting Gauck, nominated by the main opposition
Social Democrats and the  Green Party , she can assure the
election of a candidate polls show to be popular with the public
without losing focus on pulling  Greece  back from default.  Gauck, speaking at the same press conference in the
chancellery with the three coalition party leaders plus three
from the opposition, said that he was “overcome and a little
confused” after Merkel called him when he was in a taxi to tell
him of their joint choice to put forward for the presidency.  ‘Regain Confidence’  “I find it moving that somebody that was born in the
darkness of war and grew up in a dictatorship for fifty years --
- and did his work here after reunification -- that such a
person can now be elevated to head of state,” Gauck said.  His priority will be for people to “regain confidence,”
he said. All the same, he said, “don’t expect from me that I’m
a superman or a man without mistakes.”  Gauck will now face for the second time the 1,240-member
 Federal Assembly  of lawmakers and state delegates that elects
the president. In June 2010, he unexpectedly forced a third
round ballot in a sign of both his popularity and unease with
Merkel’s selection of a former deputy leader of her party for
the independent role of president.  Majority Narrowed  Having lost ground after regional election defeats
throughout 2011 that she and other party officials blamed on the
debt crisis, the chancellor may have struggled to push through a
candidate who didn’t enjoy broad support. Her majority in the
assembly has since narrowed to as little as two seats from 21
seats at the last vote, according to electoral website
 wahlrecht.de .  While Merkel didn’t consult the Left Party on the
presidency, leaving the third opposition group in the lower
house of parliament, the Bundestag, to field its own candidate,
the support of the SPD and Greens ensures Gauck’s election.  Gauck has won praise from newspapers including Die Welt and
news magazine  Der Spiegel , while Merkel called him an
“outstanding personality.”  Wulff’s decision to quit was “a huge setback for Merkel,”
 Gerd Langguth , a Merkel biographer and political scientist at
the University of Bonn, said in a phone interview last week. Yet
“if she picks a recognized personality she will survive this
without damage.”  The resignation might even result in “a small positive”
in Merkel’s crisis handling, Christian Schulz of Berenberg Bank
in  London  said in a note. “The drive for a candidate supported
by all major parties shows the current unity in German politics
on major political questions,” Schulz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  