-- Messi Scores Four as Barcelona Routs Valencia; AC Milan Stays Top in Italy
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-02-19T23:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/messi-scores-four-as-barcelona-routs-valencia-ac-milan-stays-top-in-italy.html
Lionel Messi  got four goals as
Barcelona defeated Valencia 5-1 to stay 10 points behind La Liga
leader Real  Madrid . Sulley Muntari scored in his debut as AC
Milan beat Cesena 3-1 to keep its one-point lead in  Italy .  Messi, who was named soccer’s best player for the third
straight year last month, scored two goals in each half at the
Camp Nou last night after Valencia had taken the lead. Xavi Hernandez completed the rout in second-half stoppage time.  Messi’s haul lifted him to 27 league goals this season, one
fewer than  Cristiano Ronaldo , who scored Real Madrid’s opener
two days ago in a 4-0 victory against Racing Santander. Real has
61 points through 23 games as it seeks a first championship
since 2008.  Muntari, on loan from  Inter Milan , got AC Milan’s opener in
Cesena yesterday as the Rossoneri stayed a point ahead of
Juventus before their Feb. 25 meeting at the San Siro. Urby
Emanuelson and Robinho also scored before Daniel Pudil replied
for the home team.  Juventus, which has 49 points having played one match fewer
than Milan, beat Catania 3-1 two days ago on goals from Andrea Pirlo, Giorgio Chiellini and Fabio Quagliarella. Udinese is
third after a 0-0 home draw against Cagliari, while Lazio
slipped down one spot to fourth after its 5-1 loss at Palermo.  Inter Milan’s winless run was extended to six matches with
a 3-0 home loss to Bologna on Feb. 17. Inter drops to seventh
following wins for Roma and Napoli, who beat Parma and
Fiorentina respectively.  Top Two  Paris Saint-Germain and Montpellier drew 2-2 in the French
capital as the top two in Ligue 1 met last night. John Utaka’s
header put visiting Montpellier 2-1 up with nine minutes left
before an 88th-minute tap-in from substitute Guillaume Hoarau
preserved PSG’s one-point lead atop the standings.  Third-place Lille beat Lorient 1-0 two days ago and is nine
points further back.  Bayern Munich  lost ground in  Germany ’s Bundesliga after
failing to win for the second time in three matches and drops to
third place behind Borussia Moenchengladbach.  Bayern was held to a 0-0 draw at Freiburg two days ago,
Moenchengladbach beat Kaiserslautern 2-1 and leader  Borussia
Dortmund  defeated Hertha Berlin 1-0. Yesterday, Klaas Jan Huntelaar scored two goals for fourth-place Schalke in a 4-0 win
against Wolfsburg. Dortmund has 49 points, Moenchengladbach 46
and Bayern 45.  PSV Eindhoven  and  AZ Alkmaar  are tied on 45 points atop the
Dutch Eredivisie after both 3-0 lost yesterday, at Groningen and
Utrecht. Heerenveen beat  NAC Breda  1-0 and is two points back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  