-- Greek Voters Increasingly Backing Smaller Parties, Polls Show
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-02-19T10:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/greek-voters-increasingly-backing-smaller-parties-polls-show.html
The number of political parties in
 Greece ’s parliament would increase to eight or nine from a
current five if an election were held now with voters likely
shunning Pasok and New Democracy, the two largest parties, in
favor of smaller political movements, two opinion polls showed.  The  New Democracy  would receive 24 percent and 18.3 percent
support from likely voters, according to two polls conducted by
marc for Ethnos newspaper and by Alco for Proto Thema newspaper
published today. In either case, New Democracy would fail to
secure enough seats to pass the 151 majority threshold.
Socialist  Pasok  would garner 13.9 percent in the marc poll and
11 percent in the Alco poll.  Greeks are disillusioned with the two parties, which have
governed Greece since the return of democracy in 1974, both
polls said. More than eight in 10 of those surveyed blamed  New
Democracy  and Pasok for the country’s current crisis, according
to the marc poll.  The Democratic Left, the Green-Ecologist Party and the
Democratic Alliance of former Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyiannis,
who was expelled from New Democracy for supporting Greece’s
first international aid package, would enter parliament, the
marc poll showed while Alco found that the Chryssi Avghi, or
Golden Dawn, party would also have members of parliament.  More than six in 10 of the 1,013 people polled by marc said
Greece’s next government should be a coalition administration
while 60 percent favored the creation of new parties. Two in 10
of the 1,000 people questioned by Alco said they would support a
party led by Interim Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  if he
chooses to create one.  The two polls showed that between 65 percent and 75.9
percent of those interviewed said Greece should remain within
the euro area while six in 10 said general elections should take
place either in April or by the end of May at the latest.  The marc poll was conducted Feb. 15-17, while the Alco poll
took place Feb. 14-16. Neither gave a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  