-- IAEA Iran Visit May Offer End to War Talk Over Nuclear Work
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-02-20T21:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/iaea-visit-may-be-iran-s-chance-to-stem-war-concerns-over-nuclear-program.html
United Nations investigators begin
two days of meetings in  Iran  today, offering Tehran’s government
a chance to stem growing speculation the country’s nuclear
program will spark a military conflict.  Officials from the  International Atomic Energy Agency  flew
to the Iranian capital yesterday for their second round of talks
in a month. The visit begins a week after Iranian President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said his country will boost production of 20
percent enriched uranium at a deep underground facility in
Fordo, near the holy city of Qom.  “We hope to have some concrete results after this trip,”
the IAEA’s top inspector Herman Nackaerts said late yesterday at
Vienna International Airport. “The highest priority remains, of
course, the possible military dimensions of  Iran’s nuclear
program , and we want to tackle all outstanding issues.”  The simmering conflict over Iran’s nuclear work has driven
 oil prices  higher.  Israel  and the U.S. have refused to rule out
military action against Iranian nuclear sites to prevent the
country from acquiring a weapon. Iran, which hid its work for
more than a decade before 2003, says it wants nuclear power for
peaceful purposes.  ‘Hysterical War Talk’  “This meeting is a crucial opportunity for everyone,
including the Iranians, to get serious,” Arms Control
Association Director Daryl Kimball said in a telephone interview
from Vienna. “Getting serious means focusing on the near-term
problem that 20 percent enriched uranium represents,” which
drives the “hysterical war talk in some quarters.”  Iran sent the European Union a letter last week asking for
negotiations over its nuclear program to resume at the
“earliest possibility,” according to a copy of the one-page
document obtained by Bloomberg. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and EU foreign policy head  Catherine Ashton  met Feb. 18
and said they are reviewing the Iranian offer.  “The stakes are higher than ever before due to the
heightened tensions, and the flexibility of both sides probably
are at their lowest,” said Trita Parsi, founder of the National
Iranian American Council. Without compromise “they will face a
high risk of a confrontation that neither side actually wants.”  The EU and the U.S. imposed additional sanctions on Iran
over its nuclear program, restricting trade and financial
transactions. Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, after  Saudi
Arabia , is already under four rounds of UN sanctions.  Oil Cutoff  Iran stopped exporting crude oil to French and British
companies, the oil ministry’s news website  Shana  reported
yesterday, citing Alireza Nikzad Rahbar, a ministry spokesman.  Iran “will give its crude oil to new customers instead of
French and U.K. companies,” Rahbar said. The halt in shipments
followed a warning by Iran’s oil minister that the Persian Gulf
country might act preemptively ahead of an EU ban on purchases
of Iranian crude planned to start in July, he said, according to
the report.  The tightening economic sanctions have Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ’s back “increasingly against the wall,”
Iran researcher Karim Sadjadpour of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in  Washington  said on  National Public
Radio ’s “All Things Considered.” “And he has two ways of
seeking relief: one is in the form of a nuclear compromise, and
the other is in the form of a nuclear weapon.”  ‘Credible’ Intelligence  “Negotiations are long overdue,” Olli Heinonen, who
visited Iranian atomic installations about 20 times as the UN’s
top former inspector, said in an e-mail. Inspectors should
concentrate on getting more access to Iranian facilities and
scientists without getting bogged down over questions about the
authenticity of intelligence shared with the agency, he said.  The Vienna-based IAEA said in November that it had
“credible” intelligence showing that Iran worked on components
needed for a nuclear weapon until 2010.  Robert Kelley , a U.S.
nuclear-weapons scientist and former IAEA inspector, wrote Jan.
11 that some of the evidence may be forged, a claim that Iran
has consistently made.  The agency has sought access to Iran’s Parchin military
base and Lavisan physics center as well as to centrifuge
workshops and uranium mines. All of Iran’s declared nuclear
material is under IAEA seal, monitored by cameras and subject to
regular inspection.  “Iran should allow the IAEA to go to Marivan and take
samples at the site where Iran supposedly did their full-scale
high-explosive tests,” said Kelley, who helped debunk forged
intelligence before the 2003  Iraq War . “The agency needs to put
Marivan first because it is the sleeping dog in the last
report.”  Uranium Traces  The IAEA said in its November report that Iran allegedly
tested explosives designed for its Shahab-3 missile warhead in
Marivan during 2003. Uranium traces could still be found if used
in the experiments, according to Kimball and Kelley.  Diplomats, under a “tremendous amount of pressure to make
a deal,” should exercise caution with Iran’s government,
according to Henry Sokolski, executive director of the
Washington-based Nonproliferation Policy Education Center.  “Tehran may not only reject it, it might become the new
standard other countries will demand you meet in reaching any
new nuclear deals,” he said. If Iran is ultimately permitted to
enrich uranium, the U.S. will find it difficult to tell other
countries not to follow suit, according to Sokolski.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  