-- Lin Scores 28 Points, Leads Knicks to 104-97 NBA Win Over Dallas Mavericks
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/lin-scores-28-points-leads-knicks-to-104-97-nba-win-over-dallas-mavericks.html
Jeremy Lin scored 28 points and
handed out a career-high 14 assists to lead the  New York Knicks 
to a 104-97 win over Dallas that halted the National Basketball
Association-champion Mavericks’ six-game winning streak.  Lin rebounded from his first loss in eight games since
taking over as the starting point guard, helping the Knicks
outscore the Mavericks 32-22 during the final quarter yesterday
at  New York ’s Madison Square Garden.  “I was watching them win the championship last year and
that’s obviously where this team wants to go,” Lin, who added
five steals, said at a news conference. “This is helpful to see
where our team can go and what we can become.”  The Knicks have won eight of their past nine NBA games to
even their record at 16-16 and tie the  Boston Celtics  for second
place in the Eastern Conference’s  Atlantic Division .  Dirk Nowitzki scored a game-high 34 points for the
Mavericks (20-12), who are second in the Western Conference’s
Southwest Division, 2 1/2 games behind the San Antonio Spurs.  Lin, a Harvard University graduate who was cut by two NBA
teams before joining the Knicks in late December, hit 11-of-20
shots to lead six players who scored more than 10 points for New
York. J.R. Smith came off the bench to score 15 points in his
Knicks debut, having signed with the team three days ago after
playing in  China  during the NBA lockout.  Tyson Chandler  and Steve Novak each scored 14 points, while
 Landry Fields  had 13 and Amar’e Stoudemire added 11 for the
Knicks, who played their seventh straight game without leading
scorer Carmelo Anthony. Anthony is set to return from his groin
injury today when the Knicks host the  New Jersey Nets .  Anthony Adjustment  “We should be really good,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni 
said. “It’s easy to say that on paper, and our chemistry has to
get right and everybody has to adjust. It might not be perfect
the first week, but the potential is there and its our job to
maximize that potential.”  Lin finished with seven turnovers, two days after he had
nine in a 89-85 loss to the  New Orleans Hornets . While Lin is
averaging 25 points and 9.5 assists as a starter, he also has
committed 52 turnovers in those eight games.  “Still a few turnovers, but the game he had was
ridiculous,” D’Antoni said of Lin. “He makes big plays and
he’s definitely fearless.”  The Mavericks trailed 32-20 after one quarter yesterday and
48-45 at halftime before using a 23-12 third-quarter scoring run
to open a 70-60 lead.  The Knicks rallied in the fourth quarter as Novak scored
all 14 of his points and hit four 3-pointers.  Lin also hit a pair of 3-pointers in the final quarter,
including one with just under three minutes left after  Dallas 
had pulled within two points.  “We came out and we moved the ball and had a lot of people
who contributed,” Lin said. “Across the board the efficiency
was there from everybody. When you play like that on offense and
you have a lot of weapons going, something is going to open
up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  