-- Israel Safest as Investors Discount War Threat
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/israel-safest-as-stock-investors-discount-threat-of-war.html
Israel , under threat of war from its
neighbors since being founded in 1948, produced better risk-
adjusted returns than all other developed stock markets in the
past decade as the technology-driven economy attracted global
investors.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the  Tel Aviv 
 TA-25 Index (TA-25)  returned 7.6 percent in the 10 years ended Feb. 17,
after adjusting for volatility, the highest among 24 developed-
nation benchmark indexes. Israel beat  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng
Index (HSI) , the next-best market with a risk-adjusted gain of 6.7
percent, and  Norway , which had the highest total return.  Israel outperformed as it fought a monthlong battle against
Hezbollah in 2006, was involved in a similar conflict with Hamas
two years later and is now threatened by  Iran ’s nuclear program.
International investors including  Warren Buffett  bought local
companies and the economy, steered by Bank of Israel Governor
Stanley Fischer, grew more than twice as fast as the U.S. last
year. Israel’s stocks may extend gains as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  acquire the country’s
technology startups.  “Israel is an exciting place to invest,” Michael Steinhardt, the former hedge fund manager who produced returns
averaging 24 percent a year over almost three decades until he
retired in 1995, said in a telephone interview from Fisher
Island,  Florida . “The country is surrounded by enemies, it’s
always on the edge of extinction, but it expands and prospers.”  Beating Norway  The Israeli gauge returned  161 percent  including dividends
over the last decade, the third-best performance among developed
markets after Norway’s OBX Index and the  Hang Seng .  “This is a great achievement,” Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said in response to the article in the
Knesset yesterday.  While Oslo’s index produced the highest return, its
volatility was 35 percent greater than that of the TA-25.
 Statoil ASA (STL) , the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter, comprises
25 percent of the gauge, making the market susceptible to
changes in  oil prices . Only one developed-market benchmark
gauge,  Denmark ’s OMX Copenhagen 20 index, gives a bigger weight
to a single company.  The TA-25’s biggest members are  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) 
and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , each with an 11 percent
share. The biggest weighting in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ,
the U.S. benchmark, is Apple Inc. with 3.8 percent.  Fischer’s Role  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses compared with a security whose
price moves at a steady rate.  Bank of Israel’s Fischer, a former thesis adviser to  Ben S.
Bernanke , helped steer the economy back to growth after the
worst global recession since World War II. Fischer, who is
serving his second term as governor, began buying foreign
currency in 2008 after the shekel reached a 12-year high. That
more than doubled the central bank’s reserves in an effort to
help exports, which are equal to 40 percent of gross domestic
product.  Israel’s economy probably expanded 4.8 percent in 2011,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , compared with 1.7
percent  growth  for the U.S., data from the Bureau of Economic
Analysis show. That follows five years of average annual growth
in Israel of 4.2 percent, boosted by foreign investment in local
companies.  Outpacing G-10  Private consumption expanded at the fastest pace in at
least five years in 2010, climbing 10.2 percent, according to
Central Bureau of Statistics data. The growth attracted  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s second-largest clothing retailer, which has
opened eight local stores since March 2010.  The country’s gross domestic product will grow 3.2 percent
in 2012, according to Finance Ministry projections. That’s
almost three times the 1.2 percent average for the Group of 10
countries and faster than the 2.2 percent expansion in Norway,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Israeli stocks benefited in the past from investor interest
in  emerging markets , and may underperform when the global
economy slows, said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-based
Marketfield Asset Management, which manages $1.3 billion.  “The TA-25 was a big beneficiary of EM-related flows over
the last decade,” said Shaoul, whose Marketfield Fund beat 97
percent of its peers over the past three years. “It doesn’t
matter how MSCI categorizes Israel, it still trades with the
emerging-market complex.”  Market Upgrade  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 189 percent in the
10 years through 2011, not including dividends, about 10 times
the MSCI World Index of developed countries’ gain, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Israel was added to MSCI Inc.’s developed
market index in May 2010.  After that change, investors pulled a net $795 million from
Tel Aviv shares by the end of the year, while in 2009 they added
$1.7 billion. All investors tracking the MSCI index had to
rebalance their portfolios as Israel was removed from the
emerging-markets gauges.  This year, the TA-25 had its best start of a year since
1997, with a 3.1 percent rally in January. The measure gained
0.5 percent yesterday. IBM said on Jan. 31 that it’s acquiring
Worklight Inc., the closely held provider of a mobile
application platform for smartphones and tablets whose research
and development is based in Shefayim, Israel, as the world’s
biggest computer-services provider looks to enhance its mobile-
service offerings.  IBM, Apple  The announcement came less than three weeks after Apple,
the world’s biggest smartphone vendor, acquired Anobit
Technologies Ltd., an Israeli company that makes flash-memory
drive parts for the iPhone and iPad. Apple paid about $390
million, according to two Anobit shareholders, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  Buffett, 81, who in 2006 bought Israeli tool manufacturer
Iscar Metalworking Cos. for $4 billion, and Steinhardt, 71,
credited the success of the country’s companies to technological
innovation. For a small nation, Israel has contributed a
disproportionately high number of Nasdaq companies, Steinhardt
said.  Steinhardt opened New York-based Steinhardt Management Co.
in 1967 and is now chairman of WisdomTree Investments Inc., a
New York-based asset-management firm that offers exchange-traded
funds. Buffett, through four decades of takeovers and stock
picks, built  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  from a failing textile mill
into a $195 billion provider of insurance, energy and consumer
goods, and accumulated the world’s third-biggest personal
fortune.  ‘Looking for Brains’  “If you go to the  Middle East  and you’re looking for oil,
skip” Israel, Buffett said in 2010. “If you’re going looking
for brains, just stop at Israel. You don’t have to go anyplace
else.”  Israel’s stock market outperformed even as the country was
under constant threats of violence. The Hezbollah movement, a
Shiite Muslim political party that is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel and the U.S., fired rockets into the
country’s north in the July-August 2006 Second Lebanon War.
Israel launched Operation Cast Lead, a three-week offensive
against the Hamas movement, which controls the Gaza strip, in
December 2008.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Israel should be
wiped off the map. Israeli leaders have been warning publicly
that time is running out to stop Iran from developing nuclear
weapons at a time when the country faces security threats as the
so-called Arab Spring creates turmoil in its Middle Eastern
neighbors.  ‘Military Action’  “It will take a lot more than a simple military action to
keep the stock exchange from working,” Gilad Alper, an analyst
at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by
telephone. “The last full-scale war that we had here that
involved huge parts of the economy was in 1973. Since then,
everything has been relatively small.”  Israeli companies have benefited from diverse geographic
revenue. Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, and
 Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , the harvester of chemicals from the  Dead
Sea , comprise more than 20 percent of the TA-25 and get less
than 6 percent of their revenue from Israel. Exports make up
about 40 percent of Israel’s economy and the country’s high-
technology industry accounts for 47 percent of manufactured
overseas shipments, according to the central bureau of
statistics.  ‘Attractive’ Dividends  “There are a lot of Israeli companies with a global
footprint, and many are global leaders,” Steven Schoenfeld, the
founder of New York-based BlueStar Global Investors LLC, a
financial information and research company, said by telephone.  Israeli companies also returned more money to investors
than those in other developed markets. The  dividend yield  of the
TA-25 Index is 3.49 percent, compared with a 2.63 percent
average for companies on the MSCI World Index of developed
markets. It’s boosted by companies such as  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) 
and Hot Telecommunication System, with 14 percent and 11 percent
yields, respectively.  “The dividend yield of companies on the TA-25 Index is
very attractive,” said Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a London-based  money
manager  at Artemis Investment Management LLP in  London , which
oversees $17 billion.  ‘Safe Model’  Standard & Poor’s  raised Israel’s credit rating for the
first time in four years in September, lifting the country to
A+, in line with Chile and Slovakia. S&P cited local economic
growth for the upgrade as well as expected production of natural
gas by the middle of the decade that will further increase the
economy’s efficiency and strengthen its fiscal and external
positions.  “Israel has very well-capitalized banks and an economy
that is well-balanced with the high degree of high tech,” in
addition to “one of the best central bankers in the world,”
Artemis’s de Tusch-Lec said. “This is not an economy that was
built on cheap leverage,” he said. “This is a safe business
model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  