-- Japan’s Emperor Recovers After Bypass
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-02-19T08:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/japan-s-emperor-recovers-after-bypass.html
Japanese Emperor Akihito continued
to recuperate from heart surgery, as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he prayed for a speedy recovery and the Imperial
Household said it had no plan to update on his condition today.  Akihito, 78, who had prostate surgery in 2003 and was
hospitalized with pneumonia in November, will remain in
intensive care at the  University of Tokyo  Hospital at least
until tomorrow, the hospital’s Dr. Minoru Ono said at a press
conference yesterday. Surgeons bypassed two arteries to improve
blood flow to the Emperor’s heart in a four-hour operation.  Empress Michiko and daughter Sayako Kuroda visited after
the operation, and Akihito was awake and alert, Ono said, adding
that he nodded in response when asked if he felt well. The
procedure went as expected with no blood transfusions needed,
Ono said yesterday.  Prime Minister Noda said he prayed for the “Emperor’s
earliest possible recovery,” national broadcaster NHK reported
today.  Concern about the emperor’s health has prompted the
government to consider altering the 1947 law that mandates only
men succeed to the throne and requires princesses to give up
their titles if they marry commoners. Akihito’s grandson
Hisahito in 2006 became the first male born into the family in
more than four decades, increasing the number of potential heirs
to three.  Crown Prince Naruhito, 51, will serve as regent during his
father’s convalescence. Naruhito, who has one daughter, is next
in line to the throne, followed by his 46-year-old brother,
Prince Akishino, and nephew Hisahito.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  