-- Japan Agrees With China to Aid Europe Through IMF After Further Euro Steps
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-02-20T02:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/japan-china-will-help-europe-solve-debt-crisis-through-imf-azumi-says.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
said that his nation and China are committed to help resolve the
European debt crisis through the International Monetary Fund
once euro region members take further steps themselves.  “We shared the view that  Europe  needs to make more efforts
to create a bigger firewall,” Azumi told reporters in Beijing
yesterday after meeting Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan . “We
also agreed to act together as the IMF will probably ask the
U.S., Japan and China” to help boost its lending capacity.  The meetings deepened dialogue between  Asia ’s two largest
economies after a visit by Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to
Beijing in December, and contrast with periodic tensions between
the two over maritime boundaries. The continued readiness of
 Japan  and China to help offers Europeans an inducement as they
close in on a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) Greek bailout.  “Showing China and Japan are united to support the debt
crisis is good news for European markets,” Hiroshi Miyazaki,
chief economist at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, said
before the meeting. “It may still take some time for the two to
decide specifics as Europe hasn’t reached agreement on a
solution within the region.”  Europe needs a bigger so-called firewall of added funding
to contain the crisis, even as Greece shows some improvement in
solving its woes, the Japanese finance chief said. Azumi, who
also met Chinese Finance Minister  Xie Xuren  during his visit,
said he asked China to make its currency more flexible.  Bond Purchases  Following on an agreement during Noda’s December visit,
Japan has applied to buy about $10 billion of Chinese bonds, a
Japanese finance ministry official said yesterday in Beijing.
The purchases will start soon, he said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because of ministry policy. Japan has joined countries
from  South Korea  to  Thailand  seeking to diversify foreign-
exchange reserve holdings into yuan.  The euro advanced today ahead of a meeting of European
finance ministers with Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos. The
currency gained 0.5 percent to $1.3210 as of 10:47 a.m. in
 Tokyo .  China is willing to get “more deeply” involved in
resolving Europe’s debt crisis, and the continent must send a
clearer message to show how it’s working to strengthen its
finances, Premier Wen Jiabao said at a joint press conference on
Feb. 14 in Beijing with EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  $500 Billion Goal  The IMF proposed last month to boost its lending funds by
as much as $500 billion to insulate the global economy against
any deterioration of Europe’s sovereign crisis.  American officials have indicated the U.S. isn’t prepared
to boost its commitments to the Washington-based lender. Even
so, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner urged the IMF to
support  Greece ’s plan to cut spending, calling it a “very
strong and very difficult package of reforms, deserving of
support of the international community and the IMF.”  The G-20 in April 2009 decided to triple the fund’s
resources as part of plans to pull the world out of recession.
At that time, the U.S. and Japan each contributed $100 billion,
the EU $178 billion and China $50 billion.  “Japan and China are prepared to support the IMF’s
important role in addressing the European sovereign debt crisis,
on the basis of further efforts by the EU and euro area members
and in cooperation with G-20 and IMF members,” according to a
statement issued by the Japanese finance ministry yesterday
after Azumi and Wang met.  G-20 Meeting  The European Union wants Group of 20 nations to pledge more
resources to the  International Monetary Fund  to fight the global
financial crisis, according to a planning document prepared for
a Feb. 25-26 meeting of G-20 finance chiefs and central bankers.  Azumi’s talks on China’s currency follow an increasing
division among investors over prospects for the yuan’s
appreciation. China should expand the flexibility of the yuan
now that’s the case, said  Wu Xiaoling , a former deputy governor
at the People’s Bank of China.  “The uncertainties in global financial markets present
opportunities for the yuan’s exchange rate reform,” Wu said at
a financial forum in  Shanghai  on Feb. 18. “China should take
the opportunity to make full use of the current trading band and
improve flexibility in the yuan.”  While  China  allows its currency to trade 0.5 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  on either side of the reference rate,
the yuan hasn’t moved more than 0.15 percent from the fixing
this month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yuan Policy  Expectations for a drop in the Chinese currency’s value
have reversed, with non-deliverable forward contracts now
forecasting no change or some appreciation, the central bank
said in its quarterly monetary policy report posted on its
website on Feb. 15.  Europe’s crisis has cooled demand for exports from both
China and Japan, the world’s second- and third-largest
economies. Officials in both countries have responded to signs
of weaker growth prospects, with China deciding Feb. 18 to cut
the amount of cash banks must set aside as reserves and the  Bank
of Japan  last week boosting asset purchases by 10 trillion yen
($126 billion.)  Wen and Noda agreed in December to promote direct trading
of yen and yuan without using dollars and to encourage the
development of a market for the exchange, to cut costs for
companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  