-- TNT Express Faces Pressure for UPS Deal After Rejecting $6.4 Billion Offer
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-02-20T16:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/tnt-express-faces-pressure-for-ups-deal-after-rejecting-6-4-billion-offer.html
TNT Express NV (TNTE) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest express-delivery service, is facing pressure to seal an
improved sale agreement with  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  as
investor confidence in its ability to improve margins flags.  TNT Express, which said Feb. 17 it rejected a 4.89 billion-
euro ($6.43 billion) takeover offer from UPS, is seeking a bid
higher than the current 9 euros per share, according to a person
familiar with the negotiations who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. The bid represented a 42 percent
premium on the stock’s Feb. 17 closing price in Amsterdam.  The Dutch company’s board is also unhappy with conditions
attached to the current offer that may require divestitures to
win regulatory approval and possibly lead to job cuts, the
person said. TNT Express is focusing on the talks with Atlanta-
based UPS because  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  has thus far shown little interest
in bidding, the person said.  “The key for them is to ensure that UPS doesn’t walk away
with the company at that 9 euros per share, but actually shares
some of the future synergies with shareholders,” said Damian Brewer, a London-based RBC Capital Markets analyst who rates TNT
“underperform,” adding the share price is unlikely to reach 9
euros before 2015 as a standalone company. “If you’re not
prepared to wait, then UPS’s bid realizes your money earlier.”  Shares Surge  TNT Express  surged  60 percent to 10.18 euros today in
Amsterdam trading, 13 percent higher than the offer price of 9
euros. The shares have advanced 76 percent this year, valuing
the Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based company at 5.5 billion euros.  TNT Express was spun off in May from the Dutch postal
operator, which is now named PostNL and retains 29.9 percent of
the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. PostNL
climbed 50 percent in Amsterdam today to 4.96 euros.  TNT Express’s profit margin has more than halved since
2006, when, as the package-delivery unit of its former parent,
earnings before interest and taxes hit 9.6 percent of revenue.
In 2010, adjusted Ebit represented 4.5 percent of revenue.  “Investors need to see evidence that the company is able
to get back to its historical margins,” said James Rasteh,
president of New York-based White Eagle Partners LLC, which
holds a TNT stake of less than 1 percent. “This lack of faith
is creating a remarkable opportunity for UPS.”  Spokesmen for TNT; PostNL, the largest investor; and Jana
Partners, the third-largest, declined to comment when contacted
yesterday.  Strong Balance Sheet  A bid from UPS, which is already the world’s largest
package-delivery company, or its main competitor, FedEx, has
been speculated about for years as the U.S. companies study
European expansion. That talk gained momentum after the spinoff.  “They have a very strong balance sheet; they could easily
take over TNT at an even higher price,” Amsterdam-based ABN
Amro analyst Maarten Bakker said of UPS. “Road operations and
depots would probably have to be divested in Benelux and the
U.K.”  UPS’s offer was revised and increased following discussions
with TNT, the company said in a statement Feb. 17. Peggy Gardner, a UPS spokeswoman, declined then to comment beyond the
statement. Jess Bunn, a spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based
FedEx, also declined on Feb. 17 to comment, citing a company
policy against discussing “corporate development matters.”  Overlapping operations, particularly in Europe, could
produce synergies for UPS in excess of 400 million euros,
Amsterdam-based Kepler markets analyst Andre Mulder, who
recommends buying TNT shares, said by telephone. A “good
price” would be 11 euros, he said.  Last Opportunity  “This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” Mulder said.
“Of the four major players globally, TNT is the smallest one,
so it’s the last opportunity.”  The UPS bid valued TNT at 1.04 times total assets, compared
with a median multiple of 0.58 in 33 acquisitions of
transportation services companies in Western Europe in the past
10 years, Bloomberg analysis shows. The 42 percent premium
compares with an average of 15 percent in more than 270 deals in
the same period.  UPS completed the purchase last week of Brussels-based
delivery firm Kiala to bolster operations in  Belgium ,  France ,
the Netherlands,  Spain  and Luxembourg, and the company has made
several smaller takeovers in recent years, said Thompson Davis
analyst  David Campbell , who recommends buying UPS and FedEx.  TNT Losses  UPS had a 7.7 percent share of the European express and
parcels service market in 2010, compared with Fedex’s 3.3
percent and TNT Express’s 9.6 percent, according to figures from
Transport Intelligence. Deutsche Post AG’s DHL unit is the
biggest express delivery service in the region with 17.6 percent
of the market.  TNT posted a net loss of  97 million euros  for the first
nine months of 2011 compared with a profit of 62 million euros a
year earlier. TNT is in the midst of a 50 million-euro program
to reduce “indirect costs” and plans to report full-year
earnings tomorrow.  The company cut its 2011 target operating margin for
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa to 8 percent to 9 percent in
October from an earlier target of 9 percent or more. UPS hasn’t
posted an annual loss since going public in 1999 and ended the
third quarter with $4.13 billion in cash and near-cash items.  TNT, whose name derives from the postwar Australian company
Thomas Nationwide Transport, sold its Indian domestic road
business in December and has been hurt by restructuring costs at
its loss-making Brazilian operations.  TNT “needs to be bought, pure and simple,” said Cathy Roberson, an Atlanta-based logistics analyst for Transport
Intelligence. “From a global perspective I don’t see how they
can continue alone as things currently stand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  