-- Singapore’s OCBC Profit Climbs More-Than-Estimated 18% on Loan Growth
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-02-20T02:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/ocbc-s-fourth-quarter-profit-climbs-more-than-estimated-18-on-loan-growth.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,
 Southeast Asia ’s second-largest bank, posted an 18 percent
increase in fourth-quarter profit, beating analysts’ estimates
as loan demand climbed.  Net income in the three months ended Dec. 31 rose to S$594
million ($475 million) from S$505 million a year earlier, the
Singapore-based lender said in a statement to the stock exchange
today. That exceeded the S$574.3 million  average  of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  OCBC joins larger rival DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
reporting higher quarterly earnings on loan expansion. Lending
may weaken in coming months after Singapore adopted measures to
curb mortgages in December, and asset quality may decline as the
economy cools.  “Loan growth was significant for all  Singapore  banks
including OCBC over the quarter, and that should have done
enough to offset the slight narrowing of net interest margins,”
Sam Hilton, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc., said before the results.  OCBC’s net interest income, the difference between what a
bank makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, grew 20
percent from a year earlier to S$925 million.  Trading Gains  Non-interest income was little changed at S$572 million as
a drop in earnings from stock broking and wealth management was
offset by a 41 percent gain in net trading income. Operating
profit from  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE) , OCBC’s insurance
subsidiary, declined 18 percent to S$85 million.  Even as income from  wealth management  declined during the
quarter, OCBC said assets under management at Bank of Singapore
Ltd., its private banking franchise, grew 19 percent during the
year to $32 billion.  “The markets are now taking off and that will help them
this year, especially in their insurance business and private
banking,” said  Matthew Smith , a senior research analyst at
Macquarie Capital Securities Singapore Pte.  OCBC has been tapping the growing ranks of wealthy Asians
to boost assets.  China ’s millionaire tally jumped 31 percent in
2010 to 1.1 million households, according to a Boston Consulting
Group survey released in June 2011. Singapore had the highest
concentration of millionaires, accounting for 15.5 percent of
the island-city’s population, the study showed.  Shares of OCBC rose 0.5 percent to S$8.89 as of 10:13 a.m.
local time. The Straits Times Index gained 0.5 percent.  Bigger Loan Books  Loan books of banks in Singapore grew more than 30 percent
in the last two months of 2011, fueling earnings growth. DBS
said on Feb. 10 that its quarterly profit gained 7.8 percent to
S$731 million.  For the full year, OCBC’s net income climbed 3 percent to
S$2.3 billion, led by loan growth to the general commerce sector,
housing loans and lending to professionals and individuals.  “Our results for 2011 underscore the strength of our
customer franchise in a challenging operating environment,”
Chief Executive Officer  David Conner  said in his last quarterly
statement.  Conner will step down in April after 10 years at the helm,
continuing to serve as a non-executive director on the bank’s
board, OCBC said last month. Samuel N. Tsien, his replacement,
has run the global corporate bank since 2007.  Lending income at Singapore banks may face pressure after
the government on Dec. 7 imposed extra taxes on residential
property purchases by foreigners and existing homeowners.  OCBC’s net interest margin narrowed to 1.85 percent in the
fourth quarter from 1.96 percent a year earlier, according to
the statement.  Singapore’s economy grew 4.9 percent in 2011, the trade
ministry said last week. The government maintained its forecast
for an expansion of 1 percent to 3 percent this year as the
global economic outlook remains “subdued,” the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  