-- Home Sales Probably Increased in January: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-19T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/home-sales-in-u-s-probably-climbed-in-january-to-highest-level-since-2010.html
Home sales in the U.S. probably
climbed in January to the highest level since May 2010, adding
to evidence the housing market is regaining its footing,
economists said reports this week will show.  Combined purchases of new and existing houses rose to a
4.97 million annual rate from 4.92 million in December,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Claims for jobless benefits held near the lowest level since
2008, bolstering  consumer confidence , other reports may show.  A strengthening job market, combined with record
affordability driven by the drop in home prices and mortgage
rates, will probably keep underpinning demand. Nonetheless, the
Federal Reserve and Obama administration are striving to find
ways to lend the industry additional assistance amid concern
that mounting foreclosures will continue to hinder the recovery.  “Home sales have bottomed, and from here on, we should see
a moderate pickup,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, an economist at
BNP Paribas in  New York . “Hiring is improving slowly, so that’s
helping.” More policy efforts are needed as “we still can’t
rely on housing to recover on its own,” she said.  The National Association of Realtors will release data on
 existing  house sales on Feb. 22. Purchases increased 0.9 percent
to a 4.65 million annual rate, following a 4.61 million pace in
December, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Sales of  new homes  climbed to a 315,000 annual rate from
307,000 the prior month, the survey median showed. The report is
due from the Commerce Department on Feb. 24. Last year marked a
record low for the industry in data going back to 1963, as
builders sold 302,000 homes, down 6.2 percent from 2010.  More Homebuilding  Reports last week indicated housing is on the mend.
Builders broke ground on more homes than forecast in January,
helped by warmer weather, and construction permits also
advanced. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
index of builder confidence climbed in February to the highest
level since May 2007.  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  reported that orders jumped 36
percent in the final three months of 2011 from a year earlier,
and closings on new houses surged more than 60 percent. The
Atlanta-based builder said it expects to sell more properties
this year than last.  “While our visibility into the economic conditions for the
remainder of the year is limited, I believe that we will benefit
from a gradually improving housing market,” Allan Merrill,
chief executive officer, said on an earnings call on Feb. 2.  Build Shares  Investors also are upbeat about prospects. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has advanced 21 percent
since the end of last year, outpacing an 8.2 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 .  Policy makers are working to help distressed homeowners.
The top five mortgage lenders this month reached a $25 billion
settlement with 49 states and the U.S. government over the use
of faulty paperwork in foreclosures.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s
efforts to spur growth are being blunted by impediments to
mortgage lending, and called for more steps to heal the housing
industry.  “The economic recovery has been disappointing in part
because U.S. housing markets remain out of balance,” Bernanke
told homebuilders on Feb. 10 in  Orlando ,  Florida . “We need to
continue to develop and implement policies that will help the
housing sector get back on its feet.”  One asset has been the improvement in employment. The
jobless rate fell in January to a three-year low of 8.3 percent,
and payrolls rose by 243,000 workers.  Fewer Firings  Firings are also waning, Labor Department figures may show
on Feb. 23. Initial jobless  claims  rose last week to 355,000
after reaching a four-year low the prior week, according to the
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.  Greater affordability is also supporting home demand. The
National Association of Realtors’  measure  of whether households
earning the median income can afford a median-priced house at
current  interest rates  reached a record in the last three months
of 2011.  Among other reports this week, the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer  sentiment 
rose to 72.8 in February from a preliminary reading of 72.5,
economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted. The data will be
released Feb. 24.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  