-- Hong Kong Offers Asia’s First Volatility Index Futures as Swap Alternative
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-02-20T09:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/hong-kong-bourse-to-offer-asia-s-first-volatility-index-futures-from-today.html
Hong Kong ’s stock market today
started selling the first  futures  tracking volatility in Asia,
the fastest-growing region for derivatives.  Futures (VHSH2)  on the  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI) , which tracks expected
equity-market volatility over the next 30 days, are the first of
their kind based on an Asian market, according to Calvin Tai,
head of trading at the Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. The
Osaka Securities Exchange Co. will begin offering futures on
 Japan ’s  Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index (VNKY)  on Feb. 27,
according to the bourse.  Volatility index futures have been trading in the U.S.
since 2004 and  Europe  since 2005. The products were created as
alternatives to so-called variance swaps, derivatives in which
investors take a position on how much a stock or index will move
with a bank or dealer instead of via a public exchange. The
futures  surged in popularity  after the 2008 financial crisis,
when investors sought products that allowed them to hedge
against large market swings.  “It’s definitely something that’s been missing from the
product suite in  Asia ,” Shane Miller, head of flow index
trading for the Asia Pacific region at  Barclays Capital . “For
the more professional investors, who would normally trade
variance swaps, this gives them another way to invest in
volatility. This product will allow less sophisticated investors
holding portfolios of cash or stocks to implement a hedge they
didn’t previously have access to.”  Institutional Investors  Ten trades  comprised of fifteen contracts, each worth
HK$5,000 passed across the exchange on the first day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. All were February futures
contracts, closing at HK$24.50.  “It takes a certain amount of time for people to get
comfortable with the product and comfortable with the risk,”
Miller said. “Most clients today were focused on the broader
macro factors. I think that’s where the focus was, and expect
them to have more interest in the coming weeks.”  The HSI Volatility Index was created by Hang Seng Indexes
Co. and calculated by the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  and
 Standard & Poor’s . It began trading on Feb. 21 last year. The
Hong Kong gauge rose 5 percent to 23.84 at the close, indicating
investors expect a 6.8 percent swing in the  Hang Seng Index  in
the next 30 days.  “We think institutional investors would come into this
market first,” Tai said in a telephone interview on Feb. 17.
“We have educational and promotional plans later this year. We
are going to work with brokers, and exchange participants to
conduct a few rounds of simulation trading on this product.”  Product Evolution  Exchange-traded notes, exchange-traded funds and other
structured products have been created in the U.S. and Europe
around volatility futures.  Similar products  may be reproduced in
Asia if demand is sufficient, Tai and Miller said in separate
interviews.  Volatility index futures products “received attention
after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ” in 2008,
Osaka Securities Exchange Co. spokesman Masahiro Yada told
Bloomberg News. “As global events continued, like the Greece
debt crisis and U.S. debt downgrade, financial institutions saw
the need to protect their investments and there was more demand
for the product.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  