-- Tottenham Held to 0-0 Draw at Stevenage in F.A. Cup; Liverpool Scores Six
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-02-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/tottenham-held-to-0-0-tie-at-stevenage-liverpool-scores-six-in-f-a-cup.html
Tottenham was held to a 0-0 tie at
third-tier club Stevenage in the fifth round of soccer’s F.A.
Cup yesterday, while Liverpool beat Brighton 6-1 to reach the
quarterfinals.  Tottenham, third in the elite Premier League, was unable to
breach the defense of its League One opponent, now the lowest-
ranked team remaining in the competition. The winner of the
replay will host Bolton in the next round.  “I’ve been around long enough to know what to expect, I
have managed teams in the lower divisions and seen Premier
League teams knocked out,” Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp 
told ITV. “Stevenage are a difficult team to play and worked
their socks off.”  Liverpool had no such problems against Brighton of the
second-tier Championship. There were three own goals and efforts
from  Martin Skrtel , Andy Carroll and  Luis Suarez . Stoke, which
played most of its match with 10 men after Rory Delap was red-
carded, beat Crawley Town 2-0 in yesterday’s other game and will
play the Reds in the quarterfinals.  “It’s important to win first of all, then to win
comfortably,” Liverpool midfielder  Steven Gerrard  told ESPN.  Tottenham faced early pressure from the home team at Lamex
Stadium and Stevenage appealed for a penalty kick when the ball
appeared to strike the hand of  Michael Dawson .  Jermain Defoe  stabbed the ball wide for Tottenham in a rare
first-half opportunity for the visitors on a bumpy field.  Louis Saha  fired over the bar later in the half and Younes Kaboul
struck a free kick just wide.  Cudicini Save  Stevenage had one of the best opportunities before the
interval, forcing Carlo Cudicini to tip over a Scott Laird
header from a Luke Freeman free kick.  Stevenage goalkeeper Chris Day, who started his career at
Spurs, turned a long-range effort from Gareth Bale behind for a
corner early in the second half as Tottenham started to apply
more pressure. Saha then had a goal ruled out for offside.  “We’re still in the cup and are at home now,” Redknapp
said. “It gives us a big chance but I wouldn’t underestimate
them.”  At Anfield, seven-time champion Liverpool overcame Brighton
to advance to the last eight. Liverpool remains in contention
for both domestic cup competitions, with the Reds set to play
 Cardiff City  in the Carling Cup final at Wembley in London on
Feb. 26.  Center-back Skrtel put the hosts ahead after five minutes
with a header from a Gerrard corner.  30-Yard Shot  Brighton responded from a 17th-minute free kick. The ball
was rolled to Kazenga LuaLua and he struck a low 30-yard (27
meter) shot into the bottom corner of the net.  The Reds were ahead just before halftime when an attempted
clearance from Brighton’s Sam Vokes hit his teammate Liam
Bridcutt and went into the net.  Carroll hit his sixth goal of the season to increase
Liverpool’s advantage, before further own goals from Bridcutt
and Lewis Dunk.  “We’ve got a massive game next week at Wembley,” Gerrard
said. “It’s important to try and get there in the F.A. Cup
too.”  Suarez scored four minutes after having a penalty saved
after 81 minutes.  Jonathan Walters , with a penalty kick, and  Peter Crouch 
scored for last season’s runner-up Stoke at Crawley of League
Two. Delap was red-carded after 17 minutes.  Two days ago, Sunderland beat Arsenal 2-0, Chelsea was held
to a 1-1 draw by Birmingham, while Everton defeated Blackpool 2-
0. Bolton beat Millwall 2-0, and Leicester won 2-1 at Norwich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 