-- Rate Increase Bets Fade as Lira Gives Room to Cut: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-02-20T14:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/rate-tightening-bets-fade-as-lira-gives-basci-room-to-cut-turkey-credit.html
The rebound in the world’s worst-
performing currency is diminishing the likelihood that  Turkey ’s
central bank will raise interest rates to stem the highest
inflation in 19 major emerging markets, trading in the  swaps
market  shows.  The cost to lock in two-year borrowing costs through
interest-rate swaps tumbled to 392 basis points above the
benchmark one-week repurchase rate on Feb. 17 from 570 basis
points on Jan. 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 5.75
percent benchmark rate sets the floor of a corridor within which
Erdem Basci, governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of
Turkey, varies lending rates. He’ll probably hold that rate
unchanged at a monetary policy meeting tomorrow, according to
all nine economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  Basci, 45, introduced the dual interest rate policy in
October and drove banks’ borrowing costs to close to the 12.5
percent ceiling of that range while selling $18 billion of
foreign-currency  reserves  to support the lira as an exchange
rate depreciation of 18 percent last year drove inflation to
10.5 percent, a three-year high. This year, the lira has gained
8.6 percent against the dollar, fueling the biggest decline in
bond yields in emerging markets and helping the  central bank 
pare its inflation outlook to 6.5 percent by year-end.  “Turkey’s central bank will wait for further indication
that inflation is falling to cut rates -- they won’t do it at
this week’s meeting, but as soon as they can,” Agnes Belaisch,
who helps manage about $2.5 billion in emerging-market debt at
Threadneedle Asset Management in London, said in an e-mail in
answer to Bloomberg questions. “The strengthening of the lira
is passing through to help achieve the central bank’s objective
of reducing inflation.”  Growth Target  Lower rates would support Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s goal of achieving at least 4 percent growth this year
for Turkey’s $735 billion economy, after the fastest expansion
behind  China  among major economies last year. Economists expect
growth to slow to 2.7 percent in 2012, according to the median
of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Basci has the power to vary overall borrowing costs on a
daily basis by adjusting the amount of funding he may provide at
three rates: the lowest one-week rate and overnight rates at 12
percent and 12.5 percent. Daily flexibility is essential to
manage volatile inflows and outflows caused by the European
sovereign debt crisis, he told journalists in Istanbul on Jan.
31.  The monetary policy committee will announce its decision on
rates tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. in Ankara. Basci has kept the
benchmark one-week rate on hold at 5.75 percent since a 50
basis-point cut to an all-time low on Aug. 4.  Swap Premium Drops  Now  interest-rate  swaps, which show bets on the average
lending rate in liras in two years, are approaching levels just
before the August meeting, when the premium over the one-week
repo dropped to 333 basis points, or 3.33 percentage points,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  As the lira hit an all-time low of 1.9219 per dollar on
Dec. 28, Basci pushed the average of the three rates close to
the 12.5 percent ceiling to stabilize the currency. The bank has
now eased the aggregate rate to as low as 7.5 percent after it
resumed funding at 5.75 percent on Jan. 10, according to
economists including Ibrahim Aksoy of Istanbul-based Sekerbank
TAS and Emre Tekmen of Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS.  Currency Swaps  The cost to exchange lira payments for dollar payments in
two years dropped to 7.33 percent at 3:21 p.m. in Istanbul from
9.5 percent on Jan. 5, the highest since Dec. 14, 2009, a
further sign that investors see lower likelihood of fresh
tightening, according to so-called cross-currency swap rates on
Bloomberg.  The outlook for Turkish interest rates is shifting after
the third-best currency rally in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  this year. The lira, trailing only the forint’s 10
percent gain and the zloty’s 8.2 percent appreciation in 2012,
gained 0.9 percent today to 1.7395 per dollar at 4:22 p.m. in
Istanbul.  The advance has helped send  yields  on benchmark two-year
lira bonds to a 2012 low of 9.21 percent on Feb. 17 from 11.48
percent at the end of last year. The yields dropped 7 basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 9.14 as of 4.22 p.m. in
Istanbul, according to a Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  index 
of the securities.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than  U.S. Treasuries  declined 43 basis
points to 342 since the end of 2011, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index shows. Serbia, whose debt carries the same BB
rating from  Standard & Poor’s  as Turkey, has a spread of 568
basis points, 33 basis lower than the end of last year.  Yield Decline  Turkish credit-default swaps fell 4 basis points to 251 on
today at 4:08 p.m. in Istanbul, compared with a spread of 210
for  Russia , rated three levels higher by S&P, and 218 for
 Poland , rated five levels higher, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately-negotiated market.  As of last week, Turkish default swaps cost 29 basis points
less than the average for countries in central and eastern
Europe, the Middle East and Africa included in the Markit iTraxx
SovX CEEMEA Index. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Slower Inflation  A sustained strengthening in the  exchange rate  may mean
inflation will slow by more than the central bank forecast,
Basci said on Jan. 26 in Davos,  Switzerland , in an interview
with  Bloomberg HT  television. While  inflation  was more than
double the central bank’s medium-term target of 5 percent in
January, Basci said consumer-price increases have peaked and
will slow in May before dropping again in the fourth quarter.  The rate will fall to 6.87 percent in 12 months, according
to the average estimate of more than 80 economists and
executives in a fortnightly published by the central bank on
Feb. 8. The prediction fell from an average 7.2 percent forecast
two months previously. Inflation was 33 percent when Erdogan’s
Justice and Development Party took office in 2002 and slowed to
a four-decade low of 4 percent in March last year.  The central bank’s forecast for inflation is based on “the
tight monetary policy stance being maintained a while longer”
and the lira showing “a moderate appreciating trend,” the bank
said in a report on Jan. 31.  Growth ‘Volatility’  While policy makers’ primary goal is price stability, any
increase in interest rates to tame inflation would “create
volatility” for economic growth, Basci said the same day.  “The central bank thinks that meeting the inflation target
in the short-term will be very costly and that it would be wrong
to trigger a recession to get to the official goal,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist for JPMorgan in Istanbul, said in a Feb. 16
telephone interview. “There’s no use in insisting on inflation
when the world doesn’t care about it and is focused on
stability.”  Growth in Turkey’s economy, the eighth-biggest in Europe
and about half the size of Russia’s, has started slowing.
Turkish gross domestic product expanded 9.6 percent in the first
nine months of last year from the same period of 2010. Even
Erdogan’s goal is less than half that pace and below the average
annual rate of 5.9 percent since 2002.  ‘Current-Account Problem’  Viktor Szabo, who helps manage $7 billion in emerging-
market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management in  London , said Basci
is unlikely to drop his interest-rate corridor any time soon.  “The ultimate target of the central bank is growth” and
Basci thinks “low rates are needed” to achieve that goal,
Szabo said by telephone Feb. 16. “But now you’re running into a
high inflation problem and you’re running into the current-
account problem.”  Turkey’s cumulative 12-month  current-account deficit 
ballooned to a record $78.6 billion, or about 10 percent of GDP,
in October before falling from November and ending the year at
$77.1 billion, according to data from the central bank in
Ankara. Economists including Tim Ash at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London have called on Basci to drop his corridor
policy and raise rates to help curb the demand for imports
that’s widening the deficit.  The deficit will shrink this year, Basci said in Davos on
Jan. 26. Erdogan’s government expects the gap to narrow to 8
percent of GDP at the end of this year and 7.5 percent in 2013,
according to medium-term  economic plans  published on Oct. 14.  Rates Flexibility  The current-account deficit is a “core concern” and will
push the central bank to stick by its variable rates policy,
William Jackson, an  emerging markets  economist at  Capital
Economics  in London, said in a telephone interview Feb. 16.  “They’ll be maintaining the corridor policy because this
gives them the flexibility to respond quickly to any
deterioration to investor risk appetite,” Jackson said. “After
all, the current-account deficit is still at 10 percent of GDP
and it still looks unsustainable.  The deficit may be 9.5 percent in the second half of this
year and 8.5 percent at the year-end, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economist  Ahmet Akarli  said in an e-mailed report from London on
Feb. 12, adding that a ‘‘lasting improvement looks unlikely.’’
Two days earlier, he increased his forecast for 2012 economic
growth to 2.5 percent from a previous 0.5 percent citing a
better global outlook.  Foreign investor inflows buoyed by  Federal Reserve  and
European Central Bank policies mean that financing the current-
account gap won’t be a problem this year, Basci told executives
in Bursa, a city in western Turkey, on Jan. 6.  The ECB pumped a record 489 billion euros ($643 billion)
into the euro region in December to ward off a funding squeeze
caused by the sovereign debt crisis. The Fed kept the option
open for a third round of bond purchases after its January
meeting and pledged to keep its  benchmark  interest rate at a
record low of about zero percent until late 2014.  Foreign Inflows  Investors poured $13.7 billion into Turkish government debt
and equities this year compared with a decline of $2.7 billion
in the first five weeks of 2011, central bank data show.  ‘‘Turkey has become again an attractive country to invest
as investors have become more familiar with the central bank’s
policy approach,” Threadneedle’s Belaisch said.  Citigroup Inc., Vodafone Plc and General Electric Co. are
among foreign companies that invested in Turkish assets over the
past decade, seeking a foothold in an economy whose population
grew by 1 million last year to 74.7 million.  Foreign direct investment was $3.3 billion in December, up
from $1.9 billion a year earlier, the central bank said Feb. 13.
The inflows surged 74 percent in 2011 to $15.7 billion, the bank
said.  “The central bank no longer sees the need for high funding
rates,” said Selim Gulkan, a fixed-income trader at Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi in Istanbul, a unit of  France ’s BNP Paribas SA.
“The main reason for this is the foreign interest in Turkish
and other emerging markets following the expansive policies of
central banks in developed countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 