-- Rio Will Invest $518 Million in Driverless Iron Ore Trains
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-20T06:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/rio-tinto-to-invest-518-million-in-driverless-iron-ore-trains.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-
biggest iron ore exporter, will spend $518 million on the first
driverless long-distance trains to haul the commodity from its
 Western Australia  mines to ports, boosting efficiency.  The first automated train, part of the London-based
company’s push into remote-controlled mining technology, is
scheduled to run in 2014, Rio said in a statement. The company
already operates five driverless iron ore haulage trucks at one
of its Pilbara operations.  Rio, which runs a 1,500-kilometer (932-mile) rail network
from mines to ports in Western Australia’s Pilbara region with
41 train sets and about 500 train drivers, will replace almost
all trains with automated services, Greg Lilleyman, president of
the Pilbara iron ore operations, told reporters in Perth.  “This is a long-term thing because they still have got to
go and buy all these trains,” said  Chris Weston , an
institutional dealer at IG Markets in  Melbourne . ’’Given the
skill shortages in Western Australia, this is an effort to
improve the bottom line further down the line.’’  The shares rose 2.2 percent to A$68.04 in Sydney trading,
their biggest gain in two weeks.  Rio is expanding iron ore production to meet growing demand
from  China , and the driverless trains add scheduling flexibility
for extra capacity. “As we’re expanding, we’ll need to add
fewer trains in the future,” Lilleyman said.  “We have trains sitting waiting for a train driver not
because train drivers aren’t working, but because it’s a
logistical nightmare to get people to get around to be in the
same place at the same time as a train,” he said.  Boosting Output Capacity  Rio will spend $2.2 billion to extend the life of its
Nammuldi iron ore mine in Pilbara to increase output capacity to
283 million metric tons a year, it said earlier this month. A
further $1.2 billion will be invested at Cape Lambert on initial
port and rail work needed to boost capacity to 353 million tons,
it said. Production capacity of 283 million tons will be reached
in the second half of 2013, Rio said.  Mining companies are seeking to boost productivity as
mineral grades fall and ore bodies are located in increasingly
remote areas, while the industry faces a worker shortage as
companies expand operations globally.  Rio is also set to deploy 150 driverless trucks in the
future as part of its plans for large-scale automation,  Sam Walsh , the company’s iron ore and Australia chief executive
officer, said in the statement. Rio’s share of the investment
will be $478 million, it said.  “Automation also helps us address the significant  skills
shortage  facing the industry,” Walsh said. “However, as we
expand our business, we will see an overall increase in job
numbers and this will provide new opportunities in the rail
division and elsewhere.”  Rio, which last year made more than two-thirds of its
profit from iron ore sales, will run the driverless trains from
its control center in Perth, about 1,500 kilometers southwest
from its Pilbara operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  