-- Santorum’s Surge Raises Cheers From Camp Obama: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-02-19T16:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/santorum-s-surge-raises-cheers-from-camp-obama-albert-r-hunt.html
“The one who can beat Obama:  Rick Santorum ,” the television commercial proclaims. That boast
brings cheers from two quarters: the faithful followers of the
conservative Republican presidential candidate, and the
Democratic president’s political strategists.  The former Pennsylvania senator is on fire in the
Republican contest, threatening the front-runner,  Mitt Romney ,
in the critical Michigan primary next week and nationally.  Still, President  Barack Obama ’s campaign, the super-PACs
supporting it and the  Democratic National Committee  are
targeting Romney. They still believe the former Massachusetts
governor is the likely nominee, though they are less certain
than they were a few weeks ago. And they calculate, despite the
shortcomings Romney displays as a candidate, that he would be
more competitive than Santorum in the general election.  Santorum, on the other hand, is a more natural Republican
primary candidate, singing the same conservative economic song
as the party’s other aspirants, and layering it with hardcore
social and cultural views, such as hostility to gay rights,
contraception and feminism.  He’s a more problematic adversary for Romney than is  Newt Gingrich , who has been savaged for his lucrative links to the
federally backed home-mortgage company  Freddie Mac  and his
checkered career as House speaker.  Romney’s Strategy  The Romney campaign, which, along with its super-PAC, will
spend millions assaulting the new main challenger over the next
several weeks, is torn as to what strategy is effective.
Santorum’s career as a Washington insider who supported earmarks
while in the Senate doesn’t have the same resonance as
Gingrich’s ties to Freddie Mac. In a Republican primary contest,
it’s not productive to attack cultural conservatism.  Those issues, touchy in the party fight, are likely to be
lethal in a general election.  An example: So far the Romney attack dogs haven’t touched
the controversy that emerged during Santorum’s 2006 re-election
bid, when it was revealed that Pennsylvania taxpayers picked up
a $55,000 tab for  home schooling  his kids. State law permitted
reimbursement for cyber-education; the problem was that the
Santorum family lived in  Washington ’s Virginia suburbs.  That was one of the issues that year that caused Santorum
to suffer the worst electoral defeat of any Republican
senatorial candidate in  Pennsylvania (STOPA1) ’s modern history. It was a
bad year for Republicans anyway, but no incumbent senator lost
by anywhere near as much. This also reflected a changing
Santorum who moved to the hard right on social and cultural
issues. It’s clear that he did so out of conviction, not
expediency; the bad news for his candidacy is that he now
embraces sentiments that smack of intolerance to many Americans.  Santorum opposes gay marriage; so do many other
Republicans, as well as about half of the public, though that
number is dwindling. The  Pennsylvania  lawmaker, while
discoursing on the subject in 2003, stunned a reporter when he
appeared to liken homosexuality to “man on child, man on dog.”
He also once seemed to suggest that gay men should remain
celibate.  He is irresistibly drawn to this topic. After scoring
impressively in the first-in-the-nation Iowa caucuses this year,
he came to  New Hampshire  with a political head of steam,
determined to focus on the top economic issues. Within several
days, when asked about same-sex marriage, he replied, “What
about three men?” adding “Any two people, or any three, or
four.”  Contraception Controversy  On contraception, his opposition isn’t limited to the
current controversy over whether religious institutions should
have to cover employees for such benefits. Although he says that
as president he wouldn’t impose his view that  birth control  is
wrong, in an interview last year he said that he would warn the
country about “the dangers of contraception.”  In 2005, during his last term in the Senate, Santorum was
the driving force in the controversy involving Terri Schiavo, a
woman who had been in a vegetative state for 15 years and whose
husband wanted to remove her from life support. Senate
Republicans, led by Santorum, sought to pass a federal law
overturning state jurisdiction in the matter and that would
require Schiavo to remain on artificial life support, as her
parents desired. He even raised the possibility of congressional
action against the Florida county circuit judge who ruled that
Schiavo’s feeding tube could be removed.  The public was repulsed by this political meddling, and
when Schiavo died a short time later, the autopsy revealed that
she had been in a persistent vegetative state and had
“irreversible  brain damage .”  A look at Santorum’s record in his home state of
 Pennsylvania (BEESPA)  is a good indicator of the problems he might
encounter as the nominee.  There are four, vote-rich Philadelphia suburban counties
that used to be overwhelmingly Republican, and now are more
centrist and critical to a candidate’s success. The most
conservative and exurban of these is Chester County, which
starts about 20 miles west of Philadelphia and stretches down to
the outskirts of Wilmington,  Delaware . It’s still more
Republican and upper income, though socially moderate. Good
Republican candidates carry Chester County. Republican Senator
 Pat Toomey , running against a Democrat who represented the
adjoining district, won there by 12,000 votes in 2010.  In 2006, Santorum was clobbered in the county, losing 55
percent to 45 percent. In a  bad year , he might have won or lost
narrowly; this was a personal rejection. There are more than a
few, if less affluent, Chester Counties around America. If the
 recent economic improvement  stalls, Romney would have a better-
than-even shot in such areas. Santorum probably wouldn’t.  Postscript: One of the best primers on American politics
was written 40 years ago: Harry McPherson’s “A Political
Education.” As President  Lyndon Johnson ’s counsel, he was a
champion of civil rights who became a skeptic of the  Vietnam War 
and was one of the most astute students of governance. A man of
superior judgment and erudition -- he reread the Bible on his
exercise bike and read “The Odyssey” eight times -- McPherson
was one of the wise and sensible voices in the U.S. capital for
more than a half century. He passed away last week at age 82.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 