-- Santorum: Obama Favors ’Earth Above Man’
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-20T05:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/santorum-amends-comments-on-obama-s-theological-underpinnings-as-radical-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  says President  Barack Obama  is beholden to
“radical environmentalists” and has “a world view that
elevates the earth above man.”  Santorum, who has emerged as the main challenger to former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in the Republican race,
sought over the weekend to explain his statement that Obama
practices “a different theology” that is “not a theology
based on the Bible.”  Santorum said on the CBS “Face the Nation” program
yesterday that he wasn’t questioning Obama’s Christian faith in
claiming the president subscribes to a “phony theology,” the
phrase he used in a speech to Tea Party activists in Ohio.  “I was talking about the radical environmentalists,”
Santorum said. “That’s why I was talking about energy. This
idea that man is here to serve the earth, as opposed to husband
its resources and being good stewards of the earth, and I think
that is a phony ideal.”  Santorum, who with his wife has home-schooled their
children and who appeals to many social conservatives with his
anti-abortion views, seeks to portray Romney as too moderate to
excite core Republican voters and beat Obama in November.  The most recent Gallup tracking poll released yesterday
showed 36 percent of registered Republicans saying they prefer
Santorum while 28 percent back Romney. The poll is a five-day
rolling average of support among registered Republicans.  On the campaign trail and on national television over the
weekend, Santorum said he is the Republican best able to draw a
clear contrast with the Democratic president.  “It’s about some phony ideal, some phony theology,”
Santorum said of Obama in  Ohio , which holds a Republican primary
on March 6. “Not a theology based on the Bible, a different
theology.”  Destructive Attack  Robert Gibbs , an Obama campaign adviser and former White
House press secretary, said yesterday Santorum’s attack on the
president was “destructive” and is undercutting turnout among
Republican voters in the party’s nomination contest.  “I can’t help but think that those remarks are well over
the line,” Gibbs said on ABC’s “This Week” program. “It’s
wrong. It’s destructive.”  Santorum, on CBS, denied he was attacking Obama’s religious
faith.  “I’ve repeatedly said that I believe the president’s
Christian,” the former  Pennsylvania  senator said. “He says
he’s a Christian, but I am talking about his world view and the
way he approaches problems in this country. I think they’re
different than how most people do in America.”  Prenatal Testing  Santorum also said Obama has “a very bad record on the
issue of abortion and children who are disabled in the womb.”  He criticized the idea of requiring insurance plans to
cover amniocentesis, a prenatal test used to detect fetal
maladies.  “A lot of prenatal tests are done to identify deformities
in utero and the customary procedure is to encourage
abortions,” Santorum said.  While many Republicans criticize federal government
involvement in public education, Santorum took the argument a
step further by saying state governments should play a lesser
role.  Parental Control  “To the extent possible, with respect to mandates and
designing curriculum and the like, I’d get the state government
out,” Santorum said on CBS. “I think that the parent should be
in charge, working with the local school district to try to
design an educational environment for each child that optimizes
their potential.”  While states help fund public schools, he said, “it’s
another thing to dictate and micromanage and create a one-size-
fits-all education system in states and certainly in the federal
government, which is what President Obama’s trying to do.”  Obama this month freed 10 states from provisions of the
federal No Child Left Behind education-testing law enacted by
former President  George W. Bush , a Republican.  Santorum, who has won four primaries and caucuses, is
seeking to win the Feb. 28 primary in  Michigan , Romney’s native
state. Arizona also conducts a primary that day.  Senator  John McCain  said on ABC’s “This Week” yesterday
he’s concerned that the tone of the Republican campaign is
creating a negative view of the candidates.  “I’ve been in very tough campaigns,” the Arizona
Republican said. “I don’t think I’ve seen one that was as
personal and as characterized by so many attacks as these are.”  McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee, endorsed
Romney earlier this year.  Chaotic Race  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who won  South
Carolina ’s Jan. 21 primary, is competing with Santorum for
support among anti-Romney voters. Gingrich said yesterday his
campaign would be “very badly weakened” if he doesn’t win his
home state of  Georgia ’s primary, one of 11 contests taking place
on March 6.  “I think it’s extraordinarily important to carry your home
state,” Gingrich said on “Fox News Sunday.” He also said he
wouldn’t end his candidacy if he loses Georgia, “given the
chaos of this race.”  Asked how about the prospect of a late entry into the
Republican race, Gingrich noted that it had happened in 1964
when “the establishment got terrified of Goldwater,” referring
to Senator  Barry Goldwater  of  Arizona .  “They recruited Bill Scranton, the governor of
Pennsylvania, at the last minute,” Gingrich said. Goldwater won
the  Republican Party ’s nomination in  San Francisco  and lost the
1964 election to Democratic President  Lyndon Johnson .  Ron Paul’s Criticism  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , the fourth remaining
Republican presidential contender, criticized Santorum -- who
stresses his opposition to abortion and gay marriage -- for
wanting to “control people’s social lives.”  A focus on social issues is “a losing position” for
Republicans in their effort to defeat Obama, Paul said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program.  Paul’s platform is based on his libertarian views of a
limited federal government.  Asked if he and Romney had an informal “mutual truce” in
which they avoid criticism on one another, Paul said ‘there’s
not much, you know, on issues that we agree on,” and that he’s
“uncomfortable” with the policies of all three of his
Republican rivals.  Still, he said of Romney: “I think he certainly would have
a more, you know, acceptable management style when you consider
what I have seen and experienced from the other two
candidates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  