-- Sarkozy Touts His Leadership During Debt Crisis in Marseille Stump Speech
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-19T16:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/sarkozy-touts-his-leadership-during-debt-crisis-in-marseille-stump-speech.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
 France  avoided a “catastrophe” under his rule, while accusing
his Socialist challenger of not understanding the depth of the
financial crisis.  “You can’t be trusted to lead the country out of the
crisis if you deny its existence,” Sarkozy said at an election
rally in Marseille, France, today. “Think of a Greek civil
servant with his salary cut, think of a Portuguese retiree with
his pension cut, think of thousands of Americans forced to live
in trailer homes. The truth is that France was not swept away by
a crisis of confidence, that pensions were not cut, that
unemployment didn’t explode.”  The rally was Sarkozy’s second since announcing on Feb. 15
that he’s seeking a second five-year term. Sarkozy, 57, has
lagged Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande , also 57, in every
poll ahead of the first round of voting on April 22.  Sarkozy has made the value of work one of his campaign
themes, saying he’ll call a popular vote on requiring the long-
term unemployed to undergo job training.  “It’s the work of some that gives work to others,”
Sarkozy said, criticizing previous Socialist governments for
introducing the 35-hour work week. “Loving France is realizing
that someone who doesn’t work is always at the charge of someone
who does.”  ‘Low Blows’  Sarkozy said he’d broken with the tendency of previous
governments to retreat in the face of street protests, noting
that he’d raised the minimum  retirement age  to 62 from 60.
Without naming Hollande, he also reiterated statements he made
in previous speeches, suggesting that his Socialist opponent
would weaken France by closing nuclear  power plants  and
regularizing illegal immigrants.  Hollande said earlier in the day he wouldn’t respond to
every Sarkozy attack. “I’m not going to get involved with put-
downs, with low blows,” he said during a visit to a Paris
market. “I’m going to run based on my program.”  On a television program Feb. 16, Hollande pointed out that
he only wants to close one aging nuclear power plant.  Backing for Sarkozy in the first round gained 0.5
percentage point to 26 percent since Feb. 5, while support for
Hollande slipped 2 percentage points to 32 percent, according to
an LH2 poll for Yahoo! published today. Support for Marine Le Pen dropped 1 percentage point to 14 percent.  In a separate poll conducted by Ifop for Le Journal du
Dimanche published today, Sarkozy’s approval rating gained 1
percentage point to 33 percent from last month. The poll was
conducted among 1,923 voters and no margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  