-- Saudi Arabia Reduces Crude Oil Production, Exports in December, JODI Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-02-19T14:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/saudi-arabia-reduced-oil-production-exports-in-december-jodi-data-show.html
Saudi Arabia (OPCRSAUD) , OPEC’s largest crude
producer, reduced oil output and exports in December from
November when it produced the most in more than 30 years,
according to the Joint Organization Data Initiative.  The country reduced output by 237,000 barrels a day or 2.4
percent to 9.81 million barrels a day of crude compared with
10.047 million in November, statistics posted today on JODI’s
 website  show. The kingdom’s exports were cut 7.36 million
barrels a day from 7.8 million barrels, according to the
figures, which include condensates and exclude natural-gas
liquids.  The initiative is supervised by the Riyadh-based
International Energy Forum and compiles data provided by member
governments.  Saudi Arabia ’s crude-oil consumption fell by 5.9 percent in
December from the previous month, according to JODI. The world’s
largest exporter of crude used an average of 1.73 million
barrels a day of oil in December, compared with 1.84 million
barrels in November. The kingdom’s oil consumption has grown at
an average of 4.8 percent a year in the past five years, Riyadh-
based Jadwa Investment Co., said in December.  OPEC’s Spare Capacity  The figures Saudi Arabia’s government submitted to JODI for
December’s crude oil output were close to those estimated by the
 International Energy Agency . The IEA said in its January monthly
report that Saudi output was pegged at 9.85 million barrels a
day. The IEA estimated January’s output for Saudi Arabia to be
the same as December’s. The Paris-based agency estimated Saudi
Arabia’s spare capacity for December at 2.15 million barrels a
day, which makes about 75 percent of OPEC’s effective spare
capacity during the month.  Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said at December’s meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna that
Saudi output increased because there was no excess supply in
world crude markets and that his nation had been adjusting
output to match fluctuating demand of recent months.  The IEF is a group of nations accounting for more than 90
percent of global oil and gas supply and demand, established as
a forum for producing and consuming countries to discuss
international  energy security .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  