-- Syria Presses Crackdown on Protestors After China Urges an End to Violence
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-19T09:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/syria-presses-crackdown-after-chinese-government-urges-end-to-violence.html
Syrian security forces maintained
their crackdown against opponents of President Bashar al-Assad’s
rule after  China  urged an end to the violence.  At least 13 people were killed yesterday, following a toll
of 31 on Feb. 17, the U.K.-based opposition  Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights  said in an e-mailed statement today. The Syrian
army resumed shelling residential districts of Homs, Al Jazeera
reported, citing opposition groups. A fuel storage depot at the
refinery in the besieged city was bombed overnight by “an armed
terrorist group,” the official  Syrian Arab News Agency  said.  China’s vice-foreign minister, Zhai Jun, visited Damascus
yesterday, where he urged  Syria  to halt the fighting and restore
stability. Zhai, speaking in the capital after a meeting with
Assad, backed the Syrian leader’s proposed referendum on a new
democratic constitution, set for Feb. 26, according to the
Chinese state news agency Xinhua.  Syrian forces stepped up their efforts to crush the
rebellion after China and  Russia  vetoed a resolution at the
 United Nations Security Council  earlier this month calling on
Assad to step down in favor of an interim government that would
hold elections. The UN estimates more than 5,400 Syrians died
last year as Assad cracked down on protests that began in March.  The unrest aims “at partitioning” the country and hurting
its position in the  Middle East , Assad was cited by SANA as
saying during the meeting with Zhai. The government has blamed
the violence on “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs.  Damascus Rally  Syrian forces stormed the city of al-Sokhna in the center
of the country, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said
today in an e-mailed statement. Government forces opened fire
yesterday in the Maza neighborhood of Damascus when thousands
rallied in the capital for the funerals of civilians killed a
day earlier, the group said yesterday. Another nine people were
killed by security forces today,  Al Jazeera  reported.  The U.S., European Union and  Arab League , which backed the
resolution vetoed by China and Russia, will attend a “Friends
of Syria” meeting in Tunisia this week aimed at coordinating
support for the opposition to Assad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  