-- Syrian Gunmen Kill Officials as U.K. Foreign Secretary Warns of Civil War
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-02-19T23:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/syrian-gunmen-kill-officials-as-u-k-foreign-secretary-warns-of-civil-war.html
Opponents of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s rule stepped up their deadly attacks against
government officials as the violence of the past 11 months
pushes the country toward civil war.  Gunmen killed Syrian Public Prosecutor Nidal Ghazal, Judge
Mohammed Ziyadeh and their driver in Idlib, the official  Syrian
Arab News Agency  said.  The international community is divided on how to resolve
the conflict as the daily death toll mounts. Forces loyal to the
president are using tanks and artillery to try to crush a
rebellion aimed at toppling Assad’s regime. Syrian government
forces killed 27 people across the country yesterday, Al Jazeera
reported, citing activists.  “I’m worried that  Syria  is going to slide into a civil
war,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told the  BBC ’s
Andrew Marr show yesterday.  Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said yesterday on CNN that it’s too early to
arm the Syrian opposition, because it’s difficult to identify.  “I think intervening in Syria would be very difficult,”
he said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.” Syria is “an arena
right now for all of the various interests to play out. And what
I mean by that is you’ve got great power involvement:  Turkey 
clearly has an interest, a very important interest,  Russia  has a
very important interest,  Iran  has an interest.”  Chinese Visit  China’s Vice-Foreign Minister Zhai Jun visited Damascus
Feb. 18, where he urged Syria to halt the fighting and restore
stability. Zhai, speaking in the capital after a meeting with
Assad, backed the Syrian leader’s proposed referendum on a new
constitution, set for Feb. 26, according to the Chinese state
news agency Xinhua.  Syrian forces intensified efforts to stem the rebellion
after China and Russia vetoed a resolution at the  United Nations
Security Council  earlier this month calling on Assad to step
down in favor of an interim government that would hold
elections. The UN estimates more than 5,400 Syrians died last
year as Assad cracked down on protests that began in March, and
 Saudi Arabia  says the current death toll is at least 7,000.  “Bashar al-Assad is a relatively weak guy” with “a lot
of very strong people around him,”  Edward Walker , former U.S.
ambassador to Israel and  Egypt , said yesterday on  CNN ’s “State
of the Union” program. “Those people realize that if they give
up, they are dead.”  Recalled Envoy  Egypt has recalled its ambassador to Syria, the state-run
 Middle East  News Agency reported yesterday, citing Foreign
Minister Mohamed Amr. It has joined the Gulf Arab countries in
seeking to isolate the Assad government. The Gulf Cooperation
Council’s six members announced on Feb. 7 that they were
expelling Syrian ambassadors from their capitals and withdrawing
their envoys.  The list of options the international community has is
short, “with some, like a new UN General Assembly condemnation,
symbolically powerful, but practically insignificant,” Daniel
R. DePetris, the senior editor of the Journal on Terrorism and
Security Analysis, wrote yesterday in the Small Wars Journal.
“Others, like a Libya-style intervention or air strikes on
Syria’s defenses, are either impractical or politically
explosive,”  Contact Group  The most likely scenario for the U.S., DePetris said, is
forming a “Friends of Syria” group, which Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  will be discussing with representatives of more
than 85 other nations later this week in Tunis.  “The creation of a contact group would bring dozens of
countries together under the same umbrella, for the same purpose
-- pushing Assad out of power and assisting Syrians who are
being cornered by the regime’s security forces,” DePetris
wrote.  The Syrian army resumed shelling residential districts of
Homs yesterday,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing opposition groups. A
fuel storage depot at the refinery in the besieged city was
bombed overnight by “an armed terrorist group,” SANA said.
Syrian forces stormed the city of al-Sokhna in the center of the
country, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Security forces and armed men have been looting and
destroying shops in the Al-Atarib town in the countryside of
Aleppo, according to the Local Coordination Committee in Syria,
a network of activists.  Syrian Partition  The unrest aims “at partitioning” the country and hurting
its position in the Middle East, Assad was cited by SANA as
saying during the meeting with Zhai. The government has blamed
the violence on “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs.  The U.S., European Union and  Arab League , which backed the
resolution vetoed by  China  and Russia, will attend the “Friends
of Syria” meeting in  Tunisia  this week aimed at coordinating
support for the opposition to Assad.  The meeting will discuss tightening the economic
stranglehold around Syria as part of efforts “to increase the
pressure on the Assad regime, to increase the isolation of the
Assad regime,” U.K.’s Hague said.  EU governments are moving toward stiffer sanctions on
Syria. The 27-nation bloc is considering a freeze on central
bank assets and a ban on imports of phosphates and precious
metals, an EU official told reporters in Brussels Feb. 8 on
condition of anonymity. The Arab League has already suspended
Syria and imposed economic sanctions on it.  Safe Haven  Michael Hayden, who served as CIA director in Republican
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, suggested on CNN’s
“State of the Union” that a safe haven be created in northern
Syria to protect the civilian population and provide an area for
the opposition to coalesce. He said the haven could possibly be
created “under the Turks, but with broad international
sanction,” and that the idea was “probably not quite ready for
primetime.”  He added that the “real dark scenario” is continuing with
the status quo.  “What we’re seeing now bleeding into Syria, particularly
from  Iraq , is al-Qaeda and Islamic fundamentalism,” he said.
“As long as this stays frozen, you’ll see the opposition, I
fear, take on more of this characteristic, and that can’t be
good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net 
Danielle Ivory  in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  