-- U.K. Needs to Streamline Marine Energy Fund Process, Report Says
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/u-k-needs-to-streamline-marine-energy-fund-process-report-says.html
The U.K. needs to streamline its
funding process for marine energy and provide clarity on support
beyond 2017 so it doesn’t repeat the mistake that allowed it to
lose its lead in wind power to  Denmark  in the 1980s, a
government report said.  Funding for marine energy from different organizations
creates a risk of overlaps and inefficiencies, according to the
report from the Energy and Climate Change Committee. Among other
recommendations, the committee said that Britain needs to
provide greater certainty on revenue support when the feed-in
tariff replaces the Renewables Obligation system in five years.  Energy from waves and tides has the potential to meet as
much as a fifth of current U.K. electricity demand, according to
the government. Britain is targeting 15 percent of its energy to
come from clean, renewable sources by 2020.  “We are extremely well-placed to lead the world in wave
and tidal technologies, which could potentially bring
significant benefits in manufacturing and jobs as well as an
abundant supply of reliable low-carbon electricity,”  Tim Yeo ,
parliament member and chairman of the committee, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The priorities should be reducing costs and addressing
barriers such as political uncertainty, lack of grid connections
and planning process issues, the report said.  Industry Still Young  A target cost of 14 pence (22 cents) a kilowatt-hour should
also be put into place, it said. The first wave farms are
expected to cost as much as 48 pence a kilowatt-hour and the
initial tidal projects 33 pence a kilowatt-hour.  While the industry is still young and unlikely to make
significant contribution to the country’s 2020 targets, it’s
“vital” that the Department of Energy and Climate Change
supports its development so the U.K. can retain its leadership
position, the report said.  The U.K. and Scottish governments in October increased
support for marine energy by proposing to raise the number of
so-called Renewable Obligation Certificates to five compare with
two previously offered to wave and tidal in  England  and three
offered to tidal developers in  Scotland .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  