-- Volvo Ocean Race Delayed by Unsailable Waves in South China Sea
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-19T05:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/volvo-ocean-race-delayed-by-unsailable-waves-in-south-china-sea.html
The Volvo Ocean Race leg to Auckland
was delayed today by gale force winds and high waves capable of
destroying boats in the  South China Sea , organizers said.  Forecasts of winds gusting above 40 knots (46 mph or 74
kph) and waves of eight meters (26 feet) prompted the decision
to split Leg 4 so the six boats in the competition could wait
out the weather, said race Chief Executive Officer Knut Frostad.  “We will re-start the race some time on Monday and it
could be in darkness,” Frostad said. “Our delay will not be
more than 24 hours.”  Leg 4 will take the fleet 5,220 nautical miles from Sanya,
China, to Auckland,  New Zealand .  Weather advisers for the race “believe we have conditions
which will be dangerous up to 12-18 hours after the leg start,
with waves that can break boats if you sail into them,” Frostad
said.  The boats will complete a four-hour inshore coastal course
today that will take them close to the Guanyin Buddha of the
South  China  Sea statue and finish at the Sanya Bay lighthouse
that marks the entrance to the Sanya Serenity Marina.  The race’s restart will be staggered with boats leaving in
the order they finished Stage 1.  Iker Martinez, skipper of race leader Team Telefónica of
 Spain , said he concurred with the decision to postpone the race.  “We have to trust those forecasts,” he said yesterday.
“It was very difficult to make this decision but it is clearly
a case of safety first and we don’t want to go up against a
wall.”  Team Telefónica has 101 points, followed by Camper with
Emirates Team New Zealand with 83, Groupama sailing team at 73,
Puma Ocean Racing with 53, Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing on 43 and Team
Sanya at 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  