-- Universal Vows to Fight ‘Outrageous’ Wynn Sale
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-20T11:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/wynn-resorts-redeems-director-okada-s-stake-after-foreign-bribery-probe.html
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada’s
Universal Entertainment Corp. said it will take legal action
after  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  forcibly redeemed Universal’s stake at 
a 31 percent discount and accused Okada of improper payments.  Universal (6425) , which plunged in Tokyo trading, will “take all
legal actions necessary to protect its investment in Wynn,” the
pachinko machine maker said today in a statement. The company
didn’t specify any legal remedies.  Okada violated U.S. anti-corruption laws and made cash
payments and gifts valued at about $110,000 to Philippine
gambling regulators, Las Vegas-based Wynn Resorts said in a
statement yesterday, citing its own investigation.  “The decision by the Wynn board, which followed a rushed
investigation that lacks absolute findings, to redeem Universal
Entertainment’s nearly 20 percent holdings in Wynn Resorts 
based on its project in the  Philippines  is outrageous,” 
Universal said in the statement. “We have not even been 
provided with the opportunity to review” the report by Wynn’s 
investigation committee, the company said.  Okada visited the office of regulator Philippine Amusement
and Gaming Corp. in  Manila  today and denied giving cash gifts to
the officials, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Complimentary Accommodations’  Okada told the chairman of the regulator, Cristino Naguiat,
that allegations of about $110,000 in gifts to officials were
“complimentary accommodations” granted to Okada’s business
associates from the Philippines and other countries from 2008 to
2011, it said. The billionaire also apologized to the regulator
for including the agency and its officials in the dispute, it
said.  Wynn redeemed the 24 million shares  held  by Aruze USA Inc.,
a pachinko company controlled by Universal, and issued a 10-year
$1.9 billion promissory note for the stock, the U.S. company
said in the statement. The amount would be 31 percent less than
the value of $2.77 billion based on Universal’s Feb. 17 closing
price of $112.69 in New York, according to the calculations with
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Universal Share Plunge  Universal (6425)  plunged by its daily maximum 21 percent in  Tokyo ,
the biggest drop since its listing in September 1998. Wynn Macau
Ltd. unit rose 3 percent to HK$20.90 at the close in  Hong Kong ,
the highest level since Jan. 27.  “Wynn Macau is rising of the possible removal of an
overhang,” said  Adrian Lowe , an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities in Hong Kong. “But it’s not necessarily the end of
this saga, there are still a lot of questions left unanswered.”  The forced redemption escalates a dispute between Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Wynn  and Okada, who helped bankroll
the company starting 12 years ago. Okada was stripped of his
vice-chairman role last year after he accused Wynn Resorts of
improprieties in a Macau university donation that’s the subject
of a lawsuit and a U.S. regulatory inquiry.  “It’s a very unfortunate event,” Allan Zeman, vice
chairman of  Wynn Macau , said by phone today from  Los Angeles . He
declined to comment further on the redemption and bribery
allegations.  Legal Wrangling  Last month, Okada sued Wynn Resorts in state court in Clark
County,  Nevada , to try to force the company to produce spending
records. That case is pending. Okada opposed Wynn Resorts’ HK$1
billion ($129 million) pledge in July 2011 to the University of
Macau Development Foundation.  Wynn Resorts has said the dispute stemmed from Okada’s
decision to compete by pursuing projects in the Philippines.
Okada was removed as vice chairman after admonishments from the
board over the plan, Wynn Resorts said. The company said
yesterday that it will recommend that he be dropped from the
 board  of Wynn Macau as well.  “This will not change the nature of the company,” said
Zeman. “Mr. Okada is a partner but he is not involved in the
day-to-day business.” He declined to give a date for naming
Okada’s replacement.  New Suit  Wynn Resorts also filed suit against Okada, Aruze USA and
Universal Entertainment in  Clark County  for breach of fiduciary
duty and related offenses, according to Wynn’s statement
yesterday. The filing couldn’t be confirmed independently
through electronic court records.  Gidon Caine, an attorney for Okada, didn’t return voice-
mails seeking comment.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has requested
information about Wynn’s donation to the university foundation.
Wynn was asked in an informal inquiry by the SEC’s Salt Lake
City office on Feb. 8 to preserve information about the
commitment, the company said in a Feb. 13 regulatory filing.  The Macau pledge was consistent with Wynn’s practice of
supporting institutions in markets where it operates, the Las
Vegas-based casino operator said. Wynn Resorts said that it will
comply with the SEC request and that the stated objection of
Okada, who cast the lone dissenting vote among Wynn and Wynn
Macau directors, concerned the length of time over which the
donation would occur, not its propriety.  ‘Fair Value’  Wynn Resorts said yesterday that, to protect the company’s
gambling licenses, it can redeem shares for “fair value” from
a person found “unsuitable” under its articles of
incorporation. An independent financial consultant helped
calculate the fair value, and Okada’s stake was redeemed at a
discount because of restrictions on the shares, Wynn said in the
statement.  “Mr. Okada probably doesn’t have a lot of options but to
follow through on litigation as well and to defend his
position,” Christopher Jones, a senior gaming analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “I
will not expect for the legal headlines to cease with this move
by Wynn.”  The earlier case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts Ltd.,
A-12-654522-B, District Court, Clark County, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  