-- Myriad Genetics’ Australia Cancer Gene Patents Face Sydney Court Challenge
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-02-20T06:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-19/myriad-genetics-australian-cancer-gene-patents-go-on-trial-in-sydney.html
Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  and other
biotechnology companies can’t monopolize disease treatment by
patenting human genetic material, an Australian trial was told
in the country’s first challenge to ownership of DNA molecules.  Cancer Voices Australia , a national organization
representing cancer patients, and Yvonne D’Arcy, a Brisbane
resident diagnosed with  breast cancer , sued Myriad Genetics and
 Genetic Technologies Ltd. (GTG)  in 2010 over a patent the companies
have on a gene mutation associated with an increased risk of
breast and ovarian cancers.  “Patents protect inventions, not discoveries,” Rebecca
Gilsenan, a partner at Maurice Blackburn Lawyers, who represents
the plaintiffs, said before the trial. “No Australian court has
considered the question of whether isolated human genes are
patentable.”  Gene-sequencing breakthroughs are spawning a multibillion-
dollar market for drugs and medical tests. In the U.S., health
regulators are developing rules for bolstering oversight of
laboratory-developed tests and the U.S. Supreme Court may decide
tomorrow whether to hear two cases involving patents over
genetic material, including a review of an appeals court
decision that upheld Myriad Genetics’ patents.  Screening Process  Myriad Genetics, based in  Salt Lake City , contends in the
Australian case that its screening process that includes an
artificially made gene mutation mimicking the one that makes
people more susceptible to breast and ovarian cancers should be
eligible for a patent.  “You can’t use this to build another human being,” David
Shavin, Myriad Genetics’ lawyer, told Federal Court Justice John
Nicholas today in his opening statement at the start of the
trial in Sydney, referring to the process and mutation. “All
you can use it for is to compare” normal and mutated genes.  Australian law allows for patents on artificially created
products with economic benefits, including computer programs and
business methods, Shavin said.  “The position in the  United States  is similar to, but not
the same as, in Australia,” he said.  The Myriad Genetics process copies gene codes from people,
the plaintiffs’ lawyer David Catterns told the judge in his
opening statement today.  ‘Occurs in Nature’  If the plaintiffs isolated a mutation in a gene from a
person’s blood, they would infringe the patent, Catterns said.  “The patent involves precisely the code that occurs in
nature,” he said. “This is not patentable on traditional
principles.”  The trial is scheduled to take as long as eight days.  “There is a philosophical and ethical issue about the
commercialization of the human body,” Gilsenan said. “The
patent owner has a right to prevent people from studying and
testing for the gene mutation, so gene patents can stifle
research.”  The case is: Cancer Voices  Australia  v. Myriad Genetics.
NSD643/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  