-- 
El-Erian Says There’s Still Time to Solve European Debt Crisis

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-11-13T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-12/el-erian-says-there-s-still-time-to-solve-european-debt-crisis.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian said it’s not too late
to solve the European debt crisis and that action is needed
quickly.  “ Europe  can no longer kick the can down the road,” El-
Erian, whose company manages the world’s biggest bond fund, said
in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” scheduled for
broadcast today.  “The good news is it’s not too late to solve,” El-Erian
said. “The bad news is with  Italy , the crisis has entered a
very dangerous phase.”  Last week, Italy’s bond yields surged past the 7 percent
threshold that prompted  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek
bailouts. Italy’s parliament gave final approval yesterday to a
debt-reduction measure aimed at bolstering investor confidence.  Europe’s fiscal woes have turned into a “global crisis,”
IMF Deputy Managing Director Zhu Min said Nov. 11. Asia-Pacific
officials said they were bracing for a deterioration of Europe’s
debt crisis that may push the global economy into a recession.  European finance ministers failed last week to bridge
divisions over a permanent rescue fund.  European Central Bank 
policy makers said the bank can’t do much more to stem the
region’s debt crisis, suggesting they are reluctant to increase
bond purchases to lower Italy’s borrowing costs.  Persuade Markets  Italy needs to persuade markets it’s serious about taking
actions that will allow the economy to grow, said El-Erian, a
former deputy director of the  International Monetary Fund .  Asked if a Greek exit from the  euro zone  might spark panic
about Spain, Ireland and Portugal, El-Erian said, “The risk is
there.”  “We’ve waited so long that there is no cost-less
solution,” he said. “Every solution has enormous consequences,
collateral damage and unintended results.”  The European Central Bank can’t quell the debt crisis on
its own and “individual countries need to step up their reform
effort,” El-Erian said.  Pimco’s Italian debt is “de minimus,’ El-Erian said.  “We were concerned very early on, but people should be
generally defensive, but also selectively offensive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  