-- ‘Little Miss Sunshine’ Curdles; Jazzy Sondheim: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-11-15T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/-little-miss-sunshine-curdles-jazzy-sondheim-review.html
For most of its 100 minutes,
“ Little Miss Sunshine ” struggles to get the tone right before
puttering to a stall.  It’s about an 800-mile road trip from  Albuquerque , New
Mexico to Redondo Beach,  California . Seven-year-old Olive has
won a spot in a beauty pageant, and the financially strapped,
barely functional Hoover family has pledged to get her there in
time despite the recalcitrant VW minibus that is their mode of
transport.  Olive’s kin include her loser dad, beleaguered mother, a
teenage brother who’s taken a vow of silence, her gay uncle (a
suicidal Proust scholar) and her adored grandfather, a drug-addled crank who has been her doting mentor.  Making sport of America’s obsession with sexualizing
children and with selling stuff is nothing new, but the 2006
movie skillfully mixed bemused social commentary with a keen
sense of family dynamics.  Not so the musical, which has songs by William Finn and a
book by James Lapine, who also directs. On Beowulf Boritt’s
swooping set, the humor curdles and an estimable cast never
engages our sympathy.  Stephanie J. Block struggles to make the mother more than a
worrywart; Will Swenson seems at sea as the overwrought father
and David Rasche is miscast as the grandfather, a role that won
Alan Arkin an Oscar.  A highway restroom scene involving the uncle (Rory
O’Malley) and two other men is just tawdry. And the finale,
which needs to be dazzling in its awfulness, is merely pallid.
Finn, who writes brilliant urbane songs, seems out of his
element in the Southwest.  The bright spots are the kids: Dour Logan Rowland as the
silent Dwayne and Hannah Nordberg’s endearing Olive.  Through Dec. 15 at Second Stage Theatre, 305 W. 43rd St.
Information: +1-212-246-4422;  http://www.2st.com .
Rating: **1/2  Sondheim/Marsalis  It’s been a great month for Wynton Marsalis and his Jazz at
Lincoln Center Orchestra. The group’s All Stars are appearing
nightly in the unheralded smash “After Midnight.”  Now, through this weekend only at City Center, Marsalis and
the band are backing one of the best revues of Stephen Sondheim’s songs ever assembled.  The Encores! presentation is titled “A Bed and a Chair: A
 New York  Love Affair.” Songs with no Gotham connection get one.  “There Are Giants in the Sky,” for example, from “Into
the Woods,” is sung in front of worms-eye-view projections of
skyscrapers.  The soignee staging by John Doyle has singing characters
suggestively confront their younger selves, played by dancers.
Think “Follies.”  The draw is Bernadette Peters, decanted into a red cocktail
dress, singing “Broadway Baby” and other numbers for which
she’s a bit long in the tooth.  Peters is joined by the veteran Norm Lewis, the rising-star
Jeremy Jordan and the outstanding newcomer Cyrille Aimee. The
dances, by Parker Esse, are sexy and Ken Billington’s lighting
is exceptionally atmospheric.  Best of all are the superb arrangements by various
contributors, including Marsalis. A standout is Ted Nash’s
“Send in the Clowns,” presented as a torchy instrumental.  Through Nov. 17 at N.Y. City Center, 131 W. 55th St.
Information: +1-212-581-1212;  http://www.nycitycnter.org .
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  