-- AB InBev Starts Selling Aluminum Bud Light Bottles
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-11-16T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ab-inbev-starts-selling-aluminum-bud-light-bottles.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  is rolling
out Bud Light in screw-top aluminum bottles as the world’s
biggest brewer seeks to stabilize the waning brand in the U.S.,
where consumers are turning to craft beers and other beverages.  AB InBev has invested $150 million to create the new
packaging, a 16-ounce (473 milliliters) resealable light metal
bottle, Luiz Edmond, the brewer’s North American president, said
yesterday at a meeting with journalists in  New York . The company
will back up the new look with Super Bowl advertising early next
year.  Consumers think the bottle is “more premium, more
refreshing,” Paul Chibe, vice president U.S. marketing for AB
InBev, said today at the meeting. “We need to continue to
evolve what  Bud Light  stands for,” he said. “We’re taking our
time. It’s not an easy job.”  Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev, which gets 37 percent of
 earnings  before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization from the U.S., was created in 2008 when InBev NV
bought Anheuser-Busch Cos. in a $52 billion acquisition. Since
then, it’s been seeking to revitalize the U.S.-based Anheuser
Busch’s Budweiser and Bud Light brands in the country as well as
to sell more “premium” -- or expensive -- labels to support
profit growth.  Volume Decline  Big brewers are facing headwinds from high unemployment as
well as competition from wines, spirits and so-called “craft”
beer brands. Bud Light is the biggest beer brand domestically,
and is suffering faster volume decline than AB InBev’s overall
U.S. business.  U.S. beer volumes were unchanged last year as mainstream
brands lost out and imports and craft beers grew, according to
the  Beverage Information Group , a Norwalk, Connecticut-based
researcher.  AB InBev said at the time of its third-quarter  earnings
release  Oct. 31 that the beer industry’s sales to retailers fell
2.2 percent in the U.S. in the first three quarters of the year,
while its volumes declined 3.3 percent as it raised prices.
Edmond said yesterday that beer volume declines were slowing,
though low employment among young men, a big category of beer
drinkers, is still stunting recovery, and is particularly
affecting cheaper brands.  Packaging Innovation  The company  has been turning to packaging innovation as
well as creating new takes on old names to bring Budweiser and
Bud Light back to life. Last year, it introduced Bud Light
Platinum, a more expensive and stronger variant to offer an
alternative to spirits in clubs and bars, and Bud Light Lime
Lime-A-Rita. It has started selling Cran-Brrr-Rita ahead of the
holiday season in the U.S., and will make raspberry- and mango-flavored variants early next year.  These innovations have gained market share, though have
slightly removed drinkers from the core Bud Light brand, Edmond
said yesterday.  “Bud Light suffered a bit, and we don’t like it. We’re
going to fix it.”  The new bottle uses less aluminum than traditional cans, he
said, and the packaging invites drinkers to play with the screw-top, which male drinkers like, he said, with a discreet flag
saying “trust me, I like it” on the bottle neck.  Bud Light did gain share in the third quarter of the year,
AB InBev said, though sales to retailers fell 3.3 percent. The
brand has about 21 percent of the U.S. beer market, with its
next closest competitor Coors Light holding about 8 percent, the
company said. AB InBev competes with  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and Molson
Coors Brewing Co.’s joint venture MillerCoors in the U.S.  Premium Brands  AB InBev will also continue to look to premium brands as
well as craft beers to drive profitability in the country. AB
InBev, MillerCoors and Boston Beer Co. now have 50 percent of
volume in craft beer and drove 64 percent of craft growth last
year in the U.S., according to a note from analysts at Berenberg
Bank in London. AB InBev sells beers including Shock Top and
said yesterday that Goose Island, which the company bought in
2011, has benefited from AB InBev’s scale in the U.S.  “We still see lots of opportunity in beer,” Carlos Brito,
the company’s chief executive, said yesterday. “We run this
business for the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  