-- Aboriginals Plan First C$100 Million Tribal Sale: Canada Credit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-15T15:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/aboriginals-plan-first-c-100-million-tribal-sale-canada-credit.html
Canadian aboriginals are preparing
what they call the first-ever sale of tribal debt backed by
taxes and other revenue, earning an investment grade rating by
pooling together the funding needs of dozens of communities.  The First Nations Finance Authority will probably sell
C$100 million ($96 million) to C$150 million of 10-year bonds in
February to institutional investors, said President and Chief
Executive Officer Ernie Daniels. The authority’s plan for a sale
on behalf of 26 to 30 communities received an A3 rating from
Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 13. A second credit rating is
due in the next few weeks, he said, declining to name which
company would publish it.  The debt sale would come almost a decade after  Canada 
passed legislation authorizing such a program, and may offer
more autonomy to communities that often struggle with high
unemployment and worn down housing and water systems. Tribes can
back the loans with  revenue  from sources such as local property
tax, oil-and-gas project royalties and use the proceeds for
infrastructure, housing and social and economic development,
according to the authority’s website.  “It allows First Nations to access the same levels of
financing that other levels of government currently have,”
Daniels said by telephone from his office in Westbank, British
Columbia. “It is such a great day, the historical significance
of this, it is huge.”  Casino Bonds  The First Nation’s plans differ from U.S. Indian tribes who
have sold debt backed by casino revenue because the authority’s
revenue stream is more diverse, said Jennifer Wong, assistant
vice president of Moody’s Canada. The group won an investment-grade rating in part because the agency withholds 5 percent of
the money raised and puts it into a reserve fund which provides
a buffer for the bondholders, she said.  “It is one of the first, if not the first central
borrowing agency for First Nations, from where it has a pool of
borrowers that are First Nations,” said Wong. “It’s a very new
organization with currently a small pool of borrowers, but we
anticipate that as they establish themselves, they’ll grow their
pool and diversify their pool as well.”  The Moody’s A3 rating is four levels below the ratings of
Ontario, Canada’s largest provincial economy, at Aa2. Prince
 Edward Island , the smallest province by population, has the same
rating as Ontario.  AT&T Debt  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demanded to own provincial debt compared to federal benchmarks
widened 2 basis points to 73 yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial & Municipal Index.
Yields fell to 3.02 percent from 3.04 percent.  The spread on investment-grade corporations over government
debt widened 2 points to 122 yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Canada Corporate Index. Yields fell to 3.14 percent from
3.15 percent.  Canada Housing Trust, the financing arm of Canada’s
mortgage agency, yesterday sold C$2 billion of bonds due in
September 2023 at a yield that was 49 basis points greater than
federal government debt.  Canada yesterday started a C$3.3 billion sale of 1.25
percent coupon bonds due in February 2016.  AT&T Inc., the largest U.S. phone company, began selling
C$1 billion of 3.825 percent coupon bonds due November 2020.  Yield Comparisons  First Nations Finance is seeking a yield on the bond sale
that would be “close” to what some provincial governments pay,
Daniels said. Yields on Ontario 10-year bonds today were
unchanged at 3.43 percent.  Membership in the First Nations Finance Authority is open
to any aboriginal government provided they meet the terms of the
2005 First Nations Fiscal and Statistical Management Act, which
provides oversight for borrowing.  The first bond sale was delayed by work needed to create
the authority and certify interested tribes, Daniels said. There
will probably be a second debt sale after the February debut
with at least 10 communities participating, he said.  “It allows them to develop economically that much faster
and with confidence,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  