-- Actually, Economists Can Predict Financial Crises
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-11-15T16:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/actually-economists-can-predict-financial-crises.html
Economists have long argued that
they shouldn’t be expected to predict crises, such as the one
that almost sank the global economy five years ago.  That depends on how you define the word “predict.”  In recent years, an inconsistency has emerged in the
economics profession. Many, including some Nobel Prize winners,
maintain that crises are by their very nature unpredictable. At
the same time, others -- aided by engineers, physicists,
ecologists and computer scientists -- are developing ways to
detect and quantify systemic risks, including measures that
regulators could use to identify imbalances or vulnerabilities
that might result in a crisis.  If prediction is impossible, what’s the point of all the
activity? After all, there’s an obvious logic to how forecasts
can subvert themselves. If, for example, someone could have
convinced investors in 2005 that a financial crisis was coming
in two years, markets would have reacted immediately, setting
off the spiral of deleveraging and financial contraction that in
reality came later.  Striking Balance  The answer is that predictions can be useful without being
quite so precise. Scientists make valuable predictions all the
time that have little to do with foreseeing the future, but
develop our understanding of cause and effect. A biologist might
predict that knocking out a gene in a mouse will lead to
obesity. If experiments bear that out, then we learn something
about the genetic control of metabolism, and might get some
hints about ways to help combat obesity in people.  On a more mundane level, we know by experience, as well as
from engineering theory, that failing to keep oil in a car’s
engine will inevitably lead to trouble. No one can say precisely
when or where, or even what will go wrong. That doesn’t prevent
us from recognizing the wisdom of regular auto maintenance.  In this sense of a causal relationship, quite a few people
did foretell the financial crisis. Consider the 1999  book  “Debt
and Delusion,” in which financier Peter Warburton warned that
the decades-long orgy of rising corporate and individual debt
would inevitably fuel asset bubbles and cause financial
instability. This was another “if X, then Y” prediction: If we
continue along current lines, then trouble will follow. Many
others made similar predictions, to which very few paid
attention.  The challenge for economists is to find those indicators
that can provide regulators with reliable early warnings of
trouble. It’s a complicated task. Can we construct measures of
asset bubbles, or devise ways to identify “too big to fail” or
“too interconnected to fail” institutions? Can we identify the
architectural features of financial networks that make them
prone to cascades of distress? Can we strike the right balance
between the transparency needed to make risks evident, and the
privacy required for markets to function?  Work is  racing ahead . In the U.S., the newly formed Office
of Financial Research has published various papers on topics
such as stress tests and data gaps -- including one that reviews
a list of some 31 proposed systemic-risk measures. The
economists John Geanakoplos and Lasse Pedersen have  offered 
specific proposals on measuring the extent to which markets are
driven by leverage, which tends to make the whole system more
fragile.  ‘Physics Envy’  One problem has been “physics envy” -- a longing for
certainty and for beautiful, timeless equations that can wrap up
economic reality in some final way. Economics is actually more
like biology, with perpetual change and evolution at its core.
This means we’ll have to go on discovering new ways to identify
useful clues about emerging problems as finance changes and
investors jump into new products and strategies. Perpetual
adaptation is part of living in a complex world.  The efforts to develop measures of systemic risk are
encouraging. They suggest that the idea that “markets are
always right,” which inspired much of the financial
deregulation of the 1990s and early 2000s, has lost some of its
credence. Increasingly, mainstream economists accept that
markets routinely get out of balance, and that they require
continual oversight.  Now all they need to do is get a lot better at prediction
before the stage is set for the next crisis.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“Forecast: What Physics, Meteorology and the Natural Sciences
Can Teach Us About Economics,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 