-- Taiwan Dollar Heads for Worst Week in Three Months on Outflows
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-11-15T02:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/taiwan-dollar-heads-for-worst-week-in-three-months-on-outflows.html
Taiwan’s dollar headed for its worst
week in three months as speculation the  Federal Reserve  will cut
stimulus spurred outflows from local equities.  Global funds sold $586 million more Taiwanese stocks than
they bought this week through yesterday, exchange data show.
U.S. jobs growth topped forecasts in October, a report showed
last week, stoking bets the Fed may reduce asset purchases,
which have buoyed  emerging markets , as early as this year.
Taiwan’s central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan told lawmakers this
week it will maintain order in the  currency market  if there is
excessive volatility.  Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.2 percent this week to NT$29.56
against the greenback as of 9:57 a.m. local time, prices from
Taipei Forex Inc. show. That’s the biggest drop since the five
days ended Aug. 3. The currency rose 0.2 percent today, having
lost 0.1 percent in the final five minutes of trading yesterday
on suspected intervention. The monetary authority has sold the
local dollar in the run-up to the close on most days since March
2012, according to traders who asked not to be identified.  “Equity flows are more volatile, and though there have
been some dovish news this week, everyone thinks the Fed will
taper in the next few months,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “But the
central bank’s policy stance and Taiwan’s fundamentals will make
the  Taiwan dollar  relatively stable.”  Dovish Yellen  Fed Chairman-nominee  Janet Yellen  told lawmakers yesterday
it’s important to maintain support to the  U.S. economy  as long
as the recovery is fragile. A Bloomberg poll conducted Nov. 8
showed economists predict the Fed won’t start trimming its bond
buying until March.  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the Taiwan dollar
slipped 0.2 percent since Nov. 8 to NT$29.541, poised for their
third weekly decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contracts advanced 0.1 percent today.  The yield on the government’s 1.25 percent bonds due
October 2018 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
this week to 1.123 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The rate dropped one basis point today.  The central bank’s Perng said Nov. 11 that its  exchange-rate  policy can’t just serve the interests of exporters. The
island will report its third-quarter current-account balance on
Nov. 20. Taiwan had a $1.38 billion excess in the three months
through June.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
increased seven basis points this week to 3.28 percent. The
measure fell five basis points today.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed
today and this week at 0.388 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  