-- Alabama’s Jefferson County Starts $1.8 Billion Bond Sale
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-15T20:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/alabama-s-jefferson-county-starts-1-8-billion-bond-sale.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , began
selling $1.8 billion of sewer bonds to individual investors
today as part of plan to emerge from bankruptcy.  The county is offering 40-year insured senior debt at 5.75
percent and some 40-year uninsured junior bonds at 6.5 percent,
according to three people familiar with the marketing who asked
for anonymity because the pricing isn’t final. The retail order
period will continue on Nov. 18.  The preliminary yields on the 40-year senior securities
compare with a 5.53 percent interest rate on similarly rated
benchmark revenue debt due in 30 years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Top-rated munis of that maturity yield about
4.16 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Jefferson County, which has 660,000 residents and is home
to Birmingham, Alabama’s most populous city, filed a record
bankruptcy in 2011 when it couldn’t pay what it owed on more
than $3 billion in bonds sold to finance sewer work. Banks
underwriting the debt, led by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , will set prices
for institutional investors on Nov. 19.  To repair its reputation and maintain its credit rating,
the county needs to demonstrate consistent willingness to pay
its debts on time and in full without court intervention,
Standard & Poor’s analyst James Breeding said last week in a
report. It must meet forecasts for water-and-sewer usage and
maintain the revenue available for debt service that is spelled
out in the covenant for the new bonds.  Divided Sale  The issue is divided between $500 million of senior debt
and $1.3 billion of subordinated securities. The senior bonds
are insured by  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. (AGO)  and carry a AA-rating from S&P. The senior bonds carry a junk underlying rating
of BB+ from Fitch Ratings while S&P gives the debt an investment
grade rating of BBB.  The junior bonds aren’t insured and carry a junk BB rating
from Fitch while S&P rates the debt investment grade at BBB-.  Sewer rates will rise almost 7.9 percent each year from
2014 through 2017, and by almost 3.5 percent thereafter through
2053, according to bond documents.  Citigroup declined to comment, Scott Helfman, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  