-- Malaysian Economic Growth Accelerates Before Fiscal Tightening
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-11-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/malaysian-economic-growth-accelerates-before-fiscal-tightening.html
Malaysia ’s economy expanded at the
fastest pace in three quarters as exports recovered and domestic
demand held up before Prime Minister Najib Razak raised fuel
prices in September.  Gross domestic product  rose 5 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, after gaining a revised 4.4 percent in the second
quarter, the central bank said in a statement in Kuala Lumpur
today. The increase exceeded all but three estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  of 19 economists, where the median was for
a 4.7 percent advance.  Exports rose in the three months through September after
declining in the first half of the year, as the nation benefited
from a global recovery the central bank described as
“moderate” on Nov. 7.  Bank Negara Malaysia  held its benchmark
 interest rate  at 3 percent for a 15th meeting this month to
support growth, predicting domestic demand will ease as the
government restrains public spending.  “We’ve seen some improvement in the export numbers and
that’s really a bigger driver of growth,”  Euben Paracuelles , a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said before
the report. In the coming months, “external demand is not going
to be that strong. Also, domestic demand seems to be slowing
because of fiscal consolidation and the government policy to try
and reduce investment spending,” he said.  Malaysia’s ringgit climbed the most in almost three weeks
earlier today after U.S. Federal Reserve chairman nominee
 Janet Yellen  indicated she’ll press on with the Fed’s
unprecedented monetary stimulus until she sees a robust
recovery.  Current Account  The currency appreciated as much as 0.4 percent to 3.191
per dollar in Kuala Lumpur today, the steepest increase since
Oct. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at
3.2023 at 4:59 p.m. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index of shares
gained 0.3 percent today.  Malaysia’s current-account surplus widened to 9.8 billion
ringgit ($3.1 billion) in the third quarter from 2.6 billion
ringgit in the preceding three months, less than three out of
four forecasts by analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Najib has cut fuel and sugar subsidies in recent months to
contain the  budget deficit  and shore up the current account
after  Fitch Ratings  lowered Malaysia’s credit outlook to
negative in July. Inflation accelerated to a 20-month high of
2.6 percent in September, raising the risk that higher living
costs will damp  consumer spending .  Central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in October that
over the next six months to a year, she would focus “mostly on
growth” rather than inflation, because global expansion will
remain “subdued.”  2014 Forecast  Southeast Asia ’s No. 3 economy may expand 5 percent to 5.5
percent in 2014 from an estimated 4.5 percent to 5 percent this
year, the government said last month.  “For the Malaysian economy, the gradual recovery in the
external sector will support growth,” the central bank said in
a statement today. “Domestic demand from the private sector
will remain supportive of economic activity amid the continued
consolidation of the public sector. The economy is therefore
expected to remain on its steady growth trajectory.”  Services rose 5.9 percent in the July-to-September period
from a year earlier after climbing 5 percent in the second
quarter, today’s report showed. Construction gained 10.1 percent
last quarter, after a 9.9 percent increase the previous period.
Manufacturing grew 4.2 percent from 3.5 percent.  Exports of goods and services climbed 1.7 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, after falling 5.2 percent in
the second quarter, according to the report today. Private
consumption increased 8.2 percent, accelerating from 7.2 percent
even as public consumption growth slowed.  “We need that external pickup to keep growth up,” Edward
Lee, a Singapore-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said
before the report. “On the external demand side we do expect
further improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  