-- Altus Creates Fund to Invest in Commercial Solar Projects
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-11-15T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/altus-creates-fund-to-invest-in-commercial-solar-projects.html
Altus Power America Management, a
Connecticut-based renewable-energy  investment company , formed a
$34 million fund with backing from  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  to finance
commercial solar plants.  Catlin is investing $30 million in the fund, which will
offer annual returns of around 10 percent, Tom Athan, a managing
partner for Old Greenwich-based Altus, said yesterday in an
interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  The company plans to install solar panels at schools,
commercial buildings, industrial sites and municipal locations.
The model is similar to the solar leases offered by companies
including  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY)  and Sunrun Inc., which are driving a
boom in residential solar by offering systems to consumers with
little to no initial costs.  “We have construction companies all around the country
trying to build solar and speaking to people who want solar but
don’t have the capital,” Athan said. “We’re the outlet for
that.”  Altus Power is seeking to raise additional capital and
expects to invest as much as $100 million in solar projects over
the next eight to nine months, he said.  The company first invested in solar power in 2009 and has
power plants in operation in six states.  As solar power becomes more common, Athan expects the
returns available to investors to shrink.  “We’re putting deals on at 10 percent, and in a couple
years they might be putting them on at 6 percent,” he said.
“Still, I think there are plenty of deals out there for a long
time that everybody can do, and more people coming into the
market actually helps get the word out about what solar is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  