-- Hammond Gets 10 Years for Texas Intelligence Firm Hacking
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-15T19:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/hammond-gets-10-years-for-texas-intelligence-firm-hacking.html
Computer hacker Jeremy Hammond was
sentenced to 10 years in prison for an attack on the
intelligence firm Strategic Forecasting Inc., or Stratfor, and
for interfering with eight other computer systems.  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska, disregarding Hammond’s
arguments that his crime was an act of civil disobedience,
sentenced him to the maximum term at a hearing today in
 Manhattan . Preska said Hammond stole data and vandalized
websites to create what he called “maximum mayhem.”  “There is certainly nothing high-minded or public-spirited
about causing mayhem,” Preska told Hammond during the two-hour
hearing.  Lawyers for Hammond, 28, urged Preska to sentence him to
the 20 months he’s already served in a federal jail while
awaiting sentencing. Prosecutors said that federal sentencing
guidelines called for him to get at least 12 years -- more than
the 10-year maximum for the conspiracy charge to which he
pleaded guilty.  Prosecutors claimed Hammond and others stole employee e-mails and account information for about 860,000 subscribers from
Austin, Texas-based Stratfor as part of an attack by a group
linked to the hacking group “Anonymous.” The attack
effectively shut down Stratfor for weeks, Preska said.  FBI Computers  Hammond also admitted hacking into eight other computers,
including those used by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ’s
Virtual Academy and the  Arizona  Department of Public Safety,
from June 2011 to February 2012.  Under the plea agreement with prosecutors, Hammond
acknowledged his hacking caused losses between $1 million and
$2.5 million and involved more than 250 victims. Preska said she
will consider whether to order Hammond to pay restitution.  She agreed to recommend that Hammond be assigned to a
federal prison near  Chicago , where he’s from. After serving his
sentence, he must spend three years on supervised release,
Preska ordered. His access to computers and other devices able
to link to the Internet will be closely monitored, she said.  “The acts of civil disobedience and direct action that I
am being sentenced for today are in line with the principles of
community and equality that have guided my life,” Hammond told
Preska, reading from a prepared statement.  ‘Confront Injustice’  “I hacked into dozens of high profile corporations and
government institutions, understanding very clearly that what I
was doing was against the law, and that my actions could land me
back in federal prison,” he said. “But I felt that I had an
obligation to use my skills to expose and confront injustice and
to bring the truth to light.”  Hammond concluded his remarks by saying, “Stay strong and
keep struggling!”  The hearing was held in a ceremonial courtroom in the
Manhattan courthouse to accommodate Hammond’s supporters and
others interested in witnessing his sentencing.  Court officers forcibly removed a man who said he was a
victim of Hammond’s crime and then began complaining that he was
under surveillance by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.
Another man gave an account, with occasional profanity, of how
supporters of Hammond had targeted him with harassment,
including computer attacks, publication of private information,
“pizza bombing” and “Chinese food bombing.”  After he was sentenced, Hammond grinned and waved to
supporters.  “Long live Anonymous!” he said, as officers led him out
of the courtroom.  The case is U.S. v. Hammond, 12-cr-00185, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  