-- Apple Sticks to Winning Script in Samsung Damages Retrial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-11-15T02:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/apple-sticks-to-winning-script-in-samsung-damages-retrial.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s do-over trial on what
Samsung Electronics Co. owes for infringing patents is supposed
to be “Groundhog Day,” according to the judge overseeing the
case. Apple is doing its part to make good on her plan.  Harold McElhinny, who was Apple’s lead attorney when it won
a $1.05 billion verdict against its Suwon, South Korea-based
rival last year, stood in front of a new jury yesterday in the
same  San Jose ,  California , courtroom in a bid to recoup most of
the 39 percent chunk of the award the judge cut in March.  Sticking to the script that won Apple its 2012 verdict, the
year’s second-largest in the U.S., McElhinny started by showing
jurors the video clip played at the original trial of Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  introducing the iPhone at a 2007 conference.
McElhinny recited the same Samsung internal e-mails that he
touted at the first trial. The first witness he called was also
a repeat from 2012.  Recycling characters and props was, in part, the judge’s
idea. U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who found that the original
verdict was flawed because jurors miscalculated the period that
the infringement occurred for some of the 28 Samsung devices
covered by the trial, told lawyers in April that the damages
retrial should contain “nothing new” and should feel like the
experience of the  1993 Bill Murray film  about a weatherman who
repeatedly relives the same day.  Global Battle  Groundhog Day in San Jose is the latest chapter in a global
battle for dominance of the smartphone market in which the
companies have spent hundreds of millions of dollars in legal
fees on claims of copying each other’s features. Apple, which
initiated the legal fight in 2011, is seeking to limit the
Galaxy maker’s increasing share of the U.S. market, where
Cupertino, California-based Apple is No. 1 and Samsung No. 2.  Much of today’s testimony came from an accountant called by
Apple as an expert witness on damages to replace an accountant
who died last year. The day concluded with another witness from
the 2012 trial:  Philip Schiller , Apple’s senior vice president
of worldwide marketing, who Apple is relying on to convince
jurors of the risk the company took developing the iPhone, and
by extension, how much it deserves to be remunerated for taking
chances.  Apple took “huge risks” pursuing a “bet-the-company
product” in the iPhone, in part because it had never made a
phone before, Schiller said.  Jobs Presentation  Apple again revisited the 2007 Jobs presentation through
Schiller, who recounted how the then-chief executive officer
phoned him while on stage to demonstrate the new device. In one
more echo from the 2012 trial, Schiller described the “huge”
press reaction.  “The whole world had been waiting for this announcement,”
he said. Media reaction ranged from those who were “blown
away” to others who said the iPhone was “a mistake, that we’d
fall on our face,” he said. The trial continues tomorrow with
Schiller’s testimony.  The judge instructed the jury at the outset to assume that
the Samsung infringed five Apple patents. Koh told the the panel
of six women and two men its “sole job” in the retrial is to
determine the amount of damages Samsung must pay for infringing
Apple patents in 13 of its devices.  $3.5 Billion  Koh cut $410.5 million from the original award. McElhinny,
of  Morrison & Foerster LLP  in  San Francisco , urged jurors
yesterday to reinstate $379.7 million of that amount, saying
that’s what Samsung should pay after making $3.5 billion by
selling 10.7 million products in the U.S. that infringe Apple
patents.  While Samsung is still represented by the same  law firm  as
last time, Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, attorney  Bill Price  delivered yesterday’s opening statement instead of Charles Verhoeven.  Price asked jurors to award Apple $52 million, which he
called “not a trivial sum.” He encouraged jurors to keep an
“open mind” because it’s “kind of hard to not start leaning
one way or another.”  “This is a case not where we’re disputing that the 13
phones incorporate some elements of Apples’ products,” Price
said. “That doesn’t mean that Apple gets to come in here and
ask for a windfall, far more than it’s entitled to.”  Another Trial  The retrial over devices that Samsung no longer sells may
be a warm-up to a higher-stakes trial between the world’s two
top smartphone manufacturers scheduled for March. That case
covers technology in newer smartphones, including Apple’s iPhone
5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S III.  Samsung raised the same objection as last time to Apple
presenting jurors with images of its iconic late leader, calling
it an attempt to turn the trial into a “popularity contest.”  Koh, as she did in 2012, overruled Samsung’s protest. In a
pretrial ruling last week, she said the Steve Jobs video clip is
“not unduly prejudicial” and is relevant because it shows
demand for the iPhone and its patented features, specifically
the way an iPad or iPhone screen seems to bounce when a user
scrolls to the end of a file.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in federal court in San Jose, California, at
   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net  