-- Arbitration Group Creates Appeal Right: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/arbitration-group-creates-appeal-right-business-of-law.html
The American Arbitration Association
adopted new rules that will allow some parties in an arbitration
to appeal within the arbitration process.  Currently, disgruntled parties can only appeal to a court
under very narrow grounds. The new rules provide for appellate
panels with former judges or experienced arbitrators to review
awards when there are allegations of material errors of law or
“clearly erroneous” factual mistakes.  There is no automatic right of appeal. The parties must
either include the appeal in the original arbitration provision
or subsequently must all agree to opt in, said Steven Reisberg,
a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP.  The “words appeal and arbitration don’t usually belong in
the same sentence,” Reisberg said. “The new rules are a
response to the hesitancy of some to put arbitration clauses
into agreements when damages can be in the millions or even
billions.”  On Tuesday, for example,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  announced that it
lost an arbitration with Kraft Foods Group Inc. over the
grocery-store marketing of its coffee and was ordered to pay
$2.79 billion. Their arbitration agreement predates the new
rules.  Reisberg doesn’t expect the appellate process to be widely
used. Allowing appeals will “diminish the speed, finality and
lower cost that arbitration provides,” he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. For the right user, though, he said it
provides a way for mistakes to be corrected.  Fredric Leffler, a senior counsel at Proskauer Rose LLP
specializing in employment and labor law, also doubts the
appellate process will be widely adopted.  He said that the procedure “might be attractive to
employers who want mandatory arbitration where employees waive
their rights to a judicial forum.”  A right to an appeal would “give the employees a sense
that if they lose, they’re not foreclosed from an appeal, and
would give employees more solace in signing these agreements,”
Leffler said.  Chancery Court Awards Attorneys’ Fees in Case Held Moot  A Delaware Chancery Court judge awarded attorneys’ fees to
a plaintiffs’ firm whose initial case challenging a merger was
moot.  The litigation arose over Quest Software Inc.’s proposed
acquisition by Insight Holdings Group, in which a Quest director
had an interest. The plaintiffs sued to stop the deal during a
60-day go-shop period.  During that time, Dell Inc. emerged as another bidder,
offering $283 million more. Dell’s proposal led to the Chancery
Court to hold the plaintiffs’ suit moot.  Nonetheless, in an opinion, Judge Sam Glasscock III said
that the case “raises issues of the proper timing of litigation
in the hyper-expedited world of merger litigation, with
potential injunctive relief providing the best, and perhaps
only, remedy.”  “As with burglary, so with merger litigation; the greatest
utility comes from the watchdog biting the burglar on the way
in, not the way out,” he said.  While he found that that the litigation hadn’t
substantially contributed to the corporate benefit from Dell’s
higher offer, Glasscock said “the record makes it clear that
the board was well aware of the eyes, raptorious and unblinking
in oversight, of the plaintiffs’ counsel, and responded
accordingly.”  He found that the benefit provided by plaintiffs’ counsel
was 5 percent and awarded the firm -- Grant & Eisenhofer PA --
$1 million in fees.  Potter Anderson Corroon LLP represented the defendants in
the case. T. Brad Davey, a partner in the firm, didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Lawrence Hamermesh, a professor at Widener University
School of Law, said in a phone interview that “it is not
unusual to be awarded some fees in a moot case.” He added that
it indicates there may be presumption that shareholder
litigation “may do some good.”  The case is In re Quest Software Inc. Shareholders
Litigation, 7357-VCG, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Patton Boggs Lays Off 10 Associates, 35 Staff Members  Patton Boggs LLP said it fired 10 associates in its  Newark ,
New Jersey, office and terminated 35 staff members throughout
the firm.  “The changes we have been making are part of an overall
plan we unveiled several months ago to address changing client
needs and market conditions,” the firm said through spokesman
Elliott Frieder. “As a result of these tough decisions, we are
becoming far stronger financially.”  Frieder said that as a result of the cuts, the firm would
save about $5.5 million.  The Wall Street Journal first reported the layoffs. Frieder
declined to discuss speculation that Patton Boggs was
considering a merger with Locke Lord LLP.  Law Firm Revenue Up in the Third Quarter, Citigroup Finds  Things were looking up a bit for law firms in the third
quarter of 2013, according to a report from Citi Private Bank’s
Law Firm Group.  Revenue growth at law firms improved in the third quarter,
outpacing expense growth and “easing the pressure on profit
margins for the first time this year,” according to the report.
Revenue rose because of more demand and a shortening of the
collection cycle, while rate increases remained relatively
unchanged, the report found.  Operating-expense growth remained little changed while
compensation-expense growth eased. Increases in the number of
lawyers slowed, while the number of equity partners dropped,
according to the report.  For 2013 to “be better than 2012, we will need a very
strong fourth quarter,” John Wilmouth, a Citi senior client
adviser in the law firm group, said in a phone interview. “It
will be very difficult to exceed last year,” since the fourth
quarter of 2012 was fueled by a push to do deals ahead of tax
changes, he said.  Consultant Says Partners Can’t Really be Entrepreneurial  This year has been a “long slog” for most major law
firms, with revenues and profits rising modestly, if at all, law
firm consultant Bruce MacEwen tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  Two aspects of law firms make it difficult to change that,
he said. First, despite claims they are entrepreneurial,
partners aren’t really creating something new, he said.  Additionally, partnership agreements require firms to pay
out their profits, sometimes without investing significant money
back into the business, he said.  To watch the interview, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  