-- Argentina Bondholders Forming Steering Committee, Gramercy Says
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-11-15T23:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/argentina-bondholders-forming-steering-committee-gramercy-says.html
Gramercy Funds Management LLC is
forming an “ad hoc” group and steering committee with other
investors in  Argentina ’s restructured bonds to formalize a plan
aimed at reaching a settlement with holders of defaulted debt.  The group is in the final stages of hiring legal and
financial advisers as they seek to persuade holders of the
defaulted securities to drop their lawsuits against Argentina,
Gramercy Chief Investment Officer Robert Koenigsberger said in
an e-mailed statement, without providing details on the number
of investors involved.  A U.S. Appeals Court said on Aug. 23 that Argentina can’t
make payments on bonds it issued in restructurings in 2005 and
2010 unless it pays a group of holdouts led by hedge fund
Elliott Management Corp. in full. The effect of the ruling is
being delayed until the  Supreme Court  decides whether to hear
the case. The legal battle, stemming from Argentina’s 2001
default, has spurred concern the government may opt to cease
payments on its overseas bonds rather than settle with holdouts
that President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has dubbed
“vultures.”  “In an attempt to create a solution for a decade-old
standoff, exchange bondholders have held several meetings over
the last couple of weeks,” Koenigsberger said. The
participating investors “expect to provide more details
regarding our plan, which we believe benefits all bondholders,
in the coming weeks.”  Officials at Elliott didn’t immediately return a voice mail
and e-mail seeking comment on Koenigsberger’s statement.  Not Interested  Elliott said in a Nov. 7 statement that it’s only willing
to negotiate a settlement with the Argentine government and has
no interest in holding talks with fellow bondholders. Elliott
said at the time that it hadn’t been approached by Gramercy.  A preliminary proposal by Gramercy called for investors to
cede a portion of their coupon payments to the holdouts, five
bondholders approached by the Greenwich, Connecticut-based fund
said last month.  In order to change the terms of the notes to earmark coupon
payments to holdouts, Gramercy must garner approval from holders
of 75 percent of each series of bonds, according to the bond
prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  