-- Argentina Needs to Slow Inflation, Central Bank President Says
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-15T17:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/argentina-needs-to-slow-inflation-central-bank-president-says.html
Argentina  needs to slow inflation
without hurting domestic demand to sustain the country’s
economic  growth,  central bank President Mercedes Marco del Pont
said.  “The big challenge is to seek heterodox tools to bring
about lower inflation without suppressing demand,” Marco del
Pont said at a seminar in Buenos Aires today. “We will take all
the needed decisions but without sacrificing gains we’ve made in
this process that started 10 years ago.”  While Argentina has reported  annual inflation  of about 10
percent since 2010, private estimates show prices rose more than
22 percent per year over the same period. Official statistics
have been questioned by economists since early 2007 after
personnel changes in the statistics agency and in February,
Argentina became the first country to be censured by the
 International Monetary Fund  for failing to report accurate data.  Under President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, the
government in 2011 began fining economists who publicly
questioned the official data 500,000 pesos, which at the time
totaled more than $120,000 and is now $83,000.  The national statistics agency will release its October
inflation report at 4 p.m. in Buenos Aires. Prices rose 26
percent in October from a year earlier, according to private
estimates released by opposition lawmakers, the biggest increase
since January.  Reserve Drain  Marco del Pont said about 75 percent of the $11 billion
decline in  international reserves  this year has been due to
paying off the country’s debt obligations. Reserves fell to
$32.6 billion yesterday, the lowest level since January 2007.  Under pressure from so-called holdout creditors suing the
nation in U.S. courts, the government has opened a third debt
restructuring of securities left over from the 2001 financial
crisis. Argentina is also negotiating $3 billion of loans from
the  World Bank  through 2016.  “There are important steps we are taking to leave the
default behind that will clear the way for Argentina to seek
long-term financing to fund this economic process,” Del Pont
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  