-- Arizona Approves Grid-Connection Fees for Solar Rooftops
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-11-15T17:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/arizona-regulators-impose-power-grid-fees-for-solar-roofs.html
Arizona  will permit the state’s
largest utility to charge a monthly fee to customers who install
photovoltaic panels on their roofs, in a closely watched hearing
that drew about 1,000 protesters and may threaten the surging
residential solar market.  The Arizona Corporation Commission, which regulates
utilities in the state, agreed in a 3-to-2 vote at a meeting
yesterday in Phoenix that Arizona Public Service Co. may collect
about $4.90 a month from customers with solar systems.  Arizona Public is required to buy solar power from
customers with rooftop panels, and the commission agreed with
its argument that the policy unfairly shifts some of the
utility’s costs to people without panels. Imposing a fee
designed to address this issue may prompt power companies in
other states to follow suit, and will discourage some people
from installing new systems, according to the  Sierra Club .  The “decision to add new charges to Arizona’s main rooftop
solar program will stifle the growth of our clean-energy
economy,” Will Greene, the organizing representative for the
Sierra Club in Phoenix, said in a statement yesterday.  The fee will apply to solar systems installed or contracted
after Dec. 31 and works out to 70 cents a kilowatt. A home with
a typical 70-kilowatt solar system will pay $4.90 a month, and
people with more panels will pay more.  Arizona Public has about 18,000 solar customers now who
won’t be affected. It’s adding about 500 more a month and
expects to have about 20,000 customers that won’t pay the fee
for sending excess solar energy to its system.  ‘Falls Short’  Arizona Public had requested a fee of $50 a month or more,
and the commission’s decision “falls well short of protecting
the interests of the 1 million residential customers who do not
have solar panels,” Chief Executive Officer Don Brandt said in
a statement.  The company was pleased the commission “determined that
net metering creates a cost shift,” Brandt said. Arizona Public
is a unit of Phoenix-based  Pinnacle West Capital Corp. (PNW)   Arizona is one of 43 states that  require  utilities to buy
solar power from customers under a policy called net metering.
This lowers the monthly power bills for people with solar
systems and reduces revenue for the power companies. Arizona
Public argued that the policy forces it to raise rates on all
customers to cover the fixed costs of maintaining the grid.  Cost Shift  “We preserved customer choice in Arizona while recognizing
that these cost shifts are real,” said Bob Stump, chairman of
the commission. “I think it’s a fair outcome.” The regulators
overruled their staff, who recommended in September that the
issue be taken up in the utility’s next formal rate case in
2015.  The utility spent $3.7 million to promote its argument,
compared with about $330,000 spent by the solar industry,
according to documents filed with the commission.  An estimated 1,000 people were at the meeting, almost
universally opposing the fee. They were joined by
representatives from  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , Sunrun Inc. and other
solar developers who said imposing additional costs on consumers
would slow the adoption of renewable energy.  “Its totally unfair to put any charge on customers that
are simply reducing demand,” said Court Rich, an attorney with
the Rose Law Group in Scottsdale, Arizona, who represents solar
companies including SolarCity and Sunrun. “This is a new charge
and we don’t know yet how it will affect the market.”  SolarCity and Sunrun are among the companies that offer
rooftop systems to consumers at little to no upfront costs. They
install the panels and the customers sign long-term contracts to
buy the power, typically for less than they pay their local
utilities.  Precedent Setting  A monthly fee may stifle demand, said Shayle Kann, vice
president of research at GTM Research in  Boston .  “If you were going to save 15 bucks, now all things being
equal, you’d save 10 bucks,” he said in an interview today.
“Is ten bucks enough still to entice customers? If the answer
is no, then it eats into SolarCity’s business.”  The amount of the fee may not be as important as the fact
that the commission recognized that net metering is
fundamentally changing the way utilities do business, Kann said.  “In the narrow context of what is happening in Arizona
right now, it was a positive thing for solar. From a broader
sense, it is precedent-setting as the first surcharge
specifically for net metered customers.”  Other States  The utility industry has been closely watching the Arizona
case, which may lay the groundwork for similar fees in other
states.  California , the biggest solar state, approved
legislation in September that would let regulators approve fees
of as much as $10 a month for customers with solar power.  “There are a number of state commissions currently
reviewing outdated and unsustainable net metering policies,”
Tom Kuhn, president of the utility trade group Edison Electric
Institute, said in a statement. “The commission recognized that
current net metering policies unfairly shift costs from solar
homes to non-solar homes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  