-- New SAC E-Mails Given Martoma as Steinberg Heads to Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/martoma-gets-newly-discovered-sac-e-mails-documents-from-u-s-.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP e-mails and
other documents found on “newly discovered” backup tapes from
2007 and 2008 were turned over to a former  fund manager  accused
of  insider trading , his lawyer said.  Mathew Martoma’s legal team received 114,757 pages of the
documents this week at the goverment's instruction from SAC's 
lawyer, said Martoma's attorney,  Richard Strassberg , in a
letter yesterday to U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in
 Manhattan . Strassberg is seeking a two-week delay of Martoma’s
Jan. 6 trial. He said he needs the additional time to analyze
the new evidence and prepare witnesses.  “Certain of these materials appear directly relevant to
specific allegations made against Mr. Martoma,” Strassberg said
in the letter.  Michael Steinberg, another SAC money manager, is set to go
on trial on insider-trading charges next week in Manhattan.
Steinberg, who worked at SAC’s Sigma Capital Management unit, is
charged with trading on inside tips he got from convicted SAC
technology analyst Jon Horvath.  SAC offered a guilty plea to charges Nov. 8 as part of 
a record $1.8 billion settlement of the government’s
investigation into insider trading at the firm. The  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based hedge fund agreed to close its investment
advisory business as part of the accord to end both its
prosecution and a money-laundering lawsuit filed by the  Justice
Department . The judge in that case hasn’t decided whether to
accept the plea.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail
messages after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment
on Strassberg’s letter.  Martoma’s E-Mails  “The documents -- which were restored from newly
discovered SAC backup tapes created in 2007 and 2008 -- consist
primarily of e-mails sent to or received from Mr. Martoma’s
analyst, Mr. Martoma’s trader, and SAC healthcare portfolio
managers,” Strassberg said in the letter. In an e-mail,
Strassberg declined to provide additional information about the
new material.  Martoma is charged with using inside information on
clinical trials of an Alzheimer’s disease drug to trade in
shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth. Prosecutors claim the illegal
trading gave SAC a benefit of $276 million in profit and avoided
losses.  If convicted, Martoma faces as long as 20 years in prison
on each of two securities-fraud charges and five years for a
single conspiracy charge. He has pleaded not guilty.  Prosecutors claim Martoma got improper information on
trials of bapineuzumab, or “bapi,” from two doctors involved
in the drug trials in 2008.  $700 Million Position  After Martoma learned that Elan and Wyeth would report
negative data from the trials, he had a 20-minute telephone call
with SAC founder  Steven Cohen , according to the government. The
hedge fund owner sold almost all of the fund’s $700 million
position in the stocks and then sold them short.  Cohen hasn’t been charged. SAC’s settlement with the 
government doesn’t bar prosecutors from bringing charges
against him or other individuals at SAC.  Before the fall of 2008, SAC deleted e-mails from employee
mailboxes every 30 or 60 days, the firm’s general counsel, Peter Nussbaum, testified in a 2011 deposition in a civil suit.
Prosecutors in Steinberg’s case said they were able to obtain
some deleted e-mails from third parties who had retained them.  Martoma’s former lawyer,  Charles Stillman , told Gardephe in
a hearing in March that the government had turned over 4 million
pages of documents at that time.  In a separate case, a federal judge yesterday ruled that a
lawsuit filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
against Martoma will proceed while the criminal case is pending.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The Steinberg
case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  