-- Massachusetts Grants Provisional OK to Foxwoods-Backed Casino
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/massachusetts-gives-provisional-ok-to-foxwoods-backed-casino-1-.html
The  Massachusetts Gaming Commission ,
moving ahead with plans to authorize as many as three casinos in
the state, ruled the Crossroads Massachusetts LLC group is
conditionally suitable to be granted a license.  The commission required the group, which includes the
owners of the Foxwoods Resort Casino in  Connecticut , to obtain
its additional financing as part of the approval, according to
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Crossroads said separately it signed a letter of intent
with  Gaming and Leisure Properties Inc. , a real estate
investment trust, that completes the financing. Under their
accord for the $1 billion project, GLPI, which was spun out of
 Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , will own the property and Crossroads
will operate the casino.  “We’re confident that GLPI’s financial support will help
us bring our project to fruition,” Foxwoods President and Chief
Executive Officer Scott Butera said in a statement.  Massachusetts legalized casino gambling two years ago with
plans calling for three resorts in three distinct parts of the
state. Crossroads is competing against  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and the
Suffolk Downs horse track to build in the  Boston  area.  Investigators for the gaming commission said in a report
released Nov. 13 they couldn’t complete the Crossroads
examination because the group had yet to enter into an agreement
with an unidentified investor.  Residents of Milford, 40 miles southwest of Boston, are
being asked to approve the Crossroads proposal Nov. 19.
Foxwoods is owned by the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  