-- Last-Resort Antibiotics Are Losing Power in Europe, ECDC Says
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-11-15T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/last-resort-antibiotics-are-losing-power-in-europe-ecdc-says.html
Antibiotics that are the last line
of defense against life-threatening germs spread commonly in
hospitals are starting to lose power in  Europe , stoking concern
that once easily-cured infections may become untreatable.  A germ called Acinetobacter has become resistant to one of
the last resorts to treat bacterial infections in more than 25
percent of cases in eight out of 18 countries reporting data,
the  European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  said in a
report today. In five European countries last year, more than 5
percent of infections with Klebsiella pneumoniae, which can
infect the urinary tract, respiratory tract and bloodstream,
were resistant to carbapenems, compared with two countries in
2009, the Stockholm-based ECDC also said.  Carbapenems are a major last-line of antibiotics used to
treat hospital-acquired germs that have developed resistance to
several other classes of treatments because of their misuse. No
new antibiotics have been developed in 25 years, according to
the  World Health Organization , raising the prospect that germs
that afflict one in 18 hospital patients in Europe may become
incurable should the carbapenems become ineffective.  “It has become increasingly common for hospitals to be
faced with treating patients that have carbapenem-resistant
infections, often meaning that old and toxic drugs are used,”
Marc Sprenger, the ECDC’s director, said in a statement today.
The European Union’s disease-tracking agency said that the data
on Acinetobacter should be interpreted with caution because it’s
the first year the data was compiled and most countries gave
limited information.  Carbapenem resistance is regularly reported from most
hospitals in  Greece ,  Italy  and Malta, while 11 other countries,
from the U.K. to  Spain , reported regional or national spread of
resistance, the ECDC said.  Roche Holding AG  this month agreed to pay as much as 500
million Swiss francs ($544 million) for the rights to an
experimental antibiotic to target a drug-resistant “superbug”
that is a leading cause of fatal bacterial infections in
hospitals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  