-- Aussie Extends Weekly Gain Versus Yen on Stimulus; Kiwi Advances
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-11-15T06:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/aussie-set-for-fourth-weekly-drop-on-taper-bets-rba-speculation.html
Australia’s dollar headed for its
first weekly advance in four versus the yen as expectations of
continued monetary stimulus from major central banks buoyed
demand for the South Pacific nation’s higher-yielding assets.  The Australian and New Zealand currencies rose against
their major peers amid prospects for continued quantitative
easing under a  Federal Reserve  led by  Janet Yellen , while
central bankers in Japan and Europe ease policy. Australia’s
benchmark 10-year bond  yield  rose for a third week before the
nation’s  Reserve Bank  releases minutes of its November meeting.
The government plans an inaugural sale of 20-year bonds next
month, its longest-tenor nominal debt.  “The central bank outlook will remain supportive in the
near term,” said David Forrester, a senior vice president for
Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “With the weaker yen, the Aussie and kiwi tend to
outperform.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.3 percent to 93.44 yen as of
5:03 p.m. in Sydney, heading for a 0.5 percent gain since Nov.
8. It rose 0.2 percent to 93.32 U.S. cents, trimming to 0.6
percent its fourth weekly decline.  New Zealand ’s dollar rallied 0.3 percent to 82.97 yen, set
for a 1.5 percent advance this week. It added 0.2 percent to
82.88 U.S. cents, on track for a 0.4 percent, five-day gain.  The  yield  on Australian 10-year government debt was little
changed at 4.20 percent. It touched 4.3 percent on Nov. 13, the
highest since March 2012. Yields have risen seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, this week.  Central Banks  “It’s important not to remove support, especially when the
recovery is fragile,” Yellen said in response to a question
during testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in Washington
yesterday. She said the central bank’s key  interest rate , at a
record zero to 0.25 percent, would remain low even after policy
makers start to reduce monetary easing.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy
makers “are ready to consider all available instruments” after
unexpectedly cutting interest rates last week to support growth.
The  Bank of Japan  will add to stimulus in the first half of next
year, according to almost three-quarters of economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News .  “The global backdrop is improving,” Peter Dragicevich, a
currency strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “That’s
good for the Aussie dollar.”  RBA Minutes  The Reserve Bank of Australia releases on Nov. 19 minutes
of its meeting this month when policy makers kept the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low 2.5 percent. RBA Governor  Glenn
Stevens  called the exchange rate “uncomfortably high.”  Traders see 11 percent odds that the RBA will reduce
borrowing costs at its next meeting in December, according to
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The most important thing for the RBA outlook is what the
currency does,” said Macquarie’s Forrester. “Let’s say the
Aussie stays around 94, 96 U.S. cents, I think that could push
the RBA to cut rates more.”  The Aussie will weaken to 90 U.S. cents by mid-2014,
according to the median estimate of analysts polled by
Bloomberg. The gap between the highest and lowest forecast is
the widest among 16 Group-of-10 currency pairs Bloomberg tracks,
ranging between a rally to U.S. dollar parity and a slump to 80
U.S. cents.  Australia will next week sell a new line of April 2033
notes in a transaction led by banks, the Australian Office of
Financial Management said today in a statement. The issuance
will help to fulfill a promise by Treasurer  Joe Hockey  to extend
the yield curve as the government seeks to finance budget
deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  