-- Australia Plans Longest Bond at 20 Years Amid Debt Ceiling Spat
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-11-15T03:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/australia-plans-longest-bond-at-20-years-amid-debt-ceiling-spat.html
Australia  plans to sell 20-year
notes, its longest-tenor nominal bond ever, fulfilling a promise
by Treasurer Joe Hockey to extend the yield curve as the
government seeks to finance ongoing budget deficits.  The country will next week sell a new line of April 2033
notes in a transaction led by banks, the Australian Office of
Financial Management said today in a statement. The transaction
will be the third new federal bond issued via syndication this
year. Benchmark 10-year notes yielded 4.21 percent today,
compared with an average of 5.95 percent over the past 20 years.  The issue comes as the Liberal-National government elected
two months ago faces a battle to increase the country’s debt
ceiling to A$500 billion ($467 billion) as revenue deteriorates.
Hockey said before the election he wanted to issue longer bonds
to create a benchmark curve and that he was willing to consider
40- or 50-year maturities for the country, one of just nine to
hold top stable credit scores from all three major ratings
companies.  “Until now Australia’s been one of the few sophisticated
government bond markets that hasn’t had a bond of at least 20
years,” said Darren Langer at Tyndall Investment Management,
which oversees about A$15 billion in fixed-income assets. “The
government’s main consideration is extending its funding profile
and it brings it in line with governments elsewhere.”  Widening Deficit  The Treasury said in its August pre-election outlook that
the deficit will widen to A$30.1 billion for the fiscal year
ending June 30, and the budget is no longer projected to return
to balance in 2015-16. The coalition government has since said
that the position has deteriorated and it plans to release
updated projections before Christmas.  The government says the current A$300 billion debt limit
will be breached next month, and yesterday sought approval in
the upper house of parliament for an increase to A$500 billion.
The opposition Labor party and the Greens amended the bill and
sent it back to the lower house, where the government says it
will reject it.  The budget is coming under pressure as signs of a slowdown
emerge in the 12th-largest economy. The Reserve Bank of
Australia last week forecast below-trend growth and rising
unemployment in 2014 as resource investment drops and the
currency strengthens.  The Australian dollar was at 93.48 U.S. cents as of 2:30
p.m. in Sydney, compared with an average of about 86.70 cents
over the past decade.  The AOFM’s two previous syndicated sales this year saw it
issue A$4 billion of 2025 securities in April, and A$2.1 billion
of 2035 inflation-linked notes in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  