-- Avianca Rebounds to New York IPO Price on Quarterly Profit Surge
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-11-15T17:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/avianca-rebounds-to-new-york-ipo-price-on-quarterly-profit-surge.html
Avianca Holdings SA (AVH)  rebounded to its
$15 initial public offering price in New York after the
Colombian airline reported a third-quarter profit that more than
doubled from last year.  The company’s American depositary receipts  traded  at $14.94
at 12:20 p.m. in New York after earlier rising to their IPO
price for the first time since the Nov. 5 sale. The shares
gained 1 percent to 3,590 pesos in Bogota.  Third-quarter adjusted net income rose to $99.1 million
from $39.4 million a year earlier, the company said  yesterday .
The surge in profit is reassuring some investors who were
“scared” after the Bogota-based airline priced the ADRs below
the range of $17 to $20 that it had been targeting, according to
 Rupert Stebbings , equity markets vice president at Bancolombia.  “The results were very good,” Stebbings said in a phone
interview from Medellin. “The operational side is solid, they
continue expanding. We’re very positive on the company.”  Bancolombia has a price target of 5,690 pesos for Avianca’s
shares in  Colombia , he said.  Avianca last week raised $408.5 million in ADRs each
representing eight of the company’s shares. Chief Executive
Officer Fabio Villegas said Avianca accepted a lower-than-projected price partly to attract institutional investors
including pension funds.  Chairman German Efromovich, who controls the company with
his brother, Jose, through their closely held Synergy Aerospace
Corp., had said he sought to sell shares in  New York  partly
because he thought the Bogota shares were undervalued.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  