-- Mawer’s Hall Tops Peers as Fed Fuels Manulife
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-20T16:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/mawer-s-hall-tops-peers-as-fed-fuels-manulife.html
(Corrects name of funds in fifth paragraph in story
published Nov. 15.)  James Hall  is the top manager among
mutual funds focused on  Canada ’s biggest companies this year as
rising  interest rates  fuel wagers on insurers such as Manulife
Financial Corp.  The  Manulife Canadian Investment Class Fund (MAMCAEQA) , managed by
Hall, has returned 21 percent this year through yesterday, the
most among 13 equity funds with assets greater than C$250
million ($239 million) and 75 percent or more of their
investments in Canada, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index has  gained  8 percent
in the same period.  “This year’s been good because as interest rates have gone
up, that’s helped insurance companies,” said Hall, 45, who
helps manage C$16 billion as a portfolio manager at  Mawer
Investment Management Ltd ., including the C$435 million Manulife
fund. “They’re allocating capital more effectively now, and the
prices are inexpensive.”  U.S. monetary policy has helped. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s
$85 billion of monthly bond-buying has pumped up global equity
markets, boosting returns for asset managers which the fund also
owns. Signals from the Fed it could slow the stimulus has lifted
 interest rates , fattening margins between life insurers’ income
and payouts to beneficiaries.  Financial Overweight  Among funds defining themselves as so-called large-capitalization, the second-best performer was the Franklin
Bisset Canadian Equity Fund which has returned 20 percent while.
The C$385 million IG Franklin Bissett Canadian Equity Fund,
which has returned 17 percent, was third.  The fund plans to add to insurance holdings which, along
with Toronto-based Manulife, include  Industrial Alliance
Insurance & Financial Services Inc. (IAG)  based in  Quebec City  and
Winnipeg-based Great-West Lifeco Inc., Hall said in a phone
interview Nov. 12  from Calgary, where he is based.  Manulife has gained 45 percent this year, Industrial
Alliance has gained 55 percent and Great-West has gained 34
percent.  Including bank stocks, 44 percent of the fund is comprised
of financial firms, more than the 36 percent weighting in the
S&P/TSX index.  While macroeconomic themes have supported his strategy this
year, Hall says they don’t figure into his picks. He focuses
instead on individual companies with a particular eye to their
core business model, return on capital and management.  Cheese, Smartphones  His “be boring, make money” philosophy helped him pass on
Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone maker BlackBerry Ltd. while
holding  a stake in  St. Leonard, Quebec-based cheese maker
 Saputo Inc. (SAP)  since the company’s 1997 initial public offering.  “When you think about the business models 20 years from
now, or even 10 years from now, I don’t know how I’m going to be
watching the  Super Bowl , it might be new technology,” he said.
“But I do know when I’m watching the Super Bowl, I’m going to
have cheese pizza beside me. And the chances are really good the
cheese is going to be made by Saputo, because cheese making
hasn’t changed.”  Saputo, embroiled in a three-way bidding war for an
Australian cheese maker, has gained 107 percent in the last five
years, while BlackBerry has  dropped  86 percent as the company
struggles to revive its business in the face of declining market
share and intense competition.  Hall said Saputo’s long-term prospects are solid whether or
not its bid for Allansford, Australia-based  Warrnambool Cheese &
Butter Factory Co. (WCB)  is successful.  Eschews Mining  Similar thinking is leading him to purchase shares of
Canada’s largest grocer,  Loblaw Cos. Ltd. (L) , which he believes is
due to see benefits after years of restructuring and is poised
for growth after the purchase of Canada’s biggest pharmacy
chain, Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. Ltd.  Brampton, Ontario-based Loblaw is up 5 percent this year.  About  17 percent of the Manulife Investment Class fund is
spread between consumer-focused companies.  Hall has no investments in mining companies, so was spared
one of the pitfalls of the Canadian market this year, the first
annual drop in the price of gold in 13 years.  Hall doesn’t claim to have predicted gold’s tumble.
Analysis of individual gold companies led him to believe they
were over-investing and not producing enough returns on the
capital, he says.  Slim Representation  The  fund manager  says he has looked for investments in
companies from industries that are slimly represented in the
Canadian market, like drug developer and distributor  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , which has gained 87 percent
this year, and software-holding company Constellation Software
Inc. of Toronto, with its 68 percent gain.  “It’s all about going one-by-one and buying businesses
that have good business models that earn good returns
themselves,” Hall said. “If we invest in those businesses we
should grow along with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  