-- Baht Set for Weekly Decline as Foreigners Trim Asset Holdings
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-15T03:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/baht-set-for-weekly-decline-as-foreigners-trim-asset-holdings.html
Thailand ’s baht was set for a third
weekly loss and  government bonds  fell as foreigners cut holdings
of the nation’s assets on concern political protests against a
government-backed amnesty bill will hurt the economy.  Global funds pulled a net $895 million from Thai bonds and
equities this week through yesterday, official data show. Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has struggled to contain protests
against the bill that would provide amnesty for political
offenses in the years after a 2006 coup, and allow her exiled
brother Thaksin to return. Data this month showed U.S.
manufacturing was higher than estimated in October and employers
added more jobs, supporting the dollar.  “The protests have lasted quite some time already and that
encouraged fund outflows, weighing on the baht and Thai
assets,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of the fixed-income
business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “We’ve seen
a recovery in the U.S., and then it’s better to put money there
rather than in a country which has political risk.”  The baht weakened 0.4 percent this week to 31.590 per
dollar as of 9:52 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, which was little changed today, reached
31.705 on Nov. 11, the weakest level since Sept. 18.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, increased two basis
points from Nov. 8 to 5.89 percent. The gauge dropped 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, today.  Political Crisis  Although the Thai Senate rejected the amnesty bill on Nov.
11, concern that the lower house of parliament will reconsider
the proposal has hurt investor confidence.  Thaksin Shinawatra 
was ousted as prime minister in the 2006 coup and has guided
policy from abroad since his sister, Yingluck, won elections in
2011. The current premier has tried to convince the public that
the bill seeks to heal social divisions rather than help Thaksin
return to recover part of a fortune that was seized after he
fled a jail term in 2008.  Thailand’s gross domestic product expanded 3 percent in the
third quarter, compared with 2.8 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before official data Nov. 18.  The yield on the 3.625 percent sovereign bonds due June
2023 increased six basis points this week to 4.04 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate declined two basis points
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  