-- Bakken Oil Weakens as North Dakota Reports Record Production
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-11-15T22:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/bakken-crude-weakens-as-north-dakota-reports-record-production.html
Bakken crude weakened relative to
West Texas Intermediate for the first time in more than a week
as  North Dakota  reported record production from its portion of
the shale formation.  Bakken oil priced in Clearbrook,  Minnesota , weakened by 50
cents to a discount of $14 a barrel to WTI at 4:23 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Production of the oil
from North Dakota’s portion of the field increased by 21,000
barrels a day to 867,000 in September, according to the state’s
Industrial Commission.  “It’s another month of records in every category,” said
Lynn Helms, director of the state department of mineral
Resources, on a call today. “At this pace we won’t probably
quite make a million barrels a day by the end of the year, but
early next year we anticipate we’ll get there.”  Portions of the Bakken field are also in  Montana ,  South
Dakota  and southern  Canada . If Bakken from both Montana and
North Dakota were measured together, the combined output has
probably reached 1 million barrels a day, said Justin Kringstad,
director of North Dakota’s pipeline authority, on the call.  Output from the Bakken has surged from less than 100,000
barrels a day in September 2008, as drillers have improved the
usage of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to ease
crude out of tiny cracks in underground shale formations.  The Bakken and Eagle Ford shale formation in South Texas
helped push  U.S. crude production  to the highest level since
January 1989. Bakken prices fell from a $5-a-barrel discount to
West Texas Intermediate to a discount of more than $10 between
August and October.  Wells Drilled  Helms said the widening discount won’t keep companies from
bringing more output online. More wells are drilled and awaiting
completion than at any other time on record in North Dakota, he
said.  About 587,000 barrels of crude a day was transported from
the region by rail cars in September, the highest level since
April, according to data from the state pipeline authority.  The market share of North Dakota oil moved by rail will
increase in the next several months from the  63 percent  carried
by trains in September, because prices in the state are
depressed compared to coastal oil markets, said Justin
Kringstad, director of the pipeline authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  