-- Banker Sentenced to Death in Vietnam Fraud Trial
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-15T10:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/banker-sentenced-to-death-in-vietnam-fraud-trial.html
A Vietnam court sentenced two former
executives to death in a fraud trial, underscoring the
government’s efforts to clamp down on corporate corruption while
cleaning up its banking system.  The People’s Court of Ho Chi Minh City sentenced Vu Quoc
Hao, the former general director of Agribank  Financial Leasing
Co. (FLKO)  No. 2, to death for embezzlement, Ma Van Nhat, secretary of
the court, said in a phone interview. Dang Van Hai, the former
chairman of a construction company, was also sentenced to death
in the case, he said. Hao, 58, was charged with embezzling
almost 532 billion dong ($25 million) of state property,
according to a statement on the court’s website.  Vietnam’s government is seeking to curb corporate
corruption as it works to restructure a banking system weighed
down by Southeast Asia’s highest rate of bad debt, and to turn
around an economy that grew last year at the slowest pace since
1999. Last year, the central bank governor vowed to crack down
on violations by groups of shareholders working against reforms
to banks.  “We’ll have to wait and see if this has an impact, or if
more needs to be done,” said Fred Burke, managing director of
law firm Baker & McKenzie ( Vietnam ) Ltd. in Ho Chi Minh City.
“The non-performing loan problem Vietnam has today goes back to
a lot of very bad governance practices in the banking sector.
The government realizes this goes to the very stability of the
financial system, and has social impacts beyond that.”  Eleven defendants, including Hao and Hai, were charged with
embezzlement, mismanagement, abuse of power and fraud, according
to the court’s website statement. The other defendants received
prison sentences ranging from three years to 14 years, Nhat
said. Prosecutors said Hao and Hai created 10 fake financial
leasing contracts to disperse almost 800 billion dong.  During the trial, Hao said he regretted his violations and
hoped the judges would give other defendants lighter sentences,
the Tuoi Tre newspaper reported Nov. 13.  Vietnamese courts held 278 corruption trials this year
while the state inspectorate has uncovered 80 new fraud cases
involving state funds, according to a government report released
this week that did not give comparable figures for previous
years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  