-- Belgacom Seeks Successor to Fired CEO Bellens After Quip
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-11-18T10:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/belgium-fires-belgacom-chief-bellens-board-to-pick-replacement.html
(Corrects reference to Belgium’s Reynders in 11th
paragraph of story that ran on Nov. 17.)  Belgacom SA (BELG)  installed interim
leadership and began a search for a new chief executive officer
after Didier Bellens was fired over comments about Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo and the phone company’s dividends.  The carrier yesterday put Chairman Stefaan De Clerck and
Chief Financial Officer Ray Stewart in charge temporarily while
the board comes up with a shortlist of CEO candidates with the
help of a headhunter. The roster will go to the government,
which owns 53.5 percent of Belgacom, for a decision.  “We think that it’s possible” to get an idea of the
candidates in the next weeks, De Clerck told reporters in
Brussels yesterday, a day after the government fired Bellens for
what it called repeated incidents that led to a breach of trust.  Bellens, 58, most recently told a business club in Brussels
that he heard from Di Rupo only at the end of the year when he
called to check how much the Belgacom dividend would be,
likening the prime minister to “a small child who’s asking when
Santa’s coming,” according to reports in L’Echo and De Tijd on
Nov. 7.  Under Bellens’s 10-year reign, Belgacom has produced
 returns  including annual dividends of about 5 percent since the
company’s initial public offering in 2004. Rivals including
Royal KPN NV, Telecom Italia SpA and Telefonica SA were forced
to cut or suspend payouts during the debt crisis to conserve
cash.  Non-Compete Clause  Belgium ’s government estimates it will receive 394 million
euros of dividend income from Belgacom in its 2014 budget,
unchanged from this year, administration documents show.  Belgacom’s board released Bellens from a clause that
prohibited him from working for a Belgian  competitor  for 12
months after leaving the company, while denying him compensation
set at one year of salary.  Bellens “will have the freedom and the possibility to do
something else, in another telecoms company,” De Clerck said.  De Clerck said the new CEO will be paid less than Bellens,
who last year earned 2.14 million euros ($2.9 million) including
bonuses and other benefits. That made him the best-paid top
executive at a Belgian state-controlled company even after
taking a 30 percent salary cut in his second six-year mandate
that began in March 2009.  The new compensation package will be between 290,000 euros
and Bellens’s earnings, De Clerck said. In a surprise move in
April, the government didn’t approve Belgacom’s remuneration
policy at the carrier’s annual shareholders’ meeting.  A1 Rating  “The limit for the moment is 290,000 euros plus 10
percent,” Foreign Minister Didier Reynders  told  broadcaster
RTBF today. “But I am always prepared to examine proposals if
they are made by the relevant ministry.’  Bellens resisted calls from some board members for
expansion abroad, focusing instead on defending the company’s
market share at home with network investments and the
introduction of a television service to counter Telenet Group
Holding NV, the best cable asset in Europe according to Dimitri Kallianiotis, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  The strategy has left Belgacom with one of the stronger
 balance sheets  among European carriers. Its A1 long-term credit
rating at Moody’s Investors Service is the highest among the 23
companies in the European Stoxx 600 Telecommunications Index.  Stake Sale?  ‘‘Bellens has done a fine job at Belgacom, balancing
investments with a  consistent  payout policy,” Thomas Deschepper, an analyst at KBC Securities NV in Brussels, wrote
in a note this week. “Ray Stewart has ample experience and
would be a credible and capable captain, albeit ad interim.”  Belgacom shares are down 6.1 percent this year, valuing the
government’s controlling stake at about 3.8 billion euros.  Belgium could reduce its stake, Reynders told RTBF. While
there isn’t support in the ruling coalition for selling the
stake at the moment, a decision could be taken by the next
government, he said.  “If we want to avoid this saga, the state could reduce its
share in the company,” Reynders said. “You can be a majority
shareholder and have things to say while being below 50
percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  