-- Blackstone Hires Beacham to Lead Rental-Home Finance Unit
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-11-15T14:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/blackstone-hires-beacham-to-lead-rental-home-finance-unit.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  hired John
Beacham from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to lead a mortgage-finance unit
that will make and securitize loans to smaller investors buying
single-family homes to rent.  “This is a very large market with a lot of opportunity to
make a significant volume of loans,” Beacham, 39, who will
serve as president of B2R Finance LP, said in a telephone
interview. “It has the potential to be north of $1 billion
within a relatively reasonable amount of time.”  Blackstone’s real estate group has spent more than $7
billion to acquire 40,000 homes, making it the biggest landlord
in the burgeoning U.S. house-rental industry. B2R, backed by the
firm’s Tactical Opportunities fund, aspires to be the largest
provider of mortgage financing to small and medium-sized buyers
of rental homes, with loans of $500,000 to $50 million,
according to Beacham. It’s targeting individuals and funds with
portfolios ranging from five to 500 properties, he said.  “Not many large lenders are focused on this space,”
Beacham said.  The company plans to provide fixed and floating-rate loans
with terms including five to 10 years, and package the loans
into bonds, said Beacham, who previously worked as joint head of
single-family rental-home finance at Deutsche Bank. The bank
last week sold the first-ever bonds backed by U.S. rental homes
for New York-based Blackstone’s Invitation Homes unit.  Smaller Borrowers  The Invitation Homes bond “really paves the way for what
we’re trying to do at B2R,” Beacham said. “Whereas Invitation
Homes was a single-borrower securitization, our deals will have
multiple borrowers and much smaller borrowers. Knowing that we
have access to the  capital markets , knowing there’s investor
demand, allows us to finance the loans more efficiently.”  Beacham said B2R is going after the smaller investors who
dominate the market, the province of mom-and-pop investors until
the housing collapse and foreclosure crisis attracted bargain-hunting institutions.  “Less than 2 percent of this market is owned by the large
institutional players,” Beacham said. Smaller investors, from
individuals such as contractors and real estate agents to small
private-equity funds, own the vast majority of about 14 million
single-family homes in the U.S. that are rented, he said.  B2R is in the process of completing its first loans,
Beacham said. The firm is “seeing lots of deal flow” in states
including  California ,  Florida ,  Georgia ,  Arizona  and the
Carolinas, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  