-- Blackstone, Viridian Said to Face Final Irish Power Bid Deadline
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-11-15T14:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/blackstone-viridian-said-to-face-final-irish-power-bid-deadline.html
Irish utility company Bord Gais
Eireann invited  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and power companies Viridian
Group Ltd. and  Centrica Plc (CNA)  to make final offers for its retail
unit by Nov. 25, according to people with knowledge of the
matter.  The state-owned gas company, based in Cork, will only
entertain bids for the entire retail and power generation unit,
even after fielding approaches for individual assets such as
wind farms, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified, as the matter is private. The government is keen to
pick a preferred bidder before it exits its international aid
program on Dec. 15, another person said.  Viridian, Northern Ireland’s largest energy supplier, was
the only bidder to submit an offer above a 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion) reserve in the last round of bids in September, people
with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 10. While Ireland agreed
to sell the unit under its bailout in 2010, Irish Public
Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin has said it will only do so
if it gets a  “fair price.”   Blackstone, which expressed an interest in Bord Gais Energy
before bowing out before first-round bids in June, re-entered
the process in the past month, according to two people. The
Financial Times reported Blackstone’s re-emergence as a
potential bidder on Nov. 6.  Viridian’s bid is backed by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , people
with knowledge of the matter said on Oct. 10.  Spokesmen for Bord Gais, Blackstone, Centrica and Viridian
declined to comment.  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) ,  Malaysia ’s biggest energy producer,
scrapped a bid for the business last month, Fazlur Rahman Zainuddin, its chief financial officer, said in an interview
that the Kuala Lumpur-based company had “other priorities.”  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  