-- Boehner Gives Tearful Speech at School Gala: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-11-15T05:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/boehner-gives-tearful-speech-at-school-gala-d-c-scene.html
“There’s a box of tissues here
somewhere,” Speaker of the House  John Boehner  said last night
in his keynote speech at the annual gala for the  Lab School of
Washington .  Boehner fought back tears as he talked about “that one 
teacher who made a difference” to him: Gerry Faust,
his football coach at all-boys Archbishop Moeller High School in
Cincinnati. “Even though I had 11 brothers and sisters, he was
my guy and still is my guy.”  Later, Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy received the
school’s award as outstanding achiever with a learning
difference. He said he struggled with “everything” in school,
but the “compensatory skills” he developed as a result have
served him well in his political career.  Guests included Senator  Max Baucus , Montana Democrat,
Representative John Dingell, Michigan Democrat, former Senator
John Breaux, and Timothy McKone, executive vice president of
federal relations at  AT&T (T) , who co-chaired the gala at the
National Building Museum and has a son in the school’s seventh
grade.  The Lab School caters to students with attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder, dyslexia and other learning
disabilities.  Between sniffles, Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said, “What
teachers do and what schools can do to help every student is
immense. Every child can learn, and every child deserves the
opportunity and the chance to be all they can be. The biggest
disgrace in America is that we only educate half of America’s
kids.”  On a lighter note, the gala auction featured a tear-defying
Shih Tzu puppy, whom guests fawned over during the cocktail
hour.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on art and Jason H. Harper on car reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at 
 sgreen57@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  