-- Brazil Court Orders Arrests in 2005 Cash-for-Votes Probe
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-11-16T14:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/brazil-court-orders-arrests-in-2005-cash-for-votes-probe.html
Brazil ’s Supreme Court ordered the
arrest of a former cabinet chief, four congressmen and four
former congressmen involved in a 2005 bribery scandal, marking
the first definitive jail sentences for such high-profile
politicians.   Arrest orders were sent to the federal police yesterday for
12 individuals including Jose Dirceu, cabinet chief under former
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , and Jose Genoino, a current
member of congress and one-time head of Lula’s Workers’ Party.
Dirceu and Genoino and nine others on the court’s list have
surrendered to authorities since last night.  The court’s decision regarding the scandal that has
threatened to undermine Lula’s legacy marks a turning point in
Brazil’s biggest corruption case during 28 years of democracy.
The cash-for-vote scandal known as “mensalao,” or “big
monthly payment” in Portuguese, involved officials allegedly
paying lawmakers for votes on key congressional initiatives.  Dirceu and Genoino both declared their innocence after
turning themselves in to police and said in separate statements
that they considered themselves to be “political prisoners.”
Rui Falcao, the current Workers’ Party president, said the
court’s decision “didn’t follow constitutional principles.”  “There is no evidence against me,” Dirceu said in an e-mailed statement. “The so-called mensalao trial didn’t follow
the Constitution and international agreements regarding
individual rights.”  Ex-Treasurer Surrenders  Former party treasurer Delubio Soares turned himself in
today, Globo’s  G1 website reported , citing his lawyer. The only
one of the 12 yet to surrender, Henrique Pizzolato, fled to
 Italy , O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper  reported  on its website,
citing a letter from the former Banco do Brasil executive that
was passed on by his lawyer.  Brazilian prosecutors opened the mensalao probe in 2005
after one of the scheme’s operators went public, and the  Supreme
Court  began its trial in August 2012. The Supreme Court
convicted 25 individuals in all.  Neither Lula nor current President  Dilma Rousseff  have been
incriminated or charged in the scandal. Rousseff succeeded
Dirceu as Lula’s cabinet chief from 2005-2010.  In an August 2005 address to the nation, Lula apologized to
the nation for the scandal, saying he felt betrayed by members
of his party and vowed that “all those found responsible will
be brought to justice.”  Lula declined to comment on the arrest orders, according to
an official at the institute he founded who asked not to be
named because he isn’t allowed to discuss the issue publicly.  The world’s second-largest emerging market ranked 69th
among 176 countries in Berlin-based Transparency International’s
2012 study of corruption perceptions, worse than Rwanda and
 Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  