-- Brokers Rise as China Pledges Bigger Market Role: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-15T06:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/brokers-rise-as-china-pledges-bigger-market-role-shanghai-mover.html
Citic Securities Co. paced gains in
Chinese brokerages in  Shanghai  trading amid speculation that
they will benefit from pledges by Communist Party leaders to
give market forces a bigger role in the economy.  Citic Securities, China’s largest brokerage by market
value, climbed 7 percent, the most in two months, to 11.66  yuan 
at 2:07 p.m. Second-ranked  Haitong Securities Co. (600837)  jumped as much
as 10 percent, the biggest intraday gain since July. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 2 percent.  The nation will make markets “decisive” in allocating
resources, according to a communique released Nov. 12 from the
third full meeting, or plenum, of the party’s 18th Central
Committee in Beijing. Capital markets will usher in a rare
opportunity to grow as the plenum outlined the direction for
reform and development, Xiao Gang, chairman of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, said in a  statement  yesterday.  “Investors are upbeat after the plenum,” He Zongyan, an
analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. in Shanghai, said by
phone. “While it’s unclear now which sectors are going to
benefit directly, brokerages will be a beneficiary eventually if
the stock market does well.”  The Shanghai Composite, whose biggest members include
state-owned enterprises such as Industrial & Commercial Bank of
 China  Ltd. and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., has lost about
28 percent over the past three years, while the ChiNext index of
smaller, non-state companies has gained about 18 percent.  “The forcefulness as well as the breadth and depth of the
reform are worth looking forward to,” Shi Weixiang, an analyst
at Guotai Junan Securities Co., wrote in a note today. “State-owned companies will experience the immediate impact of it and
the pace of reform in other sectors could exceed expectations.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  