-- Canadian Dollar Gains From 10-Week Low on Factory Sales, Yellen
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-15T22:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/canadian-dollar-on-pace-for-weekly-gain-with-fed-tapering-later.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened
from a 10-week low after  manufacturing sales  increased to the
highest in more than a year and Federal Reserve Chairman-nominee
Janet Yellen said yesterday she’ll press on with stimulus that
has boosted global risk appetite.  The currency’s gain was tempered by data showing that
 Canada ’s housing market cooled and industrial production in the
U.S., the nation’s largest trading partner, unexpectedly
declined. Yellen said she’d maintain the Fed’s bond purchases. A
measure of New York-area manufacturing dropped. A U.S.-Canadian-dollar volatility gauge slid to a three-week low.  “All else being equal, risk appetite just continues to
march higher,” said Adam Button, a currency analyst at
forexlive.com, by phone from  Montreal . “The main risk was Fed
tapering. We dabbled with it the last three weeks in the market,
thinking the Fed might taper in December. Now the market’s said
there’s about a 10 percent chance we taper in December, and
we’re comfortable with that.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0439 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It lost as much as 0.2 percent
earlier and gained 0.4 percent on the week. Yesterday, the
currency touched C$1.0526, the weakest level since Sept 4. One
Canadian dollar buys 95.80 U.S. cents.  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the waterfowl on the
C$1 coin, declined versus eight of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  Volatility Measure  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
against the loonie fell to 5.16 percent, the lowest intraday
level since Oct. 23. The measure is used to set option prices
and gauge the expected pace of currency swings. The 2013 average
is 6.49 percent.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against its U.S. peer, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the loonie versus those on a
gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 16,092 on Nov. 12, compared
with net shorts of 18,002 a week earlier.  The nation’s benchmark 10-year government bond was little
changed,  yielding  2.56 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 slipped 6 cents to C$91.10.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fluctuated,
approaching yesterday’s five-month closing low of $92.51 a
barrel in  New York . They slid 0.9 percent over the past five
days in their sixth straight weekly loss. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of stocks rose 0.4 percent.  Drivers Shift  Traditional drivers of the Canadian dollar such as U.S.
equities and the price of oil are becoming less important as
interest-rate spreads between the U.S. and Canada take center
stage, according to Bank of America Corp.  The market will see a Fed move in January to begin slowing
its asset purchases as the first step toward higher  interest
rates , while the  Bank of Canada  stays on hold,  Ian Gordon , a
foreign-exchange strategist in New York, wrote in a Nov. 15
client note, citing company forecasts. The “relative policy
divergence” will be positive for the greenback, he said.  The loonie will remain supported over the longer term as
Canada diversifies its export base and new pipelines carrying
Canadian oil to the U.S. boost producer profit margins, Gordon
wrote. The key  Canadian rate  is 1 percent, and the  U.S.
benchmark (FDTR)  is zero to 0.25 percent.  Factory Sales  The Canadian dollar gained after data showed the nation’s
 factory sales  climbed in September to the highest since June
2012. They increased 0.6 percent to C$49.9 billion ($47.7
billion),  Statistics Canada  said.  The currency fluctuated after Canadian  existing-home sales 
fell 3.2 percent in October from the previous month, the biggest
drop since August 2012. Unit home sales decreased to 39,235,
down from 40,545 in September, the  Canadian Real Estate
Association  said in a statement on its website.  It was the first drop since February, ending a seven-month
run that reflected a flurry of purchases as buyers rushed to
beat expected mortgage-rate increases.  Home prices  fell 1.1
percent during the month to C$388,277.  In the U.S., total industrial production fell 0.1 percent
in October as output at mines and utilities declined, according
to Fed data. The New York Fed’s Empire State report on
manufacturing in the region shrank to negative 2.21 this month,
compared with a forecast of 5, versus 1.5 in October. Readings
less than zero signal contraction.  Currency Performance  The loonie declined 1.7 percent in the past three months
against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The  New Zealand dollar  was
the biggest gainer, with a 3.2 percent jump, while the U.S.
dollar declined 0.3 percent.  Yellen, who’s now Fed vice chairman, told the Senate
Banking Committee yesterday at a confirmation hearing she’s
committed to promoting a strong recovery of an economy that’s
operating well below its potential. The U.S. central bank
purchases $85 billion of bonds each month to cap borrowing rates
and spur growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  