-- Canadian Stocks Cap Second Week of Gains Amid Fed Stimulus Bets
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-11-15T21:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/canadian-stocks-rise-extending-weekly-gain-amid-stimulus-bets.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, capping a
second week of gains for the benchmark index, on speculation the
U.S. Federal Reserve will maintain monetary stimulus and as
 China ’s ruling party announced changes to economic policy.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. added 0.8 percent amid
speculation an agreement to sell OAO Uralkali by its owners may
defuse a dispute between Russia and Belarus that roiled the
global soil nutrient market. Bonavista Energy Corp. climbed 3.9
percent as Scotia Capital Inc. boosted the stock’s rating. West
Fraser Timber Co. slipped 4.7 percent as  RBC Capital Markets 
downgraded shares of the lumber producer.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  climbed 51.18
points, or 0.4 percent, to 13,482.56 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
Trading in the benchmark gauge’s shares was 8.6 percent below
the 30-day average. The index advanced 0.8 percent this week,
its fifth weekly gain in six.  “Yellen is going to continue Bernanke’s policies of
extremely low short-term rates and being very slow to pull back
from quantitative easing, so that is stimulative for risk
assets,”  Todd Johnson , a portfolio manager at Winnipeg,
Manitoba-based BCV Asset Management, said in a phone interview.
His firm oversees C$550 million ($526 million).  Equities rose yesterday after  Janet Yellen , nominated to
succeed  Ben Bernanke  as the next chairman of the Fed, said the
central bank should take care not to withdraw stimulus, or
quantitative easing, too early from an economy that is operating
well below potential.  China Reforms  China’s government vowed to allow more private investment
in the state sector, loosen its one-child policy and better
protect farmers’ rights to land, according to the Communist
Party policy decision published today by the official Xinhua
News Agency today.  The document, covering 60 measures, follows a communique
issued Nov. 12 after a four-day party conclave in Beijing that
omitted detailed policies for the world’s second-largest
economy.  “China’s growth is very positive for  Canada , and
liberalizing their financial sector and encouraging private
sector consumption is a significant step forward for China’s
normalization,” Johnson said.  Manufacturing in the  New York  region unexpectedly
contracted in November, a report on the New York Fed’s general
economic index showed today. In Canada, economic data were
mixed, with factory sales rising in September to the highest in
more than a year while existing home sales fell 3.2 percent in
October from the previous month.  Uralkali Deal  Potash Corp. rose 0.8 percent to C$33.85. Billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov and his business partners in Uralkali, a rival
potash producer, may reach an agreement to sell their joint 33
percent stake as soon as next week, according to four people
with knowledge of their discussions.  A sale may defuse a dispute between Russia and Belarus
sparked by Uralkali’s July withdrawal from a partnership that
marketed 40 percent of global exports. The falling-out and
Uralkali’s plan to boost output roiled the $20 billion market
for the soil nutrient. Belarus has called for a change in the
company’s ownership before a reconciliation is possible.  Bonavista Energy rallied 3.9 percent to C$12.71. The oil
and natural gas producer was raised to sector outperform from
sector perform at  Scotia Capital  by equity analyst Patrick Bryden. The 12-month target price is C$18 a share.  Finning International Inc. advanced 5.8 percent to C$25.54.
The seller of Caterpillar Inc. equipment was raised to
outperform from sector perform at RBC Capital Markets by equity
analyst Sara O’Brien after the company yesterday said third-quarter revenue beat estimates.  Raw-materials producers has the worst performance out of 10
groups in the S&P/TSX, falling 0.7 percent. OceanaGold Corp.
dropped 5.2 percent to C$1.83 and Centerra Gold Inc. retreated
5.7 percent to C$3.15.  West Fraser Timber slid 4.7 percent to C$91.32. The lumber
producer was cut to sector perform from outperform at RBC
Capital Markets by equity analyst  Paul Quinn .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  