-- Caroline Kennedy Brings Camelot Mystique to Japan as Envoy
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-11-15T08:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/caroline-kennedy-brings-family-mystique-to-japan-as-ambassador.html
Caroline Kennedy took the post of
U.S. Ambassador to  Japan  today, half a century after her father
John’s dream of becoming the first sitting president to visit
the country was cut short.  Referring to  John F. Kennedy , Caroline Kennedy said on her
arrival in  Tokyo  she was “proud to carry forward my father’s
legacy of public service,” adding she would “work to
strengthen the close ties between our two great countries.”  Kennedy, 55, will represent the U.S. at a time when the
Obama administration is making  Asia  a foreign policy priority
via what it calls a strategic and economic “rebalancing.” The
administration is working toward a trade alliance, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, meant to anchor the U.S. within the world’s
fastest-growing economic region and help achieve the goal of
doubling U.S. exports over the five years ending in 2015.  Kennedy replaces John Roos, a former Silicon Valley lawyer
and fund raiser for President  Barack Obama , and is the first
woman to serve in the role. Kennedy’s close ties with Obama, as
well as her family background, have sparked excitement in Japan.  “I don’t think we have ever welcomed an ambassador with
such high expectations,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga
told reporters. “It is said she can call the president directly
on the phone. From the point of view of developing Japan-U.S.
ties, I think she will be a wonderful ambassador.”  Broadening Defense  Kennedy’s ambassadorship becomes official in Japan on Nov.
19, when she will travel through the streets of Tokyo in an
antique carriage drawn by two horses to the Imperial Palace to
present her credentials to Emperor Akihito. The brief ceremony
will take place in the Room of the Pine, used for such occasions
since 1969.  The U.S. is also seeking to bolster its strategic alliance
with Japan as the countries respond to  China ’s growing military
and economic muscle in the region and the threat from  North
Korea ’s nuclear program. Japan and China are embroiled in a
territorial dispute over islands in the  East China Sea .  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is considering reinterpreting the
country’s pacifist constitution to allow its military to defend
allies. The U.S., which imposed the constitution on Japan after
its defeat in World War II, supports the proposed change which
has been criticized by  South Korea  and China, two countries that
suffered under Japanese occupation.  Aso’s Comments  Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso, a former foreign minister,
said he had little idea of Kennedy’s qualifications for the job.  “Her diplomatic skills are completely unknown,” he told
reporters. “I think I can rate her highly for her interest in
Japan and her eagerness to do a good job of the duties that are
assigned to her.”  Kennedy, who studied Japanese history and holds a law
degree, traveled to Hiroshima with her uncle  Edward Kennedy  in
1978. That visit “left me with a profound desire to work for a
better, more peaceful world,” she said in a video message
released Nov. 13. She also said she spent her honeymoon in
Japan, visiting Nara and Kyoto.  “Since that time I’ve seen firsthand how American and
Japanese people are bound by common values,” she said in the
video. “We share a commitment to freedom, human rights and the
rule of law. My goal as ambassador is to build on the proud
traditions of mutual respect and close partnership. I look
forward to learning more and to making new friends.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Hong Kong  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  