-- CFTC Passes Collateral Rule to Backstop Treasuries in Swap Trade
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-11-15T20:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/cftc-passes-collateral-rule-to-backstop-treasuries-in-swap-trade.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission approved a rule aimed at ensuring that Treasuries
pledged as collateral for swaps and futures trades can be
instantly converted to cash.  With today’s vote, the nation’s main derivatives regulator
toughened safeguards in a market blamed for worsening the 2008
global financial crisis. The four commissioners didn’t change
language mandating that Treasuries be subject to a “prearranged
and highly reliable funding arrangement,” according to a  copy 
of the rule on its website.  The derivatives industry argued that the backstop to
Treasury collateral was unnecessary because U.S. government
securities can be converted into cash fast enough. While  U.S.
debt  is considered to be among the safest investments, policy
makers are concerned liquidating them will require too much time
-- up to a day -- during a crisis, a government official
familiar with the stance at the  Federal Reserve , which shares
oversight of clearinghouses, said earlier this week.  The 2008 crisis developed so rapidly that the Fed had to
give out more than $2 trillion in emergency aid. Fed officials
have told banks and exchanges that the CFTC’s new collateral
rule means U.S. debt must be covered by credit lines, according
to three industry executives briefed on the matter.  “CME estimates that liquidity facility costs would
approximately double” under the rule, according to a Sept. 16
 letter  that CME Group Inc., the owner of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, sent the CFTC. “These increased costs would likely
either be passed on to end customers or cause many clearing
members to exit the customer clearing business entirely.”  Global Standards  Gary Gensler , chairman of the CFTC, said in an interview in
New York yesterday that while he doesn’t envision the rule
putting a dent in the Treasuries market, “there is some cost to
the clearinghouses.”  The goal is to align U.S. clearinghouses with international
rules, Gensler said. The change affects collateral posted in the
swaps and futures markets, where outstanding contracts have a
notional value of about $430 trillion, he said yesterday.  The CFTC worked with the Fed on the rule because the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the central bank oversee
systemically important financial institutions such as major U.S.
derivatives clearinghouses. International regulators last year
set broad standards for how clearinghouses treat the collateral
they hold as protection from member defaults.  More Collateral  The Dodd-Frank Act required most swaps to be backed by
clearinghouses for the first time after the contracts helped
cause and intensify the credit crisis of 2008. That means swaps
users will have to post $800 billion to $4.6 trillion in
additional collateral to meet the new regulations, according to
estimates from the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee.  Stiffening funding requirements for Treasuries is the
latest in a series of actions taken by regulators to rein in the
swaps market, frequently to the dismay of traders who say the
rules make it unreasonably difficult to do business. The goal is
to avoid meltdowns like the ones in 2008 that triggered American
International Group Inc.’s $182 billion bailout after the
insurer couldn’t make good on its trades and almost destroyed
the world’s biggest banks.  Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their bank and
brokerage members, are meant to lessen the effect of a default
by requiring collateral and marking positions daily so losses
don’t snowball. Initial margin is pledged to fund a potential
default while variation margin is required when positions lose
value. If investors can’t meet their margin calls, the positions
are liquidated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  