-- China Leadership Pledges Expansion of Economic Freedoms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-16T08:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/china-pledges-to-ease-one-child-policy-as-party-details-reforms.html
In the biggest expansion of economic
freedoms since at least the 1990s, China’s leaders vowed to
expand farmers’ land rights, loosen the one-child policy and
encourage private investment in state businesses.  Couples can have two children if either parent is an only
child, the Communist Party said in a statement yesterday
fleshing out policies set at a four-day conclave this month.
Farmers will get more rights over collectively owned rural land,
while the household registration system that impedes internal
migration will be scrapped in towns and small cities.  The new leadership of President Xi Jinping and Premier  Li Keqiang , installed in March, is accelerating an unwinding of
Communist Party economic policies that originated during or
shortly after the reign of Chairman  Mao Zedong . The party needs
to fuel growth to cement its grip on power in the face of
economic headwinds ranging from local-government debt to an
aging population that is set to shrink the nation’s workforce.  “The bottom line is that there’s a sweeping reform plan,”
said  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based economist for UBS AG who
formerly worked for the  International Monetary Fund . “At least
from the blueprint, it seems very exciting.”  The family-planning policy, put in place three years after
Mao’s death in 1976, was intended to alleviate poverty. It has
saddled the nation with a declining labor force: The  United
Nations  estimates that the number of 15- to 24-year-olds, the
mainstay of  factories  that drove growth for two decades, will
shrink by about 67 million by 2030.  Current Policy  Under the current policy, couples are only allowed to have
a second child if both parents are only children.  Changes to the policy will help maintain a reasonable size
of the  labor force , slow the speed at which the country’s
population is aging and boost the economy, Wang Peian, deputy
director of the National Health and Family Planning Commission,
said in a statement on the central government’s  website  today.  At the same time, “not too many” couples fulfill the new
criteria and the change won’t lead to a large increase in the
population in the short term, Wang said. The number of people in
China in 2020 will still be “significantly” below 1.43 billion
and the expected peak population will be well below 1.5 billion,
Wang said. A 2010 census put the figure that year at 1.34
billion.  China’s stocks rose ahead of yesterday’s release, capping
the benchmark  index (SHCOMP) ’s biggest gain in a month, on speculation
about the reform document. The Shanghai Composite Index climbed
1.7 percent, while yields on the nation’s 10-year notes
increased to the highest level since 2007.  2020 Goal  The document, covering 60 measures, adds details to a
communique issued Nov. 12 after a four-day party meeting known
as the third plenum and sets a 2020 goal for implementation.  “Now it’s going to be the hard and complicated slog of
implementation,” said  Stephen Green , head of Greater China
research at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong .  Former central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said that a planned
scaling back of hukou, the household registrations that limit
labor mobility, will be the biggest change to that policy since
it was established in 1958 under Mao. UBS says the overall
expansion of economic rights will be the largest since 1980,
while Mizuho Securities Asia. Ltd picked the late 1990s, when
state-owned housing became privately owned.  Deng’s Breakthrough  The government will give farmers rights to share, profit
from, sell, collateralize and inherit ownership in collective
assets, the document said, adding that a rural  property market 
will be established. The hukou system set up under Mao also will
be gradually relaxed in medium-sized cities, while the sizes of
mega-cities will be strictly controlled.  China will develop a “mixed-ownership economy” that helps
state-owned assets maintain or increase their value and boost
their competitiveness, according to the state-run Xinhua News
Agency.  “I’m not exactly sure, frankly, how this is going to play
out with state-owned enterprises, and I’m also not exactly sure
how you have the market be the decisive force in allocating
resources, the way they talk about, and you maintain the
dominant role of the public economy in the state-owned
enterprises,”  Elizabeth Economy , director for Asia studies at
the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Michael McKee  and  Tom Keene .
“That remains to be played out.”  State Profits  The party also said 30 percent of profits produced by state
capital will be transferred to public finances, allowing the
government to spend more on improving people’s well-being.
Current policies require central government-administered
companies to transfer only as much as 15 percent.  “China is now moving aggressively to assemble the building
blocks of a consumer society,” said  Stephen Roach , former chief
economist at Morgan Stanley and now a senior fellow at Yale
University’s Jackson Institute of Global Affairs. “The measures
aimed at family planning, capturing excess SOE profits, and
rural income support should lead to a stronger social safety
net,” he said, referring to state-owned enterprises.  The People’s Bank of China will “make all efforts to
deepen reform and opening-up in the finance industry” to
promote economic development, Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in a
separate statement.  Exchange Rate  The nation will accelerate convertibility of the  yuan  and
freeing-up of  interest rates , improve treasury yield curves and
let qualified private investors set up small-to-medium sized
banks, according to the decision.  Authorities pledged to speed up property-tax legislation
and the nation will explore raising the  retirement age ,
according to Xinhua. China will push pricing changes for water,
oil, gas, power, transportation, telecommunications and other
sectors, the document said.  Bank of America Corp. economist Lu Ting called the shift in
the one-child policy “quite small,” given that it only applies
to families where one parent is an only child, rather than
allowing all parents to have two children.  UBS’s Wang said the change may have only a limited impact
on the birth rate.  Still, Yuan Gangming, a researcher with the government-run
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, said the plenum
decision amounts to the broadest reform pledge since 1993, when
President  Jiang Zemin  paved the way for market-driven changes
and a realignment of the relationship between central and local
government spending.  At the same time, the latest plenum’s policies “failed to
make an ideological breakthrough -- for which it’s not able to
rival the one in 1978,” Yuan said. He was referring to when
then-paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping  broke with three decades of
Maoism and introduced pro-market policies that preceded  growth 
averaging 10 percent a year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  