-- China’s Money Rate Jumps Most Since June After PBOC Drains Funds
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-11-15T09:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/china-s-money-rate-jumps-most-since-june-after-pboc-drains-funds.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
jumped the most in almost five months as the central bank
drained cash from the financial system for a second week.  The People’s Bank of China’s money-market operations
withdrew a net 15 billion  yuan  ($2.5 billion) in the last four
days after draining 5 billion yuan last week, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The monetary authority auctioned 30
billion yuan of the  finance ministry ’s three-month deposits to
banks at a yield of 6 percent yesterday, the most since June and
more than the  Shanghai  Interbank Offered Rate of 4.71 percent
for similar-term funds.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, rose 116 basis points, or
1.16 percentage points, to 5.45 percent in Shanghai, according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That was the biggest increase since the height of a
record cash crunch on June 20. The rate climbed 150 basis points
this week.  “The benchmark repo surged this morning after the PBOC
drained,” said  Frances Cheung , a Credit Agricole CIB strategist
in  Hong Kong . The 6 percent yield at the ministry’s deposit
auction “reflected strong demand for liquidity that covers both
year-end and the Chinese New Year. Investors will be cautious
about the liquidity situation again,” she said.  The finance ministry sold 20 billion yuan of 50-year bonds
at a yield of 5.31 percent today, higher than the median
forecast of 5.05 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  The one-year  interest-rate swap , the fixed payment needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo, rose five basis points
today to 4.51 percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It increased 16 basis points in the past five days, a
fourth weekly gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  