-- China Stocks Surge on Policy Optimism While Bond Yields Increase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-15T07:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-oil-refiners-may-move.html
China’s stocks  advanced, capping the
benchmark index’s biggest gain in a month, while borrowing costs
rose amid speculation the government will unveil detailed
changes in economic policy as soon as next week.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.7 percent to
2,135.83 at the close, erasing a weekly decline, as  Citic
Securities Co. (600030)  and Haitong Securities Co. led a rally in
brokerages. Yields on the nation’s 10-year notes increased eight
basis points to 4.60 percent, the highest level since 2007, and
the benchmark money-market  rate  rose the most in five months.  Optimism that the government will elaborate on plans to
elevate the role of markets in the world’s second-largest
economy has revived investor confidence, after the ruling
Communist Party stopped short of unveiling detailed policy
shifts on Nov. 12, according to Dragon Life Insurance Co. Bond
yields increased as the central bank drained cash from the
financial system and investors speculated the government will
loosen its grip on interest rates.  “The market is expecting that some important decisions
from the plenum will be implemented soon and some additional
details to be announced will exceed market expectations,” said
Wu Kan, a money manager at Dragon Life, which oversees about
$3.3 billion. “Investors had overreacted by panic selling when
the plenum concluded.”  Property Rights  A 20,000 word document approved at the plenum lays out 15
areas of reform and 60 “concrete tasks,” the Communist Party’s
People’s Daily newspaper reported today. Speculation on the
contents was fueled by photographs circulating online of
portions of an unidentified document referring to topics such as
requiring state-owned enterprises to pay larger dividends,
encouraging more private investment in state projects, and
offering farmers more property rights.  Policy changes may be announced over the next seven to 10
days, Jonathan Garner, the Hong Kong-based chief Asia and
emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley, said in an
interview from  Singapore  yesterday. Investors will regain some
confidence in  China ’s structural reforms next week, Lu Ting, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America Corp., wrote in an
e-mailed note.  The nation will probably ease controls on interest rates
and energy prices after policy makers assigned markets a
“decisive” role in allocating resources this week, according
to Wang Tao, the chief China economist at UBS AG who formerly
worked at the International Monetary Fund.  Money Markets  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of liquidity in the
financial system, jumped 107 basis points to 5.30 percent,
according to a fixing by the National Interbank Funding Center.
Yuan forwards touched a one-month low as they headed for a
weekly drop.  The People’s Bank of China’s money-market operations
withdrew a net 15 billion  yuan  ($2.5 billion) in the last four
days after draining 5 billion yuan last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The monetary authority auctioned 30
billion yuan of the finance ministry’s three-month deposits to
banks at a yield of 6 percent yesterday, the most since June and
more than the Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate of 4.7 percent for
similar-term funds.  Citic Securities and Haitong Securities, China’s biggest
listed brokerages, jumped at least 6 percent after the Shanghai
Securities News cited Xiao Gang, chairman of the securities
regulator, as saying the capital markets will “usher in” new
opportunities. BesTV New Media Co., which is forming a video-game venture with Microsoft Corp., surged 6.3 percent.  The CSI 300 Index advanced 2 percent to 2,350.73. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 2.8 percent. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index, the measure of the most-traded U.S.-
listed Chinese companies, added 0.7 percent yesterday.  The Shanghai index climbed 1.3 percent this week, narrowing
this year’s loss to 5.9 percent. Trading volumes in the index
were 10 percent above the 30-day average today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  