-- Cisneros’s First Female CEO Seeks Latin America Expansion
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/cisneros-s-first-female-ceo-seeks-latin-america-expansion.html
Adriana Cisneros, the chief
executive officer of the Cisneros Group, is targeting
acquisitions from  Mexico  to Colombia after taking the reins from
her billionaire father in September.  Cisneros said the 84-year-old holding company is seeking
opportunities to buy networks, expand production companies and
capitalize on e-commerce growth across Latin America to boost
revenue as much as 25 percent over the next two years. Estimates
by Bloomberg that the Coral Gables, Florida-based company has
$800 million in annual revenue are “low,” she said, without
giving more details.  “I’m 95 percent focused on doing business in Latin
America,” Cisneros, 33, said in an interview from her 14th
floor office with views of Biscayne Bay and downtown Miami. “I
am clearly not changing my company to make less money.
Dominating Spanish-language TV is my goal.”  The move represents a shift in focus for the Cisneros
Group, which owns  Venezuela ’s top-rated television channel, the
Miss Venezuela beauty pageant and a production company that
spins out 3,000 hours of high-definition soap operas and other
content for partners including Univision, the biggest Spanish-language channel in the U.S. Adriana’s father, Gustavo Cisneros,
said in a 2011 interview that the group was seeking joint
ventures with Chinese investors outside its core media business,
including in cattle, mining and energy.  ‘China is Yours’  “I told my father that  China  is yours and Latin America is
my China,” she said, adding that the company’s “Eva Luna”
soap opera series will debut on the CCTV network in China this
month. Latin America’s middle class “is here to stay” after a
decade of growth, she added.  A mother of two with degrees from Columbia University and
 New York  University, Cisneros previously oversaw the company’s
digital initiatives, building up online and mobile ad units
RedMas and Adsmovil. Although she took the CEO title in
September, she said she’s been helping make major decisions the
past year and that her youth in an advantage in the media
industry.  “I was born into a world where digital is the new
platform,” she said. “Latin America is the place that has the
highest growth in digital advertising in the world.”  Adsmovil boosted revenue 170 percent this year while
digital ad spending in the region is growing 35 percent per
year, she said without giving more details.  Colombia and  Peru  are “extremely promising” markets for
expansion while Mexico and  Brazil  offer the best opportunities
for growing digital content, Cisneros said. Argentina is also a
potential market given recent changes in media laws, she said.  IPO Plans  Argentina’s biggest media company, Grupo Clarin SA, has
said it will comply with an antitrust law that may force it to
divest some television and radio assets. Brazil’s Globo
Comunicacao & Participacoes SA, the region’s biggest closely-held media company, isn’t a direct competitor with Cisneros
because of its focus on the Portuguese-language market, she
said.  Some of the company’s digital acquisitions may sell shares
in the coming years, Cisneros said, while ruling out an initial
public offering for the parent company, which was founded in
1929 by her grandfather Diego as a  transport business  in
Caracas.  As a child, Adriana traveled alongside her father as he
brokered deals introducing DirecTV to Latin America after
starting  Univision , the first network in the U.S. targeting
Hispanics. Cisneros sold his stake in Univision in 2006 as part
of a $12.3 billion buyout by investors including billionaire
Haim Saban.  Beyond media, the company is developing Tropicalia, a $2
billion resort complex in the Dominican Republic. A Four Seasons
will open on the property in two years, the first of several
hotels, she said.  Miss Venezuela  This year Cisneros turned the traditional one-night Miss
Venezuela beauty pageant into a 13-week reality series broadcast
across Latin America that incorporated online voting. The format
allowed the company to boost revenue from advertisers including
Procter & Gamble Co. and Samsung Electronics Co. The brand got a
further boost when the pageant’s 2012 winner,  Maria Gabriela
Isler , won the Miss Universe crown in Moscow Nov. 9.  The strategy shows how Cisneros seeks to generate faster
growth from existing properties while expanding the company’s
digital reach.  “They gave me a really great cruise ship, steady, that
makes a lot of money and knows where it is going,” Cisneros
said. “Now I will build a rocket-ship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Miami at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  