-- Cities Raise Alarms Over EPA’s Surprise Hydrant Lead Rule
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/cities-raise-alarms-over-epa-s-surprise-hydrant-lead-rule.html
Philadelphia has 119 fire hydrants
that cost about $2,000 each waiting in a warehouse to be
installed, yet they sit high and dry because federal regulators
say their fittings might taint drinking water with lead.  The City of Brotherly Love and communities across the U.S.
face the specter of hundreds of millions of dollars in useless
hydrants after a surprise ruling last month by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency that requires fireplugs put in
after Jan. 4 meet stricter standards for lead content, said Tom Curtis of the American Water Works Association in Denver. That
means cities must scrap or retrofit inventory or buy hydrants
and parts that some vendors aren’t even making yet.  Manufacturers and Curtis’s group, which represents
utilities that serve about 80 percent of Americans, are urging
the agency to reconsider or at least allow more time to comply.
American Cast Iron Pipe Co., one of the largest hydrant makers,
is seeing some customers delay or cancel orders.  “This delivers a huge cost and probably no health
protection,” said Curtis, the water group’s deputy executive
director. “It needs to be rethought.”  Mueller Water Products Inc. (MWA) , an Atlanta-based company that
says it is the largest U.S. hydrant maker, supports efforts to
have fireplugs excluded from the EPA rule. It cited “no
discernible health risk,” in a statement.  Hydrants pose little, if any, risk of long-term lead
exposure because they are used to supply drinking water only on
occasions such as a festival or when a main breaks, Curtis said
by telephone from Washington.  Hydrant Sleuths  Philadelphia is identifying hydrant parts that contact the
water supply and is having new components made, said Joanne
Dahme, a department spokeswoman. She said the cost isn’t clear.  “We don’t think it makes sense,” Dahme said by e-mail.
“The rule is not practical.”  The EPA said in a statement it is “meeting with
stakeholders to listen to concerns and collect more
information.”  The rule resulted from a law enacted in January 2011, the
Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act. The measure changed the
amount of the metal allowed in plumbing components that contact
water supplies from 8 percent to a weighted average of 0.25
percent, according to the EPA.  There is no safe level of ingested lead, especially for
children, whose bodies absorb more of the metal than adults and
can suffer learning disabilities and other effects, said Jerome
Paulson, a pediatrician who teaches at George  Washington 
University in the District of Columbia.  “You want to get lead exposure as low as you humanly
can,” Paulson said.  Sudden Discovery  Still, cities and manufacturers don’t see hydrants posing a
health risk, Curtis said. They also believed they were exempt
from the EPA rule until the agency’s Water Office on Oct. 22
issued a 14-page unsigned response to questions about the 2011
law and whether it applies to fireplugs.  The 55-word ruling, contained in the fifth item of the
response, said for the first time that hydrants are included
because they “can be, and are, used in emergency situations to
provide drinking water.”  There are eight principal U.S. hydrant makers, according to
the Manufacturers Standardization Society of the Valve and
Fittings Industry in Vienna, Virginia. The plugs are typically
made from cast iron with the cap visible above ground attached
by a pipe to the underground water main. Components inside
regulate flow, and brass parts and nozzle where a hose attaches
can contain lead.  Plugging Away  The closely held company has been making hydrants for more
than a century, he said, and the EPA’s ruling already is
affecting production.  Hagelskamp estimated that hydrants valued at hundreds of
millions of dollars are in storage at water utilities and tens
of millions are held by distributors.  “It’s a firefighting device, not a drinking water
device,” Hagelskamp said. “There’s an urgency for EPA to do
something.”  Mueller Water Products Inc., an Atlanta-based company that
says it is the largest U.S. hydrant maker, supports efforts to
have fireplugs excluded from the EPA rule. It cited “no
discernible health risk,” in a statement.  Columbus,  Ohio , has started monitoring its $120,000
inventory of hydrants, and plans to avoid purchasing banned
fireplugs, said Water Administrator Richard Westerfield.  Forging Ahead  The city, with about 25,000 hydrants, plans to continue
using its stock under the assumption the odds are low that they
will ever provide drinking water, Westerfield said by telephone.  “We can’t let them go not repaired, and we can’t
discontinue installation of new hydrants,” he said.  It can take a crew of three as long as six hours to replace
a hydrant, which can weigh as much as 400 pounds (180
kilograms), according to the city’s water department.  New York, the most-populous U.S. metropolis, has 110,000
hydrants and replaces about 450 each year, said  Chris Gilbride ,
a spokesman for the city’s Environmental Protection Department.
Officials are assessing the EPA ruling’s effects and back the
water-works group’s position, Gilbride said by telephone.  While hydrants have been in use for centuries to battle
blazes, they also provide relief for youngsters during hot
weather -- or for dogs out on daily walks -- and are part of the
American psyche, said Thomas Ingalsbe, a cofounder of the
website FireHydrant.org, which helps collectors and those
seeking technical information. He said he has 900 fireplugs,
including one from San Francisco in the 1830s.  “It’s just kind of part of the American way,” Ingalsbe,
43, of Anniston,  Alabama , said by telephone. “They’re always
with us, even though we don’t really acknowledge them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  