-- CME Hack Draws FBI Probe While Renewing Market Structure Anxiety
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/cme-group-says-its-computers-were-hacked-no-trades-affected.html
The computer intrusion at  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  has spurred a federal investigation and renewed concerns
about the trustworthiness of electronic markets.  The Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s owner said yesterday that
its systems were hacked in July and some customer information
was compromised. CME Group said there’s no evidence that
transactions on its electronic-trading system or its clearing
services were affected.  Although CME Group downplayed the significance of its
incident, the danger to  capital markets  from hacking is
underappreciated, said John Edge, a managing director at New
York-based Nice Actimize who specializes in global trading and
market structure issues. It’s likely there will one day be a
large-scale attack that causes a major disruption, he said.  “From a statistical point of view, it’s completely
improbable that it won’t happen,” he said. “The hacking
community belongs to usually one of three groups: state-sponsored, organized financial crime or agenda-based activists.
You’ve got some very well-funded, very talented, competent
people whose job it is to breach security.”  Cybersecurity has been flagged as one of the biggest
threats to markets and governments by industry groups and
regulators. A study in July found that computers at about 53
percent of exchanges around the world were attacked during the
previous year. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. discovered suspicious files
on its website in 2011, prompting a federal investigation.  Customer Credentials  ClearPort, the system that CME Group said was targeted,
provides clearing services for block trades that are negotiated
privately in over-the-counter energy and metals markets. “To
protect participants, CME Group forced a change to customer
credentials impacted by the incident, and is corresponding
directly with the impacted customers,” the company said in a
statement yesterday.  “Assuming no customer assets were affected, this is useful
as an eye-opener,” Pete Lindstrom, an analyst at Spire Security
in Philadelphia, said of the CME Group incident. “We continue
to see various types of folks who are hacked,” he said. “It
starts to generate concern over our financial infrastructure.”  Michael Shore , a CME Group spokesman, declined to elaborate
on the statement, which said the incident was the subject of a
U.S. criminal investigation.  “We did receive the referral” from CME Group, said Joan
Hyde, a spokeswoman for the Chicago office of the  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation. “We are looking into the matter.”  Hong Kong  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, is helping with the investigation,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked to not
be named because the inquiry is private. The attack on CME Group
came from a hub in  Hong Kong , although the perpetrators could
have been based elsewhere, the person said.  CME Group offers futures based on  interest rates , equity
indexes, currencies, metals, energy products and agricultural
commodities. It also guarantees  interest-rate swaps  and credit-default swaps with its clearinghouse.  From January to August of this year, CME Group handled 2.17
billion futures contracts, according to an analysis by the
Futures Industry Association, making it the world’s largest
exchange by volume.  While computer attacks are global, American exchanges have
reported the most instances of attempted sabotage via the
Internet, according to a July study co-authored by  the World
Federation of Exchanges  and  the International Organization of
Securities Commissions . About 67 percent of U.S.-based trading
venues said they had to fight them off, the study showed. About
89 percent said it represents a systemic risk.  ‘Big One’  That’s similar to the conclusion made by Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., which processes U.S. stock trades. It said in
August that hacking is the gravest threat to financial markets.  “Cybersecurity is a large and growing problem for all
financial service providers,”Howard Ward, the chief investment
officer for growth equity at Rye, New York-based Gamco Investors
Inc., which oversees about $40 billion, wrote in an e-mail. “We
must accelerate our investments in protecting our financial
system and power grid from intruders before they score a big
one.”  On July 25, U.S. prosecutors said they indicted four
Russians and a Ukrainian in what was called the largest hacking
and data breach scheme in U.S. history. Nasdaq OMX was among
their targets.  ‘Suspicious’ Files  Nasdaq OMX in 2011 disclosed an intrusion involving
“suspicious” files on its Directors Desk system, which lets
corporate board members communicate and share information. The
National Security Agency, the top U.S. electronic intelligence
service, joined a probe of the 2010 attack, people familiar with
the investigation said in March 2011.  Although unrelated to hacking, U.S. stock and options
exchanges have experienced a series of self-imposed technical
errors this year, reinforcing concern that electronic markets
are fundamentally flawed. The errors, including an Aug. 22
malfunction at Nasdaq OMX that prompted a three-hour trading
suspension for thousands of stocks, prompted Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White to demand
infrastructure and protocol improvements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  