-- Colts Recover After Rout to Hand Titans Fifth Loss in Six Games
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/colts-recover-after-rout-to-hand-titans-fifth-loss-in-six-games.html
The Indianapolis Colts bounced back
after a mauling five days ago to win 30-27 and hand the
 Tennessee  Titans their fifth loss in six National Football
League games.  The Colts -- who lost 38-8 at home to the St. Louis Rams on
Nov. 10 -- rallied in the second half after giving up two early
touchdowns at LP Field in Nashville last night. Donald Brown
rushed for two touchdowns as Indianapolis improved to 7-3, while
the Titans dropped to 4-6.  It was Tennessee’s fourth straight loss to the Colts and
its ninth in 10 games against its American Football Conference
South rival. The Titans have lost four consecutive home games
for the first time since 2005.  The Titans turned to backup quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick
after starter Jake Locker was ruled out for the remainder of the
season because of a foot injury sustained in a 29-27 loss to the
previously winless Jacksonville Jaguars on Nov. 10. Tennessee
also lost against Kansas City and  Seattle  last month when
Fitzpatrick, who attended Harvard University, started for the
injured Locker.  The Titans scored on their first two drives, on runs of 30
and seven yards by running back Chris Johnson, and led 17-6 at
halftime.  The Colts cut the deficit to four points on a six-yard
touchdown run by Brown midway through the third quarter and led
20-17 a minute later. Devon Wylie fumbled the kickoff after
Brown’s score, giving Indianapolis possession at Tennessee’s 19-yard line. Two plays later, quarterback Andrew Luck scrambled
for an 11-yard touchdown.  Each team added a field goal before the Colts took a 10-point lead with three minutes to go on an 11-yard touchdown run
by Brown.  Tennessee got the final score with 1:54 remaining when
Fitzpatrick found Delanie Walker with a 19-yard pass for a
touchdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 