-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Decrease to Lowest in Three Weeks
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-15T21:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/company-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decrease-to-lowest-in-three-weeks.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell to the lowest level in three weeks as investors expect that
Federal Reserve chairman nominee  Janet Yellen  may maintain the
central bank’s stimulus into next year.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps measure that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.4 basis
points to 70.2 basis points as of 4:13 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s poised for the
lowest closing level since Oct. 22.  Traders have “a sense of complacency” after Yellen, the
current vice chairman of the Fed, voiced her commitment to using
the central bank’s bond purchases to boost growth and lower
unemployment until the economy improves, according to Scott Carmack, a  money manager  at Leader Capital Corp. Data released
today showed manufacturing in the New York region unexpectedly
contracted this month, while total industrial production in the
U.S. fell in October.  “Yellen has proven to be as dovish or more dovish than  Ben
Bernanke . We got through the government shutdown, we got through
earnings season without major hiccups and your underlying money
flows are bullish,” Carmack said in a telephone interview from
 Portland ,  Oregon . “Everything investors were worried about
three months ago has been pushed back or eliminated.”  Fed Stimulus  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Yellen, nominated to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman of
the Fed, said in a hearing yesterday that the central bank will
carry on its unprecedented stimulus for an economy that’s
operating well below potential.  The central bank’s policy makers will probably pare the $85
billion monthly pace of bond buying to $70 billion at their
March 18-19 meeting, according to the median of 32 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey of economists on Nov. 8.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , a distributor
of generic medicines, sold $900 million of 5.625 percent, eight-year senior bonds that yield 325 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Valeant Offering  The debt is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the data
show. Proceeds may be used to redeem Valeant’s 6.5 percent,
senior notes due in 2016, according to a statement from the
Bridgewater, New Jersey-based company.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 5.1 basis points to 345.8 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries was little changed at 130.4 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt fell 2.7 basis points to 552.8.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  