-- Cornell Lacrosse Alums See DeLuca’s Firing as Threat to Program
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-15T18:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/cornell-lacrosse-alums-see-deluca-s-firing-as-threat-to-program.html
The firing of Cornell University
men’s lacrosse coach Ben DeLuca after an investigation into
hazing threatens the future of a program that ranks among the
sport’s elite, according to former players.  Max Seibald, a two-time team captain who won the Tewaaraton
award as college lacrosse’s best player in 2009, said alumni
he’s spoken with are shocked and disappointed by the school’s
decision. In the past 10 years, the Big Red have won at least a
share of nine Ivy League titles, and last year advanced to the
national semifinals.  “When you remove someone for reasons that are undisclosed
to all of us, it’s tough for us to swallow and tough for us to
understand,” Seibald, 26, said in a telephone interview.
“Everyone is now wondering why, and that will have rippling
effects in recruiting I’m sure, an instant impact on the team
right now, and it will be interesting to see how the alumni
react based on what happens in the future.”  DeLuca, who as a student was a four-year lacrosse letter
winner at the school, was dismissed yesterday, two months after
the program was suspended for the fall semester due to what the
school called a hazing culture and underage drinking. Cornell
gave no specific reason for the firing in  a statement  yesterday
on its website, saying a change was needed to serve the
program’s “tradition of excellence.”  “This was a difficult decision, but our students are our
first priority and there is no doubt now that new leadership is
required,” Athletic Director Andrew Noel said in the statement.  Rob Pannell, last year’s captain and the school’s only
other Tewaaraton winner, said current players were “surprised
and dumbfounded” by the news. He said the feeling within the
program before yesterday was that they had served their
suspension and moved on from the hazing allegations.  ‘Very Upset’  “They had no idea this was coming and are very upset with
the news,” Pannell, 23, said in a telephone interview.  Cornell spokesman John Carberry said in an e-mail that the
school had no further comment on the firing. An e-mail sent to
DeLuca’s school account seeking comment wasn’t returned.  According to the Ithaca, New-York, university’s  hazing
website , the Cornell athletic department was told on Sept. 12
that new members of the lacrosse team were being hazed by older
teammates. The suspension began the following day, and included
the team’s fall schedule and exhibition games. Men’s college
lacrosse is primarily a spring sport.  The school says subsequent investigation found a culture of
treating freshmen as less than equals. It also revealed details
of a party where upperclassmen organized a “keg race” and
underclassmen were challenged to drink a large amount of beer to
the point that many team members vomited.  No Hazing  Seibald and Pannell both said they never witnessed hazing.  “Yes, there was underage drinking, and I in no way support
that -- it’s illegal and a violation of team rules,” Seibald
said. “Was anyone ever forced to do things that they did not
want to do? Absolutely not. That’s not part of our program,
that’s not something we would do.”  Two other Cornell teams have been disciplined for hazing-related incidents since 2004, according to the hazing website.
The women’s ice hockey team in 2005 was cited for forcing
freshmen to steal toilet paper, and the women’s soccer team in
2007 was placed on probation for an annual party that included
underage drinking. Both teams were led by first-year coaches who
returned the following season.  Alumni Link  Drew Fox, a managing director at Neuberger Berman Group LLC
and head of the  Virginia  Lacrosse Alumni Network, said former
players typically rely on coaches as their link to the current
team. Traditional lacrosse powers such as Virginia and Princeton
both have alumni groups that support their team and find players
jobs after graduation.  “We understand administrations have to manage their
employees just like in our own businesses,” Fox said in a
telephone interview. “But we also appreciate being able to
provide input.”  Michael French, captain of Cornell’s undefeated national-championship team in 1976, said he believed alumni would
continue their unconditional support of the program. He said he
isn’t owed an answer as to why DeLuca, who he considers a
friend, was dismissed.  “I don’t need to know all the reasons why decisions are
made,” French, a former partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
and owner of the National Lacrosse League’s  Philadelphia Wings ,
said in a telephone interview. “I’m a fan, and I trust that
there’s a process and I trust the people that make those
judgments.”  DeLuca History  DeLuca was senior captain at Cornell before graduating in
1998 with a degree in nutritional sciences and biochemistry. He
spent 10 years as an assistant before becoming head coach in
June 2010.  Assistant Matt Kerwick will take over the team on an
interim basis. Both Seibald and Pannell, who play for the New
York Lizards of Major League Lacrosse, said continuity should be
emphasized as the school conducts a national search for a
permanent replacement.  “I will always be loyal to the program because of what
Cornell has done for me, but a lot of that experience came
through Coach DeLuca,” Seibald said. “Who’s to say someone
doesn’t come in and change the entire dynamic and the feel and
the tradition? That might separate guys from what made our
experience so special and so unique.”  -- Editors: Larry Siddons, Michael Sillup  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  