-- Corpbanca Jumps in Chile Amid Speculation Saieh May Sell
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-15T20:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/corpbanca-jumps-in-chile-amid-speculation-saieh-may-sell.html
Corpbanca posted its biggest two-day
gain since 2011 on speculation that billionaire Alvaro Saieh 
might sell his controlling stake in the Chilean lender at a 
premium to raise money to avert a collapse of his grocery chain.  Corpbanca’s shares jumped 5.2 percent to 6.32 today in
Santiago, extending the gain over the past two days to 8.9
percent, the biggest such increase since August 2011. The
Santiago-based bank was the best performer today on the
benchmark IPSA index, which rose 1.4 percent.  Speculation has mounted that Saieh will sell Corpbanca to
meet a pledge to pump $300 million into his grocery-store chain
SMU SA by year-end and after Brazilian lender  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA (ITUB4)  told analysts on a conference call this week that
Chile is a priority market. SMU’s $300 million of bonds due 2020
have lost 43 percent this year, and shareholders this month
approved a $500 million capital increase.  “There are rumors that Itau may be interested,” German Guerrero, a partner at brokerage MBI Inversiones, said in a
phone interview from Santiago. “Corpbanca’s shares also have
been overly punished this year because of SMU contagion, so that
explains part of the recent recovery.”  Arturo Curtze, an analyst at broker and asset manager
Vantrust Capital Corredores, said the recent share gains are
tied to “speculation that a local or international bank may try
to buy Corpbanca, since the controlling shareholder needs to
raise money to inject in its supermarket company.”  External press relations officers for Corpbanca didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment on a
possible sale.  Roberto Setubal, the chief executive officer of Brazilian
lender Itau Unibanco Holding SA, told analysts on a conference
call this week that  Chile  is a priority market. The comment
fueled the Corpbanca speculation, according to Curtze.  Itau’s press office in Sao Paulo, where financial markets
are closed for a holiday, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. The bank’s office in Chile didn’t immediately return a
phone call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  