-- Credit-Card Rewards Programs Examined by U.S. Consumer Bureau
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/credit-card-rewards-programs-examined-by-u-s-consumer-bureau.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is examining whether customers are being
misled when they sign up for complex credit-card reward programs
and will mull new rules in this area.  Consumers can face “detailed and confusing rules” about
using rewards, CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We will be reviewing whether rewards disclosures
are being made in a clear and transparent manner, and we will
consider whether additional protections are needed.”  Restrictions on card rewards programs could crimp the
ability of banks to use the enticements to sign up customers.
Top issuers such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and  American Express Co. (AXP)  rely on rewards to attract and keep
cardholders.  “Rewards are the No. 1 reason why customers select the
card, and there’s almost a battle to provide the highest
rewards,” Jim Miller, senior director of banking services at
J.D. Power & Associates, a market research firm, said in an
interview.  The consumer bureau’s inquiry involves the marketing of
rewards programs, particularly the marquee promise of a given
card, such as cash back, or redeemable airline miles, and what a
customer needs to do to get it, said a person involved in the
work who asked not to be identified because the effort is in an
early stage.  Card issuers’ main challenge with rewards is making them
alluring and straightforward, while still profitable for the
company, said  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  Chief Operating
Officer Roger Hochschild.  Easy, Profitable  “As we think about the rewards space, it really comes down
to two things: making them easy to earn and easy to redeem, and
trying to do all of that at an affordable cost,” Hochschild
said during a Nov. 13. investor conference in  New York .  Oliver Ireland, an attorney for card issuers at  Morrison &
Foerster LLP , said that rewards could prove a “tempting issue”
for regulators. In contrast to interest rates and fees, there’s
no existing federal regulation on the disclosure of rewards.  Regulating rewards isn’t justified, said Nessa Feddis, a
senior vice president at the  American Bankers Association .  “Rewards are incredibly popular, and the market is very
competitive,” Feddis said in an interview.  Acting Early  Pamela Banks, senior policy counsel at  Consumers Union , the
nonprofit publisher of  Consumer Reports , lauded the CFPB for
examining rewards programs even in the absence of evidence of
widespread abuse.  “To what degree does something have to be a problem before
we take a look at it?” Banks said in an interview. “We should
identify trends early.”  The bureau mentioned its interest in rewards programs in an
Oct. 1 report on card regulation. Discover said in a Nov. 1
regulatory filing that it couldn’t predict the effects of any
CFPB action over the question of “whether disclosures about
credit-card rewards and grace periods are clear and
transparent.”  Rewards programs have become a major tool for card issuers
seeking to boost revenue since the financial crisis. Card
balances peaked in December 2007 at about $1 trillion, according
to  data  compiled by the  Federal Reserve .  Since then, balances have leveled off at about $800
billion, limiting the interest income banks can earn from cards.
The 2009 Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and
Disclosure Act, passed in response to industry abuses, crimped
banks’ profits by banning or limiting some fees, especially on
consumers with bad credit.  Big Spenders  “What you’ve seen in the industry has been a focus turning
away from lower credit-score customers,” said Bill Carcache, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “You’re going after the higher
spending customers, and those customers love rewards.”  Rewards tend to attract customers who spend more on their
credit cards, which generates “swipe” fees paid by merchants
to banks, and interest if the card holders carry a balance,
according to research by Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in New York. The result is intense competition
for this “lucrative segment,” according to the research.  “What we’ve learned over time is, our best customers value
rewards,” Edward Gilligan, the president of American Express,
said during a Nov. 12 investor conference. “Their spend
behavior changes based on rewards, and when they actually cash
them in, and get value, they’re even more loyal to American
Express.”  In August, the six biggest U.S. credit-card issuers
included rewards programs of some type in at least 71 percent of
their solicitations, according to Orenbuch. Two of them -- New
York-based AmEx and Discover -- included rewards in all of their
mailings.  Programs Misunderstood  An increasing number of those customers don’t understand
their rewards programs, according to  J.D. Power , a unit of
 McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  In its 2013 survey of cardholders, 59
percent said they “completely” understood their rewards,
compared with 66 percent in 2012.  About a third of customers said they’re unaware of the
benefits of their card, according to the survey.  “Consumers frequently don’t understand what rewards they
have currently, but they’ll switch because they think they can
do better elsewhere,” said J.D. Power’s Miller.  Credit-card rewards can take different forms. Many allow
customers to accrue miles on airline loyalty programs, such as a
Chase Visa card from JPMorgan that’s co-branded with  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  The Quicksilver card, offered by
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , offers to rebate a percentage of
all purchases with cash.  No Surge  The CFPB inquiry isn’t motivated by a sudden rise in
complaints by consumers, according to the person involved in the
work. The bureau’s consumer response database, which has taken
complaints on credit cards since July 2011, shows 677 on
rewards, or 2.5 percent of the total. What the CFPB discovers
through its supervision of banks isn’t public.  Still, the agency wants to review rewards programs because
they are the No. 1 reason why consumers get a particular card,
according to the person. In the jargon of the industry, rewards
are at the “decision point” for or against a card, the person
said.  The CFPB report cites a 2011 study by Mercator Advisory
Group Inc., which found that 26 percent of customers chose a
card because of the rewards program. An additional 21 percent
chose cards because they had no annual fees, according to the
research firm based in Maynard,  Massachusetts .  Reward Conditions  The consumer bureau isn’t basing its work on the premise
that the disclosures are unfair or deceptive, according to the
person doing the work. That’s the legal standard that could
prompt a supervisory or enforcement crackdown.  Getting the main rewards -- cash or airline miles -- may
require a few months of participation or a certain level of
spending, the person said. The conditions may also be obscure,
even to consumers who read the disclosures, or be subject to
“inflation,” in which the amount of spending needed to redeem
an award rises over time, according to the person.  Another issue is forfeiture and reinstatement, the person
said. The consumer might lose the rewards if a bill is paid
late, and may also have the chance to get them back by paying a
certain amount of the overdue balance.  Ireland, the card industry lawyer, said the complexity of
rewards would make the impact of regulation unknown. Federal
rules already govern the disclosure of  interest rates  and fees,
he said.  “We have no experience with somebody trying to impose a
regulatory model on rewards,” Ireland said. “We have no idea
what would happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  