-- Credit Suisse Sets Up New Fixed-Income Group After Bond Job Cuts
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-11-16T11:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/credit-suisse-creates-new-fixed-income-group-after-bond-job-cuts.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second
biggest Swiss bank, is setting up a new division to combine its
rates, foreign-exchange and commodities operations as it cuts
more than 100 fixed-income jobs in London and New York.  The bank’s Global Head of Rates Jon Kinol in New York and
Head of Global Foreign Exchange David Tait in London have been
appointed to jointly run the newly-formed Global Macro Products
group, Gael de Boissard, co-head of the investment bank, wrote
in a message sent to staff yesterday. Adam Bradbery, a spokesman
for the Zurich-based bank confirmed the memo’s content.  “Given the changes to the macro environment and the
evolution of the financial and regulatory framework, we are
combining our Rates, FX and Commodities franchises into a newly
formed Global Macro Products group,” de Boissard wrote in the
memo that was obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News. It “allows
us to create scale in our delivery of macro products, and
therefore achieve capital and cost efficiency,” he said.  Two people with knowledge of the matter said this month
that Credit Suisse was cutting about 50 jobs in New York and 65
positions in London within its fixed-income department. Bradbery
confirmed nearly all the affected staff have already been
informed about these redundancies.  The fixed-income business had a “challenging” third
quarter as client activity slowed across the industry, Credit
Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television last month. There has been “a slight
improvement” in the markets recently, though it remains to be
seen if it will last, he said later on a conference call.  Profit Falls  Credit Suisse’s investment bank said last month that pretax
profit declined 53 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier to 229 million francs ($250 million) as revenue from
fixed-income sales and trading slid 42 percent to 833 million
francs. Revenue from equities increased 8.3 percent to 1.07
billion francs.  The company said at the time it would shrink its rates
business, which focuses on government bonds and  interest-rate
swaps  and options, by 44 percent in terms of risk-weighted
assets. The bank is transferring 10 billion francs of risk-weighted assets including parts of the rates business into a
non-strategic unit, which will wind them down over coming years.  The remaining rates business will have a higher return on
equity as a result, according to Credit Suisse. In cash
products, it will focus on high-volume electronic trading, while
the derivatives business will be geared toward simplified
products that would mostly be centrally cleared.  Leverage Ratios  Switzerland’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse may both have to
shrink their fixed-income, currencies and commodities activities
if the nation’s regulator imposes higher leverage ratios than
currently planned, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Kian Abouhossein in London wrote in a research note Nov. 4.  Credit Suisse in particular would be hit by rules forcing
banks to hold more capital in relation to their assets, the
analysts said. While both companies are estimated to reach Swiss
leverage ratios of at least 4.2 percent by 2015, a Finance
Ministry proposal that the measure be raised to 6 percent would
lead to “material uncertainty” and possible cuts in the fixed-income, currencies and commodities divisions, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  