-- Cuomo Pushing Computer Chips Aids Best N.Y. Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/cuomo-pushing-computer-chips-aids-best-n-y-rally-muni-credit.html
A continent away from Silicon
Valley, Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is promoting  New York ’s Tech
Valley as an engine of the upstate economy, luring billions of
dollars of investment to help pad financially strapped local
budgets.  Cuomo last month announced a $1.7 billion plan to bring
atom-sized computer-chip research -- known as nanotechnology --
to Oneida County, 240 miles (386 kilometers) northwest of  New
York City . The move builds on a model of semiconductor
development that drew chip-maker GlobalFoundries Inc. to the
 Albany  area, helping turn Saratoga County into the heart of the
region’s economy, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The Democratic governor has made upstate jobs a priority as
he heads into an election year with New York poised for its
highest credit grade since 1972. Nanotech may bolster a swath of
central New York where the  unemployment rate  more than doubled
from 2000 to 2012, according to Moody’s Investors Service and
state labor data. Investors have responded to Cuomo’s efforts,
demanding the least amount of  extra yield  for New York debt in
two decades, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Anytime you can facilitate a successful expansion of a
business in a place that has been starving for economic growth,
it’s a positive for the state,” said Howard Cure, director of
municipal research in New York at Evercore Wealth Management
LLC, which manages about $4.7 billion.  Powerhouse History  The upstate region north of suburban Rockland and
Westchester counties was once an economic powerhouse with a
manufacturing core fueled by the Erie Canal. The 363-mile
waterway connected  Manhattan  to the Midwest when it opened in
1825. The boom extended into last century, when companies began
leaving for lower taxes and energy costs. Utica, the Oneida
County seat whose metro area will host the new research center,
shrank to 62,000 residents in 2010 from about 100,000 in the
1940s, U.S. Census data show.  An employment influx would be welcome after the county cut
250 jobs from 2008 to 2012 as it faced rising pension and
health-care obligations and falling tax revenue, S&P said in
March. In fiscal 2011, it logged its first  budget surplus  since
fiscal 2007, S&P said.  “This addition of 1,000 jobs to an area that has seen
population decline and higher-than-average unemployment is a
credit positive to the region,” Rob Weber, a Moody’s analyst,
said from New York.  Employment Challenge  The Utica-Rome area averaged 8.4 percent unemployment this
year through August, compared with 7.9 percent statewide, state
data show.  Last month’s announcement helped drum up interest in Oneida
debt. General-obligation bonds maturing in March 2022 traded
Oct. 23 at an average yield of 2.87 percent, or 1.98 percentage
points more than benchmark munis, Bloomberg data show. The
spread was 25 percent less than the previous trade Oct. 9, the
day before Cuomo announced the chip plan. Before last month,
they hadn’t traded since 2011.  Similar county bonds due in March 2018 traded Oct. 16 with
a gap of 0.72 percentage point, down 21 percent from Oct. 8.  Bringing jobs to the area would be a boon for Cuomo in next
year’s election. The 55-year-old won his first term in 2010 with
almost 63 percent of the vote. In Oneida County, that fell to 52
percent. He lost the eight-county area surrounding Buffalo in
western New York, the base of his Republican opponent, Carl Paladino.  Following Yogurt  “Jobs in upstate New York is one of the top priorities on
a very short-list for the state’s agenda,” Cuomo said on public
radio Nov. 6.  That was the day after Cuomo won voter support to bring Las
Vegas-style casinos to New York, starting with four sites north
of Manhattan’s suburbs. In June, he pushed through the
legislature a panel to help localities restructure financially.
Since August 2012, he has used summits in Albany on yogurt,
tourism and alcohol to boost those industries upstate.  Cuomo has already earned investors’ confidence, winning
three consecutive on-time budgets for the first time since 1984
and trimming more than $13 billion in deficits. The extra yield
buyers demand on the state’s 10-year debt instead of benchmark
securities is less than 0.1 percentage point, the slimmest gap
in at least 20 years, Bloomberg data show.  Valley Ventures  At the center of the upstate economic plan, though, is the
goal of expanding Tech Valley, which stretches from
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s headquarters in Armonk,
about 40 miles north of Manhattan, through Saratoga County.
That’s where Milpitas, California-based GlobalFoundries started
building its chip plant in 2009.  The latest investment includes $1.5 billion from six
companies and $200 million from New York as part of Cuomo’s Nano
Utica initiative.  Cuomo also is implementing zones around state university
campuses where employees of firms new to the state won’t pay
income tax for at least five years. The program, which Cuomo
says will cost $323 million over three years, builds on how
research at the state’s College of Nanoscale Science and
Engineering in Albany helped attract GlobalFoundries, Cuomo
says.  Leveraging Education  “The investment in nano has been terrific for New York,”
 Thomas DiNapoli , the state comptroller, said at a Nov. 1 meeting
with Bloomberg editors in New York. “Having the opportunity for
increasing the synergies between the business community and
higher education is a good strategy.”  The GlobalFoundries facility has already brought more than
2,000 jobs to Saratoga County and provided $8.5 million to the
Ballston Spa School District, the county’s largest taxing
entity, said Dennis Brobston, president of the Saratoga Economic
Development Corporation.  Saratoga has the lowest  tax rate  and the second-lowest
unemployment rate among New York’s 62 counties, according to
Brobston and state data.  “The question is, how fast can you motivate it
statewide,” Brobston said by phone. “We’re still dealing with
a high tax burden in the state, and that’s a puzzle that needs
to be worked out.”  Elsewhere in the municipal market, issuers nationwide are
offering $6.3 billion in long-term debt this week with benchmark
yields at the highest in almost a month.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.82 percent ,
compared with  2.69 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 105 percent. It compares with an average of 94 percent
since 2001. The higher the number, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Rhode Island ’s Economic Development Corp. is set to issue
about $33 million in airport revenue bonds next week. It’s the
agency’s first offer since a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation of a $75 million deal for former
baseball pitcher  Curt Schilling ’s defunct video-game maker.
Standard & Poor’s marks the airport financing BBB+, its third-lowest investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  