-- Czech Central Bankers Clashed Over Koruna Sales, Minutes Show
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-11-15T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/czech-central-bankers-clashed-over-koruna-sales-minutes-show.html
Czech policy makers clashed over the
need for currency interventions, with the threat of deflation
forcing the central bank to begin its first koruna sales in 11
years, minutes from the last monetary meeting showed.  While the monetary authority didn’t publish the breakdown
of the vote, some board members argued that higher import prices
caused by a weaker koruna would curb households’ purchasing
power. Those supporting the interventions said that looser
monetary conditions will help accelerate economic growth,
according to the minutes published on the bank’s website today.  “It was also said that if the monetary conditions were not
eased, the decline in prices would continue, the  exchange rate 
would appreciate and the risk of sustained deflation would be
entirely realistic,” the central bank said in the minutes,
which don’t reveal individual opinions of board members.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in Prague started selling the
koruna last week as inflation slowed below its target. After
cutting  interest rates  to what the central bank calls a
“technical zero” of 0.05 percent a year ago, central bankers
needed an extra tool to ease policy as the economy struggled to
gain traction after a record-long recession.  Data released after the Nov. 7 meeting shows inflation
slowed to 0.9 percent in October from a year earlier, dipping
below the central bank’s target range for the first time in 3
1/2 years.  The koruna sank 4.4 percent to the euro after the bank
announced interventions on Nov. 7, the biggest-ever intraday
drop. It traded 0.2 percent weaker at 27.158 per euro as of 8:38
a.m. in  Prague  today.  Central bank Governor Miroslav Singer pledged to keep
selling the koruna in unlimited amounts “for as long as
needed” to spur inflation, setting a target of “near” 27 per
euro. Singer said the bank now expects to the keep the desired
koruna level for at least a year and a half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  