-- David Tepper, With $67 Million Gift, Recalls Early Life
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-11-15T21:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/david-tepper-with-67-million-gift-recalls-early-life.html
David Tepper  woke up this morning in
Pittsburgh facing a day filled with promise for his Pennsylvania
hometown.  He would be announcing a $67 million donation to  Carnegie
Mellon University . Bringing his total gifts to more than $125
million, it would make Tepper, 56, the largest donor in the
school’s history. Within a few hours he would attend a ceremony
to inaugurate the Pittsburgh university’s ninth president.  In a telephone interview, the co-founder and president of
Appaloosa Management LP, said he first thought this morning of
last night’s dinner. He ate in Pittsburgh with Sandy Mellon,
whose husband is part of the family that helped build the
university, and who extended an invitation to visit her home in
Ligonier,  Pennsylvania , whenever he’s in town.  His second thought was of his father, an accountant who
raised the family in East Liberty, a lower-middle-class
Pittsburgh neighborhood.  “I really don’t talk to my dad, who died six years ago,”
Tepper said on the phone, speaking from Carnegie Mellon’s Tepper
School of Business. “This morning I looked out the window and I
said, ‘Dad, can you believe this?’”  Tepper’s gift will help create the David A. Tepper
Quadrangle, a redevelopment of an area on campus that will
include a new building and other amenities. It’s a $200 million
project to be completed in 2018.  New President  The university’s ninth president, Subra Suresh, comes to
the post after running the  National Science Foundation .  “Subra and I have had many meetings, and Subra has a
vision for this university. It’s a vision I really believe in,
and it’s centered on entrepreneurship and innovation,” said
Tepper, who earned a master’s degree in industrial
administration from  Carnegie Mellon . “This whole structure,
this quad will basically tie together all parts of the
university.”  Tepper, whose Appaloosa manages about $18 billion in
assets, made today’s gift through his David A. Tepper
Charitable Foundation. He couched the donation in the context 
of economic growth in Pittsburgh that includes Google Inc. 
opening an office, WaltDisney Co. creating a new studio, 
innovation in manufacturing, and an energy boom.  “This is the story of this city, Pittsburgh, which is
growing again, having the chance to basically lead the nation
again as it did in 1900,” said Tepper, whose pride extends to
owning a piece of the Pittsburgh Steelers. “This is a vision
for Pittsburgh and a vision for the  United States of America ,
quite frankly.”  Starting Companies  “Just in the past five years, CMU has spun off more
startup companies, per dollar of research money spent, than any
other university in the country,” Suresh said. At the Quad, he
expects interaction between the business school and the
university’s computer science, engineering and fine arts
departments.  “We have a unique opportunity to reshape the way in which
opportunity and innovation take place in the university,” said
the president, who invited  Eric Schmidt , Google’s executive
chairman, to speak at his investiture ceremony this afternoon.  Robert M. Dammon, the dean of the business school, said the
quad is a necessary evolution. “The solutions to the world’s
most pressing problems are not within a single discipline or
even within the walls of a single school,” said Dammon, who,
like Tepper and Suresh, spoke during a break from a trustees
meeting today.  Parking Lot  The new home, to be built on what is now a parking lot,
includes 180,000 square feet for the business school and 120,000
square feet for other uses.  “When you look at other business schools around the
country, this is the only one conceived like that,” Tepper
said. “They’re usually built in silos, this is for all the
ideas of the university to come together in one place.”  At the investiture ceremony, Schmidt thanked the university
“for inventing my field,” referring to the role of faculty
members Allen Newell and Herbert Simon in the creation of modern
computer science.  “I’m simply in awe of Carnegie Mellon,” Schmidt said.  “This place for some reason was the center for more
innovation and wealth creation than has occurred in many, many
decades in America. I don’t know why, but I know it’s true. And
it’s important that you succeed for the next 100 years.”  On stage, Suresh noted that “more than most universities,
CMU owes much to visionary local philanthropists.” He thanked
Tepper for his gift and for his “trust in the growing potential
in the university.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  