-- De Blasio’s 20-Year Friendship With Cuomo Facing Test
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/de-blasio-s-20-year-friendship-with-cuomo-facing-test.html
Bill de Blasio, New York’s next
mayor, will assume office Jan. 1 holding a potential political
asset that few, if any, of his predecessors have enjoyed: a
close friendship with the governor.  De Blasio’s relationship with Governor Andrew Cuomo, which
goes back more than 20 years, will make them effective partners,
both men say. Others, including their former colleague Cardell
Cooper, wonder how well the camaraderie can survive the often
conflicting political interests and responsibilities of running
the third-biggest U.S. state and the nation’s largest city.  “There’s a lot of decisions that have to be made and
hopefully they won’t lose sight of the respect they’ve gained
for each other,” said Cooper, who worked with both when Cuomo
headed the U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department and de
Blasio was his regional director for New York and New Jersey.
“Disagreement is fine; it’s about how they come to a result,
where they go in the battle.”  In a city where the mayor needs state approval to install a
red-light camera and fine drivers, let alone raise income taxes,
having a friend in  Albany  could help de Blasio push his agenda.
His signature proposal calls for making wealthy earners pay for
universal pre-kindergarten classes and after-school programs, a
plan that needs Cuomo’s blessing.  ‘Profound Influence’  Yet the friendship may be tested as the two Democrats chart
a path through the historic tension between the two jobs, their
separate political ideologies and each man’s ambition.  “We started as young guys many wrinkles and many gray
hairs ago, and we shared the good times and we shared the bad
times,” Cuomo, 55, said Sept. 16 at City Hall. “I’ve had a
long experience with Bill; I’ve watched him personally grow. I
know what he believes. I know his agenda, and I think it will
work very well.”  De Blasio, who won election this month by 49 percentage
points, the biggest margin by a non-incumbent in city history,
was equally effusive.  Cuomo has had a “profound influence on my life,” de
Blasio, 52, said at the same event. “I hope I learned over the
years how to be an effective public servant; how to follow
through on my ideals. And if I did a lot of that, it is because
of what I learned working at the side of Andrew Cuomo.”  Even before de Blasio emerged as Cuomo’s protégé at HUD in
1997 and 1998, the two worked together in New York’s Democratic
headquarters on Bill Clinton’s 1992 campaign for president.
Cuomo was then 34; de Blasio, 31.  ‘Hang-Out Buddies’  “You could see a blueprint back in those days; they were
hungry and they each wanted to become somebody big in name
recognition and job,” said Joe Ithier, who recalls Cuomo and de
Blasio as “hang-out buddies” during the 1992 campaign.  Later, as an economic-development official trying to revive
some of the city’s poorest neighborhoods in the Bronx, Ithier
worked with de Blasio and Cuomo on HUD-related issues.  “You could see even in the earliest years their interest
in working with underserved communities of blacks and Latinos in
Harlem and the Bronx,” Ithier said. “This has all been in the
planning for a long time.”  The blueprint came to fruition Nov. 5 when de Blasio won a
landslide victory that put the first Democrat in 20 years in
charge of City Hall. Exit polls showed de Blasio won support of
about 95 percent of black voters and 80 percent of Hispanics.  Taxing Rich  One of the first tests of their relationship will come in
January when Cuomo and de Blasio will discuss the mayor’s plan
to raise taxes on incomes above $500,000 to pay for universal
all-day pre-kindergarten and after-school programs for teens.  It won’t happen unless de Blasio can persuade state
lawmakers and Cuomo to back the proposal. Cuomo has said he
wants to expand pre-school for New Yorkers, yet he’s also
advocated a tax cut for next year, when he faces re-election.  “There’s no doubt that it’s the right idea and it’s where
we want to go,” Cuomo told reporters before marching up
 Manhattan ’s Fifth Avenue in the Nov. 11 Veterans Day Parade.
“There’s also no doubt that money is tight nowadays. So that’s
going to be the balance.”  De Blasio’s landslide win over Republican Joseph Lhota
should give him leverage with Cuomo and members of the state
legislature in pressing his agenda, the mayor-elect has said.  “De Blasio is riding high, and it’s probably not in
Cuomo’s best interest to create any tension too soon,” said
Columbia University political scientist Robert Shapiro. “Cuomo
would like to win New York City by the kind of margin de Blasio
won.”  ‘Progressive Democrats’  While the inexperienced and untested mayor-elect is just
beginning to vet potential deputy mayors and department heads,
Cuomo is gearing up for a second-term run next year. Ever since
his 2010 election, backers haven’t kept secret their enthusiasm
about him as a potential presidential candidate in 2016.  De Blasio and Cuomo each describe themselves as
“progressive Democrats,” though they differ on policy, Shapiro
said.  “Cuomo is trying to move in the direction of an economic-growth strategy by stimulating business, whereas de Blasio would
like to see economic growth in New York City by closing the
divide between the wealthy and the poor,” Shapiro said. “The
tension of ambition and political ideology is an important
question.”  A mayor and governor expressing actual long-held affection
for each other will be an oddity for New Yorkers who have
witnessed a history of feuds between governors and mayors
throughout the state’s history, said Richard Briffault, a
professor of state and local government at Columbia Law School.  Rockefeller, Lindsay  He recalled how former Governor Nelson Rockefeller and
Mayor John Lindsay, both Republicans, endorsed each other’s
opponent in re-election campaigns, and how Republican Rudolph Giuliani backed a losing bid by Cuomo’s father, Mario, for a
fourth term as governor against Republican George Pataki in
1994. Former Mayor Edward Koch ran against Mario Cuomo for mayor
and won in 1977, then ran against the elder Cuomo for governor
and lost in 1982.  “Friendship can probably grease the working relationship,
but in the end the different needs, obligations and sources of
power are what sets and fulfills the agenda,” Briffault said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  