-- Deutsche Bank Wins Kirch Case Over 2011 Annual Accounts
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-15T16:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/deutsche-bank-wins-kirch-appeals-case-over-2011-annual-accounts.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  defeated a bid by
the wife of the late media tycoon  Leo Kirch  to void the lender’s
2011 accounts in the latest round of a decade-long legal fight
against the bank.  The Frankfurt Higher Regional Court rejected Kirch’s
arguments that  Europe ’s biggest investment bank by revenue
should have made provisions in 2011 for a claim by Kirch’s heirs
in a Munich tribunal. The ruling was issued earlier this week,
Daniela Joesten, a court spokeswoman, said by telephone today.  Ruth Kirch “didn’t sufficiently show that from the bank’s
point of view there was a predominant probability that the
damage claim was founded,” the judges wrote.  Companies that formed the empire of the late German media
tycoon Kirch say in lawsuits that  Germany ’s biggest bank
secretly plotted the group’s demise in 2002. After losing a
damage suit case in December, the bank in April for the first
time made provisions for these claims while it is seeking to
overturn the ruling.  Deutsche Bank should have made provisions of 5 billion
euros ($6.7 billion), Kirch said in the appeals case, referring
to a 2011 settlement proposal by the Munich court.  She also argued Deutsche Bank should have made provisions
for 4 billion euros in bonuses not yet paid out to investment
managers.  Kirch hasn’t received the written judgment in today’s case,
her spokesman said in a phone interview. Based on what judges
said at the hearing, she is likely to seek an appeal, he said.  Bonus Guesswork  The bonus argument was just guesswork and not substantiated
by facts, the judges wrote. Under the settlement proposal Kirch
would have gotten only 750 million euros, showing that the
Munich court didn’t think the claim was a safe bet, they said.
Even if the allegations were valid, the amount at stake wouldn’t
be material given the total size of Deutsche Bank’s balance
sheet.  In a separate ruling, the appeals court stayed proceedings
in an appeals case in which Deutsche Bank is seeking to overturn
a ruling declaring the 2012 elections of the supervisory board
void.  That ruling had prompted the bank to hold an extraordinary
meeting in April to confirm motions originally passed at their
2012 annual meeting, including the appointment of Chairman  Paul Achleitner . The case will be stayed until a separate action over
the April meeting will have been decided, the judges said.  Today’s case is: OLG Frankfurt, 5 U 14/13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  