-- Deutsche Bank Plans to More Than Triple Irish Staff
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-15T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/deutsche-bank-plans-to-more-than-triple-irish-staff.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe ’s biggest
investment bank by revenue, plans to more than triple its Irish
workforce over the next three years to exceed 1,000 employees.  The bank will hire 700 people after signing a lease on
100,000 square feet (9,290 square meters) of office space in
Dublin,  Nelius De Groot , global head of financial institutions
and securities sales in the transaction-banking division, said
in an interview in the Irish capital today. The jobs will be in
global technology, operations and transaction banking, he said.  Deutsche Bank’s overhaul of its information technology
systems, as well as job cuts, are at the center of its plan to
reduce costs by 4.5 billion euros ($6 billion) annually by 2015.
As part of that effort, the Frankfurt-based bank is expanding in
lower-cost locations by hiring and by moving support staff from
hubs in London, Singapore and  New York .  “This isn’t a case of moving teams from other places,” De
Groot said. “This is creating additional capacity, though
obviously if employees in other locations want to apply for the
jobs, then their applications will be considered.”  Deutsche Bank, present in Dublin since 1991, has doubled
its local workforce over the past four years to almost 330,
despite “the economic environment and fragility of the Irish
economy,” De Groot said.  Three-quarters of the bank’s existing Irish staff are
employed in the technology and operations unit, De Groot said.
The remainder work in transaction banking, which provides cash
management and trade-finance services to financial institutions
and corporates as well as trustee and securities services to
sovereign wealth funds and  hedge funds , he said.  “It’s not a hedge fund-based business, that’s just one
aspect,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  