-- Device Clearing Runway Debris Designed to Save Billions
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-11-15T21:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/device-clearing-runway-debris-designed-to-save-billions.html
New technology that scans airport
runways for debris received U.S. approval as part of an effort
to save the aviation industry billions of dollars a year in
aircraft damage.  The system monitors a 7,000-foot runway at Boston Logan
International with radars and high-definition video to ensure it
is free of metal shards, rocks and other items that could damage
a speeding plane, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration
announced today. If an object as small as a bolt lands on the
runway, an alarm sounds in the control tower.  Such “foreign object debris” or FOD causes an estimated
$4 billion a year worldwide in mangled jet engines, torn
fuselages and other damage, according to National Aerospace FOD
Prevention Inc., a non-profit industry group, and  Boeing Co. (BA)  It
has also triggered fatal crashes.  “The constant safety checks going on around the clock
really help raise the safety bar,” Christa Fornarotto, the
FAA’s associate administrator for airports, said in an
interview.  While rare, debris has caused accidents. On July 25, 2000,
an Air  France  supersonic Concorde crashed shortly after takeoff
in Paris after striking a metal strip on the runway, according
to France’s Bureau of Investigations and Analysis.  The strip shredded one of the plane’s tires, sending rubber
shards into a fuel tank and igniting a fire. The plane lifted
off and crashed into a hotel, killing all 109 aboard and four on
the ground.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board has
investigated at least three aviation accidents linked to runway
debris since 2006, according to agency records. None caused
injuries or deaths.  Costs Shared  The Boston system made by closely held  Xsight Systems ,
based in Tel Aviv, has 68 sensors to monitor the length of
Runway 9-27. It’s the first debris detector to receive FAA
certification, according to an agency press release.  “They can sit in the tower and see what is really going on
out there,” Alon Nitzan, president and CEO of Xsight, said in
an interview.  Its $1.7 million cost was split between the airport and the
FAA, Ed Freni, director of aviation at the Massachusetts Port
Authority, said in an interview.  Airport runways are now swept for debris several times a
day by workers who typically drive the length of the landing
strip.  “Going down the runway every few hours, this is just not
enough,” Nitzan said. “We’re very optimistic that other
airports will adopt the technology.”  $5 Billion  Other companies, including London-based  QinetiQ Group Plc (QQ/) ,
are also developing similar systems, according to an FAA press
release.  QinetiQ’s Tarsier system is in use at Vancouver
International Airport, Jenny Duncan, a spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  San Diego-based Trex Enterprises Corp., which makes a
mobile FOD detection  system , and  Stratech Systems Ltd. (STRA)  of
 Singapore  have also made systems evaluated by the FAA, according
to an agency  fact sheet .  Nitzan said the global market for such systems over the
next decade or two may be as much as $5 billion.  Airports that have installed the systems find they improve
efficiency, Edwin Herricks, coordinator of the airport safety
management program at the University of Illinois’s Center of
Excellence for Airport Technology, in Urbana-Champaign,
 Illinois , said in an interview.  Increased Efficiency  Having a real-time runway monitor can prevent shutdowns or
shorten their duration if a report of debris turns out to be a
false alarm, Herricks said. He helped the FAA evaluate the
detection systems.  Miami International Airport has announced plans to install
a debris-monitoring system, and other airports are interested,
Chris Oswald, vice president for safety and regulatory affairs
at the Washington-based trade group, Airports Council
International-North America, said in an interview.  “There is good anecdotal evidence that the systems can be
part of an effective FOD control program and airport safety
program,” Oswald said. “But the costs are perceived by
airports as quite high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  