-- El-Erian Said to Expand Role at Slumping Multi-Asset Fund
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-11-15T22:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/el-erian-said-to-expand-role-at-slumping-multi-asset-fund.html
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., is expanding his
oversight of the firm’s  Global Multi-Asset Fund (PGAIX) , which has
underperformed since it was started five years ago.  El-Erian, who is Pimco’s co-chief investment officer along
with  Bill Gross , will select investments for the $3 billion fund
effective at the end of this month, in addition to his current
role providing strategic guidance, said a person familiar with
the change who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Saumil Parikh will no longer be co-manager of the fund, according to a filing today by the Newport
Beach, California-based firm.  The Global Multi-Asset Fund, opened in October 2008 to put
to work the principles outlined in El-Erian’s book “When
Markets Collide: Investment Strategies for the Age of the Global
Economy,” invests in Pimco funds as well as stocks, bonds,
commodities and currencies, to provide long-term absolute
returns. It  returned  an annualized 0.4 percent in the past three
years, trailing 85 percent of rivals, and fell 8 percent this
year, behind 99 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Co-managers Vineer Bhansali and Curtis Mewbourne will
stay in their roles, according to the filing.  El-Erian, 55, and Gross, 69, whose name is synonymous with
fixed-income investing, have sought to expand Pimco beyond bonds
to stocks, exchange-traded funds and alternatives such as hedge
funds. Gross’s $248 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  is on track to
have its highest redemptions ever this year and Pimco had
firmwide net withdrawals of $39 billion in the third quarter.
 Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, declined to comment on
the fund changes.  Pimco will add internal and external resources for the fund
managers, such as fund-analysis tools, to help boost
performance, according to the person. Parikh, who focuses on
asset allocation, multisector fixed income and absolute-return
portfolios, will continue to manage bond investments and lead
the firm’s quarterly cyclical forums, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  