-- Tele2 Lures Hutchison as Kinnevik Opens to Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-11-15T08:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/tele2-lures-hutchison-as-kinnevik-opens-to-sale-real-m-a.html
Tele2 AB (TEL2B) ,  Sweden ’s second-largest
telecommunications carrier, may be tempting Asia’s richest man
with the chance to expand in  Europe  as the company’s controlling
shareholder concentrates on faster-growing Internet investments.  Sweden’s Stenbeck family, which controls Tele2 through
 Investment AB Kinnevik (KINVB) , has been investing more this year in
online companies such as fashion retailer Zalando GmbH and e-commerce incubator Rocket Internet GmbH. After the sale of
Tele2’s Russian carrier and Tele2’s unexpected loss and forecast
reduction last month, Kinnevik Chairman Cristina Stenbeck may be
warming to the idea of divesting one of her family’s largest
holdings, said Kepler Cheuvreux, which estimates Tele2 may fetch
as much as 42 billion kronor ($6.3 billion) in a sale.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , owned by  Hong Kong  billionaire  Li Ka-Shing , could gain critical size in Sweden and reduce costs by
buying Tele2’s business there and combining it with Hutchison’s
fourth-place Swedish carrier 3 Scandinavia, said Swedbank AB.
The combined entity would control about 37 percent of the
market, narrowing the gap with state-owned  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s 46
percent grip, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think Tele2 is on its way out of Kinnevik’s
portfolio,” Bjorn Gustafsson, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux in
Stockholm, said in a phone interview. “Stenbeck’s goal is to
focus on building up the online part of the business, and
selling the carrier’s Russian business shows she’s willing to
sell the family jewels. She may have to sell Tele2 piece by
piece, but selling won’t be a problem for her.”  Hutchison Interest  Shares of Tele2  rose  as much as 1.8 percent and added 1.6
percent to 79 kronor at 9:13 a.m. in Stockholm.  Tele2 got  41 percent  of its 7.5 billion kronor in  revenue 
last quarter from its home country, where it began by
challenging the state monopoly in the late 1970s. The Stockholm-based company also operates in  Norway , the Netherlands, the
Baltic region, Kazakhstan and Croatia, for a total of  13.2
million  mobile-phone subscribers.  Hutchison, based in Hong Kong, wants to buy more
telecommunications assets in the Nordic region, said a person
familiar with the situation who asked not to be named because
the plans are private. The company has evaluated a bid for
Tele2, said another person.  Hans Leung, a spokesman for Hutchison in Hong Kong,
declined to comment when asked if the company was interested in
buying Tele2.  Home Market  Torun Litzen, a spokeswoman for Kinnevik, declined to
comment on whether the Stockholm-based holding company would be
willing to sell Tele2. Kinnevik owns about 30 percent of Tele2’s
capital and controls about 48 percent of the  voting rights ,
according to Kinnevik’s quarterly earnings report.  Tele2 Chief Executive Officer Mats Granryd said that Sweden
is Tele2’s home market, when asked about the possibility of
selling the Swedish operations.  “In the event of Swedish in-market consolidation, we will
be on the buying side,” Granryd said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Kinnevik, the Stenbeck family’s publicly-traded investment
vehicle, is building up its online portfolio with 2 billion
kronor of investments this year. Online ventures now make up 30
percent of Kinnevik’s holdings, up from about 20 percent a year
earlier.  It owns 36 percent of  Germany ’s Zalando, which saw its
second-quarter revenue soar  70 percent  to 437 million euros
($589 million). It also owns 24 percent of Berlin-based  Rocket
Internet  and 31 percent of Avito, which offers online classified
ads in  Russia  and is pushing into Ukraine, Morocco and Egypt.  ‘Rapid Transformation’  “Kinnevik has gone through a rapid transformation in the
past years,” Kinnevik CEO Mia Brunell Livfors said in the
company’s Oct. 23 third-quarter report. “With the successful
refocusing of our portfolio I am convinced that our strategy and
market positions in growth sectors and growth markets will
continue to deliver value to our shareholders.”  Kinnevik’s shares have jumped  76 percent  this year through
yesterday, giving the holding company a market value of 67
billion kronor. The stock, which reached a record high Nov. 7.,
rose less than 0.1 percent to 239.50 kronor in Stockholm.  Tele2 agreed in March to sell its Russian unit to VTB
Group, the country’s second-largest lender, for $2.4 billion in
cash, plus the assumption of debt. Tele2’s exit from Russia
after 12 years followed the carrier’s failure to win a wireless
license to run faster services in the country, leaving it with
an outdated network.  Swedish Competition  Selling all of Tele2 for 42 billion kronor would represent
a 19 percent premium to the company’s current  market value . That
would give Kinnevik proceeds of about 12.8 billion kronor, most
of which would likely be returned to its shareholders,
Gustafsson said.  “This would be a big win for shareholders,” he said.  Competition in Sweden has increased over the past few years
as TeliaSonera,  Telenor ASA (TEL) , 3 Scandinavia and Tele2 compete for
customers. Tele2, which has about 26 percent of the mobile-phone
market, saw its third-quarter revenue in Sweden slide 3.4
percent, while its adjusted earnings fell 6.8 percent. The
carrier cut its sales and profitability  guidance  for 2015,
 citing  increasing operating costs and price pressure.  “Being an operator is a capital-intensive business with
all the network investments and high marketing costs,”  Mikko Ervasti , an analyst at Evli Bank Plc in Helsinki, said in a
phone interview. “Three strong players would be better and
would help lower costs for the carriers and maybe even the
customers.”  Not Cheap  3 Scandinavia, part of Hutchison’s European telecom arm
that’s co-owned with  Investor AB (INVEB) , is the smallest of the four
Swedish carriers with about 11 percent of the market, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buying Tele2’s Swedish unit would
help Hutchison leapfrog competitors in market share, said Sven Skold, an analyst at Stockholm-based Swedbank.  “It wouldn’t be cheap for them, but since 3 is so much
smaller than the others, a deal would help them reduce capital
expenditures-to-sales and gain subscribers,” Skold said in a
phone interview.  Peder Ramel, the CEO of 3 Scandinavia, Hutchison’s mobile-phone operations in Sweden and  Denmark , told Swedish daily
 Dagens Industri  in an interview in May that the carrier may
acquire operators in the two countries to improve profitability.  Erik Hornfeldt, a spokesman for 3 Scandinavia, said the
company “sees a need for consolidation in the Scandinavian
mobile market, certainly in Denmark but also in Sweden.” He
declined to comment on potential targets.  Billionaire Bets  Hutchison is continuing to expand its presence in the
European telecommunications space. The holding company already
operates in the U.K., Austria and Italy and is battling
regulators to win approval for its planned purchase of
Telefonica SA’s Irish unit for as much as 850 million euros to
create a carrier as big as the country’s current dominant
operator, Vodafone Plc. Hutchison faces an in-depth probe by
European Union regulators examining its bid for the unit.  Li isn’t the only billionaire betting that the European
industry will get a boost if regulators drop their resistance to
letting carriers combine across borders.  Carlos Slim , the world’s second-richest person, who
controls America Movil SAB, has pushed the Mexico-based carrier
into Europe with a stake in Telekom Austria AG and an almost 30
percent holding in Dutch carrier Royal KPN NV. U.S. cable
magnate John Malone has already built up Europe’s largest cable
operator with companies in 12 European countries, including the
Netherlands, Germany and the U.K.  It’s inevitable that Hutchison’s 3 Scandinavia will
participate in consolidation, as well, said Kimmo Stenvall, an
analyst at Pohjola Bank Plc in Helsinki.  “Intra-market consolidation is an easy way to build
 shareholder value ,” Stenvall said in a phone interview. “Three
network operators is sufficient and the consolidator stands to
win subscribers and cut operating costs and network
investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  