-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Two Months Amid China Pledge
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-11-15T21:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/emerging-stocks-head-for-best-week-in-month-on-china-policy-bets.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced the
most in two months after  China  pledged to boost private
investment as part of economic policy changes. South Korea’s won
climbed as foreign investors became net buyers of shares.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 1.4 percent to
1,005.17, erasing its decline for the week. The iShares China
Large-Cap  ETF (FXI)  rallied 4.4 percent.  Mexico ’s IPC index increased
the most among major equity gauges in the Americas as mining
company Industrias Penoles SAB surged 3.1 percent. The won paced
gains in currencies as overseas investors pumped money into
local stocks for the first time in two weeks. Financial markets
in Brazil and  India  are closed for holidays.  China pledged the most sweeping changes since the 1990s to
the Communist Party’s policies, vowing to ease the one-child
policy, expand farmers’ land rights and allow more private
investment in state industries. The document, covering 60
measures, fleshes out a communique issued Nov. 12 after a four-day party conclave. The nation is seeking to balance finding new
sources of growth with sustaining the party’s grip on power as
President Xi Jinping faces challenges from debt to demographics.  “Many things are coming together that are making people
feel more optimistic about China,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation at ING Investment Management
which oversees $190 billion, said by phone. “There were a lot
of concerns about China’s ability to sustain growth over the
next 10 or 15 years.”  Biggest Gains  All 10 groups in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained
today, led by industrial and financial shares. The broad measure
advanced 1 percent for the week, trimming this year’s decline to
4.7 percent.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund climbed 1.9 percent to $42.25. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rallied 3.5 percent to 21.74.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.7 percent and the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
Hong Kong rallied 3 percent amid speculation about reforms
before a report by the official Xinhua News Agency detailing the
changes.  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and Haitong Securities Co. led a
rally in brokerages. Yields on the nation’s 10-year notes
increased to the highest level since 2007 and the benchmark
money-market  rate  rose the most in five months.  South Korea  South Korea’s Kospi Index jumped the most in four months as
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  climbed 2.7 percent. The company plans
to release a Galaxy smartphone next year with a three-sided
display that wraps around the edges so users can read messages
while looking from an angle, two people familiar with the plans
said yesterday.  Mexico’s IPC index advanced 1.8 percent as Penoles posted
the biggest increase in two months.  Russian stocks  gained for a second day as commodity
producers rallied on bets the Federal Reserve’s next chairman
will continue stimulus efforts, spurring appetite for riskier
assets. OAO Mechel, the nation’s biggest coking coal producer,
climbed 11 percent, trimming its weekly slump to 30 percent.
Benchmark gauges in  Poland ,  Hungary  and  Turkey  also advanced.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 334 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  