-- EPA Said to Announce Renewable Fuels as a Range Today
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-11-15T16:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/epa-said-to-consider-changes-to-advanced-biofuel-draft.html
The Environmental Protection Agency,
under pressure from advanced-biofuel producers and farm-state
lawmakers, is set to propose today renewable-fuel standards
expressed as a range, delaying until next year a decision on the
final figures, according to people familiar with the proposal.  The EPA announcement of a range of options, scheduled for 2
p.m.  New York  time, would disappoint investors looking for
specific production quotas from the agency.  Officials from the EPA told industry representatives they
plan to offer a range for the overall renewable fuel and
advanced biofuel mandate, not the specific numbers laid out in a
leaked draft from August, according to participants in the
meetings who asked not to be identified because the discussions
were private. The range for advanced biofuels such as biodiesel
could be as much as 1 billion gallons more than the 2.21 billion
gallons in the leaked draft, they said.  Depending on the specifics, “that would be a huge change,
particularly for domestic biodiesel makers,” said Scott Irwin,
a renewable fuels specialist at the  University of Illinois  who
hasn’t seen the August draft, which was obtained by Bloomberg
last month. “In the long term, it would not be seen as quite
the negative signal as the leaked document.”  Advanced biofuels, such as biodiesel and Brazilian ethanol,
are part of a larger program for renewable fuels that is
anchored by corn-based ethanol.  Corn growers and the ethanol industry are also pushing for
an increase in the 13 billion-gallon quota called for in the
August plan, which is below the 14.4 billion gallons in the law.
The EPA has the ability to adjust the quotas in response to
market pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  