-- Messi Wants Barcelona to Sign Aguero, Express Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-11-15T10:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/messi-wants-barcelona-to-sign-aguero-express-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Aguero Interest  Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  told his club that it should sign
Manchester City’s  Sergio Aguero ,  the Daily Express said .  While Barcelona’s interest in signing Messi’s fellow
Argentine dimmed when it brought in Neymar from Brazil before
this season, Messi’s intervention may renew interest in the
former Atletico Madrid striker, the newspaper said.  City doesn’t want to sell Aguero, and Barcelona manager
Gerardo Martino may be more interested in shoring up his
defensive options, the newspaper said.  Dzeko Departure?  Arsenal may move for Manchester City striker Edin Dzeko,
who is looking to increase his playing time after backing up
City’s attackers,  the Daily Mirror said.   The Gunners are looking to ease the pressure on Olivier
Giroud, who has been the north  London ’s club main striker this
season, the newspaper said.  Dzeko has been unhappy with his lack of game time this
season, the Mirror said.  Goodbye to Ba?  Chelsea striker Demba Ba is considering a move to Besiktas
in  Turkey  after being frustrated with not playing at the west
London club,  the Evening Standard said .  The 28-year-old moved to Chelsea in January and has scored
just twice in the league, leaving him looking for more
opportunities, the newspaper said.  Several clubs -- including West Ham and Arsenal -- were
considering bids for the player, and with Chelsea thinking of
signing Porto striker Jackson Martinez, Ba is ready to move on,
the newspaper said.  Borussia Replacement?  Borussia Dortmund  may beat Liverpool to the signing of
Atletico Madrid striker Diego Costa as the German club prepares
to lose  Robert Lewandowski  at the end of the season,  the Daily
Mail said.   Costa has been a target for Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool,
which made a failed bid before the season, the newspaper said.
Lewandowski is expected to join European champion  Bayern Munich 
when his contract expires after this season, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  