-- EU Soothes German Aid Qualms to Agree on ECB Bank-Test Backstops
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-11-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/eu-soothes-german-aid-qualms-to-agree-on-ecb-bank-test-backstops.html
European Union ministers overcame
German unease on direct aid to lenders and agreed on rules for
how public funds can be made available for banks shown to have
insufficient capital in upcoming balance-sheet checks.  EU finance ministers meeting in Brussels yesterday smoothed
the wording of a statement on how they’ll deal with shortfalls
after the  European Central Bank ’s asset-quality review and
stress tests. The final wording gives reassurances that
 Germany ’s parliament would have the right to veto any direct aid
from the region’s common bailout fund.  Member states  should “implement appropriate arrangements,
including the establishment of national backstops ahead of the
completion of this exercise,” according to the  statement 
published by the Council of the European Union. Direct lending
by the ESM bailout fund may only be used “when adopted
according to euro-area and national procedures,” leaving room
for the Bundestag to object.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Union bloc and
the Social Democrats, in negotiations to form Germany’s next
government, were deadlocked this week on whether to allow direct
recapitalizations for weakened banks. The statement’s language
reflects Germany’s reluctance to commit to rules before it forms
a new government, and its view that direct recapitalization of
banks via the ESM won’t start for at least another year and will
then still require approval by German lawmakers.  Not Agreed  “The formation of the new government isn’t completed and
insofar as a government can’t make commitments that go beyond
existing law, that’s why I made this caveat in the statement,”
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters after
the meeting. “Direct bank recapitalization played a role during
the election campaign. One has to deal with this reasonably -
this isn’t agreed and that’s why I made it clear that it isn’t
agreed.”  Schaeuble said that Germany will still adhere to a euro-area  commitment  made in June 2012 providing for an eventual
facility to allow direct bank recapitalizations.  The ECB began a three-stage probe this month into the
balance sheets of lenders across the 17-nation euro area, as a
precursor to its assumption of financial-supervision duties in
November next year. The Frankfurt-based central bank has
insisted that governments put backstops in place so that the
test is credible.  Spanish Model  Direct bank aid, which can in most cases only happen after
the single supervision mechanism starts, is at the end of a
cascade of options for dealing with underfunded yet viable
lenders. That process starts with banks trying to tap markets
for more private capital before they can access public funds in
their own country.  According to the document, the ESM fund could then be
tapped in a manner similar to  Spain ’s 2012 bank bailout, which
saw the government assuming the debt taken on to rescue its own
lenders. If that’s not an option, direct capital injections
could then ensue.  “We need these instruments after the SSM has come into
existence,” said  Thomas Wieser , the official in charge of
preparing meetings of euro-area finance ministers. “Because the
question of recapitalization only then arises.”  The tools “would be as bad as euro bonds,” SPD lawmaker
and coalition negotiator Johannes Kahrs said in a Nov. 12
telephone interview, signaling that if no agreement is found,
Germany is unlikely to be able to approve direct
recapitalizations should it ever be needed.  Merkel, SPD leader  Sigmar Gabriel  and  Horst Seehofer , who
heads Merkel’s Bavarian Christian Social Union sister party,
started coalition talks on Oct. 23 with the goal of sealing
Merkel’s third-term coalition by Christmas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  