-- European Stocks Post Sixth Weekly Gain on Fed Signals
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-11-15T17:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/european-stocks-post-sixth-weekly-gain-on-fed-signals.html
European stocks  advanced for a sixth
week, posting their longest winning streak since August 2012, as
signs emerged the  Federal Reserve  won’t rush to reduce the pace
of its stimulus, outweighing data that showed the euro-area
economic recovery is faltering.  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc rallied 12 percent after raising
its revenue-growth target. Swiss Life Holding AG jumped to a
five-year high after naming a new chief executive officer.
Bouygues SA rose 5 percent after reporting better-than-estimated
earnings. Serco Group Plc posted the biggest drop in more than
22 years after forecasting a profit decline next year.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.1 percent to 323 this
week. The 600-share regional benchmark has surged 15 percent
this year, reaching its highest level since May 2008, as central
banks around the world pledged to continue their support for
economic growth. The  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E) , a measure for euro-area shares, gained 0.7 percent this week.  In the U.S., equities extended records as  Janet Yellen ,
nominated to succeed  Ben Bernanke  as Fed chairman, said she will
ensure the $85 billion of bond purchases are not scaled back too
soon. The recovery in the world’s largest economy remains
fragile, she said at her confirmation hearing.  “Yellen is not going to taper until the very earliest
March, and maybe later,” said James Butterfill, who helps
manage about $49 billion as head of global equity strategy at
Coutts & Co. in  London . “That is positive for income stocks and
generally stocks. Our view is that there is probably not huge
upside coming into the year-end but over the longer run,
equities are not overvalued, more like fairly valued.”  Euro-Area Economy  Data showed that France’s economy unexpectedly shrank in
the third quarter, while German gross domestic product slowed
and  Italy  extended its recession.  That led to a slowdown in euro-area growth, where  GDP (EUGNEMUQ) 
expanded 0.1 percent in the three months through September,
compared with 0.3 percent growth in the second quarter,
according to a report from the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg.  In  Asia , the central committee of the  Communist Party of
China  held its first plenary session under the presidency of Xi
Jinping, where policy makers favored giving the markets a
decisive role in the country’s economic development. The
official Xinhua News Agency said on Nov. 15  China  will ease its
one-child policy, expand farmers’ land rights and allow more
private investment in state industries.  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets.  Germany ’s DAX gained 1 percent. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 fell 0.2 percent. France’s CAC 40 added 0.8 percent.  TalkTalk Outlook  TalkTalk (TALK)  rallied 12 percent. The British broadband provider
that split from Carphone Warehouse Group Plc said it expects
sales in the 12 months through March to increase at least 3
percent in the full-year, higher than a previous target for 2
percent growth.  Swiss Life gained 5.2 percent. Switzerland’s biggest life
insurer said Nov. 12 its CEO Bruno Pfister will resign and be
replaced by Chief Investment Officer Patrick Frost on July 1.
The Swiss company also said third-quarter sales rose 8 percent.  Bouygues climbed 5 percent. The French building and
telecommunications company rose the most in two months on Nov.
14 after spending cuts at the mobile-phone and broadcasting
divisions helped it post profit that beat analyst estimates.  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  plunged 22 percent. The services company
forecast a decline in profit next year as it grapples with a
criminal inquiry into the handling of the U.K. government’s
prison contracts.  Soccer Deal  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc tumbled 12 percent. BT
Group Plc obtained the rights to two of the biggest contests in
European soccer, ending BSkyB’s dominance in sports that helped
the Rupert Murdoch-owned company become the biggest pay-TV
provider in the U.K. BT shares added 2.1 percent.  Royal Ahold NV dropped 7.6 percent. The biggest Dutch
retailer said Nov. 14 it has lost market share in the
Netherlands. Also, the company’s plan to redistribute cash to
shareholders fell short of some analysts’ expectations.  GDF Suez SA declined 5.4 percent.  France ’s former natural-gas monopoly reported a drop in nine-month profit and said the
value of European electricity generation and natural-gas storage
assets may be cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in Paris at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  