-- Most European Stocks Rise as Stoxx 600 Climbs Sixth Week
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-11-15T16:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/europe-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-before-data.html
Most European  stocks  advanced, with
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index rising for a sixth consecutive week,
as investors weighed U.S. industrial data to gauge the strength
of the world’s largest economy.  Vivendi SA climbed 2.8 percent after posting better-than-estimated third-quarter profit and saying it will spin off its
French phone carrier SFR by July 2014. Publicis Groupe SA rose
1.6 percent. Julius Baer Group Ltd. slipped 1.6 percent after
reporting that its gross margin narrowed as it absorbed wealth-management units acquired from Bank of America Corp.  Safran SA (SAF) 
lost 3.9 percent as the French state, its largest shareholder,
reduced its stake.  The Stoxx 600 added 0.2 percent to 323 at the close of
trading, with about three stocks rising for every two that fell.
The benchmark gauge rallied the most in almost a month yesterday
as Fed chairman nominee  Janet Yellen  said she is committed to
promoting a strong U.S. economic recovery and will ensure
monetary stimulus isn’t removed too soon.  “Markets have coped pretty well and investors remain
optimistic,” said  Michael Morris , head of equities at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management in London. “Many investors are
saying that markets are fairly valued, though you wonder at what
point people will take their money from equities. The Fed under
Yellen will be concerned about U.S. economic growth, meaning the
likelihood of early tapering seems low.”  The European equity benchmark added 0.1 percent this week.
The index has risen for six straight weeks, its longest winning
streak in almost 15 months, as the Fed maintained the pace of
its bond purchases and the  European Central Bank  lowered its key
 interest rate .  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes climbed in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 gained 0.2 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.4 percent and  Germany ’s DAX added 0.2
percent.  The number of shares trading hands on Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 15 percent lower than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  U.S. data today showed industrial production cooled in
October amid a 16-day partial shutdown of the federal
government. Output fell 0.1 percent last month, missing the
median economist forecast for growth of 0.2 percent, after
gaining a revised 0.7 percent in September,  A separate report showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region unexpectedly  contracted  in November for the first time
since May. The Fed Bank of New York’s index fell to minus 2.21,
missing the average estimate for a gain to 5. Negative readings
signal contraction in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  ‘Tough Challenges’  “The real economy in the U.S. has maybe not responded as
well as the Fed would have hoped,” Morris said. “Inequality,
real wage and income stagnation will remain tough challenges.”  Vivendi gained 2.8 percent to 18.74 euros. The Universal
Music Group owner posted profit adjusted for non-recurring
elements of 403 million euros ($542 million), beating the 386
million-euro average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Publicis rose 1.6 percent to 63.94 euros after advertising-industry peer WPP Plc denied a U.K. newspaper’s report that it
may bid for Interpublic Group of Cos., the second-biggest U.S.
ad company. Publicis and Omnicom Group Inc. said in July they
would merge, unseating WPP as the world’s largest advertising
network.  Koninklijke Boskalis Westminster NV (BOKA)  added 1.3 percent to
35.18 euros. The Dutch dredging company raised its full-year net
income forecast to at least 360 million euros from a previous
estimate of 330 million euros.  Julius Baer  Julius Baer  slipped 1.6 percent to 41.84 Swiss francs. The
bank’s gross margin, which reflects how much it makes in revenue
on managed client assets, dropped to 97 basis points at the end
of October from 102 basis points in the first half, according to
a statement.  Safran declined 3.9 percent to 46.18 euros as the French
government, its biggest  stakeholder , sold 19.5 million shares,
or a 4.7 percent stake, in the manufacturer. The shares were
priced at 46.30 euros, according to terms obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc dropped 4.2 percent to 1,816
pence, its biggest decline in a year. The U.K. military-electronics maker said that a weak U.S. government-funded market
will contribute to a decline in sales this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  