-- Eva Airways to Cut Cargo Fleet as Apple Spurs Component Shift
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-11-15T03:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/eva-airways-to-cut-cargo-fleet-as-apple-spurs-component-shift.html
Eva Airways Corp. (2618) , Taiwan’s second-biggest carrier, will reduce its freighter fleet by more than a
third as electronic products become smaller because of the
popularity of handheld devices, President Austin Cheng said.  The carrier plans to cut the number of cargo planes it
operates to fewer than 10 from 15 by 2017, Cheng said in an
interview in  Hong Kong . It plans to drop all six of its MD-11
planes, he said.  Eva’s comments echo the woes of Taiwanese computer makers,
as consumers desert desktops for smartphones from Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Inc. Hong Kong’s  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) 
yesterday said peak cargo demand kicked in later than usual this
season and wasn’t as strong as expected.  “Apple not only changed consumers’ pattern, but also
changed air cargo transportation,” Cheng said. “Electronic
products are becoming smaller, while we charge by weight. The
whole pattern for cargo transportation has changed.”  Eva Air plans to boost the number of passenger planes it
operates to 70 in five years, from 61 now, Cheng said.  The stock rose 0.9 percent to NT$16.40 at 11:47 a.m. local
time, narrowing the year’s decline to 3.5 percent. The  benchmark
index  in  Taiwan  has gained 6.5 percent this year.  Weekly cargo revenue are 25 percent lower than they were
three years ago, Cathay Pacific Chief Executive Officer John
Slosar said in the company’s in-house magazine released
yesterday.  “We are relatively conservative toward air cargo
freight,” Cheng said. “I think this will be a trend for
everybody because it’s very difficult to find cargoes to fill a
freighter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  