-- Ex-Glencore Oil Trader Can’t Sue for Shares Worth $1 Million
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-15T16:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ex-glencore-oil-trader-can-t-sue-for-shares-worth-1-million.html
A  Glencore International (GLEN)  Plc trader
fired over an alleged alcohol problem can’t sue the company to
recover a share award worth about $1 million, that were awarded
when he was hired, a U.K. court ruled.  Judge Richard Seymour said he was “troubled” by Andrew
Kearns’s lawsuit because it didn’t state a valid legal claim.
“I am afraid we are not there,” he said in dismissing the
claim today.  Kearns, an oil trader who earned about $500,000 a year,
sued Glencore seeking the shares, worth at least $1.2 million,
after he was fired for missing important meetings because of
what the company said were alcohol problems. Kearns is still
suing for wrongful dismissal, which would result in a smaller
amount in damages.  “He is a married man with three children and his
reputation is on the line,” Ahmed Miah, Kearns’s lawyer, said
in court. “What is said about him by Glencore is entirely
wrong, unreasonable and untrue.”  Kearns said in court documents he didn’t have an alcohol
problem and was singled out because he disagreed with managers.
He’s the latest banker to use  London ’s courts to try to recover
lost pay after a victory by more than 100 former Dresdner
Kleinwort bankers against Commerzbank AG.  Decimal Point  “This is an industry where a mistaken decimal point might
result in losses of a very substantial nature,”  Jonathan Cohen ,
Glencore’s lawyer, said in written arguments. “An employer
cannot be expected to allow an employee who allows himself to
become inappropriately inebriated to remain in the workplace.”  Kearns missed meetings after an evening out with clients on
a Singapore business trip, Glencore said in court documents.  The trader said that Glencore owed him 25 share options,
allocated when he joined the company, that were due to vest
before his October 2010 dismissal. The commodities company
revoked his shares when he was fired.  Wrongful dismissal is where an employer breaks the terms of
a contract during the dismissal process,  according  to a U.K.
government website.  The case is Andrew Stephen Kearns v. Glencore UK Ltd.,  High
Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, HQ12X03294  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  