-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Director McKnight Said Up for NBA Union
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-11-15T19:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ex-morgan-stanley-director-mcknight-said-up-for-nba-union-chief.html
Riche T. McKnight, a partner at the
law firm of Winston & Strawn and a former  executive director  in
the  Morgan (MS)  Stanley litigation department, is among the
candidates to succeed ousted NBA Players Association chief  Billy
Hunter , two people with direct knowledge of the search said.  The people were granted anonymity because the process isn’t
public. McKnight declined to comment in a telephone interview.  McKnight was extensively involved in litigation arising
from the financial crisis, including those pertaining to
subprime mortgages and collateralized debt obligation, according
to his law firm bio.  He was also part of a team that represented individual
National Basketball Association players in antitrust litigation
against the league and its clubs, and advised baseball’s  Los
Angeles Dodgers  in their bankruptcy case, according to the bio.  The union hired Reilly Partners, a Chicago-based executive
search firm, in September to find a replacement for Hunter.  Reilly Partners spokeswoman Allison Mack said in a
telephone interview that the firm wouldn’t comment on the
search. Ron Klempner, the New York-based union’s acting
executive director, in a telephone interview said the process is
under way but declined to comment on any specific candidates.  Jeffrey Kessler , the union’s outside counsel, is a partner
at Winston & Strawn. He declined to comment on McKnight, who
received his undergraduate degree in public policy from  Duke
University  and his law degree from the  University of Virginia .  Hunter Firing  Hunter was fired amid allegations of nepotism and abuse of
union resources. Player representatives from 24 of the 30 teams
voted unanimously in February to remove Hunter, ending the
former federal prosecutor’s 16-year tenure. He was making $3
million annually.  Hunter’s dismissal ended almost a year of speculation about
his future with the association, punctuated by the results of an
audit of the union conducted by New York-based law firm Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison. The review concluded that,
while Hunter did nothing illegal, he failed to manage conflicts
of interest, lacked proper corporate governance and didn’t
disclose that his contract wasn’t properly ratified.  The union hasn’t given a timetable to name Hunter’s
replacement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  