-- Ex-Porsche CFO’s Fine Won’t Rise as Prosecutors Miss Deadline
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-15T10:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ex-porsche-cfo-s-fine-won-t-rise-as-prosecutors-miss-deadline.html
German prosecutors’ bid to increase
former Porsche SE Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter’s
sentence in a loan-fraud case was rejected by a Stuttgart
court after a deadline expired.  Prosecutors failed to file arguments within a month of the
release of the written judgment, Florian Bollacher, spokesman
for the Stuttgart Regional Court, said in an e-mail.  Haerter was fined 630,000 euros ($847,539) for credit fraud
in a criminal case over the refinancing of a 10 billion-euro
loan during a failed bid to buy Volkswagen AG in 2009. The court
found he downplayed Porsche’s liquidity needs and failed to
disclose the correct number of put options on VW shares Porsche
held during negotiations with  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  about the lender’s
500 million-euro share of the syndicated loan.  “We deliberately let the deadline elapse, because that has
the same effect as retracting an appeal,” Claudia Krauth,
spokeswoman for the Stuttgart prosecutors, said in an interview.
“We came to the conclusion that our appeal wouldn’t have had a
sufficient chance to succeed, so we dropped it.”  Prosecutors filed their appeal immediately after the
conviction, saying they are seeking a stiffer sentence for the
former executive. At trial, they had requested a fine of as much
as 1 million euros and a one-year suspended prison sentence.  Haerter has denied the allegations and is challenging the
conviction. Prosecutors oppose the appeal and have filed briefs
in those proceedings, Krauth said.  Anne Wehnert, Haerter’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  First Conviction  The trial yielded the first conviction in a string of cases
related to the takeover bid in which Porsche used an options
strategy. Stuttgart-based Porsche is also facing civil suits in
 Germany  seeking a total of about 5.5 billion euros and
prosecutors have extended a market-manipulation probe to cover
members of Porsche’s supervisory board in 2008.  In a separate indictment in December, prosecutors charged
Haerter and former Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking
over the use of VW options in the bid. The Stuttgart court
hasn’t decided whether the case, in which both have denied
wrongdoing, should go to trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  