-- Factory Output Gain Signals Sustained U.S. Demand: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-11-15T21:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/factory-production-in-u-s-rose-more-than-forecast-in-october.html
Production at U.S. factories picked
up in October, indicating the government shutdown did little to
impede  manufacturing (IPMGCHNG)  at the start of the fourth quarter.  The 0.3 percent  advance  followed a 0.1 percent gain the
prior month and exceeded the 0.2 percent median projection in a
Bloomberg survey, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed today
in Washington. Total industrial production fell 0.1 percent as
mining and utility use declined.  Increased output of furniture, metals and electronics shows
gains in manufacturing are extending beyond the  auto industry ,
underscoring recent reports of improving sentiment at factories.
Busier assembly lines are a source of strength for an economy
that was restrained by a decrease in  government spending  tied to
the 16-day partial federal shutdown.  “It’s a good start to the quarter,” said  Brian Jones ,
senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in  New York , who
correctly projected the drop in total output. Production gains
are “becoming broad-based. Are we going at rocket speed? No,
but things are generally getting better in the economy.”  Stocks rose to records, with benchmark gauges capping a
sixth week of gains, as investors assessed the data amid
speculation the Fed will maintain stimulus. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to 1,798.18 at the close in
New York.  Another report today showed a gauge of manufacturing in the
New York region unexpectedly declined this month. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic index  fell to minus
2.2 in November from 1.5 the prior month. Readings less than
zero signal contraction in New York,  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  Economists’ Forecasts  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey also called for a
0.2 percent rise in total industrial production. September
output was revised up to a 0.7 percent gain from a previously
reported 0.6 percent advance. Estimates of the 84 economists
surveyed ranged from a drop of 0.2 percent to an increase of 0.5
percent.  Today’s Fed report also showed that  capacity utilization ,
which measures the proportion of a plant that is in use at
factories, mines and utilities, fell to 78.1 percent from 78.3
percent the prior month. At factories alone it increased to a
four-month high. Manufacturing accounts for about 75 percent of
total industrial production and 12 percent of the economy.  Utility output dropped 1.1 percent after a 4.5 percent
surge the previous month.  Mining production , which includes oil
drilling, decreased 1.6 percent, the biggest drop since February
2011. The decline reflects the temporary shutdowns of oil and
gas rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico  in advance of Tropical Storm
Karen, the Fed said.  Vehicle Production  Factory production increased even as assembly lines at
automakers slowed for the first time in three months, today’s
report showed. Excluding autos and parts, manufacturing
production climbed 0.4 percent after no change in September.  “There’s a lot of volatility in these numbers and auto
production can be very lumpy,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S.
economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New
York. “Manufacturing is on track for pretty solid growth this
quarter.”  Motor vehicle sales have been a bright spot in this
expansion as Americans take advantage of cheaper borrowing costs
to replace older models. Cars and light trucks sold at a  15.2
million (SAARTOTL)  annual rate in October, matching the September pace,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group data.  ‘Modest Pace’  “Economic conditions continue to improve at a modest
pace,” Emily Kolinski Morris, senior economist at  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , said on a Nov. 1 call with analysts. “Manufacturing-sector
growth continues at a steady pace” and housing data signal
there is “a broad-based recovery still in place.”  The pickup in production helps explain why factory
purchasing managers were more optimistic last month. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index climbed in
October to 56.4, the highest since April 2011, from 56.2 a month
earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s reported on Nov. 1.
Readings above 50 indicate growth.  At the same time, increased inventories and slower
economies overseas represent challenges to American
manufacturers. The Commerce Department’s data on third-quarter
gross domestic product showed the biggest gain in inventories
since the beginning of 2012. The build-up in stockpiles, which
may limit orders to factories should demand falter, helped the
economy climb 2.8 percent at an annualized pace in the third
quarter after a 2.5 percent rate in the prior three months.  Cisco Systems  Meantime,  Cisco Systems  Inc., the world’s largest maker of
computer-networking equipment, indicated weakness in some of its
export markets and budget gridlock hurt sales.  “The shutdown, debt ceiling negotiations, and delay of key
decisions exacerbated the lack of confidence among business
leaders we had highlighted over the past few quarters,”  John
Chambers , chief executive officer, said on a Nov. 13 conference
call. He said the impact of the shutdown on the company’s
federal business was about $50 million, and slower global growth
is also hindering sales.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 1.9 percent in the final three
months of this year, less than the 2.4 percent pace that
economists projected in October, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey from Nov. 8 to Nov. 13.  The figure will reflect a decline in government output,
estimated by the number of hours put in by federal workers, as
well as cutbacks at contractors, economists said.  The effect of the budget impasse on the economy and lack of
faster progress in the job market are among reasons that help
explain why U.S. central bankers are continuing with $85 billion
in monthly asset purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  