-- FibraHotel Advances Most Since October on Marriott Partnership
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-11-15T18:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/fibrahotel-advances-most-since-october-on-marriott-partnership.html
Concentradora Fibra Hotelera
Mexicana SA (FIHO12) , Mexico’s biggest hotel-focused real-estate
investment trust, rose the most since October after saying it
will partner with Marriott International Inc. on 20 new hotels.  FibraHotel rose 4.5 percent to 20.48 pesos at 11:48 a.m. in
Mexico City, the steepest intraday gain since Oct. 28. The BMV
Fibras index of six Mexican real-estate trusts rose 1.6 percent,
in line with the increase for the country’s benchmark IPC index
of 35 stocks.  FibraHotel, which will own the hotels as Marriott operates
them, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that they will
open by the end of 2016, adding the global brand to a portfolio
that already includes 49 properties in 22 states. The Marriott
name may help ensure traffic from international visitors more
familiar with it than some of FibraHotel’s other offerings,
including Fiesta Inn and One, said Jose Itzamna Espitia Hernandez, an analyst with Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.  “We consider it positive,” Espitia Hernandez said. “One
of the advantages is that they’ll win international business.
The other advantage is diversification.”  The  Mexico  City-based company said it signed deals this
week to formalize plans for the first six hotels, which will
contribute about 800 rooms.  REIT Growth  Mexico’s real-estate investment trust market has been
expanding through initial public offerings. Concentradora Fibra
Danhos SA became the nation’s seventh REIT to do an IPO with its
offering last month. FibraHotel went public in November 2012 and
was at the time just the nation’s second such trust.  FibraHotel has told investors it plans to own 100 hotels in
the coming years, which would mean doubling its current
portfolio.  The funds have lost 0.9 percent this year, based on  total
returns , as rising bond yields in the U.S. and Mexico make REIT
dividends less attractive on a relative basis. Yields on
Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 have climbed 0.79
percentage point to 6.21 percent in 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  