-- Fox Wins Rights to ‘Simpsons’ Reruns for New FXX Channel
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-11-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/fox-wins-rights-to-simpsons-reruns-for-new-fxx-channel.html
“The Simpsons,” the longest-running scripted show in television history, will air on  21st
Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ’s FXX in reruns, giving the three-month old
cable channel a proven draw for viewers.  The agreement, covering all 24 past seasons and future
episodes, marks the biggest TV syndication deal in history, Los
Angeles-based FXX said yesterday in a statement. It includes
pay-TV, video-on-demand and streaming rights to the animated
show, which airs on Fox broadcast network, John Landgraf, chief
executive officer of FX Networks, said in an interview. He
declined to provide financial terms.  “The Simpsons” bolsters FXX’s lineup of comedies,
including the animated series “Archer,” aimed at younger
viewers. FXX is also developing animated shows “Bigfoot,” from
actor  Seth Rogen , and “Chozen” by comedian Danny McBride.
Every “Simpsons” episode will eventually be available to
subscribers on the FX Now app over the Web and on mobile
devices, Landgraf said.  “We have very ambitious aspirations for our FX channels,”
Landgraf said. “‘The Simpsons’ will have a profound impact on
our long-term business.”  The show will give Fox leverage in talks with pay-TV
systems for FXX carriage, fees and channel placement, Daniel Salmon, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets Corp. in  New York ,
wrote yesterday in a report.  “We see the move as an important step to helping buttress
the new FXX network,” wrote Salmon, who has a “market
perform” rating on Fox shares. “‘The Simpsons’ helps build the
schedule, which should boost ad revenue once the show begins
airing.”  21st Century Fox,  Rupert Murdoch ’s film and television
business, was little changed at $34.19 yesterday at the close in
New York. The Class A shares have gained 19 percent since
splitting from  News Corp ., Murdoch’s newspaper company, in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  