-- Galaxy May Invest More Than $5 Billion in Japan, Taiwan Casinos
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-15T18:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/galaxy-may-spend-more-than-5-billion-in-japan-taiwan-casinos.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the
Macau casino operator that made Lui Che-woo Asia’s third-richest
man, may consider investing more than $5 billion in  Japan  and
 Taiwan , if those governments open their markets.  The Hong Kong-based company may spend more than HK$20
billion ($2.6 billion) in each of the Asian markets, Deputy
Chairman Francis Lui, the eldest son of the billionaire, said in
an interview in Macau yesterday.  “If we’re given the chance to build a casino in Japan or
Taiwan, we would at least be spending HK$20 billion or HK$30
billion,” Lui said. “We have the financial capacity to do
that.”  Galaxy joins competitors such as  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , MGM
Resorts International and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  in seeking
opportunities outside Macau. Tokyo’s selection to host the 2020
Olympics boosts confidence the government will legalize casinos
in what could be the world’s second-largest gambling market
after the Chinese city.  Japan has long been touted as an attractive gaming market
with a large and relatively rich population base. The country
may generate $10 billion revenue a year if it opens up, Union
Gaming Group LLC estimated.  Galaxy also plans to invest HK$10 billion to develop
leisure and sports facilities on Macau’s neighboring Hengqin
Island. The investment includes the costs of land acquisition
and construction. The island is being developed by local and
international companies as an entertainment destination.  Biggest Landbank  Chinese tourists have transformed  Macau  into the world’s
largest gambling hub, boosting profits for the company and its
rivals. Lui expects casino industry revenue to rise as much as
20 percent next year in the only city in China where casino
gambling is legal, he said yesterday.  Casino revenue in the former Portuguese enclave rose 18
percent to 297.1 billion patacas ($37.2 billion) in the first 10
months of this year, close to 2012’s $38 billion in revenue.
VIPs, or high rollers, account for about two-thirds of  total
turnover, which is six times bigger than the  Las Vegas Strip .  Galaxy has 2 million square meters of land in Macau, the
most among the six operators. The landbank enables it to
quadruple its footprint in the Chinese city, according to DS Kim, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas.  The casino operator in July completed the HK$3.25 billion
purchase of the Grand Waldo complex in Macau, which includes a
spa and hotel, to increase its presence in Macau’s increasingly
popular Cotai Strip, the Asian equivalent of the Las Vegas
strip.  Shun Tak Holdings Ltd. (242) , the property company founded by
casino mogul  Stanley Ho , earlier this year said it won a bid for
a site in Hengqin and plans to build a hotel-to-office complex
there. China designated Hengqin as a tourism, business and
cultural zone, and a resort is under construction in the area,
Shun Tak said then.  Lui Che-woo, the Galaxy chairman, has a net worth of $21.7
billion, making him Asia’s third-richest man, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  