-- GE Plans Partial IPO of Consumer Finance Unit in 2014
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-11-15T22:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ge-plans-partial-ipo-of-consumer-finance-unit-in-2014.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  will finish
shrinking its finance business by 2015 after spinning off the
North American consumer lending unit, capping Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s effort to reduce credit risks.  As much as 20 percent of the unit will be sold in a 2014
initial public offering,  GE Capital  CEO Keith Sherin said today
at an investor meeting in Norwalk,  Connecticut . In a second
step, the remaining shares will be distributed to GE
stockholders in a tax-free transaction.  Divesting the business, whose products include store credit
cards for  companies  such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and J.C. Penney
Co., bolsters Immelt’s bid to boost the share of  earnings  from
units making industrial goods such as medical scanners. He has
been slimming GE Capital since credit markets froze in the
2008-09 financial crisis, imperiling the parent company.  “GE isn’t reducing finance because it has a new religious
attachment to industrial,” said  Brian Langenberg , principal and
director of research at Chicago-based Langenberg & Co. “This is
about reducing the potential for future pain.”  The company has been chipping away at the finance unit by
shedding real estate and home loans. GE Capital’s ending net
investment, a measure of its  balance sheet  excluding non-interest-bearing liabilities and cash, slid to $418 billion last
year from $556 billion in 2008. GE estimated it will fall as low
as $300 billion with the consumer lending spinoff.  ‘Last Step’  “This the final last step, the biggest step remaining in
the transformation of the portfolio of GE Capital,” Sherin said
at the investor meeting.  GE rose 0.8 percent to $27.20 at the close in  New York . The
 shares  have gained 30 percent this year, beating the 26 percent
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  An IPO registration statement will be filed next quarter,
and the transaction completed “later in 2014,” Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE said in a filing. Proceeds will remain with
the new company to help it start as an independent lender,
Sherin said. He declined to give a valuation for the business.  Peers of the new company include  Discover Financial
Services (DFS) , American Express Co. and Capital One Financial Corp.,
Sherin said.  David Darst , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC,
estimated a valuation of $18 billion to $19 billion for the GE
consumer lending business, based on $2.2 billion of annual net
income and a price-earnings ratio of eight to nine times, or a
little below those of Discover and Capital One.  Debt Funding  “GE has relied more on their debt to fund the balance
sheet,” Darst said in a telephone interview. “They do have
deposits and CDs but we don’t know what the funding base would
look like for the consumer unit. They are also oriented toward
private-label accounts. There’s not as much of a relationship
with consumers or the merchants.”  GE, the world’s largest maker of  jet engines  and
locomotives, had been moving in the IPO direction for the unit
for months, after Immelt signaled in May he was considering an
initial offering for parts of it. Counting on a bank to buy
financial-service assets would be “a fool’s errand,” making an
IPO the likely outcome, he said at an investor conference.  Sherin said earnings for GE will be down a “little bit”
in 2014 because of the IPO. Analysts had projected profit
excluding some items of $1.79 a share next year, according to
the average of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrial Profit  Profit at GE’s  industrial divisions  will account for about
65 percent of operating earnings by 2015, the company said at a
meeting with investors and analysts last year. Those earnings
made up 55 percent of profit, on the same basis, in 2012.  GE expects a gain of $1 billion from the transaction to
shed the retail finance business in 2015, based on the “excess
value over our investment in the asset,” Chief Financial
Officer Jeff Bornstein said, without providing details.  As GE Capital exits the North American consumer finance
business and sheds some other assets, annual earnings at the
unit will drop to $5 billion in 2015 from about $7.7 billion in
2013, Sherin said. That would make up about 30 percent of GE
earnings and will begin to  grow  in 2016 in line with the
company’s industrial businesses, he said.  The consumer finance unit is an “excellent business” that
didn’t fit with the rest of GE, Sherin said. The timing of the
transaction is good because  capital markets  are strong, he said.  “When we looked at the position we have in credit cards
and we look at the synergies we get between our commercial
lending businesses and the rest of GE, we just don’t see that,”
Sherin said.  Financial Squeeze  GE Capital was squeezed during the financial crisis that
followed the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., forcing Immelt to reduce GE’s dividend for the
first time since the Great Depression and tap government debt
guarantee programs to contain the damage.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service stripped GE
of its top  credit ratings  and the stock plunged to a 16-year
closing low of $6.66 in March 2009. As Immelt moved to shrink GE
Capital, the unit’s ending net investment, a measure of its
balance sheet excluding non-interest-bearing liabilities and
cash, shrank 25 percent to $385 billion as of Sept. 30 since the
start of 2009, according to a Nov. 1 filing.  Credit Swaps  Today, the cost to protect GE Capital’s debt from default
for five years fell to the lowest level since January 2008,
signaling the company is the most creditworthy it’s been since
then in the eyes of derivatives traders.  Credit-default swaps tied to that debt, which typically
decline as investor confidence improves, touched 69.9 basis
points, the least intraday since Jan. 9, 2008, according to
Bloomberg prices. The contracts climbed to 70.7 basis points
today as of 4:28 p.m. in New York.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  With the consumer finance business, GE is revisiting the
strategy it used to divest its insurance unit through five stock
offerings over a two-year span beginning in 2004 to accomplish
that goal, capped by a final sale of  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) 
shares in 2006.  In 2006, GE sold its GE Insurance Solutions reinsurance
business for $7.4 billion to Swiss Reinsurance Co.  GE US <Equity> CN  NI IPO
NI DIVSALES
NI MNA  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  