-- German Bonds Set for Weekly Gain Before Euro-Area Inflation Data
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-11-15T09:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/german-bonds-set-for-weekly-gain-before-euro-area-inflation-data.html
Germany’s government bonds headed
for a weekly advance before a euro-area report that economists
said will confirm inflation slowed to the least in four years
last month.  Benchmark  10-year yields  were about six basis points from
the  lowest  level since August. Bunds advanced with U.S.
Treasuries yesterday as Federal Reserve chairman nominee Janet Yellen signaled she will maintain the central bank’s stimulus
until the world’s biggest economy improves, boosting demand for
fixed-income assets. Spanish and Italian 10-year securities were
also poised for weekly gains.  “Yellen confirmed that policy will remain intact for now
so liquidity will remain abundant which is important for all
markets,” said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in
Brussels. On the inflation data, “if any, there are maybe some
downside risks. Even then, I don’t think the market will jump on
it because they reacted heavily on the first release.” he said.  Germany ’s 10-year yield was little changed at 1.72 percent
at 9:12 a.m. London time after falling to 1.65 percent on Oct.
31, the lowest since Aug. 8. The price of the 2 percent bond due
in August 2023 was 102.535. The rate has dropped four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point,  this week .  The annual  inflation rate  in the euro area declined to 0.7
percent in October, the lowest since November 2009, in line with
an initial estimate on Oct. 31, according to the median forecast
of 35 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the European
Union’s statistics office releases the data today.  Annual Loss  As inflation cools around the world, bonds designed to
insulate investors from increases in consumer prices are headed
for the first annual loss on record, according to a global index
of the debt compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. German
indexed-linked securities have dropped 3.1 percent this year, a
separate index shows, putting them on course for their worst
annual performance since the country issued such debt for the
first time in 2006.  The German 10-year  break-even rate  was little changed at
1.48 percentage points after dropping to 1.47 percentage points
yesterday, matching the lowest since July 2012, based on
closing-market data. The rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations, is derived from the yield difference between bunds
and index-linked securities.  The European Central Bank unexpectedly cut its main
refinancing  rate  to 0.25 percent on Nov. 7. Pledging to keep
borrowing costs low for an “extended period,” President Mario Draghi said weakening price pressures justified the decision.  Promote Recovery  Fed’s Vice Chairman Yellen voiced her commitment to using
bond purchases known as quantitative easing to boost growth and
lower unemployment that remains above 7 percent.  “I consider it imperative that we do what we can to
promote a very strong recovery,” she said in response to a
question during testimony yesterday to the Senate Banking
Committee in  Washington . “Unemployment remains high.”  The Fed currently buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities each month to keep downward pressure
on borrowing costs.  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds was little changed at
4.07 percent, having dropped four basis points this week.
Similar-maturity  Italian yields  has declined seven basis points
this week to 4.07 percent.  German government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.1
percent this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg
World Bond Indexes. Spain’s returned 11 percent and  Italy ’s
earned 7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  