-- Germans Rebut Lew-Krugman in Surplus Dispute: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-11-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/germans-rebut-lew-krugman-in-surplus-dispute-cutting-research.html
German economists are rebutting
accusations from the U.S. Treasury Department and Nobel laureate
 Paul Krugman  that their nation’s  current account  surplus is too
large and poses a threat to global growth.  Stung by a month of criticism from across the Atlantic and
also within Europe,  Andreas Rees  of UniCredit Bank AG and
Berenberg Bank’s Holger Schmieding both wrote reports in the
past week defending Europe’s largest economy from the charge
that its surfeit impedes the economic recovery regionally and
abroad. The  International Monetary Fund  predicts the gap to be 6
percent of gross domestic product this year.  Germany’s “anemic pace of domestic demand and dependence
on exports” has helped create a “deflationary bias for the
euro area as well as for the world economy,” the Treasury,
under Secretary Jack Lew, said in an Oct. 31 report. Krugman
wrote in a Nov. 1  article  that “by running inappropriate large
surpluses, Germany is hurting growth and employment in the world
at large.”  “I have two problems with the latest onslaught,” Rees
wrote in a Nov. 10 report to clients from  Frankfurt . “First, in
my opinion, it is flawed economic thinking. Second, to make
things worse, critics obviously do not know the facts.”  He argued the  trade surplus  -- a smaller measure of a
country’s external balance -- between Germany and others in the
euro region has declined from 5.5 percent of GDP in 2007 to less
than 2 percent in the second quarter. Moreover, exports to the
euro region were lower than six years ago in the second quarter
and imports were more than 10 percent higher than at the end of
2007, relieving Germany of blame for the gap.  The surplus comes instead from diversifying exports away
from Europe, as evidenced by a 1.5 percent divide with the U.S.
and 1 percent with the Middle East. As for whether Germany
should spend more, “there is absolutely no automatism between
more public spending and the narrowing of the  trade balance ,”
he said. In addition, raising the minimum wage would hurt German
companies to the detriment of expansion globally.  Describing some of the debate as “silly,” London-based
Schmieding made similar points on Nov. 11, arguing that the
current-account windfall has little to do with protectionist
policies or deflating demand.  A surplus is also desirable for Germany given it has an
aging population, because it increases the country’s savings.
The rise also reflects the impact of the euro crisis rather than
austerity or “beggar-thy-neighbor policies,” Schmieding said.  The fiscal turmoil elsewhere in Europe led German companies
to slash investment, leading to weaker imports. At the same
time, demand elsewhere in the world, untainted by Europe’s woes,
supported exports, he said.  “Market forces and the gradual fading of the euro crisis
will see to it that the German current account surplus can start
to normalize soon,” Schmieding said, noting that imports will
climb as German wages rise and investment rebounds.  * * *  The price of housing may help determine the value of
currencies in the English-speaking world against the  U.S.
dollar .  The property markets of  Australia ,  Canada , the U.K. and
perhaps  New Zealand  have shown signs of resilience since
recovering from the global financial crisis, according to  Alan Ruskin , a macro strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . A
year ago the analysis was they would lag the U.S. in recovering.  The revival suggests to him that when the Federal Reserve
begins to rein in easy monetary policy other central banks won’t
be far behind, he said in a Nov. 5 report.  A concern is that the strength in housing markets may
signal other new imbalances, such as excessive leverage and
current account deficits, he said. That leaves the countries in
an “elite club” that no one wants to be a member of.  Those imbalances may prompt investors to sell currencies
against the dollar, as may the potential that housing markets
will slide. Australia and the U.K. are most at risk because they
have more variable-rate mortgages, said Ruskin.  * * *  The global recovery is proving import-less, at least as far
as goods from emerging economies are concerned.  The ratio of growth in trade to output around the world
used to run at 2 percent to 2.5 percent and is now just under 1,
according to strategists at UBS AG including Bhanu Baweja,
global head of emerging-market cross-asset strategy.  One reason is that the sectors rebounding in developed
economies don’t require as many emerging-market exports.
Examples include heavy machinery and construction equipment in
the U.S., which are benefiting from the energy revolution there.  “The U.S. does not import these inputs from  emerging
markets ; it either builds them itself or imports them from other
developed countries,” said the UBS team in a Nov. 13 report.  The weakening relationship between trade and growth may
have other explanations, the UBS report said. Globalization may
have peaked and the gap in production costs between emerging and
developed markets may have narrowed. Trade may also be turning
more “light,” thanks to technological advances such as 3D
printing.  If the trend is confirmed, emerging markets may find their
current accounts in deeper deficit, their fiscal balances
worsening and their corporate earnings suffering, UBS said.  * * *  Foreign capital flows accounted for as much as a third of
the increase in U.S. property prices and household debt that
preceded the financial crisis that began in 2007.  That’s the estimate of Alejandro Justiniano of the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of  Chicago , Andrea Tambalotti of the Fed Bank of
New York and Northwestern University’s Giorgio E. Primiceri, in
a  study  published this week by the London-based Centre for
Economic Policy Research.  The flows help explain the “sustained low level of
 interest rates  observed over that period,” they said.  * * *  U.S. exports are more vulnerable to shifts in demand from
Europe than they are to changes by other major trading partners,
according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City .  If Europe’s growth rate increased by one percentage point
next year, U.S. shipments would rise by the same magnitude,
economists Jun Nie and Lisa Taylor  wrote  in a Nov. 5 report.  A similar rise in Canadian expansion is associated with
only a 0.5 point gain in U.S. export growth. The effect is even
smaller with gains in Asian and Mexican trade -- 0.4 point and
0.2 point respectively.  The outlook suggests that because U.S. exports account for
almost 13.5 percent of total GDP, forecasts from the  IMF  of
weaker-than-expected growth elsewhere next year will reduce the
contribution of exports to growth by 0.2 point.  * * *  American women are enjoying the economic recovery, filling
52 percent of new jobs this year even though they represent less
than half the  labor force .  So calculates Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at
Renaissance Macro Research LLC in New York. He said in a Nov. 12
report that female  employment  is accelerating and that women are
competing in traditionally male-dominated  service industries .  Women, for example, make up 60 percent of payrolls across
state and local governments, so will benefit as that sector
heals, said Dutta. Unlike for men, employment among women aged
25-34 exceeds pre-recession levels and women are earning an
increasing proportion of college and post-graduate degrees.  Dutta noted that professional and technical services, an
industry that pays 50 percent more per hour than the average
wage, has seen female employment rise 3.2 percent at a year-over-year rate, a percentage point faster than men.  A Nov. 12  blog post  from the Washington-based  Brookings
Institution  concurred and raised some caveats. Yes, women are
doing better than they were, with 40 percent the primary or sole
provider for their families and the gender pay gap for full-time
workers narrowing to 82 cents on the dollar today from 62 cents
in 1979.  At the same time, women still find it harder to escape the
bottom income quartile, meaning women born poor are more likely
than men to remain so. Forty-seven percent of women born to
parents in the bottom quartile remain there as adults compared
to 35 percent of men.  “Looking at mobility patterns by gender shows there is
clearly a long way to go before we achieve equality,” said
Richard V. Reeves and Joanna Venator of Brookings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  