-- German Home Prices Increased Most in 10 Years in Third Quarter
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-15T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/german-home-prices-increased-most-in-10-years-in-third-quarter.html
German home prices rose by the most
in 10 years in the third quarter as more investors and
individuals bought apartments amid low interest rates.  Prices for houses, apartments and residential buildings
climbed 4.9 percent from a year earlier, according to an index
published today by the  VDP Association of German Pfandbrief
Banks . That’s the biggest gain since at least the first quarter
of 2003, when VDP began compiling data. The office-price index
rose 6.9 percent, the most since the first quarter of 2012.  “The main reason for further increases in German home
prices continues to be the high demand in thriving metropoles
and major university towns,” Jens Tolckmitt, VDP’s general
manager, said in the statement. “Since prices in top locations
are already very high, investors are increasingly looking at
medium-sized cities.”  Housing demand in cities such as Berlin and  Frankfurt  is
outpacing construction as young workers move to areas where jobs
are easier to find. Office prices are being pushed higher by
institutions seeking a safe investment. Low interest rates have
made buying property more affordable for individuals and
companies.  Prices for owner-occupied apartments rose 3.8 percent and
apartment buildings gained 6.1 percent in the third quarter
compared to a year earlier, driven by a 5.2 percent increase in
rents paid on new leases, VDP said.  VDP collects price data from mortgage contracts signed
across  Germany  by its 38 member banks, which include Deutsche
Bank AG, Commerzbank AG,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  ING Groep NV. (INGA) 
The data includes information from all cities in which members
made loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  