-- German SPD Criticizes German Export Power in Merkel Slap
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-11-15T15:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/german-spd-criticizes-german-export-power-in-merkel-slap.html
Germany’s Social Democrats backed
critics of the country’s focus on exports and called for action
to redress current-account imbalances, risking a clash with
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s bloc.  In a motion passed today at a party convention in the
eastern German city of Leipzig, the SPD urged European leaders
including Merkel to tackle economic imbalances in the euro area.
Backed by a majority of the 600 delegates, the motion
underscores the conflict over the direction of Europe’s biggest
economy as the SPD and Merkel’s bloc try to forge a coalition.  “Excessive economic imbalances in the euro area are a key
structural problem,” the SPD said in the motion, entitled
“Building New Trust for a Better Europe.” Coordinated economic
policy is needed in the longer term to reduce skewed current
accounts that underlie the imbalances, the party said.  The vote aligns the SPD with critics including the U.S.
Treasury, the International Monetary Fund and the European
Commission, all of whom have said that the Merkel government’s
focus on boosting exports helped swell the debt of euro-area
states that import German goods from cars to chemicals.
 Germany ’s Economy Ministry and lawmakers from Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union reject the criticism.  The SPD in its motion cited a decade of sluggish growth in
real wages compared with Germany’s main European trading
partners and a public investment gap. The party said that
Merkel’s economic policy hurts both German citizens and the
country’s partners in the 17-nation euro area.  Main Challenge  Eradicating economic imbalances in the euro area “will be
one of the most important areas of policy in the next four
years,” Carsten Sieling, the SPD’s finance spokesman in
parliament, told delegates in a speech. “Strengthening real
wages and investment will be the main economic policy challenge
we face.”  The commission, the European Union’s executive arm, began a
probe this week into Germany for exceeding the EU ceiling of a 6
percent budget surplus since 2007. Michael Meister, the CDU’s
parliamentary finance spokesman, said on Nov. 13 that he was
“astounded” at the criticism.  SPD negotiators have so far failed to persuade their
counterparts from Merkel’s bloc to agree on funding to boost
investment, Norbert Walter-Borjans, the Social Democratic
finance minister of North-Rhine Westphalia state and a
participant in the coalition talks, said in an interview today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  