-- German SPD Faces Down Grassroots Revolt at Merkel Tie-Up
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-11-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/german-spd-faces-down-grassroots-revolt-at-merkel-tie-up.html
German Social Democratic Party
delegates vented their anger at the SPD leadership in a series
of ballots for senior posts that revealed grassroots opposition
to coalition talks with  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  Sixteen members of the SPD’s 30-strong national executive
were rejected in a first round of voting at a party convention
in Leipzig yesterday. In a separate gauge of party sentiment,
six of seven party leaders, including SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel, were re-elected to their positions with lower scores
than in 2011. The conference concludes today.  Andrea Nahles, the SPD general secretary, said the results
show that the party will have to work harder to win concessions
from Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc in negotiations due to
conclude at the end of this month. Many in the party have yet to
see results that would justify going into government with Merkel
after their Sept. 22 election defeat, she said.  “The results show the displeasure with the party
leadership,” Nahles said in an interview in Leipzig. They “fit
the SPD’s overall mood,” she said.  Nahles, who was re-elected with about 67 percent of
delegate votes after taking 73 percent in 2011, said she wasn’t
surprised by the outcome. “We’ve got no results to show so
far” from the coalition talks, she said. “We must negotiate
even harder.”  The results, which were greeted with audible intakes of
breath from the audience as they were read out on the podium,
underscore the challenge facing the SPD leadership as it
attempts to wring sufficient policy concessions from Merkel to
sway its members to support a so-called grand coalition.  Beck’s Forecast  The SPD will put whatever coalition deal is agreed to a
ballot of its 470,000-strong membership next month, handing the
rank and file the chance to derail Merkel’s plan to have a
government by Christmas.  Kurt Beck, a former SPD chairman who governed the wine-growing region of Rhineland-Palatinate as prime minister for 19
years until stepping down this year, said that he expects the
coalition contract to pass so long as it includes a commitment
to introduce a national minimum wage and to bolster financing
for  Germany ’s local communities.  Beck said that he sees about 70 percent of SPD members
voting in favor of a repeat of the grand coalition during
Merkel’s first term from 2005 to 2009. Beck’s comments in an
interview in Leipzig are the first forecast of the ballot
outcome.  “I see a shift from fundamental opposition to a grand
coalition toward an examination of the content of the
contract,” said Beck. “Without a minimum wage there will be no
coalition. But local financing shouldn’t be underestimated. It’s
a very important topic” for grassroots members, he said.  SPD delegates are meeting in Leipzig, where the Social
Democratic movement was inaugurated 150 years ago this year, to
pick over September’s election in which they took 25.7 percent
to 41.5 percent for Merkel’s bloc. That was the SPD’s second-worst result since World War II. The worst was in 2009, after
four years of coalition with Merkel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Leipzig at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Leipzig at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  