-- Italian Bonds Drop With Spain’s as EU Says Debt Targets at Risk
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-11-15T16:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/german-bonds-set-for-weekly-advance-as-euro-area-inflation-slows.html
Italy’s 10-year government bonds
declined for the first time in three days after the European
Union Commission said the nation’s budget plan doesn’t respect
its 2014 debt targets.  Spain ’s securities also dropped as the EU said that, while
the nation has taken effective action on its deficit, it too may
miss its 2014 target. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Italian 10-year debt instead of German bunds climbed from a
three-week low as a euro-area report confirmed that inflation
slowed to the least in four years last month. Federal Reserve
Chairman nominee  Janet Yellen  said yesterday that easing
measures won’t be removed soon.  “I’m not surprised spreads are widening, especially after
they reached tight levels with markets too focused on monetary
issues and ignoring ongoing fundamental issues,” said Gianluca Ziglio, executive director of fixed-income research at Sunrise
Brokers LLP in  London . “The EU statements do not come as a
surprise given that the Italian economy is still struggling to
exit recession. Spain has started to see the light at the end of
the tunnel but is not that much better.”  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.10 percent at 4:39 p.m. London time. The
4.5 percent security due in March 2024 dropped 0.305, or 3.05
euros per $1,000-euro ($1,348) face amount, to 103.725.  The rate on Spanish 10-year bonds increased two basis
points to 4.07 percent.  Spread Widens  The yield difference, or spread, between the Italian 10-year securities and similar-maturity German bunds widened three
basis points to 239 basis points. The spread narrowed to 234
basis points yesterday, the lowest since Oct. 24.  European bonds climbed yesterday after Yellen signaled that
she will maintain the central bank’s stimulus until the world’s
biggest economy improves. The Fed currently buys $85 billion of
Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month to keep
downward pressure on borrowing costs.  “Yellen confirmed that policy will remain intact for now
so liquidity will remain abundant which is important for all
markets,” said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in
Brussels. “Maybe there’ll be some temptation for profit taking
during the U.S. session but all in all we think this will be
marginal.  Germany ’s  10-year yield  rose one basis point to 1.71
percent today, having dropped five basis points  this week .  The annual  inflation rate  in the euro area declined to 0.7
percent in October, the lowest since November 2009, the European
Union’s statistics office said today. That’s in line with an
initial estimate on Oct. 31, and the median forecast of 35
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Inflation Insulation  As inflation cools around the world, bonds designed to
insulate investors from increases in consumer prices are headed
for the first annual loss on record, according to a global index
of the debt compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. German
indexed-linked securities have dropped 3.1 percent this year, a
separate index shows, putting them on course for their worst
annual performance since the country issued such debt for the
first time in 2006.  The German 10-year  break-even rate  was at 1.46 percentage
points today, the lowest since July 2012, based on closing-market data. The rate, a gauge of inflation expectations, is
derived from the yield difference between bunds and index-linked
securities.  The  European Central Bank  unexpectedly cut its main
refinancing  rate  to 0.25 percent on Nov. 7. Pledging to keep
borrowing costs low for an ‘‘extended period,” President  Mario Draghi  said weakening price pressures justified the decision.  Spread Record  The difference in yield between longer-maturity bonds and
shorter-term debt has reached the highest on record, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Plus
Indexes, as central banks pledge to keep down  interest rates  for
a sustained period of time.  The extra yield investors get for holding bonds maturing in
10 years or more, compared with those due in three-to-five
years, increased to 1.80 percentage points yesterday, the widest
spread since the indexes began in 2003.  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in the euro-area markets, followed by those of the Netherlands and  Finland ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Italy’s bonds earned 7 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s returned 11
percent, while Germany’s lost 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  