-- Global Medical Isotope Shortage Follows S. Africa Plant Leak
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-11-15T15:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/global-medical-isotope-shortage-follows-south-africa-plant-leak.html
A leak at a South African Nuclear
Energy Corp. plant this month has caused a global shortfall in
the supply of isotopes used in millions of medical procedures
every year, including treatment and diagnosis of cancer.  “No production is currently taking place, leaving a big
shortage in the international market,” Don Robertson, managing
director of NTP Radioisotopes SOC Ltd, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. NTP produces a quarter of the world’s
medical radioisotopes, making it the second-largest
manufacturer, he said.  The isotopes are used to provide diagnostic information
about the organs or to treat conditions such as non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma, thyroid and  liver cancer , according to the  World
Nuclear Association . Tens of millions of nuclear medicine
procedures are performed each year, and demand for radioisotopes
is increasing rapidly, the association said on its  website .  A release of noble gas and iodine occurred on Nov. 2 at the
NTP plant in Pelindaba, about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from the
capital  Pretoria . An investigation was concluded on Nov. 12 and
the company expects measures to be implemented by early next
week, Robertson said. A start is dependent on the  National
Nuclear Regulator ’s authorization to reopen the facility. The
regulator is conducting an independent review.  Drill Down  “Our investigation is ongoing,” Gino Moonsamy, a
spokesman for the National Nuclear Regulator, said in a phone
interview. “We need to drill down to find out what the root
cause was. It could take a while.”  The outage is causing a shortage of molybdenum-99, used in
medical procedures and nuclear scans and exported by NTP to 60
countries, as well as technetium-99m, used in disease diagnosis,
according to Robertson. The company also exports iodine-131,
used for thyroid gland diseases including hyperthyroidism and to
treat tumors of the thyroid gland.  “Patients are affected as early detection of most diseases
assisted by using nuclear medicine greatly enhances the
possibility of early and accurate diagnosis,” Robertson said.
“Therefore, many patients would not be able to undergo these
scans due to the shortage.” Robertson said.  Backup Partners  While NTP’s local market will only experience a limited
shortage, the international market has suffered because of the
lead times involved for backup partners to scale up
manufacturing capacity for such large quantities of isotopes, he
said. While the deficit won’t be fully addressed for the
duration of the NTP outage -- because the company’s market share
is too big -- it will be limited starting next week when other
suppliers’ capacity has increased, according to Robertson.  “Many international professional bodies are meeting daily
to consider options to mitigate against this shortage,”
Robertson said.  The National Research Universal reactor at Chalk River
Laboratories, Ontario, is the world’s largest producer of
medical isotopes, according to  Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd.   The shortage from  South Africa  “is only one part of a
larger problem of sustaining production and supply of
radioisotopes” as older reactors shut down, Brian Neilly,
president of the  British Nuclear Medicine Society  , said in a
phone interview.  The society and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development’s Nuclear Energy Agency are working on solutions
as demand for radioisotopes is expected to rise about 2 percent
each year until at least 2030, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  