-- Gold Analysts More Bullish on Fed Stimulus Outlook: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-11-15T16:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/gold-analysts-more-bullish-on-fed-stimulus-outlook-commodities.html
Gold analysts are the most bullish
in six weeks as  Janet Yellen , the nominee to run the  Federal
Reserve , signaled the U.S. central bank is in no hurry to curb
economic stimulus, reviving demand for the metal as a haven.  Eighteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect prices
to gain next week, nine are bearish and two neutral, the largest
 proportion  of bulls since Oct. 4. Gold rose 70 percent from
December 2008 to June 2011 as the Fed pumped more than $2
trillion into the financial system, fueling expectations of
accelerated inflation and a weaker dollar. President  Barack
Obama  nominated Yellen, the bank’s vice chairman, last month to
succeed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term expires Jan. 31.  The economy and labor market are performing “far short of
their potential” and must improve before the Fed will consider
curbing its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, Yellen said
at her nomination hearing yesterday. While gold is heading for
its first annual drop in 13 years after some investors lost
faith in the metal as a store of value, lower prices boosted
jewelry, bar and coin purchases. Demand from  China ,  India  and
the  Middle East  surged a combined 27 percent in the 12 months
through September, the World Gold Council estimates.  “It’s unlikely that Bernanke will do anything at his last
meeting if he perceives that his successor would prefer to leave
policy unchanged,” said Nic Brown, head of commodities research
at Natixis SA in  London . “The dollar may drop back, too. This
is all potentially positive for gold prices in the very short
term.”  Gold’s Decline  Bullion, down 23 percent this year to $1,288.14 an ounce in
London, added 2.1 percent since touching a four-week low of
$1,261.42 on Nov. 12. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities dropped 4.6 percent since the end of December, while
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 18 percent.
The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.3 percent.  Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  Nov. 8 forecast the
Fed probably will delay reductions in bond purchases until
March. Gold slid earlier this week as the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar
Index set an eight-week high Nov. 12, after the U.S. reported
more job gains for October than economists forecast. Bullion’s
30-week correlation coefficient to the dollar index, a measure
against 10 major currencies, is at minus 0.59, with a figure of
minus 1 meaning the two always move in opposite directions.  ‘Supporting Recovery’  “Supporting the recovery today is the surest path to
returning to a more normal approach to monetary policy,” Yellen
said in prepared remarks to the Senate Banking Committee.
Through her testimony, she publicly voiced her views for the
first time in seven months on the unprecedented monetary
stimulus that she’s supported.  China’s demand for jewelry, bars and coins rose 30 percent
to 996.3 metric tons in the 12 months through September, the
London-based World Gold Council said in a report yesterday.
Usage gained 24 percent to 977.6 tons in India and 25 percent to
225.8 tons in the Middle East.  The increased demand from China, last year’s second-biggest
consumer, puts it on pace to overtake India as the top user at a
time when the Indian government imposes import restrictions on
gold to curb its current-account deficit. Physical demand has
been weaker than a month ago, when gold also traded below
$1,300, Standard Bank Group Ltd. wrote in a Nov. 12 report.  Exiting ETPs  Investors sold 760.9 tons through gold-backed  exchange-traded products  this year, erasing $64.6 billion from the value
of the funds and pushing holdings to the lowest since April
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  John Paulson , the
billionaire hedge fund manager and biggest investor in the SPDR
Gold Trust, the largest gold ETP, cut his stake in the product
by 53 percent in the second quarter, government filings show.
His holdings were unchanged in the third quarter.  Paulson’s PFR Gold Fund fell 16 percent in September,
according to a report to investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  ETP investors sold metal as speculation grew that the U.S.
central bank will slow stimulus as the economy strengthens.
Prices will drop to $1,000 by the end of next year as other
assets such as U.S. equities become more attractive, ABN Amro
Group NV said in a report yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
sees the metal at $1,230 in six months and $1,110 in a year.  While  hedge funds  and other speculators cut bets on price
gains by 13 percent in the week ended Nov. 5, their net-long
position of 87,689 contracts is almost three times higher than
in June, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
The holdings are down from 253,653 contracts in August 2011, a
month before prices reached a record $1,921.15.  Sugar, Grain  Seven of 13 people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next
week, five were bullish, and one was neutral. The commodity lost
9.7 percent this year to 17.61 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York .  Ten of 20 people surveyed anticipate lower corn prices,
with six saying the grain will rise and four neutral. Ten of 20
said soybeans will fall, seven expect gains and three were
neutral. Ten of 19 predicted losses in wheat, with six bullish
and three neutral. Corn fell 37 percent in  Chicago  this year to
$4.3775 a bushel. Soybeans slid 6.8 percent to $13.14 a bushel,
as wheat dropped 16 percent to $6.57 a bushel.  Fourteen traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to
fall next week, seven were bullish and two neutral. Copper for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, fell 11 percent this year to $7,028.75 a ton.  China Slows  The euro area’s recovery came close to a halt in the third
quarter, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said yesterday. China’s expansion will slow to 7.4 percent in
2014, the smallest gain since 1990, from 7.6 percent this year,
according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
still higher than growth in the U.S., which is expected to
accelerate to 2.6 percent, from 1.6 percent this year.  “We’ve known for a while that you’re not going to have
another two years of quantitative easing, it’s really been a
question of timing,” said Carole Ferguson, an analyst at SP
Angel Corporate Finance LLP, a broker and adviser in London.
“Commodities will go sideways until the end of year. Next year,
it will be a question of whether demand is coming through from a
recovery in the  U.S. economy  and elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  