-- Goodlatte Sees Surveillance Restrictions Passing Congress
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/goodlatte-sees-surveillance-restrictions-passing-congress.html
House Judiciary Committee Chairman
Bob Goodlatte said he supports a bill to let companies such as
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  release statistics on data they
turn over to the U.S. National Security Agency.  The companies want to publicly disclose how they respond to
government orders for data on their customers and how many
accounts are involved.  Those that cooperate “need to be able to stand up and say,
‘We’re doing the right thing here, and we’re protecting our
customers, our consumers, the users of our services,’”
Goodlatte, a  Virginia  Republican, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  The legislation, proposed in response to revelations about
NSA surveillance, would give companies that right. It would also
overhaul the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court,
which reviews wiretap and other investigative requests, and
prohibit the agency from collecting bulk phone records on
millions of Americans, among other provisions.  “It very well could and should” pass, Goodlatte said. He
said it was important to both protect civil liberties and to
allow the government to continue gathering information on
threats to the nation.  A bill similar to the one drafted by Representative James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican, also has been proposed by
Senate Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat.  At issue are controversial NSA programs revealed publicly
in June. One involves the bulk collection of U.S. phone customer
records and another the monitoring of Internet communications.  Holder Safe  In the interview, Goodlatte also said Attorney General Eric Holder isn’t about to be impeached even with attempts by some of
his Republican colleagues to attempt that step.  “He’s not going to be impeached right now, that’s for
sure,” Goodlatte said.  In June 2012, Holder became the first Cabinet member to be
held in contempt of Congress. The Republican-led  House of
Representatives  cited him for failing to comply with a subpoena
by not turning over documents related to a federal gun operation
called “Fast and Furious.” It let illegally acquired weapons
from the U.S. wind up at crime scenes in  Mexico .  Republicans should remain focused on pursuing grievances
through the court system, Goodlatte said.  “If we determine that there are impeachable offenses, we
would look at that,” he said. “But at this point in time, we
think that the process of holding him in contempt and that
moving through the courts is where we should watch this.”  Executive Privilege  President  Barack Obama  has asserted executive privilege
with the documents at issue and declined to turn them over.
Obama’s position is that the executive branch can’t be required
by Congress to disclose confidential communications because
their release would harm the operations of the White House.  Republicans have made the nation’s top law-enforcement
officer one of their main targets in the Obama administration.  Holder and Republicans are still fighting over the
documents, and both the White House and the attorney general
have said the issue in the House was made for political theater
rather than legitimate oversight.  Goodlatte also said changes to immigration laws may pass
during this Congress, though not necessarily this year.  Obama has said he would make it a priority to push for
passage of a new immigration law before the end of the year.  While the Democratic-led Senate passed an immigration bill
on a bipartisan vote in June, the measure that would provide a
path to legal status for the estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants already in the U.S. faces opposition from many
Republicans in the House, where the party has a majority.  Legal Status  “What we are looking at is an appropriate legal status,”
said Goodlatte, “a legal status that doesn’t advance somebody
ahead of people who have done immigration legally and lawfully
for generations is more appropriate.”  While Republicans remain opposed to creating a pathway to
citizenship for immigrant workers, he emphasized, a bill that
legalizes work status “could pass this Congress.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , and
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia have said the  Senate’s
comprehensive bill won’t be taken up. Instead, their party’s
leaders intend to write the law in pieces. Meanwhile, a
bipartisan group of House lawmakers who’ve been working for four
years toward an immigration overhaul has disbanded.  Goodlatte’s Judiciary Committee has passed four separate
bills, including one to expand the use of electronic databases
to screen new job applicants and one to create a new temporary
guest worker program for the agriculture industry.  Democratic Support  “This is a step-by-step approach,” said Goodlatte. “I
think that the process will have Democratic support as we move
forward.”  With the full House unlikely to act on immigration this
year, there will be a short opening for action next year before
lawmakers turn to their 2014 re-election campaigns. That period
could be dominated by fiscal feuds, including bills to fund the
government and increase the nation’s borrowing limit.  Goodlatte voiced skepticism about the latest congressional
attempt to strike a broad debt-reduction agreement. A bipartisan
panel of 29 House and Senate members is working toward a self-imposed Dec. 13 deadline to find budget savings.  “I’m an optimist that we’ll eventually get to it,” he
said. “But I worry that there will be more severe consequences
before we get there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net . 