-- British Airways Profitability Boosts IAG’s Earnings Outlook
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-15T16:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/iag-boosts-earnings-goal-as-british-airways-profitability-gains.html
British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG)  lifted
its 2015 profit target by 12.5 percent as the U.K. unit benefits
from growth in trans-Atlantic travel and discount arm Vueling
boosts earnings at the group’s Spanish business.  Operating profit before one-time items will be 1.8 billion
euros ($2.4 billion), versus a previous forecast of 1.6 billion
euros,  Europe ’s third-biggest airline said in a statement today.  IAG’s third-quarter operating result more than doubled to
690 million euros as main Spanish operator Iberia joined BA and
Vueling in posting a profit, it said Nov. 8. The London-based
group is seeking more than 3,100 job cuts at Iberia to bring an
end to annual losses as it expands the other two brands.  “You are still operating in a environment with many
unknowns, so the 1.8 billion-euro goal is a good, realistic
target,” said Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin.  IAG, which is seeking a tie-up with mainland Chinese
carrier to fill a gap in the Oneworld alliance, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh , closed 2.9 percent lower
at 362.10 pence in  London . The stock has still surged 96 percent
this year, outperforming rivals Air France-KLM Group, Europe’s
largest airline, which has gained 1.6 percent, and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , up 6.7 percent.  U.K. Gains  IAG said today’s outlook upgrade envisages an “additional
contribution” from growth at BA and Vueling, while Iberia’s
recovery plan is “on track with improvement expected.”  Operating profit at British Airways should reach 1.3
billion pounds ($2.1 billion) in 2015, an increase of 200
million pounds over the previous forecast, IAG said.  “We are ahead of plan,” British Airways CEO Keith
Williams told investors today. The integration of BMI, acquired
in 2012, has yielded benefits faster than expected and revenues
have also grown more than planned.  British Airways will expanded capacity 8 percent in the
next two years, aided by the introduction of Airbus SAS A380
superjumbos and Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliners, greater seat-density
on some short-haul jets, and new destinations.  Group-wide earnings of at least 54 cents a share are being
targeted, with sustained “organic growth” of 2-3 percent not
including Vueling. Additional business improvements and Vueling
gains could lift earnings further, IAG Chief Financial Officer
Enrique Dupuy said at the company’s capital markets day.  Iberia Measures  Capital expenditure is assumed to be around 2 billion euros
to 2.2 billion euros annually.  IAG, formed from a BA-Iberia merger in 2011, expects to
post an operating profit of about 740 million euros this year.  Air France-KLM (AF)  and Lufthansa said Oct. 31 they were
struggling to reach earnings goals as a stronger euro and
sluggish economies undermine the benefits of savings programs.  CEO Walsh said last week he’s seeking additional
restructuring measures at Iberia to achieve sustainable growth.
Planned fleet modernization at the Spanish carrier, which is due
to make a full-year profit next year, is contingent on further
improvements, he said previously.  Vueling will benefit from growth opportunities as network
carriers pare short-haul flights. Walsh expects it to set up new
bases after delivering the group’s strongest operating margin
for the third quarter at 25 percent, almost double the BA figure
of 12.8 percent and four times Iberia’s 6.2 percent.  China Talks  Vueling is set to receive at least 62 new Airbus A320s from
IAG’s purchase of as many as 220 of the single-aisle jets under
a $20 billion deal with the planemaker agreed in August.  IAG is also renewing the British Airways fleet to cut
costs, with the London Heathrow airport-based unit introducing
the 787 and A380 in the third quarter as it accelerates the
phasing out higher-fuel-burn 747 jumbos.  The group’s Oneworld alliance, which also counts  American
Airlines , Qantas Airways Ltd. and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. as
members, would benefit from signing up a mainland Chinese
operator, though a bilateral deal involving British Airways
alone may be more “realistic,” Walsh said.  The U.K. carriers is continuing discussions with a number
of Chinese airlines to that end, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  