-- Mike McCormack, Hall of Fame Lineman, NFL Executive, Dies at 83
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-16T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/mike-mccormack-hall-of-fame-lineman-nfl-executive-dies-at-83.html
Hall of Fame offensive lineman Mike McCormack, who spent nearly 50 years as a National Football
League player, coach and executive, died this morning at the age
of 83.  The first president of the Carolina Panthers, McCormack was
living in Palm Desert,  California , the team said on its website.
A cause of death was not provided.  McCormack played nine NFL seasons with the Cleveland Browns
before moving to the sidelines and then the front office. He was
an adviser to Panthers owner Jerry Richardson’s efforts to move
an expansion team to  Charlotte , and served as team president
from 1995-96.  “It is safe to say that we would probably not have a team
in the Carolinas if it were not for Mike McCormack,” Richardson
said in the online statement. “He had the contacts in the
National Football League and was universally respected by
everyone associated with professional football. He was a
wonderful man, and our thoughts and prayers are with his wife,
Ann, and the entire McCormack family.”  A Chicago native, McCormack broke into the NFL with the New
York Yanks in 1951, before serving two years in the U.S. Army.
He returned to football in 1954, earning six Pro Bowl
appearances in nine seasons with the Browns.  Cleveland  won NFL
championships in 1954 and 1955 with McCormack protecting
quarterback Otto Graham.  “His contributions to our history are profound, not only
on an individual level, but also with regard to the tremendous
success we enjoyed as a team during his career,” the Browns
said in a statement. “Both the Browns and the NFL are most
fortunate to have shared part of his amazing life.”  During McCormack’s Hall of Fame induction in 1984, former
Browns coach Paul Brown called him “the finest offensive
lineman I have ever coached.”  After his playing career ended, McCormack went on to serve
as head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles (1973-75), Baltimore
Colts (1980-81) and Seattle Seahawks (1982). He later became
Seahawks president and general manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  