-- Insurance for Futures Seen Feasible After MF Global’s Collapse
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-11-15T15:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/insurance-for-futures-seen-feasible-after-mf-global-s-collapse.html
Insurance against losses for U.S.
futures customers may be feasible, according to a  study 
commissioned after MF Global Holdings Ltd. and Peregrine
Financial Group Inc. collapsed.  The study, commissioned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the Futures
Industry Association, the Institute for Financial Markets and
the  National Futures Association , surveyed private insurance
companies to gauge their interest in providing protection to
customers if their futures broker goes bankrupt, according to a
statement released today.  A group of eight insurers expressed interest in forming a
consortium to provide coverage. When a futures firm fails, as
much as $300 million in customer funds would be protected under
the insurers’ proposal, with the first $50 million of losses
funded in part by brokers.  The industry is attempting to restore confidence after
customer money went missing in two of the futures market’s
biggest failures ever. When MF Global collapsed in 2011, it said
$1.6 billion had disappeared. Russell Wasendorf Sr., the founder
and chief executive officer of Peregrine, was sentenced to 50
years in prison in January after being convicted of stealing
more than $215 million from clients of his brokerage.  Customers of MF Global are poised to get back all the money
they lost when the firm failed, the brokerage’s bankruptcy
trustee said this month.  The industry insurance study isn’t a policy recommendation,
according to Christopher Culp, a consultant at Compass Lexecon
who led the team that conducted the analysis.  Industry Fund  “The objective of the study was to analyze and quantify
the potential costs of various scenarios, including a
government-mandated solution similar to what exists today in the
securities industry as well as voluntary market-based solutions
provided by private insurance companies,” Culp said in the
statement.   The study also examined whether a government-mandated
program, like the  Securities Investor Protection Corp.  in the
 securities market , would work as an alternative to relying on
insurance companies.  Such a program -- which would protect $250,000 of
investments for all futures users -- would require a government
backstop until it amassed a $2.5 billion fund. That would take
about 55 years, assuming futures brokers were charged a 0.5
percent tax on their annual gross revenue, the study concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  