-- Investor Suits Challenged as Court Takes Halliburton Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-15T21:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/investor-suits-challenged-as-court-takes-halliburton-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  accepted a
case with the potential to transform securities litigation,
agreeing to reconsider a precedent that has served as the
foundation for shareholder suits for the past 25 years.  The  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  appeal asks the court to overturn a
1988 ruling that created what four former Securities and
Exchange Commission members called “the most powerful engine of
civil liability ever established in American law.” The ruling,
Basic v. Levinson, made it easier for shareholders to band
together in class actions.  Halliburton contends the decision’s premise -- that
corporate misrepresentations are reflected in a company’s stock
price -- has proven to be flawed.  “Real-world experience has crippled the theoretical
underpinnings of Basic,” argued Halliburton, which is battling
a suit accusing the company of distorting its financial
condition.  Four justices --  Antonin Scalia ,  Clarence Thomas ,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Samuel Alito  -- suggested in a ruling in February
that they might jettison the “Basic presumption,” as it has
become known. The outcome of the case may be in the hands of
Chief Justice  John Roberts , who usually joins that group in
ideologically divisive cases.  The shareholders suing Halliburton urged the court not to
hear the case, arguing that the presumption “is crucial to
private securities actions” and has been repeatedly endorsed by
Congress, the SEC and the  Justice Department .  ‘Radical Change’  “A reversal of Basic v. Levinson would represent the most
radical change in the private enforcement of the federal
securities law in a generation and would be a severe blow to
investors’ rights,” said Daniel Sommers, a Washington
securities lawyer at Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll, which
focuses on pressing class action litigation.  The importance of the issue stems from two separate
requirements for such claims: that shareholders show they made
investment decisions in reliance on a company misstatement and
that class action litigants show their claims have enough
similarities to warrant a group lawsuit.  Under the Basic decision, judges now presume that investors
will take any publicized, significant misstatements into account
before buying shares. That approach, also known as the fraud-on-the-market presumption, “springs from the very concept of
market efficiency,” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said for the
majority in the February ruling.  Less Efficient  Halliburton’s appeal contends that research in recent years
has shown the market to be much less efficient than the court
thought in the Basic case. The company points to the 2008
economic crisis and the technology bubble a decade earlier as
examples.  Houston-based Halliburton, the world’s largest provider of
hydraulic-fracturing services, is also making a narrower
argument. The company says it at least should have a chance to
rebut the presumption by proving that the alleged
misrepresentations didn’t distort the market price of the stock.  The case marks the second time the Supreme Court has
intervened in the Halliburton litigation. The court  ruled  in
favor of the shareholders on a separate issue in 2011.  The shareholders, led by the Erica P. John Fund, contend
that Halliburton from 1999 to 2001 falsified earnings reports,
played down estimated asbestos liability and overstated the
benefits of a merger.  Dick Cheney , later the U.S. vice
president, served as chairman and chief executive officer of the
oilfield-services provider during part of the disputed period.  Backing Halliburton  The former SEC commissioners backing Halliburton are  Paul Atkins , Edward Fleischman,  Joseph Grundfest  and Laura Unger. In
a brief filed along with scholars and other former SEC
officials, they said the Basic presumption “revolutionized
private securities litigation and made it the massive
multibillion-dollar industry that it is today.”  The court will hear arguments early next year and rule by
July.  The case is Halliburton v. Erica P. John Fund, 13-317.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  