-- Iran Mutes French Clamor by Slowing Reactor, Freezing Expansion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-11-15T09:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/iran-mutes-french-clamor-by-slowing-reactor-freezing-expansion.html
Iran moved to quash doubts that it
is ready to compromise in the decade-long deadlock over its
nuclear work by slowing construction of a reactor and freezing
expansion of  uranium enrichment .  The Persian Gulf nation meets with world powers next week
in Geneva, where it will seek to finalize details of a possible
deal. French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius helped kill an
accord last week by insisting that construction at Arak, a
heavy-water reactor that can produce plutonium, be stopped.  United Nations monitors reported yesterday that while work
at Iran’s Arak heavy-water reactor didn’t stop, “no major
components, such as the control room equipment, the refueling
machine and reactor cooling pumps, had been installed.” Iranian
estimates that it may start using the reactor next year are very
optimistic, according to three senior diplomats familiar with
Iran’s nuclear work, who asked not to be named because of the
issue’s sensitivity.  “The Arak reactor project certainly does not keep me awake
at night,” said  Paul Pillar , who led a Central Intelligence
Agency unit analyzing the Persian Gulf region, in an e-mailed
reply to questions. “Any concern about Arak is not a good
reason to derail a preliminary agreement with Iran, such as came
close to being negotiated at Geneva.”  Fabius pledged last week not to sign up to a “fool’s
bargain” with Iran and said that allowing the Islamic republic
to continue construction at Arak would leave diplomats with a
“fait accompli.”  Iran Signals  There are clear technical reasons not to be worried about
Arak at this stage, said  Robert Kelley , a U.S. nuclear engineer
who led  International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors in  Iraq .  Iranian testing of the fuel that would go into Arak has
been delayed and “suggest  Iran  is further from startup than
they have announced,” Kelley said in an e-mail. “Construction
of such a reactor complex requires engineering skills that are
different from any that Iran will have.”  Iran stopped installing machinery to boost production at
its uranium-enrichment facilities even as the stockpile of its
most sensitive nuclear material grew to a record, the IAEA
reported yesterday. The halt to expansion, which began following
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s August inauguration, is a
signal that Iran is ready to compromise, the diplomats said.  President  Barack Obama  yesterday argued for offering Iran
“modest” sanctions relief in exchange for progress on nuclear
talks and urged Congress to hold off on imposing more economic
penalties.  Criticism of Obama  Obama is facing criticism from U.S. lawmakers and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  over a potential deal between
world powers and Iran.  Netanyahu backs increasing sanctions pressure on Iran until
it agrees to irreversibly give up its uranium enrichment
operations, which could be used to produce fuel for nuclear
weapons if the nation were to break out of international
monitoring.  Israel  also wants construction terminated at the
Arak reactor.  The next round of nuclear talks between Iranian officials
and their counterparts from China,  France , Germany, Russia, the
U.K. and U.S. is foreseen on Nov. 21-22 in Geneva.  “We need to build political confidence in the peaceful
nature of Iran’s intent,” said Scott Kemp, a professor at
 Princeton University  who advised the State Department on
nuclear-arms control, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“Derailing a potential rapprochement on the basis of small
technical details is short sighted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  